ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of oral solution contains 100 mg cannabidiol. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each ml of solution contains: 
79 mg anhydrous ethanol 
736 mg refined sesame oil  
0.0003 mg benzyl alcohol 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral solution 
Clear, colourless to yellow solution 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Epidyolex is indicated for use as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome (LGS) or Dravet syndrome (DS), in conjunction with clobazam, for patients 2 years of age 
and older. 
Epidyolex is indicated for use as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis 
complex (TSC) for patients 2 years of age and older. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Epidyolex should be initiated and supervised by physicians with experience in the treatment of 
epilepsy. 
Posology  
For LGS and DS 
The recommended starting dose of cannabidiol is 2.5 mg/kg taken twice daily (5 mg/kg/day) for one 
week. After one week, the dose should be increased to a maintenance dose of 5 mg/kg twice daily 
(10 mg/kg/day). Based on individual clinical response and tolerability, each dose can be further 
increased in weekly increments of 2.5 mg/kg administered twice daily (5 mg/kg/day) up to a 
maximum recommended dose of 10 mg/kg twice daily (20 mg/kg/day). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any dose increases above 10 mg/kg/day, up to the maximum recommended dose of 20 mg/kg/day, 
should be made considering individual benefit and risk and with adherence to the full monitoring 
schedule (see section 4.4). 
For TSC 
The recommended starting dose of cannabidiol is 2.5 mg/kg taken twice daily (5 mg/kg/day) for one 
week. After one week, the dose should be increased to a dose of 5 mg/kg twice daily (10 mg/kg/day) 
and the clinical response and tolerability should be assessed. Based on individual clinical response and 
tolerability, each dose can be further increased in weekly increments of 2.5 mg/kg administered twice 
daily (5 mg/kg/day) up to a maximum recommended dose of 12.5 mg/kg twice daily (25 mg/kg/day).  
Any dose increases above 10 mg/kg/day, up to the maximum recommended dose of 25 mg/kg/day, 
should be made considering individual benefit and risk and with adherence to the full monitoring 
schedule (see section 4.4). 
The dosage recommendations for LGS, DS and TSC are summarised in the following table: 
Table 1: Dosage recommendations 
Starting dose – first week 
Second week 
Further titration as applicable 
(incremental steps) 
Maximal recommended dose 
Each Epidyolex carton is supplied with: 
LGS and DS 
2.5 mg/kg taken twice daily (5 mg/kg/day) 
TSC 
Maintenance dose 
5 mg/kg twice daily 
(10 mg/kg/day) 
5 mg/kg twice daily 
(10 mg/kg/day) 
weekly increments of 2.5 mg/kg administered twice daily 
(5 mg/kg/day) 
10 mg/kg twice daily 
(20 mg/kg/day) 
12.5 mg/kg twice daily 
(25 mg/kg/day) 
-  Two 1 ml syringes graduated in 0.05 ml increments (each 0.05 ml increment corresponds to 5 mg 
cannabidiol) 
-  Two 5 ml syringes graduated in 0.1 ml increments (each 0.1 ml increment corresponds to 10 mg 
cannabidiol) 
If the calculated dose is 100 mg (1 ml) or less, the smaller 1 ml oral syringe should be used. 
If the calculated dose is more than 100 mg (1 ml), the larger 5 ml oral syringe should be used. 
The calculated dose should be rounded to the nearest graduated increment. 
Discontinuation 
If cannabidiol has to be discontinued, the dose should be decreased gradually. In clinical trials, 
cannabidiol discontinuation was achieved by reducing the dose by approximately 10% per day for 
10 days. A slower or faster down titration may be required, as clinically indicated, at the discretion of 
the prescriber. 
Missed doses 
In the case of one or more missed doses, the missed doses should not be compensated. Dosing should 
be resumed at the existing treatment schedule. In the case of more than 7 days’ missed doses, 
re-titration to the therapeutic dose should be made. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly  
Clinical trials of cannabidiol in the treatment of LGS, DS and TSC did not include a sufficient number 
of patients aged above 55 years to determine whether or not they respond differently from younger 
patients. 
In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of 
the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and 
of concomitant disease or other concurrent therapy (see sections 4.4 under hepatocellular injury and 
5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Cannabidiol can be administered to patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment without 
dose adjustment (see section 5.2). There is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease. It is 
not known if cannabidiol is dialysable. 
Hepatic impairment 
Cannabidiol does not require dose adjustment in patients with mild hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh A). 
Caution should be used in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh B) or severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh C). A lower starting dose is recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment. The dose titration should be performed as detailed in the table below. 
Table 2: Dose adjustments in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
Hepatic 
Impairment 
Starting Dose 
For LGS, DS 
and TSC 
Maintenance 
Dose  
For LGS and 
DS  
Second Week  
For TSC 
Maximal 
Recommended 
Dose 
Maximal 
Recommended 
Dose  
For LGS and 
DS 
For TSC  
Moderate 
1.25 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(2.5 mg/kg/day) 
0.5 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(1 mg/kg/day) 
6.25 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(12.5 mg/kg/day) 
2.5 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(5 mg/kg/day)* 
*Higher doses of cannabidiol may be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment where the 
potential benefits outweigh the risks. 
5 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(10 mg/kg/day) 
2 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(4 mg/kg/day)* 
2.5 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(5 mg/kg/day) 
1 mg/kg  
twice daily 
(2 mg/kg/day) 
Severe  
Paediatric population 
With LGS and DS 
There is no relevant use of cannabidiol in children aged below 6 months. The safety and efficacy of 
cannabidiol in children aged 6 months to 2 years have not yet been established. No data are available. 
With TSC 
There is no relevant use of cannabidiol in children aged below 1 month. The safety and efficacy of 
cannabidiol in children aged 1 month to 2 years have not yet been established. Currently available data 
in patients aged 1 to 2 years are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be 
made. 
Dose adjustments of other medicinal products used in combination with cannabidiol 
A physician experienced in treating patients who are on concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) 
should evaluate the need for dose adjustments of cannabidiol or of the concomitant medicinal 
product(s) to manage potential drug interactions (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Oral use 
Food may increase cannabidiol levels and therefore it should be taken consistently either with or 
without food, including the ketogenic diet. When taken with food, a similar composition of food 
should be considered, if possible (see section 5.2).  
Oral administration is recommended; however, when necessary, nasogastric and gastrostomy tubes 
may be acceptable routes for enteral administration.  
For further information on the use of feeding tubes see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Patients with transaminase elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and 
bilirubin greater than 2 times the ULN (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hepatocellular injury 
Cannabidiol can cause dose-related elevations of liver transaminases (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] 
and/or aspartate aminotransferase [AST]) (see section 4.8). The elevations typically occur in the first 
two months of treatment initiation; however, there were cases observed up to 18 months after initiation 
of treatment, particularly in patients taking concomitant valproate. 
In clinical trials, the majority of ALT elevations occurred in patients taking concomitant valproate. 
Concomitant use of clobazam also increased the incidence of transaminase elevations, although to a 
lesser extent than valproate. Dose adjustment or discontinuation of valproate or dose adjustment of 
clobazam should be considered if transaminase elevations occur.  
Resolution of transaminase elevations occurred with discontinuation of cannabidiol or reduction of 
cannabidiol and/or concomitant valproate in about two-thirds of the cases. In about one-third of the 
cases, transaminase elevations resolved during continued treatment with cannabidiol, without dose 
reduction. 
Patients with baseline transaminase levels above the ULN had higher rates of transaminase elevations 
when taking cannabidiol. In some patients, a synergistic effect of concomitant treatment with 
valproate upon baseline elevated transaminases resulted in a higher risk of transaminase elevations. 
In an uncontrolled study in patients in a different non-epilepsy indication, 2 elderly patients 
experienced elevations of alkaline phosphatase levels above 2 times the ULN in combination with 
transaminase elevations. The elevations resolved after discontinuation of cannabidiol.  
Monitoring 
In general, transaminase elevations of greater than 3 times the ULN in the presence of elevated 
bilirubin without an alternative explanation are an important predictor of severe liver injury. Early 
identification of elevated transaminase may decrease the risk of a serious outcome. Patients with 
elevated baseline transaminase levels above 3 times the ULN, or elevations in bilirubin above 2 times 
the ULN, should be evaluated prior to initiation of cannabidiol treatment. 
Prior to starting treatment with cannabidiol, obtain serum transaminases (ALT and AST) and total 
bilirubin levels. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine Monitoring: 
Serum transaminases and total bilirubin levels should be obtained at 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months 
after initiation of treatment with cannabidiol, and periodically thereafter or as clinically indicated. 
Upon changes in cannabidiol dose above 10 mg/kg/day or changes in medicinal products (dose change 
or additions) that are known to impact the liver, this monitoring schedule should be restarted.  
Intensified Monitoring: 
Patients with identified baseline elevations of ALT or AST and patients who are taking valproate 
should have serum transaminases and total bilirubin levels obtained at 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 
3 months, and 6 months after initiation of treatment with cannabidiol, and periodically thereafter or as 
clinically indicated. Upon changes in cannabidiol dose above 10 mg/kg/day or changes in medicinal 
products (dose change or additions) that are known to impact the liver, this monitoring schedule 
should be restarted. 
If a patient develops clinical signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, serum 
transaminases and total bilirubin should be promptly measured and treatment with cannabidiol should 
be interrupted or discontinued, as appropriate. Cannabidiol should be discontinued in any patients with 
elevations of transaminase levels greater than 3 times the ULN and bilirubin levels greater than 
2 times the ULN. Patients with sustained transaminase elevations of greater than 5 times the ULN 
should also have treatment discontinued. Patients with prolonged elevations of serum transaminases 
should be evaluated for other possible causes. Dose adjustment of any co-administered medicinal 
product that is known to affect the liver should be considered (e.g., valproate and clobazam) (see 
section 4.5). 
Somnolence and sedation 
Cannabidiol can cause somnolence and sedation, which occur more commonly early in treatment and 
may diminish with continued treatment. The occurrence was higher for those patients on concomitant 
clobazam (see sections 4.5 and 4.8). Other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can potentiate the 
somnolence and sedation effect. 
Increased seizure frequency 
As with other AEDs, a clinically relevant increase in seizure frequency may occur during treatment 
with cannabidiol, which may require adjustment in dose of cannabidiol and/or concomitant AEDs, or 
discontinuation of cannabidiol, should the benefit-risk be negative. In the phase 3 clinical trials 
investigating LGS, DS and TSC, the observed frequency of status epilepticus was similar between the 
cannabidiol and placebo groups. 
Suicidal behaviour and ideation 
Suicidal behaviour and ideation have been reported in patients treated with AEDs in several 
indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials with AEDs has shown a small 
increased risk of suicidal behaviour and ideation. The mechanism of this risk is not known, and the 
available data do not exclude the possibility of an increased risk for cannabidiol. 
Patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal behaviour and ideation and appropriate treatment 
should be considered. Patients and caregivers of patients should be advised to seek medical advice 
should any signs of suicidal behaviour and ideation emerge. 
Decreased weight 
Cannabidiol can cause weight loss or decreased weight gain (see section 4.8). In LGS, DS and TSC 
patients, this appeared to be dose-related. In some cases, decreased weight was reported as an adverse 
event (see Table 3). Decreased appetite and weight loss may result in slightly reduced height gain. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continuous weight loss/absence of weight gain should be periodically checked to evaluate if 
cannabidiol treatment should be continued. 
Sesame oil in the formulation 
This medicinal product contains refined sesame oil which may rarely cause severe allergic reactions. 
Benzyl alcohol in the formulation 
This medicinal product contains 0.0003 mg/ml benzyl alcohol corresponding to 0.0026 mg per 
maximal Epidyolex dose (Epidyolex 12.5 mg/kg per dose (TSC) for an adult weighing 70 kg). 
Benzyl alcohol may cause allergic reactions. 
Populations not studied 
Patients with clinically significant cardiovascular impairment were not included in the TSC clinical 
development programme. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 or CYP2C19 inducers 
The strong CYP3A4/2C19 inducing agent rifampicin (600 mg administered once daily) decreased 
plasma concentrations of cannabidiol and of 7-hydroxy-cannabidiol (7-OH-CBD; an active metabolite 
of cannabidiol) by approximately 30% and 60%, respectively. Other strong inducers of CYP3A4 
and/or CYP2C19, such as carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, St. John’s wort, when administered 
concomitantly with cannabidiol, may also cause a decrease in the plasma concentrations of 
cannabidiol and of 7-OH-CBD by a similar amount. These changes may result in a decrease in the 
effectiveness of cannabidiol. Dose adjustment may be necessary. 
UGT inhibitors 
Cannabidiol is a substrate for UGT1A7, UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. No formal drug-drug interaction 
studies have been conducted with cannabidiol in combination with UGT inhibitors, therefore caution 
should be taken when co-administering drugs that are known inhibitors of these UGTs. Dose reduction 
of cannabidiol and/or the inhibitor may be necessary when given in combination. 
Concomitant AED treatments 
The pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol are complex and may cause interactions with the patient’s 
concomitant AED treatments. cannabidiol and/or concomitant AED treatment should therefore be 
adjusted during regular medical supervision and the patient should be closely monitored for adverse 
drug reactions. In addition, monitoring of plasma concentrations should be considered. 
The potential for drug-drug interactions with other concomitant AEDs has been assessed in healthy 
volunteers and patients with epilepsy for clobazam, valproate, stiripentol and everolimus. Although no 
formal drug-drug interaction studies have been performed for other AEDs, phenytoin and lamotrigine 
are addressed based on in vitro data. 
Clobazam 
When cannabidiol and clobazam are co-administered, bi-directional PK interactions occur. Based on a 
healthy volunteer study, elevated levels (3- to 4-fold) of N-desmethylclobazam (an active metabolite 
of clobazam) can occur when combined with cannabidiol, likely mediated by CYP2C19 inhibition, 
with no effect on clobazam levels. In addition, there was an increased exposure to 7-OH-CBD, for 
which plasma area under the curve (AUC) increased by 47% (see section 5.2). Increased systemic 
levels of these active substances may lead to enhanced pharmacological effects and to an increase in 
adverse drug reactions. Concomitant use of cannabidiol and clobazam increases the incidence of 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
somnolence and sedation compared with placebo (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Reduction in dose of 
clobazam should be considered if somnolence or sedation are experienced when clobazam is 
co-administered with cannabidiol. 
Valproate 
Concomitant use of cannabidiol and valproate increases the incidence of transaminase enzyme 
elevations (see section 4.4). The mechanism of this interaction remains unknown. If clinically 
significant increases of transaminases occur, cannabidiol and/or concomitant valproate should be 
reduced or discontinued in all patients until a recovery of transaminase elevations are observed (see 
section 4.4). Insufficient data are available to assess the risk of concomitant administration of other 
hepatotoxic medicinal products and cannabidiol (see section 4.4). 
Concomitant use of cannabidiol and valproate increases the incidence of diarrhoea and events of 
decreased appetite. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. 
Stiripentol 
When cannabidiol was combined with stiripentol in a healthy volunteer trial there was an increase in 
stiripentol levels of 28% for maximum measured plasma concentration (Cmax) and 55% for AUC. In 
patients, however, the effect was smaller, with an increase in stiripentol levels of 17% in Cmax and 30% 
in AUC. The clinical importance of these results has not been studied. The patient should be closely 
monitored for adverse drug reactions. 
Phenytoin 
Exposure to phenytoin may be increased when it is co-administered with cannabidiol, as phenytoin is 
largely metabolised via CYP2C9, which is inhibited by cannabidiol in vitro. There have not been any 
clinical studies formally investigating this interaction. Phenytoin has a narrow therapeutic index, so 
combining cannabidiol with phenytoin should be initiated with caution and if tolerability issues arise, 
dose reduction of phenytoin should be considered. 
Lamotrigine 
Lamotrigine is a substrate for UGT enzymes including UGT2B7 which is inhibited by cannabidiol in 
vitro. There have not been any clinical studies formally investigating this interaction. Lamotrigine 
levels may be elevated when it is co-administered with cannabidiol. 
Everolimus 
Coadministration of cannabidiol (12.5 mg/kg twice daily) with the P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate 
everolimus (5 mg) in a healthy volunteer study led to an increase in everolimus exposure of 
approximately 2.5-fold for both Cmax and AUC. The mechanism for this interaction is believed to be 
inhibition of intestinal P-gp efflux, leading to increased bioavailability of everolimus, because 
cannabidiol did not affect midazolam exposure in another interaction study. The half-life of 
everolimus was not affected, confirming the lack of systemic inhibitory effects of cannabidiol on P-gp 
and CYP3A4 activity. When initiating cannabidiol in patients taking everolimus, monitor therapeutic 
drug levels of everolimus and adjust the dosage accordingly. When initiating everolimus in patients 
taking a stable dosage of cannabidiol, a lower starting dose of everolimus is recommended, with 
therapeutic drug monitoring. 
Potential for cannabidiol to affect other medicinal products 
CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 Substrates 
In vivo data from steady-state dosing with cannabidiol (750 mg twice daily) when co-administered 
with a single dose of caffeine (200 mg), a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate, showed increased caffeine 
exposure by 15% for Cmax and 95% for AUC compared to when caffeine was administered alone. 
These data indicate that cannabidiol is a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2. Similar modest increases in 
exposure may be observed with other sensitive CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline or tizanidine). 
The clinical importance of these findings has not been studied. The patient should be closely 
monitored for adverse drug reactions. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro data predict drug-drug interactions with CYP2B6 substrates (e.g., bupropion, efavirenz), 
uridine 5' diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9) (e.g., diflunisal, propofol, fenofibrate), 
and UGT2B7 (e.g., gemfibrozil, morphine, lorazepam) when co-administered with cannabidiol. 
Co-administration of cannabidiol is also predicted to cause clinically significant interactions with 
CYP2C8 (repaglinide) and CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin) substrates. 
In vitro data have demonstrated that cannabidiol inhibits CYP2C19, which may cause increased 
plasma concentrations of medicines that are metabolised by this isoenzyme such as clobazam and 
omeprazole. Dose reduction should be considered for concomitant medicinal products that are 
sensitive CYP2C19 substrates or that have a narrow therapeutic index. 
Because of potential inhibition of enzyme activity, dose reduction of substrates of UGT1A9, UGT2B7, 
CYP2C8, and CYP2C9 should be considered, as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions are 
experienced when administered concomitantly with cannabidiol. Because of potential for both 
induction and inhibition of enzyme activity, dose adjustment of substrates of CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 
should be considered, as clinically appropriate. 
In vitro assessment of interaction with UGT enzymes 
In vitro data suggest that cannabidiol is a reversible inhibitor of UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 activity at 
clinically relevant concentrations. The metabolite 7-carboxy-cannabidiol (7-COOH-CBD) is also an 
inhibitor of UGT1A1, UGT1A4 and UGT1A6-mediated activity in vitro. Dose reduction of the 
substrates may be necessary when cannabidiol is administered concomitantly with substrates of these 
UGTs. 
Sensitive P-gp substrates given orally 
Coadministration of cannabidiol with orally administered everolimus, a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate, 
has increased everolimus bioavailability likely due to inhibition of intestinal P-gp efflux of 
everolimus. Increases in exposure of other orally administered sensitive P-gp substrates (e.g., 
sirolimus, tacrolimus, digoxin) may occur on coadministration with cannabidiol. Therapeutic drug 
monitoring and dose reduction of other P-gp substrates should be considered when given orally and 
concurrently with cannabidiol. 
Ethanol in the formulation 
Each ml of Epidyolex contains 79 mg of ethanol, equivalent to 10% v/v anhydrous ethanol, i.e., up to 
691.3 mg ethanol/ per maximal single Epidyolex dose (12.5 mg/kg) for an adult weighing 70 kg 
(9.9 mg ethanol/ kg). For an adult weighing 70 kg, this is equivalent to 17 ml of beer, or 7 ml of wine 
per dose.  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are only limited data from the use of cannabidiol in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
As a precautionary measure, cannabidiol should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential 
benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no clinical data on the presence of cannabidiol or its metabolites in human milk, the effects 
on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. 
Studies in animals have shown toxicological changes in lactating animals, when the mother was 
treated with cannabidiol (see section 5.3).  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no human studies on excretion of cannabidiol in breast milk. Given that cannabidiol is 
highly protein bound and will likely pass freely from plasma into milk, as a precaution, breast-feeding 
should be discontinued during treatment. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of cannabidiol on fertility are available. 
No effect on reproductive ability of male or female rats was noted with an oral dose of up to 
150 mg/kg/day cannabidiol (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Cannabidiol has major influence on the ability to drive and operate machines because it may cause 
somnolence and sedation (see section 4.4). Patients should be advised not to drive or operate 
machinery until they have gained sufficient experience to gauge whether it adversely affects their 
abilities (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adverse reactions reported with cannabidiol in the recommended dose range of 10 to 25 mg/kg/day are 
shown below. 
The most common adverse reactions are somnolence, decreased appetite, diarrhoea, pyrexia, fatigue, 
and vomiting. 
The most frequent cause of discontinuations was transaminase elevation. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported with cannabidiol in placebo-controlled clinical studies are listed in the 
table below by System Organ Class and frequency. 
The frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented 
in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3: Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Frequency 
Common 
Very common  
Adverse reactions from clinical trials 
Pneumoniaa, Urinary tract infection 
Decreased appetite 
Common 
Irritability, Aggression 
Somnolencea 
Lethargy, Seizure 
Cough 
Diarrhoea, Vomiting  
Nausea 
AST increased, ALT increased, GGT 
increased 
Rash 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
a Grouped Terms: Pneumonia: Pneumonia, Pneumonia RSV, Pneumonia mycoplasmal, Pneumonia 
adenoviral, Pneumonia viral, Aspiration pneumonia; Somnolence: Somnolence, Sedation. 
Adverse reactions from clinical trials 
Pyrexia, Fatigue 
Frequency 
Very common 
Weight decreased 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatocellular injury 
Cannabidiol can cause dose-related elevations of ALT and AST (see section 4.4). 
In controlled studies for LGS, DS (receiving 10 or 20 mg/kg/day) and for TSC (receiving 
25 mg/kg/day), the incidence of ALT elevations above 3 times the ULN was 12% in 
cannabidiol-treated patients compared with < 1% in patients on placebo.  
Less than 1% of cannabidiol -treated patients had ALT or AST levels greater than 20 times the ULN. 
There have been cases of transaminase elevations associated with hospitalisation in patients taking 
cannabidiol. 
Risk Factors for Hepatocellular injury 
Concomitant Valproate and Clobazam, Dose of cannabidiol and Baseline Transaminase Elevations 
Concomitant Valproate and Clobazam 
In cannabidiol-treated patients receiving doses of 10, 20, and 25 mg/kg/day, the incidence of ALT 
elevations greater than 3 times the ULN was 23% in patients taking both concomitant valproate and 
clobazam, 19% in patients taking concomitant valproate (without clobazam), 3% in patients taking 
concomitant clobazam (without valproate), and 3% in patients taking neither drug.  
Dose 
ALT elevations greater than 3 times the ULN were reported in 15% of patients taking cannabidiol 20 
or 25 mg/kg/day compared with 3% in patients taking cannabidiol 10 mg/kg/day. 
The risk of ALT elevations was higher at dosages higher than the 25 mg/kg/day in the controlled study 
in TSC. 
Baseline transaminase elevations 
In controlled trials (see section 5.1) in patients taking cannabidiol 20 or 25 mg/kg/day, the frequency 
of treatment-emergent ALT elevations greater than 3 times the ULN was 29% (80% of these were on 
valproate) when ALT was above the ULN at baseline, compared to 12% (89% of these were on 
valproate) when ALT was within the normal range at baseline. A total of 5% of patients (all on 
valproate) taking cannabidiol 10 mg/kg/day experienced ALT elevations greater than 3 times the ULN 
when ALT was above the ULN at baseline, compared with 3% of patients (all on valproate) in whom 
ALT was within the normal range at baseline. 
Somnolence and sedation 
Somnolence and sedation (including lethargy) events have been observed in controlled trials (see 
section 4.4) with cannabidiol in LGS, DS and TSC, including 29% of cannabidiol-treated patients 
(30% of patients taking cannabidiol 20 or 25 mg/kg/day and 27% of patients taking cannabidiol 
10 mg/kg/day). These adverse reactions were observed at higher incidences at dosages above 
25 mg/kg/day in the controlled study in TSC. The rate of somnolence and sedation (including 
lethargy) was higher in patients on concomitant clobazam (43% in cannabidiol-treated patients taking 
clobazam, compared with 14% in cannabidiol-treated patients not on clobazam).  
Seizures 
In the controlled trial in TSC patients, an increased frequency of adverse events associated with 
seizure worsening was seen at doses above 25 mg/kg/day. Although no clear pattern was established, 
the adverse events reflected increased seizure frequency or intensity, or new seizure types. The 
frequency of adverse events associated with seizure worsening was 11% for patients taking 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 mg/kg/day cannabidiol and 18% for patients taking cannabidiol doses greater than 25 mg/kg/day, 
compared to 9% in patients taking placebo. 
Decreased weight 
Cannabidiol can cause weight loss or decreased weight gain (see section 4.4). In LGS, DS and TSC 
patients, the decrease in weight appeared to be dose-related, with 21% of patients on cannabidiol 20 or 
25 mg/kg/day experiencing a decrease in weight of ≥ 5%, compared to 7% in patients on cannabidiol 
10 mg/kg/day. In some cases, the decreased weight was reported as an adverse event (see Table 3 
above). Decreased appetite and weight loss may result in slightly reduced height gain.  
Diarrhoea 
Cannabidiol can cause dose-related diarrhoea. In controlled trials in LGS and DS, the frequency of 
diarrhoea was 13% in patients receiving 10 mg/kg/day cannabidiol and 21% in patients receiving 
20 mg/kg/day cannabidiol, compared to 10% in patients receiving placebo. In a controlled trial in 
TSC, the frequency of diarrhoea was 31% in patients receiving 25 mg/kg/day cannabidiol and 56% in 
patients receiving doses greater than 25 mg/kg/day cannabidiol, compared to 25% in patients receiving 
placebo.  
In the clinical trials, the first onset of diarrhoea was typically in the first 6 weeks of treatment with 
cannabidiol. The median duration of diarrhoea was 8 days. The diarrhoea led to cannabidiol dose 
reduction in 10% of patients, temporary dose interruption in 1% of patients and permanent 
discontinuation in 2% of patients. 
Haematologic abnormalities 
Cannabidiol can cause decreases in haemoglobin and haematocrit. In LGS, DS and TSC patients, the 
mean decrease in haemoglobin from baseline to end of treatment was −0.36 g/dL in 
cannabidiol-treated patients receiving 10, 20, or 25 mg/kg/day. A corresponding decrease in 
haematocrit was also observed, with a mean change of −1.3% in cannabidiol-treated patients. 
Twenty-seven percent (27%) of cannabidiol-treated patients with LGS and DS and 38% of 
cannabidiol-treated patients (25 mg/kg/day) with TSC developed a new laboratory-defined anaemia 
during the course of the study (defined as a normal haemoglobin concentration at baseline, with a 
reported value less than the lower limit of normal at a subsequent time point). 
Increases in creatinine 
Cannabidiol can cause elevations in serum creatinine. The mechanism has not yet been determined. In 
controlled studies in healthy adults and in patients with LGS, DS and TSC, an increase in serum 
creatinine of approximately 10% was observed within 2 weeks of starting cannabidiol. The increase 
was reversible in healthy adults. Reversibility was not assessed in studies in LGS, DS or TSC. 
Pneumonia 
Pneumonia events have been observed in controlled trials with cannabidiol in patients with LGS, DS, 
or TSC, including 6% of cannabidiol-treated patients compared with 1% of patients receiving placebo.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system. 
listed in Appendix V. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Experience with doses higher than the recommended therapeutic dose is limited. Mild diarrhoea and 
somnolence have been reported in healthy adult subjects taking a single dose of 6000 mg; this equates 
to a dose of over 85 mg/kg for a 70 kg adult. These adverse reactions resolved upon study completion. 
Management of overdose 
In the event of overdose the patient should be observed and appropriate symptomatic treatment given, 
including monitoring of vital signs. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics; ATC code: N03AX24 
Mechanism of action 
The precise mechanisms by which cannabidiol exerts its anticonvulsant effects in humans are 
unknown. Cannabidiol does not exert its anticonvulsant effect through interaction with cannabinoid 
receptors. Cannabidiol reduces neuronal hyper-excitability through modulation of intracellular calcium 
via G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV-1) 
channels, as well as modulation of adenosine-mediated signalling through inhibition of adenosine 
cellular uptake via the equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (ENT-1). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients, there is a potential additive anticonvulsant effect from the bi-directional pharmacokinetic 
interaction between cannabidiol and clobazam, which leads to increases in circulating levels of their 
respective active metabolites, 7-OH-CBD (approximately 1.5-fold) and N-CLB (approximately 3-fold) 
(see sections 4.5, 5.1 and 5.2). 
Clinical efficacy 
Adjunctive therapy in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) 
The efficacy of cannabidiol for the adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome (LGS) was evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group 
studies (GWPCARE3 and GWPCARE4). Each study consisted of a 4-week baseline period, a 2-week 
titration period and a 12-week maintenance period. Mean age of the study population was 15 years and 
94% were taking 2 or more concomitant AEDs (cAEDs) during the trial. The most commonly used 
cAEDs (> 25% of patients) in both trials were valproate, clobazam, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, and 
rufinamide. Approximately 50% of the patients were taking concomitant clobazam. Of the patients 
that were not taking clobazam, the majority had previously taken and subsequently discontinued 
clobazam treatment. 
The primary endpoint was the percentage change from baseline in drop seizures per 28 days over the 
treatment period for the cannabidiol group compared to placebo. Drop seizures were defined as atonic, 
tonic, or tonic-clonic seizures that led or could have led to a fall or injury. Key secondary endpoints 
were the proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in drop seizure frequency, the percentage 
change from baseline in total seizure frequency, and Subject/Caregiver Global Impression of Change 
at the last visit.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup analyses were conducted on multiple factors, including cAEDs. Results of the subgroup 
analysis of patients treated with clobazam compared to patients treated without clobazam, indicated 
that there is residual statistical uncertainty regarding the treatment effect of cannabidiol in patients not 
taking clobazam. In this population, efficacy has not been established. 
Table 4 summarises the primary endpoint of percent reduction from baseline in drop seizures, and the 
key secondary measure of proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in drop seizure 
frequency, as well as results of the subgroup analysis for these outcome measures in patients treated 
with concomitant clobazam. 
Table 4: Primary and ≥ 50% responder key secondary outcome measures and subgroup analysis 
in LGS studies 
DROP SEIZURES PER 28 DAYS 
Percentage Reduction from Baselinea 
GWPCARE3  Placebo 
10 mg/kg/day 
20 mg/kg/day 
GWPCARE4  Placebo 
20 mg/kg/day 
Overall 
N 
17.2% 
37.2% 
41.9% 
21.8% 
43.9% 
76 
73 
76 
85 
86 
Subgroup  
With  
Clobazam 
22.7% 
45.6% 
64.3% 
30.7% 
62.4% 
Difference or Percent Reduction Compared with Placebo (95% CI), p-valueb 
GWPCARE3 
10 mg/kg/day 
20 mg/kg/day 
GWPCARE4 
20 mg/kg/day 
10 mg/kg/day 
20 mg/kg/day 
GWPCARE4  Placebo 
20 mg/kg/day 
19.2 
(7.7, 31.2) 
p = 0.0016 
21.6 
(6.7, 34.8) 
p = 0.0047 
17.2 
(4.1, 30.3) 
p = 0.0135 
14.5% 
35.6% 
p = 0.0030 
39.5% 
p = 0.0006 
23.5% 
44.2% 
p = 0.0043 
29.6% 
(2.4%, 49.2%) 
p = 0.0355c 
53.8% 
(35.7%, 66.8%) 
p< 0.0001c 
45.7% 
(27.0%, 59.6%) 
p< 0.0001c 
76 
73 
76 
85 
86 
21.6% 
40.5% 
p = 0.0584c 
55.6% 
p = 0.0021c 
28.6% 
54.8% 
p = 0.0140c 
≥ 50% REDUCTION IN DROP SEIZURES (RESPONDER ANALYSIS) 
Percentage of ≥ 50% Responders, p-valued 
GWPCARE3  Placebo 
N 
37 
37 
36 
42 
42 
37 
37 
36 
42 
42 
CI=95% confidence interval. 
a Data for the overall population are presented as median percent reduction from baseline. Data for the 
with clobazam subgroup are presented as percent reduction from baseline estimated from a negative 
binomial regression analysis. 
b Overall data are presented as estimated median difference and p-value from a Wilcoxon rank-sum 
test. Data for the with clobazam subgroup are estimated from a negative binomial regression analysis. 
c Nominal p-value. 
d The Overall p-value is based on a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test; the nominal p-values for the with 
clobazam subgroup are based on logistic regression analysis. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional secondary outcome measures in the subgroup of patients treated with concomitant 
clobazam 
Cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the percentage of subjects experiencing a greater than 
or equal to 75% reduction in drop seizure frequency during the treatment period in each trial (11% 
10 mg/kg/day cannabidiol, 31% to 36% 20 mg/kg/day cannabidiol, 3% to 7% placebo). 
In each trial, patients receiving cannabidiol experienced a greater median percentage reduction in total 
seizures compared with placebo (53% 10 mg/kg/day, 64% to 66% 20 mg/kg/day, 25% for each 
placebo group; p = 0.0025 for 10 mg/kg/day and p< 0.0001 for each 20 mg/kg/day group vs. placebo). 
Greater improvements in overall condition, as measured by Global Impression of Change scores at the 
last visit, were reported by caregivers and patients with both doses of cannabidiol (76% on 
10 mg/kg/day, 80% for each group on 20 mg/kg/day, 31% to 46% on placebo; p = 0.0005 for 
10 mg/kg/day and p< 0.0001 and 0.0003 for 20 mg/kg/day vs. placebo). 
Compared with placebo, cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the number of drop 
seizure-free days during the treatment period in each trial, equivalent to 3.3 days per 28 days 
(10 mg/kg/day) and 5.5 to 7.6 days per 28 days (20 mg/kg/day). 
Adjunctive therapy in patients with Dravet syndrome 
The efficacy of cannabidiol for the adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome 
(DS) was evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group studies 
(GWPCARE2 and GWPCARE1). Each study consisted of a 4-week baseline period, a 2-week titration 
period and a 12-week maintenance period. Mean age of the study population was 9 years and 94% 
were taking 2 or more cAEDs during the trial. The most commonly used cAEDs (> 25% of patients) in 
both trials were valproate, clobazam, stiripentol, and levetiracetam. Approximately 65% of the patients 
were taking concomitant clobazam. Of the patients that were not taking clobazam, the majority had 
previously taken and subsequently discontinued clobazam treatment. 
The primary endpoint was the change in convulsive seizure frequency during the treatment period 
(Day 1 to the end of the evaluable period) compared to baseline (GWPCARE2), and the percentage 
change from baseline in convulsive seizures per 28 days over the treatment period (GWPCARE1) for 
the cannabidiol groups compared to placebo. Convulsive seizures were defined as atonic, tonic, clonic, 
and tonic-clonic seizures. Key secondary endpoints for GWPCARE2 were the proportion of patients 
with at least a 50% reduction in convulsive seizure frequency, the change in total seizure frequency, 
and Caregiver Global Impression of Change at the last visit. The key secondary endpoint for 
GWPCARE1 was the proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in convulsive seizure 
frequency. 
Subgroup analyses were conducted on multiple factors, including cAEDs. Results of the subgroup 
analysis of patients treated with clobazam compared to patients treated without clobazam, indicated 
that there is residual statistical uncertainty regarding the treatment effect of cannabidiol in patients not 
taking clobazam. In this population, efficacy has not been established. 
Table 5 summarises the primary endpoint of percent reduction from baseline in convulsive seizures, 
and the key secondary measure of proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in convulsive 
seizure frequency, as well as results of the subgroup analysis for these outcome measures in patients 
treated with concomitant clobazam. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Primary and ≥ 50% responder key secondary outcome measures and subgroup analysis 
in DS studies 
CONVULSIVE SEIZURES PER 28 DAYS 
Percentage Reduction from Baselinea 
GWPCARE2 
GWPCARE1 
Placebo 
10 mg/kg/day 
20 mg/kg/day 
Placebo 
20 mg/kg/day 
Overall 
N 
26.9% 
48.7% 
45.7% 
13.3% 
38.9% 
65 
66 
67 
59 
61 
Subgroup 
With  
Clobazam 
37.6% 
60.9% 
56.8% 
18.9% 
53.6% 
Difference or Percent Reduction Compared with Placebo (95% CI), p-valueb 
GWPCARE2 
10 mg/kg/day 
20 mg/kg/day 
GWPCARE1 
20 mg/kg/day 
GWPCARE1 
20 mg/kg/day 
Placebo 
20 mg/kg/day 
29.8% 
(8.4%, 46.2%) 
p = 0.0095 
25.7% 
(2.9%, 43.2%) 
p = 0.0299 
22.8 
(5.4, 41.1) 
p = 0.0123 
37.4% 
(13.9%, 54.5%) 
p = 0.0042c 
30.8% 
(3.6%, 50.4%) 
p = 0.0297c 
42.8% 
(17.4%, 60.4%) 
p = 0.0032c 
26.2% 
43.9% 
p = 0.0332 
49.3% 
p = 0.0069 
27.1% 
42.6% 
p = 0.0784 
65 
66 
67 
59 
61 
36.6% 
55.6% 
p = 0.0623c 
62.5% 
p = 0.0130c 
23.7% 
47.5% 
p = 0.0382c 
≥ 50% REDUCTION IN CONVULSIVE SEIZURES (RESPONDER ANALYSIS) 
Percentage of ≥ 50% Responders, p-valued 
GWPCARE2 
Placebo 
10 mg/kg/day 
N 
41 
45 
40 
38 
40 
41 
45 
40 
38 
40 
CI=95% confidence interval. 
a For study GWPCARE1, overall data are presented as median percent reduction from baseline. Data 
for study GWPCARE2 and the with clobazam subgroup are presented as percent reduction from 
baseline estimated from a negative binomial regression analysis. 
b For study GWPCARE1, overall data are presented as estimated median difference and p-value from 
a Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Data for study GWPCARE2 and the with clobazam subgroup are estimated 
from a negative binomial regression analysis. 
c Nominal p-value. 
d The Overall p-value is based on a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test; the nominal p-value for the with 
clobazam subgroup is based on logistic regression analysis. 
Additional secondary outcome measures in the subgroup of patients treated with concomitant 
clobazam 
Cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the percentage of subjects experiencing a greater than 
or equal to 75% reduction in convulsive seizure frequency during the treatment period in each trial 
(36% 10 mg/kg/day cannabidiol, 25% for each 20 mg/kg/day cannabidiol group, 10% to 13% 
placebo). 
In each trial, patients receiving cannabidiol experienced a greater percentage reduction in total seizures 
compared with placebo (66% 10 mg/kg/day, 54% to 58% 20 mg/kg/day, 27% to 41% placebo; 
p = 0.0003 for 10 mg/kg/day and p = 0.0341 and 0.0211 for 20 mg/kg/day vs. placebo). 
Greater improvements in overall condition, as measured by Global Impression of Change scores at the 
last visit, were reported by caregivers and patients with both doses of cannabidiol (73% on 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 mg/kg/day, 62% to 77% on 20 mg/kg/day, 30% to 41% on placebo; p = 0.0009 for 10 mg/kg/day 
and p = 0.0018 and 0.0136 for 20 mg/kg/day vs. placebo). 
Compared with placebo, cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the number of convulsive 
seizure-free days during the treatment period in each trial, equivalent to 2.7 days per 28 days 
(10 mg/kg/day) and 1.3 to 2.2 days per 28 days (20 mg/kg/day). 
Adult population 
The DS population in studies GWPCARE2 and GWPCARE1 was predominantly paediatric patients, 
with only 5 adult patients who were 18 years old (1.6%), and therefore limited efficacy and safety data 
were obtained in the adult DS population. 
Dose response 
Given that there was no consistent dose response between 10 mg/kg/day and 20 mg/kg/day in the LGS 
and DS studies, cannabidiol should be titrated initially to the recommended maintenance dose of 
10 mg/kg/day (see Section 4.2). In individual patients titration up to a maximum dose of 20 mg/kg/day 
may be considered, based on the benefit-risk (see Section 4.2). 
Open-label data 
Across both randomised LGS studies, 99.5% of patients (N = 366) who completed the studies were 
enrolled into the long-term open-label extension (OLE) study (GWPCARE5). In the subgroup of LGS 
patients treated with concomitant clobazam for 37 to 48 weeks (N = 168), the median percentage 
reduction from baseline in drop seizure frequency was 71% during Week 1-12 (N = 168), which was 
maintained through to Week 37-48, with a median percentage reduction from baseline in drop seizure 
frequency of 62%. 
Across both randomised DS studies, 97.7% of patients (N = 315) who completed the studies were 
enrolled into GWPCARE5. In the subgroup of DS patients treated with concomitant clobazam for 
37 to 48 weeks (N = 148), the median percentage reduction from baseline in convulsive seizure 
frequency was 64% during Week 1-12 (N = 148, which was maintained through to Week 37-48, with 
a median percentage reduction from baseline in convulsive seizure frequency of 58%. 
Adjunctive therapy in patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
The efficacy of cannabidiol (25 and 50 mg/kg/day) for the adjunctive therapy of seizures associated 
with TSC was evaluated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study 
(GWPCARE6). The study consisted of a 4-week baseline period, a 4-week titration period and a 
12-week maintenance period (16-week treatment and primary evaluation period). 
Mean age of the study population was 14 years and all patients but one were taking one or more 
concomitant AEDs (cAEDs) during the study. The most commonly used cAEDs (> 25% of patients) 
were valproate (45%), vigabatrin (33%), levetiracetam (29%), and clobazam (27%).  
The primary endpoint was the change in number of TSC-associated seizures during the treatment 
period (maintenance and titration) compared to baseline for the cannabidiol group compared to 
placebo. TSC-associated seizures were defined as focal motor seizures without impairment of 
consciousness or awareness; focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness; focal 
seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures and generalized seizures (tonic–clonic, 
tonic, clonic or atonic seizures). Key secondary endpoints were the proportion of patients with at least 
a 50% reduction in TSC-associated seizure frequency, Subject/Caregiver Global Impression of Change 
at the last visit and the percentage change from baseline in total seizure frequency. 
Cannabidiol 50 mg/kg/day was shown to have a similar level of seizure reduction as 25 mg/kg/day. 
However, this dose was associated with an increased rate of adverse reactions compared to the 
25 mg/kg/day and therefore the maximum recommended dose is 25 mg/kg/day. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 summarises the primary endpoint of percent reduction from baseline in TSC-associated 
seizures, and the key secondary measure of proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in 
TSC-associated seizure frequency for the maximum recommended dose of 25 mg/kg/day. 
Table 6: Primary and ≥ 50% responder key secondary outcome measures in the TSC study 
(overall patient population) 
Study GWPCARE6 
Cannabidiol 25 mg/kg/day 
(n = 75) 
Placebo 
(n = 76) 
Primary endpoint –Percentage reduction in TSC-associated seizure frequencya 
TSC-associated seizures 
% Reduction from Baseline 
48.6% 
26.5% 
Percent Reduction Compared with 
Placebo 
30.1% 
13.9%, 43.3% 
0.0009 
95% CI 
P-value 
Key Secondary endpoint - ≥ 50% REDUCTION IN TSC-associated seizures (RESPONDER 
ANALYSIS) 
Percentage of patients with a ≥ 50% 
reduction 
22.4% 
36% 
P-value b 
CI = 95% confidence interval. 
a Data for study GWPCARE6 are presented as percent reduction from baseline estimated from a 
negative binomial regression analysis. 
b The Overall p value is based on a Cochran Mantel Haenszel test. 
0.0692 
Subgroup analyses with and without clobazam treatment 
In the GWPCARE6 study, 22.7% of TSC patients in the 25 mg/kg/day group and 32.9% in the placebo 
group were taking concomitant clobazam. Results of subgroup analysis by clobazam use showed 
additive anticonvulsant effects of cannabidiol in the presence of clobazam.  
In the subgroup of patients treated with concomitant clobazam, patients receiving cannabidiol 
25 mg/kg/day experienced a 61.1% reduction from baseline in TSC-associated seizure frequency 
compared to a 27.1 % reduction in the placebo group, based on a negative binomial regression 
analysis. Compared with placebo, cannabidiol was associated with a 46.6% reduction (nominal 
p = 0.0025) in TSC-associated seizures (95% CI: 20.0%, 64.4%). 
In the subgroup of patients treated without concomitant clobazam, patients receiving cannabidiol 
25 mg/kg/day experienced a 44.4 % reduction from baseline in TSC-associated seizure frequency 
compared to a 26.2% reduction in the placebo group; based on a negative binomial regression 
analysis. Compared with placebo, cannabidiol was associated with a 24.7% reduction (nominal 
p = 0.0242) in TSC-associated seizures (95% CI: 3.7%, 41.1%). 
Additional secondary outcome measures for cannabidiol 25 mg/kg/day (overall patient population) 
Cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the percentage of subjects (16.0%) experiencing a 
greater than or equal to 75% reduction in TSC-associated seizure frequency during the treatment 
period compared with the placebo group (0%). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients receiving cannabidiol experienced a greater percentage reduction in total seizures (48.1%) 
compared with placebo (26.9%). 
Global Impression of Change scores at the last visit, were reported by caregivers and patients. 68.6% 
of patients in the cannabidiol group vs. 39.5% in the placebo group experienced an improvement. 
Compared with placebo, cannabidiol was associated with an increase in the number of TSC-associated 
seizure free days during the treatment period, equivalent to 2.82 days per 28 days. 
The effect of cannabidiol on infantile/epileptic spasms associated with TSC has not been fully 
assessed. 
Open-label data 
Of the 201 patients who completed the GWPCARE6 study, 99.0% (199 patients) were enrolled into 
the OLE study. The median modal dosage was 25 mg/kg/day and median treatment period was 90 
weeks (range: 2.6-209 weeks). In the OLE the median percentage reduction from baseline in 
TSC-associated seizure frequency was 54% during Week 1–12 (N = 199), which was maintained 
through to Week 85–96 (N = 98), with a median percentage reduction from baseline in TSC-associated 
seizure frequency of 75%. 
Abuse 
In a human abuse potential study, acute administration of cannabidiol to non-dependent adult 
recreational drug users at therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses produced small responses on positive 
subjective measures such as Drug Liking and Take Drug Again. Compared to dronabinol (synthetic 
THC) and alprazolam, cannabidiol has low abuse potential. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
cannabidiol in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of seizures associated with 
LGS, DS and TSC (See section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
The GWPCARE6 study, conducted in patients with TSC, included 8 children between 1 and 2 years of 
age across all treatment groups. Although data are limited, the observed treatment effect and 
tolerability were similar to that seen in patients of 2 years of age and older, however, efficacy, safety 
and pharmacokinetics in children < 2 years of age have not been established (see section 4.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Cannabidiol appears rapidly in plasma with a time to maximum plasma concentration of 2.5–5 hours 
at steady state. 
Steady-state plasma concentrations are attained within 2-4 days of twice daily dosing based on 
pre-dose (Ctrough) concentrations. The rapid achievement of steady state is related to the multiphasic 
elimination profile of the drug in which the terminal elimination represents only a small fraction of the 
drug’s clearance. 
In healthy volunteer studies, co-administration of cannabidiol (750 or 1500 mg) with a high-fat/high 
calorie meal increased the rate and extent of absorption (5-fold increase in Cmax and 4-fold increase in 
AUC) and reduced the total variability of exposure compared with the fasted state in healthy 
volunteers. Although the effect is slightly smaller for a low-fat/low-calorie meal, the elevation in 
exposure is still marked (Cmax by 4-fold, AUC by 3-fold). Furthermore, taking cannabidiol with bovine 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
milk enhanced exposure by approximately 3-fold for Cmax and 2.5-fold for AUC. Taking cannabidiol 
with alcohol also caused enhanced exposure to cannabidiol, with a 63% greater AUC.  
In the randomised controlled trials, the timing of dose of cannabidiol with respect to meal times was 
not restricted. In patients, a high fat meal was also shown to increase the bioavailability of cannabidiol 
(3-fold). This increase was moderate when the prandial state was not fully known, i.e., 2.2-fold 
increase of the relative bioavailability.  
To minimise the variability in the bioavailability of cannabidiol in the individual patient, 
administration of cannabidiol should be standardised in relation to food intake including a ketogenic 
diet (high-fat meal) i.e., Epidyolex should be taken consistently with or without food. When taken 
with food, a similar composition of food should be considered, if possible. 
Distribution 
In vitro, > 94% of cannabidiol and its phase I metabolites were bound to plasma proteins, with 
preferential binding to human serum albumin. 
The apparent volume of distribution after oral dosing was high in healthy volunteers at 20,963 L to 
42,849 L and greater than total body water, suggesting a wide distribution of cannabidiol. 
Biotransformation and elimination 
The half-life of cannabidiol in plasma was 56–61 hours after twice daily dosing for 7 days in healthy 
volunteers. 
Metabolism 
Cannabidiol is extensively metabolised by the liver via CYP450 enzymes and the UGT enzymes. The 
major CYP450 isoforms responsible for the phase I metabolism of cannabidiol are CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4. The UGT isoforms responsible for the phase II conjugation of cannabidiol are UGT1A7, 
UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. 
Studies in healthy subjects showed there were no major differences in the plasma exposure to 
cannabidiol in CYP2C19 intermediate and ultra-rapid metabolisers when compared to extensive 
metabolisers. 
The phase I metabolites identified in standard in vitro assays were 7-COOH-CBD, 7-OH-CBD, and 
6-OH-CBD (a minor circulating metabolite). 
After multiple dosing with cannabidiol, the 7-OH-CBD metabolite (active in a preclinical model of 
seizure) circulates in human plasma at lower concentrations than the parent drug cannabidiol (~ 40% 
of CBD exposure) based on AUC. 
Excretion 
The plasma clearance of cannabidiol following a single 1500 mg dose of cannabidiol is about 
1,111 L/h. Cannabidiol is predominantly cleared by metabolism in the liver and gut and excreted in 
faeces, with renal clearance of parent drug being a minor pathway. 
Cannabidiol does not interact with the major renal and hepatic transporters in a way that is likely to 
result in relevant drug-drug interactions. 
Linearity 
The Cmax and AUC of cannabidiol are close to dose-proportional over the therapeutic dose range 
(10-25 mg/kg/day). After single dosing, exposure over the range 750-6000 mg increases in a less than 
dose-proportional manner, indicating that absorption of cannabidiol may be saturable. Multiple dosing 
in TSC patients also indicated that absorption is saturable at doses above 25 mg/kg/day. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Effect of age, weight, sex, race 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses demonstrated that there were no clinically relevant effects of 
age, body weight, sex, or race on exposure to cannabidiol. 
Elderly 
Pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol have not been studied in subjects > 74 years of age. 
Paediatric patients 
Pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol have not been studied in paediatric patients < 2 years of age. 
A small number of patients < 2 years with treatment-resistant epilepsy (including TSC, LGS and DS) 
have been exposed to cannabidiol in clinical trials and in an expanded access programme. 
Renal impairment 
No effects on the Cmax or AUC of cannabidiol were observed following administration of a single dose 
of cannabidiol 200 mg in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment when compared to 
patients with normal renal function. Patients with end-stage renal disease were not studied.  
Hepatic impairment 
No effects on cannabidiol or metabolite exposures were observed following administration of a single 
dose of cannabidiol 200 mg in subjects with mild hepatic impairment. 
Subjects with moderate and severe hepatic impairment showed higher plasma concentrations of 
cannabidiol (approximately 2.5-5.2-fold higher AUC compared to healthy subjects with normal 
hepatic function). Cannabidiol should be used with caution in patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment. A lower starting dose is recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment. The dose titration should be performed as detailed in section 4.2. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
In LGS 
In patients with LGS, population pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modelling indicated the 
presence of an exposure efficacy relationship for the likelihood of achieving a ≥ 50% reduction in drop 
seizure frequency across the cannabidiol dose range tested (0 [placebo], 10 and 20 mg/kg/day). There 
was a significant positive correlation between the derived AUC of cannabidiol and the probability of a 
≥ 50% response. The responder rate analysis also showed a correlation in the exposure–response 
relationship for the active metabolite of cannabidiol (7-OH-CBD). PK/PD analysis also demonstrated 
that systemic exposures to cannabidiol were correlated with some adverse events namely elevated 
ALT, AST, diarrhoea, fatigue, GGT, loss of appetite, rash, and somnolence (see section 4.8). 
Clobazam (separate analysis) was a significant covariate which caused the probability of GGT to 
increase, loss of appetite to decrease, and somnolence to increase. 
In TSC 
In TSC patients there is no exposure-response relationship based on efficacy endpoints, as the doses 
evaluated are at the high end of the dose-response relationship. However, an exposure-response 
relationship was determined for the 7-OH-CBD metabolite in relation to AST elevation. No other 
PK/PD relationships with safety endpoints were identified for CBD or its metabolites.  
Drug interaction studies 
In vitro assessment of drug interactions 
Cannabidiol is a substrate for CYP3A4, CYP2C19, UGT1A7, UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro data suggest that cannabidiol is an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 activity at clinically relevant concentrations. The metabolite 
7-carboxy-cannabidiol (7-COOH-CBD) is an inhibitor of UGT1A1, UGT1A4 and UGT1A6-mediated 
activity, in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations (see also section 4.5). 
Cannabidiol induces CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 mRNA expression in vitro at clinically relevant 
concentrations. An in vivo study with caffeine showed that cannabidiol did not induce CYP1A2 in 
vivo.  
Cannabidiol and the metabolite 7-OH-CBD do not interact with the major renal or hepatic uptake 
transporters and therefore are unlikely to result in relevant drug-drug interactions: OAT1, OAT3, 
OCT1, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2-K, OATP1B1and OATP1B3. Cannabidiol is not a substrate for or an 
inhibitor of the brain uptake transporters OATP1A2 and OATP2B1. In vitro, cannabidiol and 
7-OH-CBD are not substrates for or inhibitors of efflux transports P-gp/MDR1, BCRP or BSEP. In 
vivo data with everolimus show that cannabidiol can affect P-gp-mediated efflux of a P-gp substrate in 
the intestine (see section 4.5) but cannabidiol did not inhibit or induce CYP3A4 based on an in vivo 
midazolam study. The metabolite 7-COOH-CBD is a P-gp/MDR1 substrate and has the potential to 
inhibit BCRP, OATP1B3, and OAT3.  
In vivo assessment of drug interactions 
Drug interaction studies with AEDs 
Potential interactions between cannabidiol (750 mg twice daily in healthy volunteers and 
20 mg/kg/day in patients) and other AEDs were investigated in drug-drug interaction studies in 
healthy volunteers and in patients and in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma drug 
concentrations from placebo-controlled studies in the treatment of patients with LGS. 
The combination of cannabidiol with clobazam caused an elevation in exposure to the active 
metabolite N-desmethylclobazam, with no effect on clobazam levels. Although exposure to 
cannabidiol was not notably affected by clobazam use, the levels of an active metabolite, 7-OH-CBD, 
were elevated by this combination. Therefore, dose adjustments of cannabidiol or clobazam may be 
required.  
Coadministration of cannabidiol and everolimus led to an increase in everolimus exposure. Therefore, 
dose adjustments and therapeutic drug monitoring of everolimus may be required when everolimus 
and cannabidiol are concomitantly used. 
The in vivo interactions for clobazam, everolimus and other concomitant AEDs are summarised in the 
table below. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Drug interactions between cannabidiol and concomitant antiepileptic drugs 
Concomitant AED 
Clobazam 
Valproate 
Stiripentol  
Everolimus 
Influence of AED on cannabidiol 
No effect on cannabidiol levels. 
Interaction resulting in an increase 
in exposure of the active 
metabolite 7-OH-CBD in HV* 
studies. a 
No effect on CBD or its 
metabolites. 
No effect on cannabidiol levels.  
Interaction resulting in a decrease 
(approximately 30%) in Cmax and 
AUC of the active metabolite 
7-OH-CBD in trials conducted in 
HV* and patients with epilepsy. 
The effect of everolimus on 
cannabidiol has not been assessed. 
Influence of cannabidiol on AED 
No effect on clobazam levels. 
Interaction resulting in approximately 
3-fold increase in 
N-desmethylclobazam metabolite 
exposure. b  
No effect on valproic acid exposure or 
exposure to the putative hepatotoxic 
metabolite 2-propyl-4-pentenoic acid 
(4-ene-VPA). 
Interaction resulting in an approximate 
28% increase in Cmax and 55% increase 
in AUC in a HV* study and increases of 
17% in Cmax and 30% increases in AUC 
in patients. 
Coadministration of cannabidiol 
(12.5 mg/kg twice daily) with 
everolimus (5 mg) resulting in an 
approximate 2.5-fold increase in 
everolimus exposure for both Cmax and 
AUC in a HV* study. 
a average increases of 47% in AUC and 73% in Cmax.  
b based on Cmax and AUC. 
*HV = Healthy Volunteer. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Mutagenicity and Carcinogenicity 
In a carcinogenicity study in mice, oral administration of Epidyolex (0 [water], 0 [vehicle], 30, 100, or 
300 mg/kg/day) for 2 years increased the incidence of benign hepatocellular adenomas in male mice at 
all doses tested and in female mice at the highest dose tested. At the highest dose evaluated, plasma 
exposures (AUC) in mice were approximately 7 times greater than the anticipated exposure in humans 
at a dosage of 25 mg/kg/day. 
A study of the carcinogenic potential of cannabidiol in rats has not been conducted 
Genotoxicity studies have not detected any mutagenic or clastogenic activity. 
Reproductive toxicity 
No adverse reactions were observed on male or female fertility or reproduction performance in rats at 
doses up to 250 mg/kg/day (approximately 34-fold greater than the maximum recommended human 
dose (MRHD) at 25 mg/kg/day). 
The embryo-foetal development (EFD) study performed in rabbits evaluated doses of 50, 80, or 
125 mg/kg/day. The dose level of 125 mg/kg/day induced decreased foetal body weights and increased 
foetal structural variations associated with maternal toxicity. Maternal plasma cannabidiol exposures 
at the no observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) for embryofoetal developmental toxicity in rabbits 
were less than that in humans at a dosage of 25 mg/kg/day. 
In rats, the EFD study evaluated doses of 75, 150, or 250 mg/kg/day. Embryofoetal mortality was 
observed at the high dose, with no treatment-related effects on implantation loss at the low or mid 
doses. The NOAEL was associated with maternal plasma exposures (AUC) approximately 9 times 
greater than the anticipated exposure in humans at a dosage of 25 mg/kg/day. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pre- and post-natal development study was performed in rats at doses of 75, 150, or 250 mg/kg/day. 
Decreased growth, delayed sexual maturation, behavioural changes (decreased activity), and adverse 
effects on male reproductive organ development (small testes in adult offspring) and fertility were 
observed in the offspring at doses ≥ 150 mg/kg/day. The NOAEL was associated with maternal 
plasma cannabidiol exposures approximately 5 times that in humans at a dosage of 25 mg/kg/day. 
Juvenile toxicity 
In juvenile rats, administration of cannabidiol for 10 weeks (subcutaneous doses of 0 or 15 mg/kg on 
postnatal days [PNDs] 4-6 followed by oral administration of 0, 100, 150, or 250 mg/kg on PNDs 
7-77) resulted in increased body weight, delayed male sexual maturation, neurobehavioural effects, 
increased bone mineral density, and liver hepatocyte vacuolation. A no-effect dose was not 
established. The lowest dose causing developmental toxicity in juvenile rats (15 mg/kg 
subcutaneous/100 mg/kg oral) was associated with cannabidiol exposures (AUC) approximately 
8 times that in humans at 25 mg/kg/day.  
In another study, cannabidiol was dosed to juvenile rats from PND 4-21 (as a subcutaneous injection) 
and from PND 22-50 (as an intravenous injection). A NOAEL of 15 mg/kg/day was established. 
Abuse 
Animal abuse-related studies show that cannabidiol does not produce cannabinoid-like behavioural 
responses, including generalisation to delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in a drug discrimination 
study. Cannabidiol also does not produce animal self-administration, suggesting it does not produce 
rewarding effects. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Refined sesame oil 
Anhydrous ethanol  
Sucralose (E955) 
Strawberry flavour (including benzyl alcohol) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Use within 12 weeks after first opening the bottle. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Amber glass bottle (type III) with a child-resistant and tamper-evident screw cap (polypropylene).  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pack sizes are available for Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution: 
100 ml (1 × 100 ml bottle) with 2 × 5 ml and 2 × 1 ml calibrated oral dosing syringes (HDPE plunger 
and Polypropylene barrel) and two bottle adaptors (LDPE).  
300 ml (3 × 100 ml bottles) with 2 × 5 ml and 2 × 1 ml calibrated oral dosing syringes (HDPE plunger 
and Polypropylene barrel) and three bottle adaptors (LDPE).  
The 5 ml syringes are graduated in 0.1 ml increments and the 1 ml syringes are graduated in 0.05 ml 
increments. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Nasogastric tubes made of silicone, with a length of more than 50 cm and maximum of 125 cm and a 
diameter of more than 5 FR and maximum of 12 FR, can be used. Nasogastric tubes made of silicone, 
being 50 cm or shorter and 5 FR or less in diameter should be avoided. Gastric tubes made of silicone, 
with a length of 0.8 to 4 cm and a diameter of 12 FR to 24 FR, can be used. Tubes made of polyvinyl 
chloride and polyurethane should not be used.  
After administration, the enteral feeding tube should be flushed at least once with room temperature 
water. If more than one drug is being administered, the tube should be flushed between each drug. It is 
recommended that the flushing volume is approximately 5 times the priming volume of the tube (with 
a minimum of 3 ml for the shortest/narrowest tubes to a maximum of 20 ml for the longest/largest 
tubes). The flushing volume may need to be modified in patients with fluid restrictions.  
Enteral tubes with ENFit® connections require the use of ENFit compatible syringes and bottle 
adaptors. To maximise dose accuracy, 1 ml syringes should be used for doses ≤ 1 ml.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1389/001 
EU/1/19/1389/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 September 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agency, http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
26 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
GW Pharma (International) B.V., Databankweg 26 
3821AL Amersfoort, The Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Oral solution - Carton containing 100 ml (1 x 100 ml bottle) oral solution 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution  
cannabidiol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of oral solution contains 100 mg cannabidiol. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains refined sesame oil, ethanol and strawberry flavour components (including benzyl alcohol).  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
One 100 ml bottle  
Two 1 ml oral syringes with bottle adaptor 
Two 5 ml oral syringes with bottle adaptor 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard unused portion 12 weeks after first opening. 
Date of first opening: 
____/_____/_____ 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1389/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
epidyolex 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Oral solution - Carton containing 300 ml (3 x 100 ml bottles) oral solution 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution  
cannabidiol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of oral solution contains 100 mg cannabidiol. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains refined sesame oil, ethanol and strawberry flavour components (including benzyl alcohol).  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
3 × 100 ml bottles  
Two 1 ml oral syringes with bottle adaptor 
Two 5 ml oral syringes with two bottle adaptors 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard unused portion 12 weeks after first opening. 
Date of first opening: 
____/_____/_____ 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1389/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
epidyolex 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution 
cannabidiol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of oral solution contains 100 mg cannabidiol. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains refined sesame oil, ethanol and strawberry flavour components (including benzyl alcohol). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard unused portion 12 weeks after first opening 
Date of first opening: 
____/_____/_____ 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1389/001 (1 × 100 ml bottle pack) 
EU/1/19/1389/002 (3 × 100 ml bottles pack) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Epidyolex 100 mg/ml oral solution 
cannabidiol 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or the patient start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you or the patient 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
- 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Epidyolex is and what it is used for.  
2.  What you or the patient need to know before taking Epidyolex.  
3.  How you or the patient should take Epidyolex.  
4.  Possible side effects.  
5.  How to store Epidyolex. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information. 
1.  What Epidyolex is and what it is used for 
Epidyolex contains cannabidiol, a medicine which can be used to treat epilepsy, a condition where 
someone has seizures or fits. 
Epidyolex is used in combination with clobazam or with clobazam and other antiepileptic medicines to 
treat seizures that occur with two rare conditions, called Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome. It can be used in adults, adolescents and children of at least 2 years of age.  
Epidyolex is also used in combination with other antiepileptic medicines to treat seizures that occur 
with a genetic disorder called tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). It can be used in adults, adolescents 
and children of at least 2 years of age.  
2.  What you or the patient need to know before taking Epidyolex 
Do not take Epidyolex 
- 
if you are allergic to cannabidiol or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if your doctor determines that you have certain abnormal liver blood tests. 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Epidyolex or during treatment if: 
- 
you have or have had liver problems, as your doctor may need to change the dose of Epidyolex 
or may decide that Epidyolex is not appropriate for you. 
Your doctor may do blood tests to check your liver before you start taking this medicine and 
during treatment, as Epidyolex can cause liver problems. If your liver is not working properly, 
your treatment may need to be stopped. 
you notice unusual changes in your mood or behaviour or have thoughts of harming or killing 
yourself. Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away (See section 4). 
- 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Epidyolex can make you feel sleepy. Do not drive, operate machinery, or take part in activities 
that require you to be alert and have fine control, such as cycling, until you know how 
Epidyolex affects you. 
you stop taking Epidyolex suddenly. 
your seizures happen more often, or if you experience a severe seizure while taking Epidyolex. 
Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
you experience weight loss or are unable to gain weight. Your doctor will monitor your weight 
and will evaluate if Epidyolex treatment should be continued. 
Children and adolescents 
Epidyolex is not recommended for use in children under the age of 2 years.  
Other medicines and Epidyolex 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Taking Epidyolex with certain other medicines may cause side effects, affect how the other 
medicines work, or affect how Epidyolex works. Do not start or stop other medicines without talking 
to your doctor or pharmacist. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, as your dose may need to be 
adjusted: 
- 
other epilepsy medicines, such as carbamazepine, clobazam, lamotrigine, lorazepam, phenytoin, 
stiripentol and valproate, that are used to treat seizures 
other medicines used to treat TSC, including everolimus or tacrolimus 
medicines used to treat acid reflux (heartburn or acid regurgitation) such as omeprazole 
mitotane (a medicine used to treat tumours in the adrenal gland) 
morphine or diflunisal (medicines used to treat pain) 
efavirenz (a medicine used to treat HIV/AIDS) 
theophylline (a medicine used to treat asthma) 
caffeine (a medicine for babies who need help breathing) 
propofol (an anaesthetic used for people undergoing surgery) 
simvastatin, fenofibrate, gemfibrozil, (medicines used to reduce cholesterol/lipids) 
enzalutamide (a medicine to treat prostate cancer) 
bupropion (a medicine to help stop smoking or for treating obesity) 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (a herbal medicine used to treat mild anxiety) 
medicines to treat bacterial infections, such as rifampin, clarithromycin and erythromycin 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Epidyolex with food 
Always take Epidyolex according to your doctor’s instructions and consistently either with or without 
food, including high-fat meals (such as ketogenic diet). If you take Epidyolex with food, a similar 
meal type (e.g., similar fat content) should be taken if possible. (See also section 3, How to take 
Epidyolex). 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or 
pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should not take Epidyolex while you are 
pregnant unless the doctor decides the benefits outweigh the potential risks. 
You should not breast-feed whilst taking Epidyolex, as Epidyolex is likely to be present in breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Talk to your doctor about driving, using machines or when children undertake activities such as 
cycling or other sports, because you may feel sleepy after taking this medicine. 
You should not drive, use machines or take part in activities that require you to be alert and have fine 
control, until it is established that your ability to perform such activities is not affected.  
Epidyolex contains sesame oil, alcohol (ethanol), strawberry flavour components (including 
benzyl alcohol). 
Epidyolex contains refined sesame oil which may rarely cause severe allergic reactions. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each ml of Epidyolex contains 79 mg of ethanol equivalent to 10% v/v anhydrous ethanol, i.e., up to 
691.3 mg ethanol per maximal single Epidyolex dose (12.5 mg/kg) for an adult weighing 70 kg 
(9.9 mg ethanol/kg). For an adult weighing 70 kg, this is equivalent to 17 millilitres (ml) of beer, or 
7 ml of wine per dose.  
This medicine contains 0.0003 mg/ml benzyl alcohol corresponding 0.0026 mg per maximal 
Epidyolex dose (Epidyolex 12.5 mg/kg per dose for an adult weighing 70 kg). 
Benzyl alcohol may cause allergic reactions. 
3. 
How you or the patient should take Epidyolex  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Epidyolex is an oral solution (a liquid to be swallowed). Your doctor and pharmacist will tell you how 
much (number of ml) Epidyolex to take each day, how many times a day you should take it and which 
syringe you should use for your dose (1 ml or 5 ml). 
Your doctor will calculate the dose according to your body weight. You may start on a low dose that 
your doctor gradually increases over time. Contact your doctor if you are unsure of your dose or if you 
think your dose may need to be changed. 
Taking Epidyolex with food can increase the amount of medicine your body takes in. You should try, 
as far as possible, to take Epidyolex consistently either with or without food, and according to your 
daily routine, so you get the same effect each time. If you take Epidyolex with food, a similar meal 
type (e.g., similar fat content) should be taken if possible. 
If necessary, Epidyolex may be taken via a nasogastric or gastrostomy tube. Your doctor will give you 
directions how to do so. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
Tell your doctor if you have liver problems because the doctor may need to adjust the dose. 
Do not reduce the dose or stop this medicine unless the doctor tells you to. 
Instructions for the oral use of Epidyolex 
The 1-bottle pack contains the following items: 
• 
• 
• 
Epidyolex oral solution bottle 
a plastic bag containing two 1 ml oral syringes and a bottle adaptor 
a plastic bag containing two 5 ml oral syringes and a bottle adaptor 
The 3-bottle pack contains the following items: 
• 
three Epidyolex oral solution bottles 
• 
a plastic bag containing two 1 ml oral syringes and a bottle adaptor 
• 
a plastic bag containing two 5 ml oral syringes and two bottle adaptors 
A spare syringe of each size is provided in the pack in case the first one is damaged or lost. For the 
3-bottle pack, all three adaptors from both syringe packs are required. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above picture is for illustration purposes only. 
1.  Open the bag containing the correct oral syringe to measure your dose. 
• 
• 
• 
If your dose is 1 ml (100 mg) or less, you should use the smaller 1 ml syringe. 
If your dose is more than 1 ml (100 mg), you should use the larger 5 ml syringe. 
If your dose is more than 5 ml (500 mg), you will need to use the larger 5 ml syringe more 
than once. In this case, keep careful track of how many times you have filled the syringe 
(e.g., by marking off each 5 ml dose, respectively) so that you take the right dose. 
It is important that you use the correct oral syringe to measure your dose. Your doctor or pharmacist 
will let you know which syringe to use depending on the dose that has been prescribed. 
Following the directions from the doctor or pharmacist, the bag containing the other syringes and 
adaptor should be discarded from the pack unless your doctor or pharmacist tells you to keep both 
syringes until your final dose has been reached. If you are prescribed a 3-bottle pack all three 
adaptors should be retained. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Remove the child-resistant cap on the 
bottle by pushing the cap down whilst 
turning the cap anti-clockwise. 
3.  Push the bottle adaptor firmly into the 
neck of the bottle, and make sure it is 
fully inserted. The adaptor could come 
off and cause choking if it is not fully 
inserted. 
4. 
Insert the tip of the correct oral syringe 
fully into the bottle adaptor, and with 
the oral syringe in place, turn the bottle 
upside down.  
5.  Slowly pull back the plunger of the 
syringe, so the volume (number of ml) 
of solution needed is drawn into the 
syringe. Line up the end of the plunger 
with the volume marking required, as 
shown opposite. 
If there is an air bubble in the syringe, 
push the liquid back into the bottle 
whilst keeping the bottle upside down, 
and repeat Step 5 until the bubble has 
gone. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Turn the bottle the right side up, and 
carefully remove the oral syringe from 
the adaptor. 
7.  Place the tip of the oral syringe inside 
the cheek, and gently push the plunger 
to release the medicine. Do not push the 
plunger forcefully or direct the 
medicine to the back of the mouth or 
throat. 
If the dose is more than 5 ml, repeat 
Steps 4 to 7 to give the remaining dose 
using the 5 ml oral syringe. 
8.  Screw the child-resistant cap back on 
the bottle tightly, by turning the cap 
clockwise – you do not need to remove 
the bottle adaptor, as the cap will fit 
over it. 
9.  Fill a cup with warm soapy water and 
clean the oral syringe by drawing water 
in and out using the plunger.  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Remove the plunger from the barrel of 
the syringe, and rinse both parts under 
tap water. Do not place the oral syringe 
in a dishwasher. 
Shake off any water from both parts and 
allow them to dry in the air until the 
next use. Make sure the oral syringe is 
completely dry before the next use, or it 
could make the solution appear cloudy 
if water gets in the bottle. 
If the solution in the bottle has turned 
cloudy, this doesn’t change how well it 
works. Continue to use the medicine as 
normal. 
If you or your patient take more Epidyolex than you should 
If you may have taken more Epidyolex than you should, tell a doctor or pharmacist immediately, or 
contact your nearest hospital casualty department, and take the medicine with you. 
Signs of taking more Epidyolex than you should include diarrhoea and sleepiness.  
If you or your patient forget to take Epidyolex 
If you forget to take a dose, do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Take the next 
dose at your regular time. If you miss many doses, please talk to your doctor about the correct dose to 
take. 
If you or your patient stop taking Epidyolex 
Do not reduce the dose or stop taking Epidyolex without first talking to your doctor. The doctor will 
explain how to gradually stop taking Epidyolex. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects could be very serious: 
- 
- 
High liver enzymes (transaminases elevations) seen in blood tests, which can be a sign of liver 
injury, have been reported in patients receiving Epidyolex 
People taking this medicine can have thoughts of harming or killing themselves. If you have 
these thoughts at any time, contact your doctor 
You may get the following side effects with this medicine. Tell the doctor if you have any of the 
following: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
feeling drowsy or sleepy  
diarrhoea  
decreased appetite  
fever  
vomiting  
feeling tired 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood tests showing increases in levels of certain liver enzymes  
seizures 
feeling bad-tempered (irritable, aggressive) 
rash 
lack of energy  
cough 
pneumonia 
weight loss  
feeling sick  
urinary tract infection 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Epidyolex 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date shown on the bottle. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month. 
If you have any solution left in the bottle more than 12 weeks after it was first opened, you should not 
use it. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicine in the wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist about 
how to throw away any medicine that you no longer use. This will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Epidyolex contains  
-  The active substance is cannabidiol. Each ml of oral solution contains 100 mg of cannabidiol. 
-  The other ingredients are refined sesame oil, anhydrous ethanol, sucralose and strawberry flavour 
(including benzyl alcohol) 
What Epidyolex looks like and contents of the pack 
Epidyolex is a clear, colourless to yellow oral solution. It comes in an amber glass bottle which has a 
child-resistant screw cap.  
The following pack sizes are available for Epidyolex: 
100 ml (1 × 100 ml bottle) with 2 × 5 ml and 2 × 1 ml calibrated oral dosing syringes and two bottle 
adaptors.  
300 ml (3 × 100 ml bottles) with 2 × 5 ml and 2 × 1 ml calibrated oral dosing syringes and three bottle 
adaptors. 
The 5 ml syringes are graduated in 0.1 ml and the 1 ml in 0.05 ml increments. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
e-mail: medinfo-int@jazzpharma.com 
Manufacturer 
GW Pharma (International) B.V., 
Databankweg 26, 3821AL Amersfoort, The Netherlands 
e-mail: medinfo-int@jazzpharma.com 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the medical information representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +31 207176898 
България 
Teл.: +353 1 968 1631 
Česká republika 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Danmark 
Tlf: +45 69918419 
Deutschland 
Tel: +49(0)3022957821 
Eesti 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +353 1 968 1631 
España 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Iberia, S.L. 
Tel: +34 914142493 
Lietuva 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Tél/Tel: +31 207176898 
Magyarország 
Tel.: +353 1 968 1631 
Malta 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Nederland 
Tel: +31 207176898 
Norge 
Tlf: +353 1 968 1631 
Österreich 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Polska 
Tel.: +353 1 968 1631 
France 
Exploitant : Jazz Pharmaceuticals France SAS 
Tél: +33 176728925 
Portugal 
Tel: +351 308805626 
Hrvatska 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Ireland 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
România 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Slovenija 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Sími: +353 1 968 1631 
Italia 
Jazz Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 (0)800959164 
Κύπρος 
Τηλ: +353 1 968 1631 
Latvija 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Slovenská republika 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Suomi/Finland 
Puh/Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Sverige 
Tel: +46 406688521 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Tel: +44 8081890387 (toll free) 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
