EMA/191061/2021 
EMEA/H/C/004675 
Epidyolex (cannabidiol) 
An overview of Epidyolex and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Epidyolex and what is it used for? 
Epidyolex is a medicine used in addition to clobazam, to treat patients from two years of age with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or Dravet syndrome. It is also used to treat tuberous sclerosis complex 
(TSC) with other epilepsy treatments in patients also aged two and above. These are rare types of 
epilepsy that begin in childhood and can continue into adulthood. Symptoms of these conditions 
include multiple types of seizure (fits), abnormal electrical activity in the brain, learning disability and 
behavioural problems.  
The conditions are rare, and Epidyolex was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases). Further information on the orphan designations can be found on the European Medicines 
Agency’s website: (Dravet syndrome: 15 October 2014; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome: 20 March 2017; 
tuberous sclerosis: 17 January 2018). 
Epidyolex contains the active substance cannabidiol. 
How is Epidyolex used? 
Epidyolex can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
a doctor experienced in the treatment of epilepsy. 
Epidyolex is available as a liquid containing 100 mg cannabidiol per ml. It should be taken consistently 
either with or without food. The recommended starting dose is 2.5 mg per kilogram body weight given 
twice a day. Doses are measured and given by mouth with a syringe supplied with the medicine. After 
one week, the dose should be increased to 5 mg/kg twice a day. Depending on the individual response 
and how well the medicine is tolerated, the doctor may increase the dose gradually up to a maximum 
of 10 mg/kg twice a day for Dravet and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes and 12.5 mg/kg twice a day for 
TSC. For more information about using Epidyolex, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Epidyolex work? 
Although the way it works is not clearly understood, the active substance in Epidyolex, cannabidiol, is 
thought to act on targets that play a role in the movement of calcium in the cells. As this is important 
for the transmission of electrical signals in some nerve cells, and seizures are caused by excessive 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
electrical activity in the brain, altering the movement of calcium is expected to reduce or prevent the 
seizures in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome or TSC. Cannabidiol is also 
thought to act on adenosine, a chemical messenger in the brain that plays an important role in 
suppressing seizures. 
What benefits of Epidyolex have been shown in studies? 
Five studies in over 900 patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome or TSC showed that 
Epidyolex lowered the number of seizures when added to treatment with other epilepsy medicines after 
14 to 16 weeks of treatment. 
In the first two studies, patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome taking Epidyolex in combination with 
clobazam had a reduction of up to 64% in the number of drop seizures (brief loss of muscle tone and 
reduced consciousness, causing abrupt falls), compared with a reduction of up to 31% for patients 
given placebo (a dummy treatment) with clobazam. 
In another two studies in patients with Dravet syndrome, the reduction in the number of convulsive 
seizures (major fits with loss of consciousness) was up to 61% for patients taking Epidyolex and 
clobazam, and up to 38% for patients on placebo and clobazam. 
In a fifth study, patients with TSC taking Epidyolex at maximum dose of 25/mg/kg/day had a reduction 
of 49% in the number of seizures compared with 27% in patients receiving a placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Epidyolex? 
The most common side effects with Epidyolex (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
somnolence (sleepiness), decreased appetite, diarrhoea, fever, tiredness and vomiting. The most 
common reason for stopping treatment was increased blood levels of liver enzymes (a sign of liver 
problems). For the full list of side effects of Epidyolex, see the package leaflet. 
Epidyolex must not be used in patients whose blood levels of liver enzymes are more than three times 
the normal limit and who also have levels of bilirubin (another marker of liver problems) more than 
twice the normal limit. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Epidyolex authorised in the EU? 
The main studies showed that Epidyolex is effective at lowering the number of seizures in patients with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome or TSC who are taking another epilepsy medicine. 
Regarding safety, treatment with Epidyolex is associated with an increased risk of liver problems. This 
risk can be managed with restrictions and regular liver monitoring and is considered acceptable given 
the seriousness of the conditions and the lack of treatments. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Epidyolex’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Epidyolex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Epidyolex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Epidyolex are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Epidyolex are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Epidyolex (cannabidiol)  
EMA/191061/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Epidyolex 
Epidyolex received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 September 2019. 
Further information on Epidyolex can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/epidyolex.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Epidyolex (cannabidiol)  
EMA/191061/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
