SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Epivir. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 July 2005. For information on changes after this date please refer 
to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is a retrovirus, which replicates by transcribing its viral 
RNA genome into DNA via the enzyme reverse transcriptase (RT). 
The  HIV  results  in  a  chronic,  progressive  deterioration  in  overall  cell-mediated  immunity  with  a 
steady depletion of CD4 T-lymphocytes causing Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). 
Agents of the family of 2’, -3’-dideoxynucleoside analogues are designed to suppress viral replication 
in two ways: by competitive inhibition with cellular nucleotides for the binding site of RT and, after 
incorporation into the growing viral DNA strand, by preventing further elongation of the viral DNA 
(chain termination). 
All  the  currently  available  nucleoside  analogues  have  dose-limiting  toxicities  which  may  limit  their 
long-term  use.  The  development  of  resistant  viruses  in  patients  treated  with  these  nucleosides 
analogues  also  demonstrates  the  pressing  need  for  new  agents  to  widen  the  choice  of  therapeutic 
agents available for treating patients infected with HIV. 
Lamivudine is a nucleoside analogue developed as a treatment for HIV infection. It has also activity 
against hepatitis B virus (HBV). It is metabolised intracellularly to the active moiety, lamivudine 5’-
triphosphate.  Its  main  mode  of  action  is  as  a  chain  terminator  of  viral  reverse  transcription.  The 
triphosphate  has  selective  inhibitory  activity  against  HIV-1  and  HIV-2  replication  in  vitro,  it  is  also 
active  against  zidovudine-resistant  clinical  isolates  of  HIV.  Lamivudine  in  combination  with 
zidovudine  exhibits  synergistic  anti-HIV  activity  against  clinical  isolates  in  cell  culture.  The 
demonstration  of  the  benefit  of  lamivudine  is  based  on  bitherapy  studies  in  combination  with 
zidovudine  where  a  significant  reduction  in  the  risk  of  disease  progression  and  mortality  has  been 
shown.  Moreover,  lamivudine  has  been  widely  used  as  a  component  of  triple  combination  therapies 
with  protease  inhibitors,  non  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  and  with  nucleoside  reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors. 
Lamivudine is indicated as part of antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV infected 
adults and children. The recommended dose of Epivir is 300 mg (30 ml) daily as either 150 mg twice 
daily or 300 mg once daily. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
Epivir contains lamivudine as the active substance and is available in two pharmaceutical forms: film 
coated  tablets  containing  150  mg  or  300  mg  lamivudine  and  an  oral  solution  containing  10  mg/ml 
lamivudine.  
Composition 
• 
Tablets 
Epivir  300  mg  film-coated  tablets  have  the  same  qualitative  core  composition  as  the  150  mg  film-
coated tablets. 
Other  ingredients  used  in  the  tablet  formulations  include  microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch 
glycollate and magnesium stearate and excipients commonly used in film-coatings. 
HDPE bottles with child-resistant closures were initially authorised as container. A PVC/Aluminium 
blister was subsequently authorised through a variation. 
The pharmaceutical development of the film-coated tablets, which provide doses of 150 mg and 300 
mg of lamivudine in single dosage units, and the choice of the excipients, was adequate. 
• 
Oral solution 
1/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients entering in the composition of the oral solution are methyl hydroxybenzoate, propyl 
hydroxybenzoate, sucrose, artificial flavours, propylene glycol, citric acid, sodium citrate and sodium 
hydroxide or hydrochloric acid. 
The  container  is  a  HDPE  bottle,  with  child  resistant  /  tamper  evident  closure.  Its  total  volume  is 
270 ml, but its filling volume is 240 ml.  
A  suitable  dosing  device  has  been  developed  to  allow  accurate  measurement  of  low  prescribed 
volumes  of  solution.  This  device  consists  of  a  10  ml  polypropylene  oral-dosing  syringe.  A 
polyethylene adapter is provided to facilitate the use of the syringe.  
Compared  to  the  original  approved  formulation,  the  oral  solution  has  been  reformulated  to  achieve 
acceptable  preservative  efficacy  in  the  absence  of  ethanol.  The  quality  of  the  new  formulation  was 
adequately demonstrated. 
Method of preparation 
• 
Tablets 
Epivir tablets are manufactured according to conventional processes for this pharmaceutical form. The 
validated in-process controls were considered satisfactory and appropriate to ensure consistent batch 
to batch quality. 
• 
Oral solution 
Prior to filling, the bulk solution is filtered (0.5 µm). In-process controls were considered satisfactory. 
The results of validation procedures showed consistent batch to batch quality. 
Control of starting materials 
Active substance 
Lamivudine  is  (2R,  cis)-4-amino-1-(2hydroxymethyl1,  3-oxathiolan-5-yl)-(1H)-pyrimidin2-one  and 
has not yet been described in any pharmacopoeia. The (-) enantiomer of lamivudine which was shown 
to be less cytotoxic than the (+) enantiomer or the racemate has been selected for the manufacture of 
the medicinal product. 
Manufacture of lamivudine involves multi-steps synthesis, which includes racemate separation. 
Quality  specifications of the starting materials and intermediate stages of synthesis were sufficiently 
validated and adequate to control the quality of the active substance. 
The  validation  of  the  test  methods  used  (determination  of  contents  for  lamivudine,  enantiomer  and 
impurities, and lamivudine identification) was considered sufficiently documented. 
Other ingredients 
• 
Tablets 
All  the  ingredients  of  the  tablet  core  are  specified  according  to  the  monographs  of  the  current 
European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur.). The film coat is a proprietary one, an Opadry, whose components 
are all described in monographs of the current Ph.Eur, with the exception of the colouring materials. 
• 
Oral solution 
All the other ingredients included in the oral solution are specified according to the Ph. Eur. 
Control tests on the finished medicinal product. 
• 
Tablets 
Test  results  of  three  batches  of  each  strength  of  tablet  were  presented.  The  control  tests  were 
considered satisfactory. The specified requirements are adequate to control the quality of the finished 
product. Test procedures for the control of the finished product are sufficiently validated. 
• 
Oral solution 
2/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  specified  requirements  of  the  oral  formulation  are  considered  adequate  to  control the quality of 
the finished product and test procedures are sufficiently validated. Results from batch analyses from 
batches showed that all batches complied with the defined specifications. 
Stability 
Stability tests on active substance 
Lamivudine batches from each variation of synthesis were subject to stability testing. The tests were 
performed  over  a  period  of  24  months  and  were  supplemented  with  tests  on  stressed  samples. 
Lamivudine of various origins did not show any physical or chemical changes. The procedures used 
are suitable for stability testing. Validation of the analytical procedures was documented.  
The complete description of the container designed  for storage of the active  substance is part of the 
additional information the company agreed to provide. 
Stability tests on the finished medicinal product 
• 
Tablets 
HPDE bottle 
Stability  tests  were  carried  out  on  batches  of  the  tablets  stored  for  up  to  36  months,  at  30°C  /60% 
relative  humidity.  In  addition,  results  of  stress  tests  were  documented.  The  minor  deviations  of  the 
container, used in stability testing, from the one designed for marketing of the finished product, were 
considered  acceptable. Test  results  showed  no changes in finished product,  in the chosen conditions 
and  time.  Based  on  the  total  data  available,  shelf-  lives  of  36  months,  for  both  strengths  of  tablets, 
were  considered  acceptable  at  the  time  of  the  initial  authorisation,  when  the  tablets  are  stored  at  or 
below 30°C. The shelf life was extended to 5 years through a type I variation for the 150 mg strength. 
PVC/Aluminium blister 
The  stability  data  provided  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  2  years  and  storage  conditions  for  the 
tablets packed in PVC/Aluminium blister. 
• 
Oral solution 
The provided data obtained with the ethanol-free formulation support a shelf-life of  24 months when 
stored  at  or  below  25°C.  The  simulated  patient-use  testing  of  the  oral  formulation  demonstrated  a 
shelf-life after opening of 30 days which is considered acceptable. 
The chemical and pharmaceutical data submitted, together with the additional information provided as 
requested by the CPMP and as part of the obligations to be fulfilled by the applicant, are acceptable to 
ensure the quality and the consistency of both the strengths of the tablets and the oral solution. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Lamivudine  is  a  pyrimidine  nucleoside  analogue.  After  intracellular  uptake,  it  is  sequentially 
phosphorylated  by  host  cell  intracellular  kinases to its respective 5’-triphosophates (TP). Thereafter, 
the  monophosphate  compound  is  inserted  into  the  DNA  transcript  by  the  viral  enzyme  reverse 
transcriptase  (RT).  However,  due  to  lack  of  a  3’-OH  group,  the  nucleic  acid  strand  extension  is 
terminated. Lamivudine is also a competitive inhibitor of the viral RT. Its specific activity against HIV 
is mainly related to  its  selectivity for dividing cells and  its  high  affinity for viral  RT. In the case of 
lamivudine-TP, the eukaryotic DNA polymerases can repair a falsely inserted nucleoside through their 
simultaneously  expressed  3’,  5’-exonuclease  function,  but  the  insertion  of  the  defective  base  in  the 
RT-DNA transcript is virtually irreversible. 
Lamivudine inhibited viral replication of several laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and 
HIV-2 in different monocyte or lymphocyte cell lines or fresh human peripheral blood lymphocytes. 
The IC50 (concentration leading to 50% inhibition of viral replication) ranged from 2nM to 15 µM. In 
addition, lamivudine-TP inhibited viral RT with a Ki value of 10-12 µM.  
3/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  in  vitro  intracellular  half-life  of  lamivudine  TP  was  10-15  h.  Antiviral  effects  have  been 
demonstrated  at  extracellular  concentrations  of  10  nM.  The  extent  of  lamivudine  triphosphorylation 
was not impaired by the presence of zidovudine concentrations of 5 to 50 µM. Effects of lamivudine 
on zidovudine triphosphorylation have not been reported.  
Lamivudine  had  no  activity  against  a  number  of  other  pathogens  [RNA  and  DNA  viruses  (except 
hepatitis) bacteria and fungi] normally occurring during HIV disease, indicating anti-HIV specificity. 
In  vitro  studies  of  lamivudine  given  in  combination  with  other  antimicrobial  agents  showed  that 
ganciclovir  reduced  the  antiviral  activity  (IC50)  of  lamivudine  by  a  factor  of  2-3,  which  is  within 
experimental variation. 
Data  with  lamivudine  from  in  vivo  animal  models  of  HIV  infections  were  limited  and  of  doubtful 
validity. 
Cytotoxicity 
Using different in vitro cell systems (e.g. human erythroid precursors, human bone marrow progenitor 
cells),  LC50s  (concentration  reducing  cell  viability  by  50%)  was  >30  µM.  Depending  on  the  test 
systems used, the therapeutic index (i.e. the ratio between LC50 and IC50) was in general large. 
Antiviral  activity  of  lamivudine  in  combination  with  other  antiviral  compounds  was  studied  in  a 
number of HIV-1 and HIV-2 sub-strains in different host cell lines to investigate synergistic, additive 
or antagonistic effects as well as cytotoxic activity.  
These  studies  indicated  additive  effects  of  lamivudine  with  didanosine  (ddI)  and  zalcitalbine  (ddC) 
and synergistic effects of the lamivudine/zidovudine (ZDV) combination. 
Resistance 
HIV-1 resistance to lamivudine involves the development of a M184V amino acid change close to the 
active  site  of  the  viral  reverse  transcriptase  (RT).  This  variant  arises  both  in  vitro  and  in  HIV-1 
infected  patients  treated  with  lamivudine-containing  antiretroviral  therapy.    M184V  mutants  display 
greatly reduced susceptibility to lamivudine and show diminished viral replicative capacity in vitro. In 
vitro  studies  indicate  that  zidovudine-resistant  virus  isolates  can  become  zidovudine  sensitive  when 
they simultaneously acquire resistance to lamivudine. The clinical relevance of such findings remains, 
however, not well defined. 
Cross-resistance  conferred  by  the  M184V  RT  is  limited  within  the  nucleoside  inhibitor  class  of 
antiretroviral  agents.  Zidovudine  and  stavudine  maintain  their  antiretroviral  activities  against 
lamivudine-resistant  HIV-1.  Abacavir  maintains  its  antiretroviral  activities  against  lamivudine-
resistant  HIV-1  harbouring  only  the  M184V  mutation.    The  M184V  RT  mutant  shows  a  <4-fold 
decrease  in  susceptibility  to  didanosine  and  zalcitabine;  the  clinical  significance  of  these  findings  is 
unknown. In vitro susceptibility testing has not been standardised and results may vary according to 
methodological factors. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  with  lamivudine  showed  no  major  effects  on  cardiovascular  or 
respiratory parameters or on intestinal transport.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of lamivudine has been studied separately in the main species used in the 
preclinical testing programmes. Protein binding was moderate to low in all species including humans 
(35-50%  (at  0.1  µg/ml)  to  <10%  (at  100  µg/ml)).  In  distribution  studies  with  radioactively  labelled 
lamivudine, rapid and wide tissue distribution of drug-related radioactivity was seen. There were no 
signs  of  tissue  accumulation.  Placental  transfer  of  drug-related  material  has  also  been  demonstrated 
with  lamivudine.  Studies  in  lactating  rats  have  shown  that  lamivudine,  after  oral  administration,  is 
excreted in milk. 
Following  oral  administration  of  lamivudine  to  rats,  about  60%  of  the  drug  related  material  was 
excreted in urine within 24 h, predominantly as unchanged drug and the data indicated active tubular 
renal excretion. Two minor metabolites (<5%) were detected. The remaining drug-related radioactivity 
was recovered as unchanged drug in faeces, indicating incomplete absorption. In dogs, about 97% of 
4/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the radioactivity were recovered in urine after oral administration, of which 2 metabolites accounted 
for  52%  of  the  dose.  Of  the  species  studied,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  lamivudine  in  rats  most 
closely resembled that observed in humans.  
After  administration  of  lamivudine,  toxicokinetic  data  obtained  in  the  species  used  in  the  toxicity 
studies  showed  that  the  systemic  exposure  of  animals  exceeded  the  systemic  exposure  of  humans 
given therapeutic doses.  
Animal studies or in vitro data suggested the lack of interactions between lamivudine and a number of 
concomitantly administered drugs. Lamivudine was shown not to interact with the cytochrome P450. 
Interactions  only  occurred  with  ganciclovir  (weakening  of  the  anti-HIV  activity)  and  trimethoprim 
(impeding elimination).  
Toxicology 
The  preclinical  toxicity  profile  of  lamivudine  has  been  characterised  separately  in  a  number  of 
different  species  in  studies  of  up  to  2  years  duration.  The  haematopoetic  system  was  the  most 
commonly  affected 
induce 
embryotoxicity after administration to pregnant animals.  
lamivudine  showed  a  potential 
target  organ.  Furthermore, 
to 
Single  dose  toxicity  of  lamivudine  after  intravenous  (i.v.)  or  oral  administration  was  studied  in 
rodents.  The  acute  toxicity  was  low,  where  doses  up  to  2000  mg/kg  i.v.  (both  species)  or  
2x2000 mg/kg orally (mice only) were well tolerated without signs of target organ toxicity.  
Repeated dose toxicity of lamivudine after oral administration was studied in rats (up to 6 months) 
and  dogs  (up  to  12  months).  The  target  organ  of  toxicity  was  the  haematopoietic  system  (anaemia, 
decreased  platelet  count,  leukopenia  and  splenic  hemosiderosis).  Furthermore,  following  high  doses 
and  extended  exposure  periods,  impaired  liver  function  (raised  ALT  and  AST  without  major 
histological effects), and gastrointestinal effects (ulcers, inflammation) were observed. Non observable 
effect level (NOEL) was 300-425 mg/kg/day b.i.d. in rats and <45 mg/kg/day b.i.d. in dogs. 
Reproductive  function:  Lamivudine  did  not  impair  the  overall  reproductive  performance  in  rats. 
Embryonic deaths occurred in rabbits. Lamivudine showed no teratogenic potential in either species. 
Peri-post natal studies in rats did not reveal any cause of concern.  
Genotoxicity: Lamivudine induced gene mutations in the mouse lymphoma assay (at 1000 µg/ml and 
above).  It  was  also  clastogenic  in  an  in  vitro  cytogenicity  test  in  human  lymphocytes  at  300  µg/ml 
which is 150 times higher than the concentrations observed at clinical use. However, no chromosomal 
damage was seen in in vivo tests in rats. Other in vitro and in vivo tests were also negative. Since these 
genotoxic  effects  were  observed  only  at  concentrations  considerably  higher  than  those  observed  at 
clinical use, the genotoxic potential of lamivudine was considered to be acceptable.  
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  lamivudine  was  studied  in  conventional  24 months studies in rats and 
mice. No signs of carcinogenic effects were seen. In these studies, the systemic exposure of animals 
was 10 - 58 higher than the systemic exposure of humans at clinical use.  
In  local  tolerance  studies,  lamivudine  did  not  cause  ocular  or  cutaneous  irritation.  Furthermore,  the 
potential for hypersensitivity reactions was considered to be low and there was no indication of IgE 
mediating properties.  
Environmental risk: An environmental risk assessment for lamivudine tablets and oral solution has 
been undertaken. Although lamivudine is not biodegradable and its predictive residual concentration 
in  water  was  more  than  allowed  by  norms,  no  adverse  environmental  effects  are  expected  to  occur 
because there is no toxic effect on aquatic species. No further investigations are required. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
5/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  starting  dose  of  0.25  mg/kg/day  was  chosen  based  on  the  inhibitory  concentrations  (IC)  for 
different HIV strains in vitro. 
The administration of a single dose of lamivudine in the 8 phase I trials did not reveal any clinically 
relevant side effects in the dose range investigated (0.25-8 mg/kg/day). The most frequently observed 
adverse event with a single dose was headache. This event was not dose-dependent. 
Absorption  
Lamivudine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the bioavailability of oral lamivudine 
in  adults  is  normally  between  80  and  85  %.    Following  oral  administration,  the  mean  time  (tmax)  to 
maximal serum concentrations (Cmax) is about an hour. Based on data derived from a study in healthy 
volunteers,  at  a  therapeutic  dose  of  150mg  twice  daily,  mean  (CV)  steady-state  Cmax  and  Cmin  of 
lamivudine in plasma are 1.2 µg/ml (24%) and 0.09 µg/ml (27%), respectively.  The mean (CV) AUC 
over a dosing interval of 12 hours is 4.7 µg.h/ml (18%).  At a therapeutic dose of 300mg once daily, 
the mean (CV) steady-state Cmax, Cmin and 24h AUC are 2.0 µg/ml (26%), 0.04 µg/ml (34%) and 8.9 
µg.h/ml (21%), respectively. 
The 150 mg tablet is bioequivalent and dose proportional to the 300 mg tablet with respect to AUC∞, 
Cmax, and tmax. 
Co-administration of lamivudine with food results in a delay of tmax and a lower Cmax (decreased by 47 
%).  However,  the  extent  (based  on  the  AUC)  of  lamivudine  absorbed  is  not  influenced.  Co-
administration of zidovudine results in a 13 % increase in zidovudine exposure and a 28 % increase in 
peak  plasma  levels.  This  is  not  considered  to  be  of  significance  to  patient  safety  and  therefore  no 
dosage adjustments are necessary.  
Distribution 
From  intravenous  studies,  the  mean  volume  of  distribution  is  1.3  l/kg.    The  observed  half-life  of 
elimination is 5 to 7 hours.The mean systemic clearance of lamivudine is approximately 0.32 l/h/kg, 
with predominantly renal clearance (> 70 %) via the organic cationic transport system. 
Lamivudine  exhibits  linear  pharmacokinetics  over  the  therapeutic  dose  range  and  displays  limited 
binding  to  the  major  plasma  protein  albumin  (<  16  %  -  36  % to serum  albumin in in vitro  studies). 
Limited  data  show  that  lamivudine  penetrates  the  central  nervous  system  and  reaches  the  cerebro-
spinal  fluid  (CSF).    The  mean  ratio  CSF/serum  lamivudine  concentration  2-4  hours  after  oral 
administration  was  approximately  0.12.    The  true  extent  of  penetration  or  relationship  with  any 
clinical efficacy is unknown. 
Metabolism 
The active moiety, intracellular lamivudine triphosphate, has a prolonged terminal half-life in the cell  
(16  to  19  hours)  compared  to  the  plasma  lamivudine  half-life  (5  to  7  hours).    In  60  healthy  adult 
volunteers, Epivir 300 mg once daily has been demonstrated to be pharmacokinetically equivalent at 
steady-state  to  Epivir 150  mg twice daily with respect to  intracellular triphosphate AUC24 and Cmax. 
Lamivudine  is  predominately  cleared  unchanged  by  renal  excretion.  The  likelihood  of  metabolic 
interactions  of  lamivudine  with  other  medicinal  products  is  low  due  to  the  small  extent  of  hepatic 
metabolism (5-10 %) and low plasma protein binding. 
Elimination 
Studies  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  show  lamivudine  elimination  is  affected  by  renal 
dysfunction. A recommended dosage regimen is presented for patients with creatinine clearance below 
50 ml/min. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
The administration of trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole, at the dose 160 mg/800 mg, has been shown 
to increase the AUC of lamivudine by 40%. This interaction, which is explained by a reduced renal 
elimination, has been adequately addressed in the SPC. 
The  pharmacokinetic  of  lamivudine  was  unchanged  whether  administered  alone  or  in  combination 
with ZDV as demonstrated by similar AUC or Cmax.  
6/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further pharmacokinetic interactions were studied in vitro but not investigated in clinical trials. 
Special population 
The  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  of  lamivudine  has  been  evaluated  in  patients  with  renal  and  hepatic 
impaired function.  
Study NUCB 1003 
This single dose open study was designed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of single oral dose of 
lamivudine  to  patients  with  various  degrees  of  renal  impairment  compared  to  a  control  group  with 
normal  renal  function  and  to  determine  whether  lamivudine  was  dialysable  in  patients  with  severe 
renal  impairment.  This  study  involved 9  subjects with normal renal function (Clcr > 60 ml/mn) and 
20 patients with renal impairment. Final results confirmed  that  there is a  linear relationship between 
lamivudine  clearance  and  renal  function  (assessed  as  creatinine  clearance)  i.e.  a  reduction  in  renal 
clearance  will  produce  a  higher  exposure  to  lamivudine.  In  case  of  creatinine  clearance  reduction 
between 20 and 50 ml/min, the AUC average increase is 3 fold. In study NUCB 1004, detailed below, 
the  AUC  average  increase  was  determined  to  be  4  fold.  The  current  dosage  recommendations  in 
renally impaired patients proposed by the MAH are consistent with the results of the two studies and 
no modifications are therefore necessary.  
Study  NUCB  1004,  an  open  single  dose  study,  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  hepatic 
impairment on the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine. The study involved 24 non-HBV infected patients 
divided  in  three  groups  according  to  their  hepatic  impairment  function:  normal,  moderate  or  severe. 
Single  300  mg  doses  of  lamivudine  (as  3  x  100  mg  tablets)  were  administered  to  all  subjects.  The 
severity  of  the  hepatic  impairment  was  assessed  according  to  the  Child-Pugh  classification, 
14C aminopyrine  breast  test,  measurement  of  hepatic  blood  flow  by  sonography  and  caffeine 
clearance.  
Results indicated that there was little difference in overall lamivudine exposure (AUC or Cmax) or other 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  such  as  Clr,  tmax,  t1/2  between  healthy  control  subjects  and  patients  with 
hepatic  impairment.  Patients  involved  in  the  study  had  however  mild  to  moderate  liver dysfunction. 
No patients with real severe hepatic impairment were included.  
The results observed are coherent since lamivudine is mainly eliminated through the renal excretion. 
No dose adjustment in patients with impaired hepatic function is therefore warranted. 
Study NUCB 1002 
This phase I study specifically designed and statistically powered to evaluate the influence of hepatic 
function  on  lamivudine  disposition  revealed  no  significant  parameters  between  healthy  controls  and 
patients  with  moderate-severe  hepatic  impairment.  These  results  support  the  use  of  lamivudine  in 
patients  with  hepatic  impairment  without  any  dose  adjustment  unless  accompanied  by  renal 
impairment.  This  is  consistent  since  the  primary  route  of  excretion  of  lamivudine  is  renal.  An 
amendment to the hepatic impairment statement was introduced in the SPC to reflect these results. 
Patients with diarrhoea 
The effect of diarrhoea on lamivudine bioavailability has not been investigated. 
Children 
Four pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in neonatal, paediatric and pregnant patients receiving 
lamivudine  alone  or  in  combination  with  ZDV  and/or  didanosine  (ddI)  (NUCA  2002,  NUCA  2005, 
NUCA 2018 and ZDVB 1003). Pharmacokinetic data are therefore available in neonates (n = 36), in 
children from 3 months to 2 years (n=7), from 2 to 12 years (n=68) and 12 to 18 years (n=25). 
NUCA  2002  is  an  open-label,  non  comparative,  dose-escalating  study  (0.5;  1.0;  2.0;  4.0;  6.0  and 
10.0 mg/kg bid)  to  establish  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  lamivudine  in  89  HIV  infected  children 
aged 3 months to 17 years. Patients received a single intravenous administration of lamivudine 48-72 
hours prior to the initiation of oral dosing. Results from 60 and 58 patients for oral and intravenous 
route respectively showed that lamivudine exhibited linear pharmacokinetics and dose proportionality 
throughout given dose range (1-20 mg/kg/day) in paediatric patients, as it was observed in adults. The 
overall  exposure  is  lower  in  children  than  in  adults  for  a  given  dose  as  a  consequence  of  lower 
7/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
absolute bioavailability (57 ± 22% versus 80-85% in adults) and higher systemic clearance. No change 
in apparent volume of distribution was observed between paediatric and adult patients (1.3 l/kg after 
intravenous administration). The observed half-life was shorter (1.5-2.5 hours in paediatric versus 2.5-
3.5 hours in adults), but this difference could be the result of an underestimation as a consequence of 
samples timing (up to 12 hours). It was also observed that body weight was a significant co-variate in 
these parameter differences. 
Lamivudine  CSF  penetration  that  was  assessed  on  day  4  and  week  12  was  moderate.  Average  CSF 
lamivudine concentrations ranged from 18 ng/ml to 288 ng/ml for the dose ranges 1 to 20 mg/kg/day 
respectively.  In  adults,  CSF  lamivudine  concentrations  ranged  from  94  to  328  ng/ml  for  the  dose 
ranges 8 mg/kg/day up to 20 mg/kg/day. 
NUCA  2005  is  an  open  label  phase  II  to  investigate  the  safety,  efficacy,  tolerance  and 
pharmacokinetic profiles of the combination lamivudine, ZDV and ddI in HIV infected children. The 
study  involved  65  children  aged  3  months  to  18  years  who  had  received  no  or  minimal  prior 
antiretroviral  therapy,  or  who  had  experienced  toxicity  or  become  refractory  to  prior  treatment. 
Pharmacokinetics  parameters  were  estimated  following  either  single  or  repeated  administration  of 
4 mg/kg bid of lamivudine co-administered with ZDV (180 or 90 mg/m2 every 6 hours) or ddI (135 
mg/m2 bid) and data are available from 39 patients.  
Results  showed  that  AUC  values  differ  significantly  between  the  age  groups  2-12  years  and  12-18 
years  (p  <  0.05).  The  pharmacokinetics  of  lamivudine  assessed  by  AUC  at  day  2  or  at  steady  state 
(week 4) was unchanged whether administered alone or with concomitant administration of ZDV, ddI 
or both. Similarly AUC of ZDV and ddI remained unchanged when co-administered with lamivudine. 
It was therefore demonstrated that, as in adults, no dosing adjustment based on pharmacokinetics was 
needed  when  these  products  were  combined.  Based  on  differences  in  exposure  due  to  a  decrease  in 
absolute bioavailability and systemic clearance, 4 mg/kg bid dose (up to a total dose of 150 mg twice 
daily)  for  paediatric  patients  was  estimated  to  provide  similar  daily  exposure  as  in  adults  receiving 
150 mg x 2.  
NUCB 2018, a phase II open-label study was designed to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of 
lamivudine administrated alone and in combination with ZDV to HIV-1 infected pregnant women and 
their offspring.  
Twenty infected pregnant women received either lamivudine alone (300 mg bid) or lamivudine  (150 
mg bid) in combination with ZDV (300 bid) starting at 38 weeks gestation during and after birth (1 
week). All neonates received lamivudine (4 mg/kg bid) either alone or in combination with ZDV (2 
mg/kg qid) for one week and were followed for 12 weeks. Results in 20 neonates showed differences 
in  pharmacokinetics  parameters  between  neonates  and  paediatrics.  It  was  suggested  that  these 
differences  were  likely  due  to  immature  renal  function  and  variable  absorption  because  of  irregular 
gastrointestinal  function  and  irregular  feedings.  From  a  safety  perspective  the  overall  exposure  was 
consistent with that observed in paediatrics and therefore data support the dosage recommendation of 
2 mg/kg bid from 12 hours to 1 week. 
After the Commission Decision, the Marketing Authorisation Holder submitted the results of a phase I 
open  label  study  (ZDVB  1003)  designed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ZDV  and  lamivudine 
when administered in combination to HIV-1 infected pregnant women and their offspring. 
Sixteen  infected  pregnant  women  received  ZDV (300  mg  bid)  in  combination  with  lamivudine  (150 
bid)  starting  at  36  weeks  gestation,  during  and  after  birth  (1  week).  Intrapartum  the  dose  of  ZDV 
increased  to  (300  mg/  3  hourly).  All  neonates  received  ZDV  (4  mg/kg  bid)  in  combination  with 
lamivudine (2 mg/kg bid) for one week and were followed for 12 weeks. Results in 16 neonates are 
consistent with pharmacokinetics parameter contained in study NUCB 2018, and confirm the current 
recommendation for lamivudine in neonates (4mg/kg BID).  
Glomerular  filtration  estimates  suggests  that  to  achieve  similar  adult  and  paediatric  exposure,  the 
recommended dose for children aged six weeks and older could be 8mg/kg/day. 
With  regard  to  paediatric  patients  with  renal  dysfunction,  no  pharmacokinetics  data  are  available. 
However  based  on  the  gained  experience,  it  is  foreseen  that  renal  clearance  will  decrease  in  direct 
proportion to creatinine clearance. Percent reductions in daily dose, in a similar way as in adults with 
the same level of renal impairment, are therefore considered acceptable. 
8/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
Following  oral  administration,  lamivudine  pharmacokinetics  in  late  pregnancy  were  similar  to  non-
pregnant woman. 
Elderly patients 
No pharmacokinetic data are available in the elderly. 
Conclusions on pharmacokinetics 
As with other nucleoside analogues, the active moiety is the intra-lymphocyte triphosphate metabolite. 
.  Pharmacokinetics  of  lamivudine,  in  adults,  was  considered  to  have  been  well  covered.  The 
methodology, design of studies and statistics were appropriate. 
Studies  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  demonstrate  that  1x300mg  per  day  provides  an  equivalente 
lamivudine exposure as the 2x150 mg per day regimen. 
Final analysis of the population pharmacokinetics of trials NUCA3001 and NUCA3002 confirmed the 
absence of interaction between lamivudine and ZDV. 
Pharmacokinetics profile of lamivudine in children aged 2-12 years was well defined. Data support the 
dosage recommendation of 4 mg/kg twice daily of lamivudine which give overall exposure (expressed 
in plasma lamivudine AUC) close to that reported in adults receiving 150 mg x2. 
Although data are limited in children from 3 months to 2 years (n=7), it was shown that oral clearance 
was in the range of that observed in older children (0.81 – 1.53 l/h/kg versus 0.77 – 1.23 l/h/kg) and 
therefore the same dosage recommendation is warranted. . There are limited pharmacokinetic data for 
patients  less  than  three  months  of  age.  In  neonates  one  week  of  age,  lamivudine  oral  clearance  was 
reduced when compared to paediatric patients and is likely to be due to immature renal function and 
variable  absorption.    Therefore,  to  achieve  similar  adult  and  paediatric  exposure,  the  recommended 
dose for neonates is 4 mg/kg/day. Glomerular filtration estimates suggests that to achieve similar adult 
and  paediatric  exposure,  the  recommended  dose  for  children  aged  six  weeks  and  older  could  be 
8mg/kg/day. 
Clinical experience 
Clinical trials 
A  total  number  of  1317  (1173  adults,  144  children)  patients  were  included  in  the  clinical  program. 
Eight studies were performed, six in adults and two in children. 
Criteria for evaluation of efficacy were the following: 
Immunological markers and viral load: the principal criteria were the CD4 lymphocyte count and 
HIV-1  RNA  levels  in  peripheral  blood  by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)  assays. The  methods of 
quantification of these parameters were well validated. 
Clinical manifestations of HIV-1 disease: progression to CDC class B or class C (AIDS events) 
Resistance: The methods of resistance evaluation were well standardised. 
Open label phase II trials in adults 
NUCA2001 was a monotherapeutic dose escalation trial of lamivudine 0.5-20 mg/kg/day, in 97 adults 
with  advanced  ARC  (AIDS  Related  Complex)  or  AIDS  and  CD4  cell  count  =  300/mm3.  After  24 
weeks the patients had the option to change to 2x4 mg/kg/day. 
Efficacy was evaluated over 24 weeks. 
Twenty-eight percent (28%) of the patients were withdrawn from the study within 24 weeks. 
NUCB2001  was  a  monotherapeutic  dose  escalation  trial  of  lamivudine  0.5-2.0  mg/kg/day  in 
104 adults  asymptomatic  or  with  symptoms  of  mild  ARC  and  CD4  cell  count  <400  mm3.  After  52 
weeks the patients had the option to change to 2x300 mg/day.  
Efficacy was evaluated over 52 weeks. 
Eighteen percent (18%) of patients were withdrawn from the study within 52 weeks. 
9/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomised, double-blind studies in therapy-naive adults 
NUCA3001  included  366  ZDV-naive  patients,  or  patients  who  had  received  less  than  four  weeks 
previous ZDV therapy, and with CD4 counts of 200-500 cells/mm3. They were randomly assigned to 
receive  zidovudine  (3x200  mg/day)  or  lamivudine  (2x300  mg/day)  or  ZDV  (3x200  mg/day)  + 
lamivudine (2x150 mg/day) or ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + lamivudine (2x300 mg/day), for 24 weeks. 
Ninety-one patients (25%) were withdrawn from the study within 24 weeks and 275 were defined as 
completers. 
NUCB3001 included 129 ZDV-naive patients with CD4 counts of 100-400 cells/mm3.  
They were randomly assigned to receive ZDV (3x200 mg/day) or ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + lamivudine 
(2x300 mg/day), for 24 weeks. After the blinded period the patients were offered the option to receive 
open-label lamivudine to which ZDV could be added. 
Sixteen patients (12%) were withdrawn from the study within 24 weeks. 
Studies in adults previously treated with zidovudine 
NUCA3002 included 254 patients who had received prior ZDV therapy for = 24 weeks and with CD4 
counts of 100-300 cells/mm3. They were randomly assigned to receive ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + ddC 
(3x0.375 mg/day) or ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + lamivudine (2x150 mg/day) or ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + 
lamivudine (2x300 mg/day, for 24 weeks. Surrogate markers were evaluated over 24 weeks. 
Fifty-seven patients (22%) were withdrawn from the study within 24 weeks.  
NUCB3002 included 223 patients who had received prior ZDV therapy and with CD4 counts of 100-
400  cells/mm3.  They  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  ZDV  (3x200  mg/day)  or  ZDV  (3x200 
mg/day) + lamivudine (2x150 mg/day) or ZDV (3x200 mg/day) + lamivudine (2x300 mg/day), for 24 
weeks. 
Surrogate markers were evaluated over 24 weeks.  
Twenty-seven patients (12%) were withdrawn from the study within 24 weeks. 
Efficacy in controlled studies in adults: 
Efficacy on immunological markers and viral load 
CD4  cell  count:  a  noteworthy  beneficial  effect  on  CD4  count  of  the  combination  ZDV-lamivudine 
(2x150 and 2x300 mg) compared with monotherapy (ZDV  or lamivudine)  or bitherapy (ZDV-ddC), 
both  in  naive  and  previously  treated  patients,  was  shown.  However,  given  the  large  number  of 
undocumented patients at week 24, it was difficult to consider this effect sustained over 24 weeks. 
load  (HIV-1  RNA  by  PCR): 
Viral 
the  ZDV-lamivudine 
(2x150 and 2x300 mg) groups exhibited substantial drop in HIV-RNA at weeks 2 to 4, followed by a 
rebound effect. The mean peak of decrease from baseline was around -1.5 log10 HIV-1 RNA. Such a 
dramatic effect on viral load has not been observed with ZDV or other nucleosides. 
the  studies  patients 
in  all 
in 
On request of the CPMP, the company submitted additional data on CD4 count and HIV-1 RNA from 
NUCA3001 and NUCA3002. The efficacy of ZDV-lamivudine was analysed at 52 weeks, instead of 
24 weeks as used previously. The treatment effect of the ZDV-lamivudine combination on CD4 and 
viral load was sustained over the 52 weeks period and remained superior to the control group. 
With regard to the GCP inspection of biological data (CD4 and HIV1 RNA) of European trials, carried 
out  by  the  French  Inspectorate,  the  company  has  provided  results  of  the  reanalyses,  which  are 
consistent with the results of the original study reports. 
Drug susceptibility 
A high level of phenotypic or genotypic resistance to lamivudine developed rapidly, in the majority of 
the  therapy-naive  or  ZDV-previously  treated  patients.  In  therapy  naive  patients  treated  with  a 
combination of lamivudine and ZDV, the emergence of resistance to ZDV is delayed. 
Efficacy on clinical end-points 
10/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company performed a meta-analysis of the progression to CDC B/C end-points, using combined 
data  from  the  four  double-blind  randomised  controlled  trials  of  ZDV-lamivudine  in  adult  patients 
(NUCA3001, NUCA3002, NUCB3001 and NUCB3002). 
The main findings were: 
• 
• 
• 
A statistically significant 66% reduction in the rate of progression to new AIDS defining  (CDC 
C) endpoints for combination ZDV-lamivudine treatment compared to control treatments, when 
results from the four trials were combined. 
A  statistically  significant  reduction  of  49%  in  the  rate  of  progression  to  new  ARC/AIDS 
defining (CDC B/C) endpoints for combination ZDV-lamivudine treatment compared to control 
treatments, when results from the four trials were combined. 
Consistent  reductions in progression to CDC C and CDC B/C endpoints of similar magnitude 
across  the  four  clinical  trials  and  for  different  subgroups  of  patients.  However  it  was  decided 
that these data could only be considered as supportive data, because the assessment of clinical 
events was not a primary efficacy parameter planned in the protocol. Thus, confirmation of the 
clinical benefit has to be provided with the results of phase III trials. 
Study  NUCB  3007  (the  CAESAR  TRIAL)  was  designed  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  of 
lamivudine versus lamivudine/loviride versus placebo in the treatment of HIV-1 infected patients, with 
CD4  cell  counts  between  25-250  cells/mm3, who  were taking concurrent  ZDV  containing treatment 
regimens.  This  double-blind,  randomised,  multicentre,  comparative trial involved 1895 antiretroviral 
naive or experienced patients, from both sex and over 18 years old. 83 % patients were antiretroviral 
experienced  at  baseline  (>4  weeks  of  prior  antiretroviral  treatment)  with  a  median  duration  of  prior 
therapy  of approximately 28 months. The  primary  endpoint was clinical progression of HIV disease 
defined as death or new AIDS defining events. The final analysis was conducted on an intent-to-treat 
population of 1840 patients who were assigned to treatment in a ratio of 1:2:1 as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
current treatment (n=483) 
current treatment/lamivudine 150 mg bid (n=937)  
current treatment/lamivudine 150 mg bid/loviride 100 mg tid (n=475) 
The  current  therapy  consisted  of  ZDV  monotherapy  for  62  %,  ZDV/ddC  for  23  %  or  ZDV/ddI  for15%. 
Patients in all treatment groups presented consistent baseline characteristics, in particular with respect 
to disease stage at baseline, current therapy or antiretroviral experience at baseline: 26 % were CDC 
stage C, median CD4 cell counts was 126 cells/mm3. 
Two  interim  analyses  were  planned  and  an  independent  body  (Data  and  Safety  Monitoring  Board) 
reviewed data. Based on the available results from the second interim analysis which demonstrated a 
significant delay in time to progression to new AIDS event or death in the lamivudine arms compared 
to  placebo  and  a  delay  in  time  to  progression  alone,  it  was  recommended  to  end  the  study.  A  large 
number  of  patients  did  not  complete  the  52  weeks  of  blinded  study  medication  (59  %  in  placebo 
group,  45  %  in  lamivudine  group  and  44  %  in  lamivudine/loviride  group)  mainly  due  to  premature 
termination of the trial or occurrence of a clinical endpoint. The medium duration on study medication 
was approximately 9 months. 
The  final  results  over  12  months  confirmed  the  preliminary  data,  which  demonstrated  the  clinical 
benefit  of  lamivudine  in  combination  with  ZDV-containing  regimens,  compared  to  ZDV-containing 
regimens  alone.  A  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  lamivudine  in  combination  with 
ZDV-containing  regimens  was  demonstrated  in  reduction  of  risk  of  death  or  disease  progression 
(p < 0.0001).  
11/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical endpoints 
Current treatment + 
placebo 
Current treatment + 
lamivudine 
Current treatment + 
lamivudine  
+ loviride 
Progression to new 
AIDS event or death 
95/471 (20 %) 
86/907 (9 %) 
42/462 (9 %) 
Progression to death 
28/471 (6 %) 
23/907 (3 %) 
14/462 (3 %) 
The  relative  hazard  for  progression  to  the  combined  endpoints  of  disease  progression  or  death  was 
0.427  (95  %  confidence  interval  0.318  -  0.572)  which  represents  a  relative  reduction  in  disease 
progression and death of 57 % for patients on lamivudine compared to the placebo arm. 
There  was  also  a  significant  benefit  in  survival  with  a  60  %  relative  reduction  in  risk  of  mortality 
(p=0.0007) in the lamivudine groups compared to placebo. The relative hazard for reduction in risk of 
death was 0.399 (95 % confidence interval 0.230 - 0.693). 
The  results  showed that the addition of loviride to lamivudine  did not confer any additional clinical 
benefit. 
The  provided  sub-group  analyses  according  to  CD4  cell  counts,  CDC  disease  stage,  gender,  prior 
antiretroviral therapy, current antiretroviral therapy at baseline confirm the clinical benefit of Epivir in 
addition to current therapy. 
The primary treatment comparison was based on staged endpoint, which excluded a number of CDC 
events as endpoints in patients who entered the study with any previous AIDS defining event. Three 
secondary analysis were therefore performed to investigate the effect of these events on the robustness 
of the primary analysis: 
• 
• 
• 
total number of CDC events or deaths as endpoints regardless of the patient’s disease stage at 
baseline 
total number of new or recurrent CDC events or death as endpoint 
total number of new or recurrent CDC events or death including all disease progression events 
where the diagnosis was rejected by the endpoint review committee 
Since  results  were  consistent  with  the  primary  analysis,  the  robustness  of  the  primary  analysis  was 
confirmed. 
The  analysis  of  biological  markers  CD4  cell  counts  and  HIV  RNA  was  performed  in  a  subset  of 
patients.  Results  were  not  in  favour  of  a  close  correlation  between  clinical  endpoints  and  biological 
markers.  
However, the lamivudine and lamivudine + loviride arms were associated with higher CD4 counts (31 
and 40 cells/mm3 respectively over 52 weeks) than the control arm (1.8 cells/mm3). There was a low 
effect  on  viral  load  inferior  to  variability  of  the  assay  (time-weighted  difference  average  over  28 
weeks or DAVGT: -0.37 to 0.49 log10). 
The study was however not designed to address the surrogacy of biological markers. 
Validation of surrogate markers 
The company was requested by the CPMP to provide data to validate that changes in CD4 count and 
viral  load  related  to  anti-HIV  drug  treatments  are  predictive  for  disease  progression.  The  company 
provided  data  based  on  studies  NUCA3001,  NUCA3002  and  VA298.  The  clinical  events  were  not 
assessed  as  primary  efficacy  endpoints  in  studies  NUCA3001  and  NUCA3002.  In  study  VA298  the 
predictability in terms of clinical progression of a combined fall in plasma HIV-RNA and rise in CD4 
count appeared after 48 months of follow-up, but not at 6 or 13 months, which was the duration of the 
lamivudine studies.  
12/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy - once daily use dosage regimen  
Three studies were submitted aiming at demonstrating non inferiority between lamivudine OAD and 
BID containing regimen. However, only the pivotal study EPV 20001 is detailed hereafter. 
STUDY EPV20001 
This randomised, double-blind, controlled, multicenter international Phase II/III study, was designed 
to  evaluate  the  antiviral  effect  and  safety  profile  of  lamivudine  administered  300  mg  OAD  versus 
lamivudine  150mg  BID,  as  a  component  of  triple  drug  therapy,  in  antiretroviral-naïve  patients  with 
HIV-1 infection during 48 weeks. 
A central randomisation was performed to assign patients in the group A or group B treatment: 
-Treatment Group A:  3TC 300mg OAD / 3TC placebo BID / ZDV 300mg BID / EFV 600mg OAD 
-Treatment Group B:  3TC placebo OAD / 3TC 150mg BID / ZDV 300mg BID / EFV 600mg OAD 
Patients were to be given combination therapy with lamivudine, zidovudine and efavirenz for at least 
48 weeks (study medications received until either the patients met a treatment discontinuation criterion 
(protocol defined virologic failure, AE, clinical progression, insufficient viral load response, consent 
withdrawn, lost to follow-up, protocol violation) or end of the study. Real time plasma HIV-1 RNA 
measurements  were  performed  at  weeks  4,  8,  12,  16,  20,  24  and  then  every  8  weeks.  Only  plasma 
HIV-1 RNA levels were used to assess treatment success or failure. 
48-week  data  from  study  EPV20001  are  further  reassuring  with  regard  to  the  similar  efficacy  and 
safety profile of Epivir once and twice a day regimen. 
Studies in children 
ACTG  300,  a  Phase  III  study  was  designed  to  determine  the  comparative  effectiveness  of  the 
combination lamivudine/ZDV versus the better of ddI versus ZDV/ddI therapy in symptomatic HIV-
infected children aged between 42 weeks and 15 years, who had received less than 56 days of prior 
antiretroviral therapy. Paediatric patients were stratified according to age (<3 years and = 3 years). The 
efficacy  was  evaluated  in  terms  of  time  to  disease  progression  and/or  death.  Secondary  endpoints 
include  safety  and  tolerance  parameters.  The  dose  of  lamivudine  administered  was  4  mg/kg  bid. 
Considering the results of ACTG 152 that showed the equivalence between ddI and ZDV/ddI in the 
rate of disease progression endpoints, the randomisation to the ZDV/ddI group ended. On the basis of 
the  interim  analysis  an  independent  body  (Data  and  Safety  Monitoring  Board)  recommended  the 
termination of the study. Of a total of 615 children enrolled, 596 were included in the analysis divided 
as  follows:  236  in  the  lamivudine/ZDV  group,  235  in  ddI  group  and  125  in  ZDV/ddI  group.  The 
median time on study medication was 9.3 months and 8.3 months for the lamivudine/ZDV group and 
ddI  treatment  arms  respectively.  Characteristics  of  the  population  at  baseline  were  similar  in  all 
treatment groups. 
Results  showed  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  time  to  disease  progression  in  favour  of 
lamivudine in combination with ZDV as compared to ddI alone for children less than 3 years old but 
not in the older group. This represents a relative reduction in the risk of disease progression of 76% 
for this strata group. Due to early termination in the enrolment in the ZDV/ddI arm, no conclusion can 
be drawn on the clinical efficacy of ZDV/lamivudine compared to ZDV/ddI. Data related to clinical 
progression only in patients enrolled until the date when inclusions in ZDV/ddI arm have stopped will 
be submitted once available in order to have similar treatment exposure and follow-up. 
In terms of biological markers (HIV-RNA and CD4 cell counts) results showed a significant reduction 
of viral  load and  a significant increase of CD4 cell counts  in the ZDV/lamivudine  arm compared to 
ddI group except at week 48 for both age strata. 
PENTA-4, a placebo controlled phase II study was designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of  
4 mg/kg bid of lamivudine added to the current antiretroviral therapy with ZDV, ddI, ZDV + ddI or 
ZDV  +  ddC  compared  with  these  therapies  alone  in  antiretroviral  experienced  children  (current 
therapy for at least 3 months). Of 172 children randomised aged between 5 months and 15 years, 162 
13/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  analysed  (81  per  group).  The  primary  endpoint  was  defined  as  serious  laboratory  or  clinical 
events. 
Results showed that lamivudine is safe and well tolerated with no increase of serious adverse events 
when  compared  with  placebo.  During  the  double-blind  phase,  in  total  eleven  serious  adverse  events 
were possible or probably related to the drug trial, 5 (in 4 children) were in the lamivudine group and 
6 (in 5 children) in the placebo group. 
The analysis of biological markers showed that the addition of lamivudine to current therapy resulted 
in  a  significant  reduction  in  viral  load  a  significant  increase  of  CD4  cell  counts.  At  week  24,  the 
reduction  in  viral  load  was  in  average  -0.37  log10  copies/ml  in  the  lamivudine  group  versus-
0.01 log10 copies/ml in the placebo group (p=0.0007). Provision of an analysis of viral load according 
to  antiretroviral  therapy  at  inclusion  were  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  define  if 
benefit in favour to lamivudine is greater in children treated at baseline by only one antiretroviral. The 
CPMP concluded that the multivariate analysis showed that there was no evidence of any difference in 
the  effect  of  lamivudine  on  HIV  RNA  between  children  entering the trial on monotherapy (ZDV or 
ddI)  and  those  entering  on  combination  therapy  (ZDV  +  ddI  or  ZDV  +ddC),  after  adjusting  for 
baseline  CD4  count,  HIV  RNA,  disease  stages  and  total  time  spent  on  antiretroviral  (p=0.143).  The 
median change in CD4 cells count from baseline was significantly in favours of lamivudine group at 
week 24 (+ 24 cells/mm3 versus -0.11 cells/mm3, p=0.02).  
On the basis of these trials, the efficacy of lamivudine in combination with ZDV and ZDV containing 
regimens  was  demonstrated  in  antiretroviral  naive  and  experienced  children  in  terms  of  changes  in 
biological markers and clinical efficacy (disease progression and death). 
Safety 
Analysis of adverse events and laboratory data is based on the clinical program (1,173 adults and 144 
children)  and  on  the  open-label  program  (17,572  patients).  Lamivudine  was  well  tolerated.  The 
combination of lamivudine and ZDV was as well tolerated as ZDV alone, with no clinically important 
increases in adverse events or laboratory abnormalities. 
The  ZDV-lamivudine  (2x300  mg/day)  group  had  a  slightly  increased  incidence  of  serious  adverse 
events (14%) compared with ZDV-lamivudine (2x150 mg/day) (10%), particularly for haematological 
parameters (anaemia, decrease of neutrophil count). 
In adults the incidence of serious adverse events, usually associated with other nucleosides, was low. 
The  incidence  of  anaemia  and  decrease  of  white  blood  cells  count  was  higher  in  the  lamivudine 
(2x300-mg/day) group compared with the lamivudine (2x150-mg/day) group (open-label study). The 
incidence of neuropathy was not dose related; 12% with ZDV-lamivudine (2 x 150mg/day) compared 
to 8% with ZDV-lamivudine (2 x 300mg/day). 
On request of the CPMP the company performed a meta-analysis on safety data of the four double-
blind  randomised  controlled  clinical  trials  (NUCA3001,  NUCA3002,  NUCB3001  and  NUCB3002). 
Lamivudine and ZDV combination treatment showed a similar safety profile to control therapy. With 
respect to study NUCB 3007, no unexpected clinical or laboratory adverse events were reported. 
Skin rashes and fever or chills occurred in four surrogate markers studies with a frequency of 9% and 
10  %  respectively.  During  the  period  November  1995  -  June  1997,  15  spontaneous  post-marketed 
cases  of  fever  and  or  chills  have  been  reported  which  represent  3.2%  of  the  total  number  of  events 
reported.  Similarly  33  cases  of  rash,  allergic  rash,  pruritic  rash,  erythematous  macular  rash, 
maculopapular  rash  and  acne-like  rash  were  reported  which  represent  7.1  %  of  the  total  number  of 
events  reported.  Following  the  assessment  of  the  report,  the  CPMP  therefore  recommended  to  add 
“fever” and “rash” as undesirable effects.  
Rare cases of hepatic steatosis and lactic acidosis, some of which have been fatal, have been reported 
during  the  post-marketing  phase.  Considering  that  similar  cases  have  been  reported  with  other 
antiretroviral  nucleosides,  as  monotherapy  or  combination  therapy,  it  was  agreed  to  include  a 
harmonised  statement  into  their  SPC  to  reflect  this  potential  class  effect.  The  statement  mentions 
enunciating symptoms, i.e. benign digestive symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain 
and  the  most  common  risk  factors  identified  which  include  obesity,  treatment  with  combination 
antiretroviral  nucleoside  therapy  and  female  gender.  A  further  revision  of  the  class  labelling  in 
14/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 2000 included respiratory and neurological symptoms which might be indicative of lactic 
acidosis development. In addition, it informs that severe cases of lactic acidosis, sometimes with fatal 
outcome,  were  associated  with  pancreatitis,  liver  failure/hepatic  steatosis,  renal  failure  and  higher 
levels  of  serum  lactate.  It  also  states  that  lactic  acidosis  generally  occurred  after  a  few  months  of 
treatment.  During  their  meeting  in  February  2002  the  CPMP  adopted  a  further  revision  of  the  class 
labelling  as  agreed  by  the  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  in  January  2002.  This  revision 
introduced  a  “box  warning”  and  restructured  the  paragraph  in  order  to  improve  readability  and  to 
focus the reader on early symptoms. The main reason for this change was severity of the condition and 
a frequent delay between early symptoms and diagnosis. 
Following the spontaneous report of 41 cases of alopecia, it was felt necessary to include this adverse 
event in the SPC considering the possible causal relationship to lamivudine in some cases. Following 
reports  of  muscle  disorders  including  rarely  rhabdomyolysis,  it  was  decided  to  include  them  in  the 
SPC. 
Following  reports  of  arthralgia  in  the  post  marketing  phase  including  30  cases  with  a  possible 
relationship with lamivudine, the company added this adverse event in the SPC.  
Treatment  with  a  combination  of  at  least  three  antiretroviral  drugs  can  induce  a  characteristic 
syndrome  termed  lipodystrophy  or  fat  redistribution  syndrome  containing  peripheral  fat  wasting 
(including  accentuation  of  facial  folds)  and  central  adiposity.  Metabolic  disturbances  such  as 
hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance also often appear. PIs were originally believed to be the causal 
agents.  NRTIs  have  also  been  implicated.  In  addition,  lipodystrophy  has  also  been  observed  with 
protease-inhibitor-sparing  regimens.  The  emerging  picture  is  that  of  a  connection  between  visceral 
lipomatosis  and  protease  inhibitors  and  lipoatrophy  and  NRTIs  correlating  with  different  possible 
mechanisms e.g. effects on lipoprotein production and adipocyte differentiation. Non-drug factors are 
also of importance e.g. increasing age, duration and severity of HIV infection. 
Following  evaluation  of  data  submitted  by  all  MAHs  of  antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  a  class 
labelling,  which  harmonises  the  information  on  lipodystrophy  for  all  three  classes  of  antiretroviral 
products, has been agreed and implemented in the product information for all antiretroviral medicinal 
products. The wording presents as much as possible of the presently available knowledge; it gives a 
description  of  the  condition  (although  there  is  at  present  no  clear  definition  of  lipodystrophy), 
information  about  causality  and  surveillance  measures.  The  higher  risk  of  developing  lipodystrophy 
with  long-term  therapy  as  well  as  importance  of  factors  such  as  age  and  disease  related  factors  is 
mentioned.  During  clinical  trials  and  practice  with  lamivudine,  it  has  been  observed  that 
discontinuation  of  lamivudine  in  patients  co-infected  with  hepatitis  B  has  resulted  in  clinical  or 
laboratory  evidence  of  recurrent  hepatitis  in  some  patients.  An  adequate  statement  was  therefore 
introduced into the SPC to recommend appropriate monitoring of both liver function tests and markers 
of HBV replication. 
Further  to  the  discussions  held by the Ad-hoc Group  of Experts on Anti-HIV medicinal products  in 
November  2001, the CPMP  agreed that liver impairment  was of increasing concern in HIV positive 
patients both in the form of adverse hepatic effects in patients with normal liver function prior ART 
and as regards patients with chronic liver disease treated with ART.  
In January 2002 the CPMP requested the MAH for all authorised anti-retroviral medicinal products to 
conduct  a  retrospective  review  of  clinical  trials  and  post  marketing  data  relating  to  the  use  of  their 
product(s)  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and/or  HBV/HCV  co-infection.  Following  review  of 
the  submitted  responses  and  discussions  held  during  the  CPMP  meeting  and  the  Pharmacovigilance 
Working  Party  meeting  in  October  2002,  the  CPMP  adopted  a  list  of  questions  (including  general, 
product  specific  and  SPC  wording  recommendations).  The  review  of  the  MAHs’  responses  has 
essentially  confirmed  that  co-infected  patients  and  patients  with  underlying  liver  disorders  are  at 
increased risk for adverse events, essentially confined to liver events.  
Following the review of responses submitted by all MAHs of antiretroviral medicinal products, a class 
labelling  on  “liver  disease”  has  been  agreed  and  implemented  in  the  product  information  for  all 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products.  In  response  to  the  request  for  supplementary  information,  the 
applicant  introduced  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  lamivudine  which  are  derived  from  study 
EPV10001 in 60 healthy volunteers receiving lamivudine 150 mg twice daily or one 300 mg tablet. Of 
a  total  of  821  children  included  in  the  five  clinical  studies,  504 were  treated  with  lamivudine  either 
alone  or  in  combination  with  other  antiretrovirals  and  317  were  treated  with  control  treatments.  In 
15/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
summary, lamivudine appeared to be well tolerated in therapy naive and experienced children and no 
major safety concerns were identified. 
A retrospective safety study provided information on 102 therapy experienced children who received 
lamivudine in clinical practice. Children of both sexes (55 male and 47 female), aged from less than 
1 year  to  18  years  received  lamivudine  either  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral 
therapies being ZDV (60%) stavudine (51%), indinavir (38%) ddI (16%) ddC (11%) ritonavir (8%), 
saquinavir (3%) and nelfinavir (1%). The median daily dose of lamivudine administered was 150 mg 
(range  between  8  and  482)  with  a  median  exposure  of  approximately  8  mg/kg/day.  The  median 
duration treatment was 252 days with a range from 15 to 1187 days. In overall no unexpected adverse 
events  were  reported.  The  most  commonly  reported  events  included  gastro-intestinal  events  (11%), 
metabolic events (7%), fever (6%) infections and respiratory problems (5%). The results confirm the 
good  safety  profile  of  lamivudine  in  children,  similar  to  that  in  adults.  Serious  adverse  events  were 
reported  in  23  patients  (23%)  but  only  one  (pancreatitis)  was  considered  to  be  possibly  related  to 
treatment with lamivudine.  
To further support the safe use of Epivir the CPMP adopted a class labelling on mitochondrial toxicity 
in  children  with  in  utero/  post-natal  exposure  to  Nucleotide/Nucleoside  Reverse  Transcriptase 
Inhibitors.  The  main  adverse  events  reported  are  haematological  disorders  (anaemia,  neutropenia), 
metabolic  disorders  (hyperlactatemia,  hyperlipasemia).  These  events  are  often  transitory.  Some  late-
onset  neurological  disorders  have  been  reported  (hypertonia,  convulsion,  abnormal  behaviour). 
Whether  the  neurological  disorders  are  transient  or  permanent  is  currently  unknown.  Any  child 
exposed  in  utero  to  nucleoside  and  nucleotide  analogues,  even  HIV-negative  children,  should  have 
clinical  and  laboratory  follow-up  and  should  be  fully  investigated  for  possible  mitochondrial 
dysfunction in case of relevant signs or symptoms. 
The CHMP adopted in November 2004 a class labelling on immune reactivation syndrome. In HIV-
infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination antiretroviral 
therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic pathogens may 
arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, such reactions have 
been  observed  within  the  first  few  weeks  or  months  of  initiation  of  CART.  Relevant  examples  are 
cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, and Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia.  Any  inflammatory  symptoms  should  be  evaluated  and  treatment  instituted  when 
necessary.Bioavailability and bioequivalence 
Several formulations have been used throughout the clinical development of lamivudine: intravenous 
solution, oral solution (1 mg/ml without ethanol, 10 mg/ml with ethanol) tablets, capsules. 
Bioequivalence of 1x300 mg tablets with 2x150 mg tablets was shown. 
Bioequivalence of 4x75 mg, 3x100 mg and 1x300 mg tablets was shown. 
Bioequivalence of tablets, oral solution (1 mg/ml) and capsules at a dose level of 100 mg was shown. 
The  bioequivalence  of  the  oral  solution  10  mg/ml  was  not  directly  compared  with  tablets,  but  the 
company has provided evidence that the 10 mg/ml oral solution has comparable bioavailability to the 
tablet.  
Bioequivalence  studies  performed  comparing  lamivudine  1  mg/ml  alcohol-free,  10  mg/ml  (6%  v/v 
ethanol)  and  10  mg/ml  (10%  v/v  ethanol)  oral  solutions  previously  demonstrated  comparable 
bioequivalence between formulations. However the alcohol-free formulation differs from the proposed 
ethanol-free Epivir formulation, the concentration of the active substance is not identical and alcohol 
may  theoretically  have  an  impact  on  the  absorption  of  the  active  substance  by  a  vasodilator  effect. 
Taking  into  account  the  good  bioavailability  of  the  active  substance  (approximately  82%)  and  the 
pharmaceutical form of the finished product (oral solution) further bioequivalence studies would not 
seem to be necessary. 
16/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The  data  provided  related  to  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  aspects  were  considered  acceptable  to 
ensure the quality and the consistency of Epivir tablets and oral solution. 
The preclinical data were extensive and demonstrated the antiviral activity of lamivudine and relevant 
for the indication claimed. 
On the basis of the surrogate markers data, the preliminary evidence of clinical benefit from the meta-
analysis  of  clinical  events,  and  a  favourable  safety  profile,  the  CPMP  issued  on  18  April  1996  a 
favourable  Opinion  for  Epivir  for  granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances.  As  part  of  the  specific  obligations  to  be  fulfilled  as  set  out  in  Annex  IIC  of  CPMP 
Opinion and Annex IIC of Commission Decision dated 8 August 1996 the company was requested to 
submit the final report of study NUCB 3007 to confirm the clinical benefit of lamivudine.  
Clinical  end-point  data  indicate  that  lamivudine  in  combination  with  ZDV,  and  lamivudine/ZDV 
containing treatment regimens result in a significant reduction in the risk of disease progression and 
mortality. 
On  the  basis  of  the  additional  efficacy  and  safety  data  available,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  risk 
benefit  ratio  of  lamivudine  in  adults  remained  favourable.  Since  all  the  specific  obligations  were 
fulfilled  the  CPMP  agreed  that  there  were  no  remaining  grounds  to  maintain  the  Marketing 
Authorisation under exceptional circumstances.  
ACTG  300  and  PENTA-4  support  the  immuno-virological  and  clinical  efficacy  of  lamivudine  in 
antiretroviral naive and experienced paediatric population (including 127 children less than 3 years in 
ACTG  300,  20  children  less  than  2  years  in  PENTA-4  and  20  children  less  than  3  years  in  the 
retrospective study) at the recommended dose of 4 mg/kg bid. 
Based  on  the  data  from  all  the  studies,  the  safety  profile  of  lamivudine  in  children  appears  to  that 
observed  in  HIV  infected  adults.  The  number  of  children  aged  less  than  2-3  years  was  considered 
sufficient  to  confirm  the  proposed  dose  recommendation  based  on  pharmacokinetic  data  in  few 
children  less  than  2  years.  The  overall  risk/benefit  ratio  of  lamivudine  in  children  was  therefore 
considered acceptable. As a consequence, Epivir was recommended for the treatment of HIV infected 
children.  
In conclusion, Epivir is approved for the following therapeutic indication: 
Epivir  is  indicated  as  part  of  antiretroviral  combination  therapy  for  the  treatment  of  HIV-infected 
adults and children. 
17/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
