EMA/600265/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000726 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal (epoetin alfa) 
An overview of Epoetin Alfa Hexal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Epoetin Alfa Hexal and what is it used for? 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal is a medicine used for the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to treat anaemia (low red blood cell counts) that is causing symptoms in patients with ‘chronic 
kidney failure’ (long-term, progressive decrease in the ability of the kidneys to work properly) or 
other kidney problems; 
to treat anaemia in adults receiving chemotherapy for certain types of cancer and to reduce the 
need for blood transfusions; 
to increase the amount of blood that can be taken in adult patients with moderate anaemia and 
normal blood iron levels who are going to have an operation and donate their own blood before 
surgery (autologous blood transfusion); 
to reduce the need for blood transfusions in adults with moderate anaemia who are about to 
undergo major orthopaedic (bone) surgery, such as hip surgery. It is used in patients with normal 
blood iron levels who could experience complications from a blood transfusion, if they do not 
donate their own blood before surgery and are expected to lose 900 to 1,800 ml of blood; 
to treat anaemia in adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which the production of 
healthy blood cells is defective). Epoetin Alfa Hexal is used when patients are at low or 
intermediate risk of developing acute myeloid leukaemia and have low levels of the natural 
hormone erythropoietin. 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal contains the active substance epoetin alfa and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means 
that Epoetin Alfa Hexal is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is 
already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Epoetin Alfa Hexal is Eprex/Erypo. For more 
information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Epoetin Alfa Hexal used? 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started under the 
supervision of a doctor who has experience in the management of patients with the conditions that 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal is used for. The iron levels of all patients should be checked to make sure that they 
are not too low, and iron supplements given if necessary. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal is available in pre-filled syringes of various strengths and is given as an injection 
into a vein or as an injection under the skin, depending on the  condition for which the patient is being 
treated. The injection under the skin may be given by the patient or their carer if they have been 
appropriately trained. The dose, the frequency of injection and how long it is used for also depend on 
why Epoetin Alfa Hexal is being used and on the patient’s bodyweight, and are adjusted according to 
how well the medicine is working.  
For patients with kidney failure, myelodysplastic syndromes or receiving chemotherapy, haemoglobin 
levels should remain within the recommended range (between 10 and 12 grams per decilitre in adults 
and between 9.5 and 11 g/dl in children). Haemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries 
oxygen around the body. For these patients, the lowest dose that provides adequate control of 
symptoms should be used. 
For more information about using Epoetin Alfa Hexal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Epoetin Alfa Hexal work? 
The active substance in Epoetin Alfa Hexal, epoetin alfa, is a copy of a hormone called erythropoietin, 
and works in exactly the same way as the natural hormone to stimulate the production of red blood 
cells in the bone marrow. Erythropoietin is produced by the kidneys. In patients receiving 
chemotherapy or with kidney problems, anaemia can be caused by a lack of erythropoietin, or by the 
body not responding well enough to natural erythropoietin. In these cases, epoetin alfa is used to 
increase red blood cell counts. Epoetin alfa is also used before surgery to increase the number of red 
blood cells and help minimise the consequences of blood loss. 
What benefits of Epoetin Alfa Hexal have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Epoetin Alfa Hexal with the reference medicine Eprex/Erypo have shown 
that the active substance in Epoetin Alfa Hexal is highly similar to that in Eprex/Erypo in terms of 
structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also shown that giving Epoetin Alfa Hexal 
produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Eprex/Erypo. 
In addition, Epoetin Alfa Hexal was shown to be as effective as Eprex/Erypo at increasing and 
maintaining red blood cell counts in several studies. 
 Epoetin Alfa Hexal, injected into a vein, was compared with the reference medicine in one main study 
involving 479 patients with anaemia caused by kidney problems. All of the patients had been receiving 
Eprex/Erypo injected into a vein for at least 8 weeks before they were either switched to Epoetin Alfa 
Hexal or remained on Eprex/Erypo. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the levels of 
haemoglobin between the start of the study and the evaluation period, between weeks 25 and 29. 
Patients switching to Epoetin Alfa Hexal maintained haemoglobin levels to the same extent as those 
continuing with Eprex/Erypo. A further study showed that Epoetin Alfa Hexal was safe and effective 
when given under the skin in 416 patients with chronic kidney failure. 
Another study showed that Epoetin Alfa Hexal injected under the skin was as effective in maintaining 
haemoglobin levels as Eprex/Erypo in 114 cancer patients who were receiving chemotherapy. 
Because Epoetin Alfa Hexal is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of epoetin 
alfa carried out with Eprex/Erypo do not all need to be repeated for Epoetin Alfa Hexal. 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal (epoetin alfa)  
EMA/600265/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Epoetin Alfa Hexal? 
The most common side effects with Epoetin Alfa Hexal (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
are nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea, vomiting, fever and headache. Flu-like illness may occur especially 
at the start of treatment. For the full list of side effects of Epoetin Alfa Hexal, see the package leaflet. 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal must not be used in the following groups: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients who have developed pure red cell aplasia (reduced or stopped red blood cell production) 
following treatment with any erythropoietin; 
patients with high blood pressure that is not controlled; 
patients undergoing surgery who cannot receive medicines for the prevention of blood clots; 
patients about to undergo major orthopaedic surgery who have severe cardiovascular (heart and 
blood vessel) problems including a recent heart attack or stroke. 
When Epoetin Alfa Hexal is used for autologous blood transfusion, the restrictions normally associated 
with this type of transfusion should be observed.  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Epoetin Alfa Hexal authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Epoetin Alfa Hexal has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to 
Eprex/Erypo and is distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies have shown that the 
effects of the medicine are equivalent to those of Eprex/Erypo in increasing and maintaining blood cell 
counts in patients with chronic kidney failure or undergoing chemotherapy. Therefore the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Eprex/Erypo, the benefit of Epoetin Alfa Hexal outweighs the identified risk and it 
can be authorised. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Epoetin Alfa Hexal have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Epoetin Alfa Hexal are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Epoetin Alfa Hexal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Epoetin Alfa Hexal 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 August 2007.  
Further information on Epoetin Alfa Hexal can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Epoetin Alfa Hexal (epoetin alfa)  
EMA/600265/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
