European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
EMA/522704/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT  
FOR 
Eporatio 
International Non-proprietary Name: epoetin theta 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001033 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 9 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................... 9 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ........................................ 9 
Page 2 of 62 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  ratiopharm  GmbH  submitted  on  04  June  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Eporatio,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 13 December 2007. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The Applicant applied for the following indications: 
•  Treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic renal failure.  
•  Treatment of symptomatic anaemia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy.  
Increasing the yield of autologous blood from patients in a predonation programme. 
• 
Scientific Advice: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  two  occasions  (23  June  2004  and  18 
November 2004). The Scientific Advice pertained to the clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Pierre Demolis 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Harald Enzmann 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 04 June 2008. 
The procedure started on 25 June 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  26  Sep 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 
Sep 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  20  –  23  Oct  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 Oct 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 17 Feb 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 9 Apr 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20 – 23 April 2009, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and by the applicant. 
Applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding issues on 17 June 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated an updated Responses Assessment Report on 6 July 2009. 
During the meeting on 20 - 23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Eporatio  on  23  July  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 21 July 2009. 
Page 3 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Human endogenous erythropoietin is a glycoprotein produced in the kidney in response to the oxygen 
tension  of  the  blood.  Erythropoietin  then  circulates  to  the  bone  marrow  where  it  stimulates  the 
proliferation  and  differentiation  of  red  blood  cell  progenitors,  leading  to  more  red  blood  cells  and 
increased  oxygen-carrying  capacity.  Epoetin  for  clinical  use  is  produced  by  recombinant  DNA 
technology using mammalian cells as expression systems. All Epoetins in clinical use have a similar 
amino  acid  sequence  as  endogenous  erythropoetin  but  differ  in  their  glycosylation  pattern. 
Glycosylation influences pharmacokinetics and may affect efficacy and safety. 
Eporatio containing the active substance epoetin theta, is obtained by recombinant DNA technology 
and  has  the  same  biological  effects  as  endogenous  epoetin.  It  is  produced  by  mammalian  cells  into 
which the human epoetin gene has been introduced. It contains r-HuEPO as the active substance and is 
structurally  similar  to  Epoetin  alfa,  Epoetin  beta,  and  Epoetin  delta.  Epoetin  theta  belongs  to  the 
pharmacological class of chemically defined anti-anaemic drugs. 
Eporatio  has  been  developed  as  a  stand  alone  product.  The  Applicant  is  seeking  approval  for  the 
indication treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic renal failure as well as treatment 
of symptomatic anaemia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving chemotherapy.  
Chronic renal failure or chronic kidney disease (CKD) is the progressive loss of kidney function. The 
kidneys attempt to compensate for renal damage by hyperfiltration (excessive straining of the blood) 
within  the  remaining  functional  nephrons  (filtering  units  that  consist  of  a  glomerulus  and 
corresponding tubule). Over time, hyperfiltration causes loss of function.  
Anaemia,  defined  as  a  deficiency  in  the  concentration of  haemoglobin-containing  red  blood  cells,  is 
very  common  in  patients  with  chronic  kidney  disease  or  chronic  renal  failure  and  can  have  a 
significant  impact  on  patient  morbidity  and  mortality.  This  is  predominantly  caused  by  inadequate 
epoetin  production  of  the  kidneys,  resulting  in  inappropriately  low  circulating  epoetin  levels. 
Replacement therapy with recombinant human epoetin has provided an effective treatment for patients 
with renal anaemia and has been shown to increase red blood cell (RBC)  mass, reduce the  need for 
RBC transfusions, and alleviate symptoms in this population. 
Patients  with  solid  malignancies  may  develop  anaemia  as  a  result  of  disease  characteristics, 
chemotherapy,  or  due  to  decreased  endogenous  erythropoietin  production.  The  pathophysiology  of 
tumour  anaemia  is  multi-factorial.  In  advanced  stages  of  haematological  malignancies  bone  marrow 
involvement  with  malignant  cells  often  leads  to  progressive  anaemia.  It  is  characterised  by  a  close 
interaction  between  the  tumour  cell  population  and  the  immune  system,  leading  to  the  activation  of 
macrophages and increased expression of various cytokines, especially Interferon-g, Interleukin-1 and 
TNF.  This  is  followed  by  an  insufficient  endogenous  erythropoietin  synthesis,  suppressed 
differentiation of erythroid precursor cells the bone marrow and alterations of iron metabolism. 
The chronic tumour anaemia is the most common type in patients with malignant disease, though it is 
often aggravated by chemo- or radiotherapy. This is a major clinical problem in particular as platinum-
based chemotherapy regimens may diminish the endogenous erythropoietin production by damaging 
renal tubular cells. 
The development of chemotherapy-associated anaemia is typically insidious, and a later complication 
of  treatment,  while  newer  chemotherapeutic  agents  and  drug  combinations  have  amplified  the 
problem.  Transfusion  is  the  traditional  approach  to  the  management  of  anaemia.  The  aims  of 
management of this condition are to eliminate symptoms arising from anaemia, to improve quality of 
life,  to  minimise  secondary  effects  of  anaemia  on  other  systems  such  as  the  cardiovascular  system, 
mental function and endocrine function, and to minimise the possible side effects of anaemia therapy. 
Page 4 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Epoetin theta is obtained by recombinant DNA technology as it is produced by mammalian cells into 
which the human epoetin gene has been introduced. It contains recombinant human erythropoietin as 
the  active  substance.  Its  amino  acid  sequence  corresponds  to  the  sequence  of  Epoetin  alfa,  Epoetin 
beta,  and  Epoetin  delta  whereas  minor  differences  in  glycosylation  are  likely  to  exist  between  these 
Epoetins.  
Epoetin  theta  is  formulated  as  a  liquid  ready-to-use  formulation  presented  as  single-dose  pre-filled 
syringes. Eight different strengths are intended for the market from 1 000 IU/ syringe up to 30 000 IU/ 
syringe. The filling volumes are either 0.5 mL (1 000/ 2 000/ 3 000/ 4 000/ 5 000 IU/ syringe) or 1.0 
mL (10 000/ 20 000/ 30 000 IU/ syringe).  
Active Substance  
Epoetin  theta  is  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cells  by  recombinant  DNA  technology. 
The first 27 amino acids (signal peptide) and the last amino acid (terminal arginine) are cleaved during 
translation  to  result  in  the  165  amino  acid  polypeptide.  Three  N-linked  oligosaccharide  chains  are 
linked to amino acid positions Asn-24, Asn-38 and Asn-83 and one O-linked oligosaccharide chain is 
linked to Ser-126. Disulfide bridges between cysteines Cys-7 and Cys-161 as well as between Cys-29 
and Cys-33 stabilise the higher order protein structure (secondary, tertiary). 
The oligosaccharide chains are subject to post-translational modifications and display heterogeneity to 
a  certain  extent.  The  molecular  weight  of  the  glycosylated  protein  is  30.6  kDa  according  to  the  Ph. 
Eur.  monograph,  40%  of  which  are  carbohydrate  structures.    The  purification  strategy  of  produced 
erythropoietin is aimed to make the resulting protein solution conformant to the Ph. Eur. monograph 
(01/2006:1316) and to achieve a high sialylation grade.  
•  Manufacture 
The Active Substance is manufactured and released by Merckle Biotec GmbH, Ulm, Germany. 
After a series of sub cultivations, the cells are seeded into the production fermenter. The production is 
based  on  a  perfusion  process,  whereby  the  individual  harvests  are  collected  at  regular  intervals  and 
each harvest is stored frozen until further processing.  
The  Active  Substance  is  recovered  from  the  thawed  harvests  by  a  conventional  purification  process 
comprising orthogonal chromatography steps and a viral filtration step. The manufacturing steps are 
monitored  by  process  controls  that  include  operational  parameters,  acceptance  criteria  and 
specifications. 
The  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  was  established  using  foetal  calf  serum  from  a  certified  source.  The 
Working Cell Bank (WCB) was established without the use of materials of human or animal origin. 
The cultivation and all subsequent manufacturing steps are also performed without the use of materials 
from human or animal origin. The cell culture medium is animal component free. Insulin provided in 
the medium is produced in a recombinant yeast cell line. Characterisation of both cell banks in terms 
of genetic stability and viral safety is satisfactorily achieved by analysis of genotypic and phenotypic 
tests as well as virus testing 
Process validation data demonstrate that the process steps from thawing the WCB vial, to harvesting 
the production process and purification are consistent. All parameters for the fermentation process and 
the purification process were maintained within defined ranges. 
Page 5 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The  viral  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  Epoetin  theta  has  been  satisfactorily  addressed  by  the 
Applicant.  The  viral  safety  is  confirmed  by  the  experimental  finding  that  the  CHO  cell  substrates 
(MCB,  WCB  and  Post  Production  Cells)  show  no  biological  evidence  of  any  productive  viral 
infection. To minimize the risk of contamination of the Medicinal Product by adventitious viruses the 
process is monitored batch wise and the purification includes validated viral removal and inactivation 
steps. 
A risk assessment with regard to TSE according to the “Note for guidance on minimizing the risk of 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products 
(EMEA/410/01 Rev.2) has been done. 
•  Characterisation 
An extensive characterisation programme has been conducted for the drugs substance with respect to 
the protein backbone, carbohydrate moiety and biological properties. 
State of the art analytical methods, in particular the combination of mass spectrometric detection with 
liquid chromatography separation were established to evaluate the integrity of the primary structure of 
epoetin theta including correct N- and C-termini as well as correctly linked disulphide bridges. Based 
on  peptide  maps  by  trypsin  and  Endo  LysC  sequence  coverage  of  99%  was  achieved  while  the 
presence  of  the  missing  peptide  (Leu153-Lys154)  was  verified  by  correct  mass  calculations  of  the 
complete de-N-glycosylated epoetin theta. Circular dichroism (CD) measurements in the far UV-range 
indicated the typical four helix bundle architecture of EPO. Additional CD-measurements in the near 
UV-range  and  by  fluorescence  spectroscopy  confirmed  a  unique  location  of  particular  amino  acids 
within the three-dimensional structure. 
For  a  thorough  characterisation  of  the  carbohydrate  moiety  a  variety  of  complementary  analytical 
techniques  was  applied  to  address  various  aspects  of  structural  diversity.  The  total  N-glycan  pool 
released from the protein backbone was subjected to chromatographic separation according to charge 
followed  by  subsequent  chromatographic  separation  according  to  antennarity  and  LacNAc-repeats. 
This  strategy  enabled  a  more  detailed  analysis  and  identification  of  separated  glycan  fractions  by 
HPAEC-PAD  as  well  as  by  mass  spectrometric  methods  (ESI-MS  and  MALDI-TOF  MS). 
Confirmation of particular structures of isolated peaks was achieved by 1H-NMR analysis. 
Quantitative  characterisation  of  glycosylation  was  performed  by  HPAEC-PAD  and  an  additional 
method, CGE-LIF, the detection of which is based on fluorescence labelling of glycans.  
As  a  result  of  the  overall methodological  strategy,  N-glycans  of  epoetin  theta  are  found  to be  di-  to 
tetrasialylated, di- to tetraantennary oligosaccharides that may be partly elongated by LacNAc repeats. 
The  major  portion  is  represented  by  tetraantennary  tetrasialylated  structures.  A  low  proportion  of 
oligosaccharides  are  phosphorylated  oligomannosidic  structures.  N-glycans  are  found  to  be  O-
acetylated  in  their  terminally  linked  sialic  acids  to  various  extents  rising  from  a  low  level  at 
glycosylation site Asn24 via an intermediate level at Asn38 to a considerable level at Asn83. All N-
glycosylation sites are found fully occupied. 
The majority of O-glycan structures are the mono- and disialylated GalNAcGal. A considerable degree 
of O-acetylation of sialic acids was also detected for the O-glycan. The O-glycosylation site was found 
fully occupied. 
The  batches  analysed  were  found  to  be  essentially  free  of  unusual  potentially  immunogenic  glycan 
structures.  The  level  of  N-glycolyl  neuraminic  acid  is  found  to  be  consistently  at  acceptable  low 
levels. 
The  various  isoforms  of  epoetin  theta  –  its  molecular  mass  heterogeneity  -  evolving  from  carrying 
three  heterogeneously  structured  N-glycans  and  one  O-glycan  are  visualised  by  ES-MS  of  the 
desialylated molecule. The expanded  mass profile  allows identifying the particular N-glycan and O-
glycan structures attached to the EPO-molecule and thus bridges the analytical work performed on the 
isolated N-glycan pool and the protein backbone. 
Page 6 of 62 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
Dimers  and  higher  molecular  weight  species  of  epoetin  theta  were  investigated  by  SE-HPLC 
particularly developed for that purpose. SDS-PAGE with or without subsequent Western Blotting or 
analytical ultracentrifugation were alternative approaches to characterise aggregates and their tendency 
to develop over time. Epoetin theta is practically free from aggregates over time. For epoetin theta low 
amounts  of  Met54  oxidation  and  Asn47  and  Asn147  deamidation  were  determined  but  remained 
within the given ranges over time. None of the potential N- or C-terminal variants could be detected in 
epoetin theta. 
The  biological  activity  of  epoetin  theta  is  determined  by  the  normocythaemic  mouse  bioassay.  In 
addition  the  in  vitro  biological  activity  studied  in  a  TF-1  cell-proliferation  assay  is  considered  to 
support the correct three-dimensional structure of epoetin theta. 
•  Comparability 
Epoetin theta has initially been developed at a development service provider and been transferred to a 
development  contract  manufacturer  for  scale-up  and  adaptation.  The  manufacturing  process  was 
finally  transferred  to  Merckle  Biotec  where  epoetin  theta  is  manufactured  at  commercial  scale.  In 
order  to  support  comparability  of  batches  manufactured  at  all  sites  and  particularly  to  support  that 
Merckle  Biotec  batches  are  representative  of  the  clinical  batches  manufactured  at  the  development 
contract  manufacturer  a  comprehensive  comparability  programme  was  conducted  covering  tests 
typically performed at release tests and during extended characterisation. 
Comparison  of  batches  manufactured  at  pilot  scale  (development  service  provider)  and  batches 
produced  at  full  scale  (development  contract  manufacturer  and  Merckle  Biotec)  revealed  consistent 
and  comparable  results  with  respect  to  all  routine  tests  conducted.  Considering  extended 
characterisation  the  same  picture  was  obtained  and  no  deviation was  observed  between  results  from 
the sites within the scope of natural variability.  
Comparability  of  commercial  batches  from  both  sites  and  representativeness  of  Merckle  Biotec 
batches for batches used in clinical trials is therefore supported by the data provided. 
•  Specification 
Appropriate specifications have been set for analysis of the active substance at release and at the end 
of  shelf  life.  The  proposed  active  substance  specifications  include  tests  and  acceptance  criteria  for 
physicochemical  properties,  identity  by  CZE  and  SDS-PAGE,  N-terminal  amino  acid  sequence, 
trypsin  peptide  mapping,  sialic  acid  by  colorimetry/VIS  spectrometry,  ratio  NGNA/NANA  by  RP-
HPLC,  N-linked  Oligosaccharides  by  Capillary  Gel  electrophoresis  /LIF,  Higher  Molecular  Mass 
species by SE-HPLC, Oxidised epoetin theta by EndoGlu-C Digestion/RP-HPLC, Host Cell Protein, 
total DNA, Bioactivity assay, Protein concentration by A280, Bioburden and Endotoxin.   
The proposed active substance specification was generally considered acceptable, although some tests 
and acceptance criteria were revised, taking into account the results obtained with batches used in 
pivotal clinical trials.  The Applicant has agreed to review the acceptance criteria and commits to 
reconsider them after a total of 20 commercial scale batches have been manufactured at Merckle 
Biotec. A corresponding commitment has been obtained from the Applicant.  
•  Stability 
The  claimed  shelf  life  of  the  active  substance  is  supported  by  batch  data.  Stability  of  epoetin  theta 
Active  Substance  has  been  evaluated  on  the  basis  of  batches  manufactured  at  full  scale  by  Merckle 
Biotec reflecting the pivotal data, and at pilot scale by development service provider and full scale by 
a contract manufacturer (clinical phase III material) reflecting the supportive data. 
Epoetin theta active substance is stored long term at ≤-70°C. Accelerated and stress stability studies 
were  performed.  Suitable  containers  have  been  applied  for  the  stability  studies.    In  conclusion  no 
Page 7 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
changes or trends relating to the quality and consistency of the batches over this period at ≤-70°C were 
observed. Thus based on the real time data provided, an 18-month shelf-life at ≤-70°C can be granted.   
Medicinal Product  
The epoetin theta Medicinal Product is a liquid ready-to-use formulation presented as single-dose pre-
filled syringes. Eight different strengths are intended for the market from 1 000 IU/ syringe up to 30 
000 IU/ syringe. The filling volumes are either 0.5 mL (1 000/ 2 000/ 3 000/ 4 000/ 5 000 IU/ syringe) 
or 1.0 mL (10 000/ 20 000/ 30 000 IU/ syringe).  
The  Medicinal  Product  solutions  are  filled  into  sterilised  type  I  glass  syringes  having  a  Luer  conus. 
The  syringes  are  closed  with  a  laminated  chlorobutyl  rubber  plunger  stopper  and  a  non-laminated 
bromobutyl rubber tip cap. The needle is provided separately. 
In terms of the excipients, the composition per 0.5 mL or per 1 mL is the same for all dosage strengths 
of  Eporatio  Medicinal  Product.    They  differ  only  with  respect  to  the  concentration  of  the  active 
substance.  The  excipients  are  water  for  injection,  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate  dihydrate,  sodium 
chloride, polysorbate 20, trometamol and hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment.  
•  Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacture of the Product 
The Medicinal Product manufacturing process mainly consists of compounding steps, sterile filtration 
and aseptic filling of the product.  Each step was appropriately described and is validated.   
A liquid formulation was developed, which did not change between preclinical and clinical trials and 
the Medicinal Product intended for the market.  
Eporatio pre-filled syringes are manufactured and packed by Merckle GmbH and released by Merckle 
Biotec  GmbH,  both  in  Germany.  Release  and  stability  testing  takes  place  either  at  Merckle  Biotec 
GmbH or at contract testing laboratories.  
Manufacture of Eporatio Medicinal Product is carried out using dedicated sterilised equipment starting 
with  preparation  and  0.2μm  filtration  of  the  excipient  solution,  then  adding  thawed  Eporatio  active 
substance.  After  0.2µm  filtration  the  bulk  Medicinal  Product  solution  is  aseptically  filled  into 
siliconised and pre-sterilised glass syringes. Following packaging and labelling the Medicinal Product 
is stored at 2 to 8°C. Shipping is performed under controlled temperature conditions (2-8°C).  
Eporatio Medicinal Product is presented as ready-to-use solution in 1 mL prefilled syringes, a separate 
sterilised  injection  needle  is  added  for  the  application  of  the  Medicinal  Product.  The  following 
components come into contact to the liquid formulation: 
- 
1 mL syringe made of borosilicate glass type I which is siliconised on the inner barrel surface 
by baked silicone.  
-  FluoroTec®-laminated syringe stopper from chlorobutyl rubber (type I) with B2-40 coating 
-  Tip cap made of non-laminated bromobutyl rubber (type I). 
The plunger rod is made of polypropylene. The 0.4x12 mm, 27G x ½″ steel needle with Luer adapter 
is  packed  separately.  A  needle  shield  is  optionally  added  as  safety  device.  The  syringe  barrels  are 
siliconised,  sterilised  and  depyrogenised.  The  stoppers  and  needles  are  sterilised.  A  respective 
validation protocol has been provided, which confirms acceptable sterility. In conclusion the primary 
packaging components are considered to be in accordance to Ph. Eur. and ISO requirements. 
•  Product Specification 
Page 8 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Medicinal Product release specification includes tests for identity, purity and content, as well as 
pharmaceutical  and  microbiological  tests.  Some  minor  issues  regarding  the  Medicinal  Product  shelf 
life specifications, which have no impact on the overall risk-benefit of the product, remain to be fully 
resolved by the Applicant. A corresponding commitment has been obtained by the Applicant.  
•  Stability of the Product 
The applicant claims a 18 months shelf-life for the Medicinal Product when stored at 2 to 8°C Pivotal 
stability  studies  have  been  initiated  with  batches  manufactured  by  the  commercial  process  covering 
the  complete  range  of  dose  strengths.  Most  batches  have  been  produced  at  pilot  scale.  Data  are 
available  after  storage  at  long-term  conditions,  intermediate  and  stress  conditions  and  support  the 
claimed shelf life. Extension of the shelf-life will be sought once further data will be available. 
The shelf-life specification includes all parameters measured for release. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and Medicinal Product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of the tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of CHMP opinion, there were few minor unresolved quality issues, which have no impact 
on  the  Risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product.  The  applicant  provided  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and 
committed to resolve these as follow-up measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Non-clinical studies were performed in mouse, rat, rabbit and dog as detailed in the following sections. 
The studies (local tolerance, safety pharmacology, repeat-dose toxicity and PD/PK study, see below) 
are claimed to be GLP compliant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In  in  vitro  pharmacology  experiments,  the  human  erythroleukemic  cell  line  TF-1,  a  human 
erythroleukaemia  cell  line  known  to  proliferate  in  response  to  epoetin  stimuli,  was  used  for  the 
characterization of the biological activity of epoetin theta. A bioassay for the analysis of the activity of 
erythropoietins  was  developed  based  on  two  detection  systems,  which  yielded  similar  EC50  values 
(data not shown). Several erythropoietin samples, among them 8 Epoetin theta batches, epoetin beta 
and epoetin alfa were compared for their activity to induce proliferation in TF-1 cells. Erythropoietin 
BRP from the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines served as reference standard and was 
tested  in  parallel  to  the  test  items.  The  Epoetin  theta  batches  tested  showed  the  expected  biological 
activity and no difference to the reference standard was observed (data not shown). 
The  primary  in  vivo  pharmacology  was  studied  by  the  normocythemic  mouse  assay.  The  study  was 
performed in 72 male B6D2F1 mice with 8 animals per dose group (single dose of 10, 20 and 40 IU 
per animal, respectively, for two batches of Epoetin theta or for the BRP reference standard). All mice 
were  of  similar  age  and  body  weight.  Four  days  after  injection,  blood  was  sampled  to  measure  the 
reticulocyte  count,  and  body  weight  was  recorded.  No  differences  for  reticulocyte  counts  and  body 
weights were observed between Epoetin theta and the reference standard in all doses tested (data not 
shown). 
Moreover, a combined pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study was performed in the albino rat.  
Epoetin  theta  was  administered  once  or  repeatedly  for  21  days  to  rats  of  both  genders  at  a  dose  of 
2500 IU/kg/day  by  the  subcutaneous  and  by  the  intravenous  route.  The  pharmacodynamic  action  of 
Page 9 of 62 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Epoetin theta was assessed by monitoring the haematology parameters haematocrit and reticulocytes. 
Blood was sampled pre-treatment and at regular intervals. Assessment of haematology parameters did 
not reveal marked differences between the two routes of administration or between males and females. 
After a single administration, haematocrit and reticulocyte count increased up to 96 hours post dose. 
After repeat dosing, haematocrit levels remained at significantly raised levels during the 96 h postdose 
observation  period,  whereas  reticulocyte  counts  declined  after  cessation  of  administration  (data  not 
shown). 
cell 
(breast 
lines  TF-1 
(erythroblast, 
erythroleukaemia),  MCF-7 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Determination of the growth promoting effects on human malignant cells 
The  ability  of  Epoetin  theta  and  Epoetin  beta  to  induce  cell  proliferation  was  studied  in  the  human 
malignant 
epithelial, 
adenocarcinoma),  786-O  (renal  epithelial,  adenocarcinoma),  K-562  (bone  marrow  lymphoblast, 
myelogenous  leukaemia),  RT112/84  (epithelial,  bladder  carcinoma),  and  FaDu  (pharynx,  head  and 
neck  squamous  cell  carcinoma).  The  five  non-erythroid  tumour  cell  lines  used  in  the  study  are  all 
reported to express the EPOR, which has been identified in tumour cell lines. Proliferative effects of 
Epoetin  theta  were  confined  to  TF-1  cells.  Furthermore,  the  qualitative  nature  of  the  dose-response 
characteristics was identical between Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta.  
Scientific  literature  further  suggested  that  rhEPO  was  able  to  increase  the  mean  tumour  oxygen 
pressure irrespective of anaemia indicating an improvement of tumour oxygenation following rhEPO 
treatment.  In  addition,  rhEPO  treatment  did  not  enhance  tumour  growth  in  DS-sarcoma  bearing 
anaemic and non-anaemic rats. Moreover, anaemia resulted in a worsening of tumour oxygenation in 
DS-sarcoma bearing rats which could partially be reversed by rhEPO administration or by transfusion 
with  red  blood  cells  in  small  tumours.  In  larger  tumours,  neither  method  of  anaemia  correction 
resulted in significant changes in tumour oxygenation 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The effects of a single intravenous dose of 30000 IU/kg Epoetin theta (concentration of 15000 IU/ml) 
on the central nervous system were assessed in male Sprague-Dawley albino rats. Epoetin theta was 
administered by a single intravenous injection into the tail vein of 6 animals. Control animals (n=6) 
received the vehicle (diluent alone) only. There were no biologically significant effects on functional 
observation  battery  parameters  (e.g.  grip  strength,  hind  limb  splay  and  body  temperature)  or  motor 
activity (data not shown). 
Effects  of  Epoetin  theta  on  the  respiratory  system  were  examined  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  CD® 
(Crl:CD®(SD)BR) albino rats. Epoetin theta was administered by a single intravenous injection into 
the tail vein (2 mL/kg dose volume) of 6 animals. Control animals (n=6) received the vehicle (diluent 
alone,  2 mL/kg  dose  volume)  only.  There  were  no  treatment-related  effects  on  tidal  volume,  or 
respiratory rate, or respiratory minute volume compared to both the concurrent controls and the pre-
study data (data not shown).   
Effects  of  Epoetin  theta  on  the  renal  system  were  examined  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  CD® 
(Crl:CD®(SD)BR) albino rats. Epoetin theta was administered by a single intravenous injection into 
the  tail  vein  (in  2 ml/kg  dose  volume)  of  6  animals.  Control  animals  (n=6)  received  the  vehicle 
(diluent alone) only. There was no apparent effect on water consumption, creatinine clearance or any 
of  the  clinical  chemistry  or  urinalysis  parameters  examined  in  rats.  There  were  no  macroscopic 
changes or kidney weight modifications indicative of a test article related effect (data not shown).   
The  haemodynamic  effects  of  Epoetin  theta  were  evaluated  when  administered  by  intravenous 
injection in the conscious unrestrained male Beagle dog. Two groups of two conscious instrumented 
male beagle dogs were given a single i.v. injection of vehicle or Epoetin theta (2 ml/kg). The Epoetin 
theta dose administered was approximately 25000 IU/kg. All 4 dogs that received an intravenous bolus 
dose  of  the  vehicle  with  or  without  Epoetin  theta  exhibited  changes  in  the  hemodynamic  profile 
including: transient reductions in blood pressure (systemic, left ventricular and pulmonary artery) and 
concurrent  reductions  and/or  elevations  in  heart  rate.  These  histamine-like  reactions  observed  in  all 
four  animals  were  attributed  to  a  detergent  (Tween-20)  in  the  vehicle  formulation.  An  additional 
animal was instrumented separately and treated at a lower dose volume (0,3 ml/kg), proposed for use 
in a subsequent 6-week toxicity study. The additional animal did not exhibit a similar reaction (data 
not shown).  
Page 10 of 62 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No studies were submitted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  specific  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  submitted.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  Epoetin  theta  was 
studied  following  single  and  repeated  subcutaneous  and  intravenous  administration  of  Epoetin  theta 
for  21  days  to  the  albino  rat  in  the  pharmacology/pharmacokinetic  study  described  under  primary 
pharmacology  above.  Toxicokinetics  was  assessed  as  part  of  the  6-weeks  s.c  and  i.v  repeat  dose 
toxicity study in dogs. 
Two  ELISA  methods  were  validated  and  used  for  measurement  of  Epoetin  theta  and  anti-  Epoetin 
theta antibodies, respectively, in plasma and serum of rat and dog. 
The  measurement  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (AUC,  Cmax,  Tmax  and  T½)  and  of  bioavailability 
yielded values within the expected range. No differences between gendres or routes of administration 
were noted (data not shown). 
No  studies  on  distribution,  metabolism,  excretion  and  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  were 
submitted. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The types of studies conducted and their design are summarised in the following table 4. 
Table 4: Repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Sprague Dawley CD rat/  
12/ sex/group 
Sprague Dawley CD rat /  
12/ sex/ group 
Sprague Dawley CD rat /  
Main study: 20/ sex/ group 
Recovery-period:  12/sex/group 
(vehicle and high dose group) 
Beagle dog / 3/ sex/ group 
Beagle dog / 
Main study: 3/sex/group (0 and 500) 
               4/sex/group (100, 2500)  
Recovery-period: 2/sex/group (0 and 
2500) 
Dose/Route/Duration 
0, 100, 500, 2500 IU/ kg/day 
Intravenous/ 6 weeks 
0, 100, 500, 2500 IU/ kg/day 
Subcutaneous/ 6 weeks 
NOAEL 
(IU/kg/day) 
100  
100 
0, 100, 500, 2500 IU/ kg/day 
Subcutaneous/ 
up to 13 weeks * with a 4-week recovery period 
Not 
determined 
0, 100, 500, 2500 IU/ kg/day 
Subcutaneous/ Intravenous/ 6 weeks 
0, 100, 500, 2500 IU/ kg/day/ 
Subcutaneous/ 
13 weeks with a 4-week recovery period 
100 
100 
Toxicokinetic parameters and antigenicity were evaluated in these studies in addition to toxicity. 
Rat  studies.  In  the  13  weeks  study,  there  were  numerous  unscheduled  deaths  from  all  Epoetin  theta 
dose  groups  (euthanised  because  of  poor  and/or  deteriorating  condition  or  found  dead)  during  the 
study.  A  total  of  45  animals  across  all  test  article  dose  groups  in  the  duration  of  the  study  were 
euthanised  or  found  dead.  There  was  a  clear  dose-dependency  noted,  with  3  deaths  in  low-dose,  17 
deaths in mid-dose and 25 deaths in high-dose groups.  
Histopathological  changes  were  seen  in  the  bones  and  bone  marrow,  spleen,  liver,  gastrointestinal 
system, thymus, heart and kidney. The changes described in the bones (hyperostosis), bone marrow, 
spleen  and  heart  were  considered  related  to  the  pharmacological  activity  of  Epoetin  theta.  Changes 
noted in the stomach, duodenum and thymus were believed to possibly to stress related and as such, 
secondary to the administration of Epoetin theta.      
In Epoetin theta treated rats surviving until the scheduled termination of the recovery period (day 99) 
in  the  13  weeks  study,  the  predominant  macroscopic  finding  was  splenic  enlargement  due  to 
Page 11 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
congestion.  In  these  animals,  the  bone  marrow  was  either  hypocellular  (male  rats)  or  remained 
hypercellular (female rats).    
Following subcutaneous or intravenous administration up to 6 weeks, the NOAEL was established as 
100 IU/kg. In the 13 weeks study, dose-related effects with mortality, observed in this study were all 
considered to be a direct effect and/or indirect effect of the pharmacological activity of Epoetin theta, 
and as a result a NOAEL cannot be established. 
Antibodies  against  Epoetin  theta  were  not  detected  in  the  6-week  intravenous  study  in  rats.  In  the 
study  performed  with  the  subcutaneous  route,  no  antibodies  were  detected  against  Epoetin  theta  for 
any  animals  with  the  exception  of  one  high-dose  male.  In  the  13-week  study,  antibodies  produced 
against Epoetin theta were detected in 47/526 samples. Measured concentrations (expressed as rabbit 
IgG equivalents) were detected in 26 samples of 17 different animals. It should be noted that only a 
subset  of  animals  (50%)  were  investigated  for  antibodies.  There  was  no  dose-relationship  in  the 
formation of antibodies. 13 of the 17 animals with antibodies also showed skin pallor suggesting that 
the antibodies were neutralising.  
Dog studies. Histamine-like reactions were observed in all groups (including the control group) in the 
6  weeks  study,  but  at  a  higher  incidence  among  test  article-treated  animals.  In  the  13  weeks  study, 
histamine-like reactions were observed in all dogs.  Polysorbate 20, which is one of the constituents of 
the  vehicle  was  reported  to  cause  histamine-like  reactions  in  dogs.    However,  it  was  found  to  be 
difficult  to  separate  putatively  pharmacological  effects  (reddening)  from  histamine-like  effects, 
because they induce similar clinical signs. 
Histopathological  changes  were  present  in  the  bone  marrow,  bones  (hyperostosis)  and  liver  in  the  6 
weeks study. In the 13 weeks study the same histological findings were reported with also in kidneys, 
congestion, tubular haemorrhage and degeneration and regeneration, which were not observed in the 
shorter  term  study.  Full  recovery  of  these  changes  could  not  be  demonstrated  during  the  4  weeks 
period  off  treatment  in  the  13  weeks  study.  Bone  marrow  haematopoiesis  had  decreased,  but 
secondary  effects  in  the  marrow  (fibrosis),  bone  (hyperostosis),  and  kidney  (tubular  degeneration/ 
regeneration, interstitial fibrosis, dilation of Bowman’s capsule) did not resolve completely during the 
recovery period.       
The NOAEL after subcutaneous or intravenous administration was considered to be 100 IU/kg in the 6 
and 13 weeks studies. At higher dose levels, bone marrow fibrosis and bone endosteal and trabecular 
hyperostosis were observed.  
In  the  6-week  study,  there  was  no  antibody  formation  noted  against  Epoetin  theta  in  most  of  the 
samples. Antibodies were detected for one control female and one mid-dose male (500 IU/kg/day), but 
the titres were slightly above the lower detection limit of the assay. In the 13 week study, there was no 
antibody formation noted against Epoetin theta in any of the samples but one, for which the measured 
value was slightly above the lower detection limit. No antibodies produced against Epoetin theta were 
detected in all other samples with sufficient blood for analysis.  
•  Genotoxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No studies were submitted. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic parameters were evaluated as part of the repeat dose toxicity studies (data not shown). 
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance was assessed in male Himalayan rabbits using the two clinical routes (intravenous and 
subcutaneous)  and  three  routes  of  potential  concern  in  case  of  miss-administration  (intramuscular, 
paravenous and intra-arterial). The doses tested were 1,000 IU, 5,000 IU and 15,000 IU Epoetin theta. 
No Epoetin theta-related changes were noted. Intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial, paravenous and 
subcutaneous  injections  did  not  reveal  any  Epoetin  theta-related  changes.  There  were  no 
Page 12 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
morphological differences between test and control sites. All minimal to moderate changes observed 
represented non-specific reactions to the administration (data not shown). 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs for up to 13 weeks revealed that Epoetin theta is slightly 
well  tolerated  locally  when  administered  intravenously  than  when  administered  subcutaneously  and 
that local tolerance of Epoetin theta is slightly greater in dogs than in rats, but not sex-related (data not 
shown). 
•  Other toxicity studies 
No other toxicity studies (dependence, metabolites, impurities) were submitted. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No environmental risk assessment was submitted. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The biological activity of epoetin theta has been characterized in an in vitro cell proliferation study. 
Moreover,  the  biological  efficacy  of  epoetin  theta  has  been  demonstrated  after  intravenous  and 
subcutaneous administration in various animal models in vivo (mice, rats, dogs). After administration 
of epoetin theta, the number of erythrocytes, the haematocrit values and reticulocyte counts increase. 
In safety pharmacology studies, epoetin theta did not reveal adverse effects regarding central nervous, 
renal  or  respiratory  systems.  Cardiovascular  safety  pharmacology  study  performed  in  beagle  dogs 
following an intravenous bolus showed transient reductions in blood pressure, elevations in heart rate 
and clinical signs consistent with histamine release in all dogs receiving the vehicle with or without 
epoetin theta. Polysorbate 20 (Tween-20), which is a component of the vehicle, has been reported to 
induce  transient  histamine  release  in  the  dog  and  haemodynamic  effects  observed  in  the  safety 
pharmacology study could be considered to be due to the presence of polysorbate 20. 
The pharmacokinetics programme was only conducted within the frame of PD and toxicology studies 
and  it  encompassed  determination  of  Epoetin  theta  plasma  levels  after  single  and  repeated 
administration  in  rats  and  dogs,    with  the  aim  to  calculate  plasma  exposure  parameters  (AUC,  Cmax 
etc.),  bioavailability  and  exposure  margins  as  compared  to  human  therapeutic  exposure.  No  other 
experiments were performed in respect to absorption; this is considered acceptable since Epoetin theta 
is intended for injection only and not for application via the oral route.  
No information was provided on organ distribution, metabolism, excretion and pharmacokinetic drug-
drug interactions, but this is considered acceptable. 
No single dose toxicity studies were performed on the justification that exceptionally high single doses 
were  investigated  in  safety  pharmacology  studies.  The  CHMP  considered  the  lack  of  single  dose 
toxicity  studies  as  acceptable.  Based  on  the  known  actions  of  epoetins  no  relevant  acute  toxicity  is 
expected. 
In repeat dose toxicity studies, the pharmacological activity of Epoetin theta resulted in an increase in 
haematological parameters of haemoglobin, red blood cell count, reticulocyte count and haematocrit. 
The main signs of toxicity observed were attributed to the pharmacological activity and were related to 
an  adaptive  response  of  the  organism  to  the  erythropoietic  stimulus.  There  were  haematopoietic 
hypercellularity  of  the  bone  marrow  with  fibrosis  at  high  doses,  extramedullary  haematopoiesis  and 
bone  hyperostosis.  Associated  lesions  were  observed  in  the  thymus,  kidney,  stomach,  heart  with 
congestion and haemorrhage. 
Reddening reactions were observed in rats and dogs receiving Epoetin theta. Moreover, reddening to a 
lesser  extent  was  noted  in  dogs  only  receiving  the  vehicle.  Published  data  have  reported  that 
polysorbate  20  caused  histamine-like  reactions  in  dogs.  Given  that  histamine-like  reactions  and 
pharmacological effects of the drug give similar clinical signs it is difficult to distinguish the origin of 
the reddening in dogs. 
Antibody  formation  against  Epoetin  theta  was  clearly  demonstrated  in  the  rats;  the  neutralising 
capacity  of  the  antibodies  was  not  determined  but  could  be  inferred  from  the  fact  that  there  was  a 
sudden decline in reticulocyte and RBC count (and related parameters such as hematocrit) in some rats 
after several weeks of treatment. 
In  general,  non-clinical  data  with  epoetin  theta  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on 
conventional studies of safety pharmacology and repeated-dose toxicity. 
Page 13 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies with epoetin theta were  not submitted, which is  acceptable 
given the nature of the drug. 
No reproductive toxicity studies with epoetin theta were submitted. Animal studies with other epoetins 
do  not  indicate  direct  harmful  effects  with  respect  to  pregnancy,  embryonal/foetal  development, 
parturition  or  postnatal  development.  Caution  should  be  exercised  when  prescribing  to  pregnant 
women.  It  is  unknown  whether  epoetin  theta  is  excreted  in  human  breast  milk,  but  data  in neonates 
show  no  absorption  or  pharmacological  activity  of  erythropoietin  when  given  together  with  breast 
milk. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy 
with epoetin theta should be made taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the 
benefit of epoetin theta therapy for the woman. 
The absence of an Environmental Risk Assessment is considered acceptable. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  Applicant  provided  6  phase  I  pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic  studies,  6  phase  II/III  studies 
supporting the indication anaemia in chronic renal failure patients and 3 phase III studies supporting 
the  indication  anaemia  in  cancer  patients  (see  tables  5,  6  and  13).  The  following  indications  were 
initially claimed: 
•  Treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic renal failure. 
•  Treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  in  cancer  patients  with  non-myeloid  malignancies 
• 
receiving chemotherapy.  
Increasing the yield of autologous blood from patients in a predonation programme. Its use in 
this indication must be balanced against the reported increased risk of thromboembolic events. 
Treatment should only be given to patients with moderate anaemia (haemoglobin 10-13 g/dl 
[6.21-8.07 mmol/l]), no iron deficiency), if blood conserving procedures are not available or 
insufficient when the scheduled major elective surgery requires a large volume of blood (4 or 
more units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males).  
No  studies  supporting  the  indication  ‘Increasing  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a 
predonation  programme’  were  submitted  and  the  Applicant  withdrew  this  indication  during  the 
evaluation procedure. 
Scientific  advice  was  provided  by  the  Committee  of  Human  Medicinal  Products  (CHMP)  on 
2 occasions (23 June 04 and 18 November 2004). The advice consisted of recommendations regarding 
the  type  of  studies  to  be  performed,  choice  of  comparator,  inclusion  criteria,  primary  efficacy 
endpoints and the analysis thereof, secondary efficacy endpoints, duration of treatment, and the size of 
the  safety  database.  This  advice  was  taken  into  consideration  in  the  current  clinical  development 
programme. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Six  PK  studies  were  submitted,  two  of  them  performed  in  healthy  volunteers,  two  performed  in 
patients  with  end-stage  renal  disease  treated  with  haemodialysis,  one  in  patients  with  chronic  renal 
failure  not  yet  receiving  dialysis  and  one  in  patients  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on  cyclic 
chemotherapy.  Pharmacokinetic  information  is  available  for  102  subjects  in  6  studies:  45  healthy 
volunteers  (studies  XM01-12  and  XM01-20);  31  subjects  with  end-stage  renal  disease  treated  by 
haemodialysis  (studies  XM01-01  and  XM01-11);  14  subjects  with  chronic  renal  failure  not  yet 
receiving  dialysis  (study  XM01-10);  and  in  12  anaemic  subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on 
Page 14 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cyclic chemotherapy (study XM01-24). An overview of all Phase I clinical studies submitted is shown 
in table 5 below. 
Table 5: Phase I pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies with Epoetin theta 
Name 
XM01-12 
XM01-20 
Study design and 
type of control 
Phase I, open, 
randomised, three-way 
crossover study 
Phase I, randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-
controlled, parallel-
group 
Route 
N  Diagnosis of 
s.c. 
18 
s.c. single doses 
40 
subjects 
Healthy 
subjects 
Healthy 
subjects 
duration of 
treatment 
3 single doses 
1 single dose 
XM01-01  
Phase I, open, study 
with sequential design. 
i.v. followed by 
s.c. doses 
18  End-stage renal 
2 single doses 
disease 
XM01-11  
Phase I, open, single 
group study 
i.v. 3 times 
weekly 
14 
End-stage 
renal disease 
XM01-10  
Phase I, open, single 
group study 
s.c. 3 times 
weekly 
14  Chronic renal 
failure 
XM01-24  
Phase I, open, single 
group study 
s.c. once weekly 
20,000 IU 
Epoetin theta 
over 3 weeks 
14 
non-myeloid 
malignancies 
7 doses of 
Epoetin theta 
over 2 weeks 
7 doses of 
Epoetin theta 
over 2 weeks 
3 doses of 
Epoetin theta 
over 3 weeks 
In terms of analytical methods, a validated double sandwich ELISA method was used for quantitation 
of Epoetin plasma values and standard PK data analysis was performed (data not shown).  
•  Absorption  
No specific studies were submitted. 
•  Distribution 
No specific studies were submitted. 
•  Elimination 
No studies were submitted. 
The pharmacokinetics of Epoetin theta in healthy subjects was investigated in studies XM01-12 and 
XM01-20. 
Study XM01-12 was a single centre, open label, randomised, three-way crossover phase I study in 18 
healthy  subjects.  The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  compare  single-dose  pharmacokinetics 
(Cmax and AUC0-120h) of s.c. Epoetin theta between different administration sites (upper arm, abdomen, 
and  thigh).  Secondary  objectives  were  to  further  investigate  pharmacokinetics,  pharmacodynamics, 
safety,  and  tolerability.  Each  subject  was  to  receive  3  administrations  of  Epoetin  theta  40  IU/kgBW 
s.c., separated by a washout period of 14 days, at separate body sites: upper arm, abdomen, and thigh.  
The  40  IU/kg  BW  dose  for  Epoetin  theta  was  chosen  on  the  basis  of  the  data  collected  during  the 
development of epoetin beta.  
The subjects were randomised to 1 of the 6 possible treatment sequences. 18 subjects were analysed 
for safety and 17 and 16 (for Cmax and AUC0-120h, respectively) for the pharmacokinetic evaluation. 
Results:  All  administration  sites  had  somewhat  different  PK  profiles.  The  results  indicate  that 
absorption was most rapid and peak plasma levels highest at the abdominal site, followed by the thigh 
Page 15 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and then upper arm. Bioequivalence according to the predefined criteria could not be proven for the 
three sites of administration. Relevant PK parameters did not reach the predefined acceptance criteria. 
Study  XM01-20  was  a  single  centre,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  phase  I  study  in  40  healthy 
subjects.  The  primary  objectives  of  the  study  were  to  characterise  safety,  tolerability,  and 
pharmacokinetics  of  a  single  dose  of  Epoetin  theta  following  s.c.  administration  to  healthy  male 
subjects.  Secondary  objectives  were  investigation  of  the  dose-linearity  of  Epoetin  theta  after  s.c. 
administration and efficacy. Subjects were randomised to receive one s.c. administration of either 450 
or 900 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta, or respective placebo.  
Of the 40 subjects included in the study 28 subjects treated  with Epoetin theta (14 with 450 and 14 
with  900  IU/kgBW)  were  analysed  for  pharmacokinetics  and  40  were  analysed  for  safety  and 
pharmacodynamics. 
Results: For the primary endpoints mean AUC0-∞ and mean Cmax, the results for the 900 IU/kg BW 
dose were 2.6-2.7 times higher than the results obtained for the 450 IU/kg BW dose. Tmax was similar 
for the 2 doses, while CL/f declined with increasing dose (data not shown).  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Epoetin  theta  in  subjects  with  chronic  renal  failure  was  investigated  in 
studies XM01-01 (haemodialysis), XM01-11 (haemodialysis), and XM01-10 (pre-dialysis). 
Study  XM01-01  was  a  multicentre,  open,  phase  I  study  in  18  subjects  with  endstage  renal  disease 
treated by haemodialysis. The primary objective of the study was to characterise the pharmacokinetics 
of a single dose of Epoetin theta following i.v. and s.c. administration to subjects with end-stage renal 
disease treated 3 times weekly with haemodialysis. Secondary objectives were safety, bioavailability 
and  efficacy.  Subjects  were  to  receive  single  doses  of  40  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  theta  on  study  days  13 
(i.v.) and 20 (s.c.). The dose of 40 IU/kgBW was chosen on the basis of the data collected during the 
development of Epoetin beta. 18 subjects were analysed for safety and 17 for pharmacokinetics. They 
each received a single dose of 40 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta on study days 13 (i.v.) and 20 (s.c.). 
Results:  The  results  indicate  that  for  a  single  s.c.  compared  to  a  single  i.v.  dose  of  40  IU/kg  (low 
therapeutic  dose),  exposure  is  reduced  to  about  30%  and  peak  plasma  concentrations  to  about  6%, 
whereas  terminal  half-life  is  increased  about  2.5-fold  (13.9  h  compared  with  5.7  h  following  i.v. 
administration) and clearance rate about 3-fold (data not shown).  
Study XM01-10 was a single centre, open, phase I study in 14 subjects with chronic renal failure not 
yet  receiving  dialysis.  The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  compare  steady  state 
pharmacokinetics  of  Epoetin  theta  (40  IU/kgBW  s.c.)  after  multiple  dosing  over  2  weeks  with  the 
pharmacokinetics of the first dose (40 IU/kgBW s.c.). Secondary objectives were comparison of the 
steady-state pharmacokinetics of s.c. Epoetin theta after multiple dosing with the pharmacokinetics of 
the first dose, safety, and tolerability. Subjects were  to receive Epoetin theta 40 IU/kgBW s.c. three 
times  weekly  over  2  weeks.  All  14  subjects  included  in  the  study  were  analysed  for  safety  and 
pharmacokinetics. 
Results: The pre-dose corrected concentrations time profiles of Epoetin theta after s.c. single and s.c. 
multiple  dose  were  slightly  different.  The  comparison  of  the  PK  parameters  Cmax,ss/Cmax,  AUC0-
72h,ss/AUC0-72h,  and  t1/2,ss/t1/2  gave  no  statistical  evidence  for  a  difference  between  single  and 
multiple dose. The point estimates for  Cmax,ss/Cmax,  AUC0-72h,ss/AUC0-72h are close to 100% and 
the 90% CIs inside the predefined equivalence range (data not shown). 
Study XM01-11 was a single centre, open, phase I study in 14 subjects with endstage renal disease 
treated by haemodialysis. The primary objective was to compare steady state pharmacokinetics of i.v. 
Epoetin  theta  after  multiple  dosing  over  2  weeks  with  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  first  dose. 
Secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of  i.v.  Epoetin  theta  after 
multiple dosing with the pharmacokinetics of the first dose, safety, and tolerability. Subjects were to 
receive Epoetin theta 40 IU/kgBW i.v. 3 times weekly over 2 weeks. All 14 subjects included in the 
study were analysed for safety and pharmacokinetics. 
Results: The pre-dose corrected concentrations time profiles of Epoetin theta after single and multiple 
i.v. doses differed. After reaching Cmax, Epoetin theta concentrations declined faster for multiple dose 
than for single dose. Consequently, AUC0-48h,ss for multiple dose was lower compared to single dose 
(data not shown). 
Page 16 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Epoetin  theta  in  subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on  cyclic 
chemotherapy was investigated in study XM01-24. This was a single centre, open, phase I study in 14 
anaemic  subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on  cyclic  chemotherapy.  The  primary  objective  of 
this study was to investigate steady state pharmacokinetics of Epoetin theta after multiple dosing over 
3  weeks  in  subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on  cyclic  chemotherapy  in  comparison  to  the 
pharmacokinetics of the first dose. Secondary objectives were further evaluation of pharmacokinetics, 
safety and pharmacodynamics. Subjects were to receive three s.c administrations of 20,000 IU Epoetin 
theta  at  weekly  intervals.  The  weekly  dose  of  20,000  IU  chosen  for  this  study  is  lower  than  the 
currently recommended dose for Epoetin beta in this indication which is 30,000 IU. Pharmacokinetic 
parameters  for  Day  15  could  not  be  derived  for  2  subjects;  thus  the  pharmacokinetic  population 
consisted of 12 subjects.  
Results: The PK profiles after single dose and multiple dose administration were markedly different. 
All  parameters  were  extremely  variable.  Mean  Cmax  and  AUC0-168h  were  higher  for  single  dose 
compared to steady state. Correspondingly, Cmax and AUC0-168h on Day 15 were lower than on Day 1 
and  the  difference  was  statistically  significant.  Geometric  mean  t1/2  and  tmax  was  statistically  not 
significantly  different  on  the  two  days  due  to  the  high  variability.  In  10  of  the  14  subjects  pre-dose 
plasma  concentrations  of  Epoetin  theta  on  Day  15  were  below  the  pre-dose  concentration  on  Day  1 
(data not shown). 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No studies addressing dose proportionality and time dependencies were submitted. 
•  Special populations 
No studies in patients with hepatic impairment, different weights, in elderly or children were 
submitted. No studies addressing gender or ethnic differences were submitted. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No studies were submitted.  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
No studies were submitted. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
No studies were submitted.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
No separate pharmacodynamic studies have been performed. Pharmacodynamics of epoetin theta have 
been analysed within all pharmacokinetic studies. Pharmacodynamic information is available for 116 
subjects  including  12  placebo-treated  subjects  in  study  XM01-20.  Haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  and 
reticulocyte  values  were  the  pharmacodynamic  parameters  mainly  studied.  These  were  further 
investigated in phase II and III studies in the target patient populations.  
Single-dose  administration:  Haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  and  reticulocytes  parameters  did  not  differ 
remarkably between pre- and post-dose measurements (day 1 and 8) during treatments A (upper arm), 
B  (abdomen),  and  C  (thigh).  Subcutaneous  injection  of  of  40  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  theta  in  healthy 
subjects  at  the  different  injection  sites  had  no  influence  on  haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  and 
reticulocytes values. Only slight increases were observed on day 8 compared to baseline for all three 
pharmacodynamic  parameters  after  each  type  of  application  (data  not  shown).  Similar  results  were 
observed for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) subjects treated by haemodialysis (study XM01-01, s.c. 
and i.v, data not shown).  
Single s.c. administration of Epoetin theta at doses of 450 and 900 IU/kgBW in healthy subjects (study 
XM01-20)  caused  a  significant  increase  in  the  level  of  reticulocytes,  peaking  on  Day  8  after 
administration and almost returning to baseline on Day 22. Erythrocyte count increased significantly, 
Page 17 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peaking on Day 10 after administration at the higher dose level of 900 IU/kg. Significant increases in 
haematocrit, haemoglobin and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) were also observed (data not shown). 
Multiple i.v. administrations: Multiple i.v. administrations of 40 IU/kgBW three times weekly over 2 
weeks  in  ESRD  subjects  treated  by  haemodialysis  (study  XM01-11)  resulted  in  slight  increases  in 
mean values for haemoglobin, haematocrit, and erythrocytes between Day 0 and Day 16 and Day 21, 
respectively (data not shown).  
Multiple s.c. administrations: Multiple s.c. administrations of 40 IU/kgBW three times weekly over 2 
weeks  in  ESRD  subjects  not  yet  treated  by  dialysis  (study  XM01-10)  resulted  in  slight  increases  in 
mean values for haemoglobin, haematocrit, and erythrocytes between Day 0 and Day 16.  
Multiple s.c. administrations of 20,000 IU Epoetin theta once per week over three weeks in anaemic 
subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  on  cyclic  chemotherapy  (study  XM01-24)  resulted  in  an 
increase  in  the  percentage  of  reticulocytes  during  the  course  of  the  study  compared  to  baseline, 
indicating an increase in red blood cell production. The increase was statistically significant on Days 
15 and 24. After a transient decrease in haemoglobin and haematocrit on Day 8 (after the first dose 
with  Epoetin  theta),  no  statistically  significant  differences  from  baseline  were  detected  for  both 
parameters at the following visits (data not shown). 
In  terms  of  secondary  pharmacology,  heart  rate,  blood  pressure,  and  body  weight  were  measured  at 
regular intervals in the 6 phase I studies. Oral body temperature was also measured in study XM01-01.  
Mean  and  median  values  of  heart  rate,  body  weight  and  oral  body  temperature  did  not  show  any 
clinically  relevant  changes  over  time.  There  were  no  clinically  relevant  differences  to  baseline  in 
individual subjects except in study XM01-11. Values above the reference range were observed in this 
study on patients with end-stage renal disease but it was concluded that the values originated from the 
underlying hypertension (data not shown). 
Physical  examination  and  12-lead  ECGs  were  performed  at  several  timepoints  in  all  of  the  phase  I 
studies. There were no clinically significant findings for the physical examination apart from reddened 
and  warmed  skin  in  the  area  of  the  arteriovenous  fistula  in  1  patient  in  study  XM01-01.  Although 
abnormal  ECG  measurements  were  reported  in  some  subjects  none  of  them  were  considered  to  be 
clinically significant (data not shown). 
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The absence of absorption, distribution , metabolism and elimination studies is acceptable because the 
properties  of  epoetins  in  general  regarding  absorption  and  distribution  are  known  and  there  are  no 
specific metabolites besides proteolytic fragments (as for proteins in general). 
Pharmacokinetic differences between administration sites, observed in study XM01-12, are reflected 
in section 5.2 of the SPC as follows: 
“Following  subcutaneous  injection  at  three  different  sites  (upper  arm,  abdomen,  thigh)  in  healthy 
volunteers, similar plasma level profiles were observed. The extent of absorption (AUC) was slightly 
greater after injection in the abdomen in comparison to the other sites.” 
In study XM01-20, a certain dose-response relationship could be shown, although this was not strictly 
linear. This may be due to the small sample size which was not powered to demonstrate a linear dose-
response relationship. Moreover, the observed phenomenon of a greater than proportional increase in 
AUC and a descreased clearance with increased doses is known from historical clinical trials and has 
already been described in the literature (see P. Veng-Pedersen, J Pharmaceut. Sciences, 1995 ; W.K. 
Cheung et al., Clin. Pharmacol. Therapeutics, 1998; R. Ramakrishan, J. Clin. Pharmacol. 2004). 
In renal anaemia studies, the pharmacokinetic profile in study XM01-01 is in agreement with those of 
other epoetins. Moreover, the XM01-10 study results suggest that the PK profiles of s.c. administered 
epoetin theta at a low therapeutic dose are very similar after single and multiple dose administration. 
There  was  no  trend  for  an  accumulation  after  multiple  s.c.  administration  of  Epoetin  theta.  On  the 
contrary, the XM01-11 results show that i.v. administered epoetin theta at a low therapeutic dose was 
eliminated faster after multiple injections compared to the first injection resulting in reduced exposure 
at steady state. Accumulation after multiple dose administration of epoetin theta compared to a single 
dose  after  i.v.  administration  was  not  observed.  The  same  has  been  described  for  other  epoetin-
containing medicinal products. 
Page 18 of 62 
 
 
 
 
Concerning  the  cancer  treatment  anaemia  studies,  it  is  accepted  that  the  factors  influencing  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  Epoetin  theta  /erythropoetin  in  the  target  population  of  patients  with 
chemotherapy are numerous, e.g. chemotherapy is known to increase the concentration of endogenous 
erythropoietin,  explaining  the  generally  high  baseline  levels  (although  considerable  differences 
between  subjects  were  observed).  Therefore  a  simple  comparison  of  single  dose/steady  state 
pharmacokinetics is not possible. 
No accumulation of epoetin theta was observed. 
The  observed  pharmacodynamic  effects  were  within  the  expected  effects  of  the  action  of 
erythropoetin.  The  transient  decrease  in  haemoglobin  and  haematocrit  after  the  initial  Epoetin  theta 
dose  in  study  XM01-24  was  possibly  related  to  the  preceding  chemotherapy  cycle  or  blood  loss  for 
pharmacokinetic sampling, while the recovery of both parameters after consequent doses reflects the 
pharmacodynamic effect of Epoetin theta. 
Clinical efficacy  
Anaemia in Chronic Renal Failure (CRF) patients 
Six studies have been performed to support the application for the use of Epoetin theta in the treatment 
of  anaemia  in  chronic  renal  failure  patients,  an  overview  of  which  is  given  in  table  6.  All  but  two 
(XM01-08  and  XM01-09)  were  double  blind,  randomised,  multicentre  phase  II  (2)  or  phase  III  (4). 
Study XM01-05 was a correction phase study designed to demonstrate the efficacy of Epoetin theta 
with respect to the dose-dependent average increase of haemoglobin  per week within the fixed-dose 
phase in CRF patients receiving dialysis. Study XM01-07 was a maintenance phase study designed to 
demonstrate  the  non-inferiority  of  Epoetin  theta  compared  with  Epoetin  beta  in  terms  of  efficacy  in 
similar  patients.  The  correction  phase  study  XM01-04  and  the  maintenance  phase  XM01-06  study 
enrolled  CRF  patients  not  yet  under  dialysis  and  their  objectives  were  similar  to  those  of  XM01-05 
and  XM01-07,  respectively.  Patients  not  on  hemodialysis  received  their  treatments  via  the 
subcutaneous  route  as  opposed  to  patients  receiving  dialysis,  who  received  treatment  intravenously. 
Study XM01-08 was a long-term follow up study to XM01-04 and XM01-06 and its objective was to 
demonstrate  therapeutic  equivalence  between  once-weekly  administration  of  Epoetin  theta  and  three 
times-weekly  administration  of  Epoetin  theta.  Finally,  study  XM01-09  was  a  long-term  follow  up 
study  to  XM01-05,  in  which  patients  were  primarily  followed  for  long-term  safety.  A  schematic 
representation of efficacy study designs is given in figure 1 below. 
Figure 1: Overall study designs 
(i) Renal insufficiency, intravenous route 
IV Route 
CRF  
Haemo- 
dialysis 
Study XM01-05 
Correction
24 weeks
26 weeks
Study XM01-07 
Maintenance
(ii) Renal insufficiency, subcutaneous route 
Page 19 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SC Route 
CRF  
Without 
dialysis 
Study XM01-04 
Correction
24 weeks 
26 weeks 
Study XM01-06 
Maintenance
XM01 Once Weekly 
Study XM01-08 
12 weeks 
XM01 3x/w 
24 weeks 
Table 6 Phase II and III studies in renal anaemia patients 
Study design and 
Study & 
type of control 
patient 
number 
Type of study 
XM01-04 
Efficacy and safety 
N=133 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, not yet receiving 
dialysis  
Correction phase study - sc 
Phase II, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
controlled, double-blind, 
parallel group,  correction 
phase study 
Phase II, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
controlled, double-blind, 
parallel-group, correction 
phase study 
Test products; 
Dosage regimen; 
Route of administration 
Fixed dose phase: 
Group 1: 20 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta 
Group 2: 30 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 3: 40 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 4: 80 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 5: 120 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 6: 20 IU/kgBW Epoetin beta; 
Subcutaneous, three times weekly 
Fixed dose phase: 
Group 1: 40 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta 
Group 2: 60 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 3: 80 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 4: 120 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta  
Group 5: 40 IU/kgBW Epoetin beta; 
Intravenous, three times weekly 
XM01-05 
Efficacy and safety  
N=150 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, receiving 
haemodialysis 
Correction phase study - iv 
XM01-06 
Efficacy and safety  
N=288 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, not yet receiving 
dialysis 
Maintenance phase study - 
sc 
XM01-07 
Efficacy and safety  
N=270 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, receiving 
haemodialysis 
Maintenance phase study - 
iv 
XM01-08 
Long-term efficacy and 
safety 
N=289 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, not yet receiving 
dialysis 
Follow-up study to studies 
XM01-04 and XM01-06 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
controlled, double-blind, 
comparative, parallel 
group, maintenance 
phase study 
During baseline period, treatment with 
s.c. Epoetin beta with same dose and 
frequency as before entering the study. 
During the treatment period (Epoetin 
theta or Epoetin beta) dose was 
adjusted when required* 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
controlled, double-blind, 
comparative, parallel-
group, maintenance-
phase study 
During baseline period, treatment with 
i.v. Epoetin beta with same dose and 
frequency as before entering the study. 
During the treatment period (Epoetin 
theta or Epoetin beta) dose was 
adjusted when required* 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
open, parallel-group 
study 
First 12 weeks: Epoetin theta s.c. at the 
same dose and frequency at which 
either Epoetin theta or Epoetin beta was 
received before entering the study. In 
the subsequent 24 weeks: Epoetin theta
at the same dose either once weekly, or 
equally divided over 3 doses per week. 
Dose was adjusted when required* 
Page 20 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of study 
Study & 
patient 
number 
XM01-09 
Long-term safety 
N=124 
Patients with anaemia 
associated with chronic renal 
failure, receiving 
haemodialysis 
Follow-up study to study 
XM01-05 
Study design and 
type of control 
Test products; 
Dosage regimen; 
Route of administration 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, open study 
Intravenous Epoetin theta at the same 
weekly dose and frequency as given at 
the end of study XM01-05. Dose was 
adjusted to maintain haemoglobin within 
the target range of 9.5 to 12 g/dL.  
Dose was adjusted to maintain the haemoglobin level within ± 1g/dL of the baseline value and within the target 
range of 9.5 to 12.0 g/dL. 
•  Dose response studies 
The correction phase studies XM01-05 and XM01-04 in patients receiving haemodialysis and in 
patients not yet on haemodialysis, respectively, contained an initial dose-response phase. These are 
described in the main studies section below. 
•  Main studies 
Study CSR XM01-04: Safety and efficacy of Epoetin theta in chronic renal failure-associated 
anaemia patients not yet receiving dialysis (correction phase, subcutaneous route) and, 
Study CSR XM01-05: Safety and efficacy of Epoetin theta in chronic renal failure-associated 
anaemia patients receiving haemodialysis (correction phase, intravenous route) 
METHODS 
Studies CSR XM01-04 and XM01-05 were multinational, multicentre, randomised, active controlled, 
double-blind (“third party blinding”), parallel-group phase II studies. XM01-04 was conducted in 34 
centres based in 9 countries. XM01-05 was conducted in 25 centres based in 4 countries. 
Study Participants  
Study XM01-04 included adult patients with chronic renal failure not yet treated with dialysis, with a 
glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2. Study XM01-05 included adult patients with 
chronic  renal  failure  who  had  been  treated  with  haemodialysis  for  at  least  12  weeks,  receiving 
haemodialysis twice or three times  a week and having adequate quality of haemodialysis defined as 
Kt/Vurea ≥ 1.2 (within the last 8 weeks prior to enrolment). 
In both studies, patients should not have received epoetin within the last 12 weeks prior to enrolment 
or epoetins with a longer half-life within the last 6 months. Patients had to have stable haemoglobin 
values  ≤  10.0  g/dL.  Female  patients  of  childbearing  potential  and  patients  requiring  red  blood  cell 
transfusions or with red blood cell transfusion within the last 8 weeks were notably not included in the 
study. 
Treatments 
Both studies comprised 3 parts:  
- Screening period (up to 2 weeks, no treatment with study drug),  
- Fixed-dose phase (in XM01-04: 4 weeks of subcutaneous tiw treatment with 20, 30, 40, 80, and 120 
IU/kgBW  Epoetin  theta,  or  20  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  beta;  in  XM01-05:  4  weeks  of  intravenous  tiw 
treatment  with  40,  60,  80,  120  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  theta,  or  40  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  beta).  No  dose 
changes were allowed during this phase apart from reductions in case of very high haemoglobin values 
above 12 g/dL for safety reasons, 
-  Adaptation  phase  in  which  the  epoetin  dose  for  each  patient  was  adjusted  based  on  haemoglobin 
levels.  The  adaptation  (correction)  phase  lasted  until  the  patient  reached  the  haemoglobin  response, 
with a maximum duration of 20 weeks if a response was not achieved.  
The aim in both treatment phases was to increase haemoglobin levels to between 11.0 and 12 g/dL. 
Objectives 
Page 21 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objectives of the study included examination of the efficacy of Epoetin theta in achieving dose-
dependent  correction  of  anaemia,  examination  of  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  Epoetin  theta  and 
comparison to Epoetin beta in terms of both efficacy and safety. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
Dose-dependent average increase of Hb per week within the fixed-dose phase. Epoetin theta was to be 
regarded as effective if there was a statistically significant difference in the increase of Hb levels after 
treatment with 20 (XM01-04) or 40 (XM01-05) compared to 120 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta given tiw.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
─ Number of patients reaching Hb response: i.e. Hb level > 11.0 g/dL on 2 consecutive measurements 
in the adaptation phase without blood transfusions within the preceding 3 months 
─ Time required to achieve Hb response 
─ Dose-response relationship of Epoetin theta in the fixed-dose phase (average Hb increase per week) 
─ Doses of Epoetin theta or Epoetin beta at time of Hb response 
─ Number of patients with blood transfusions and blood units per patient 
─ Measured haemoglobin, haematocrit and reticulocyte counts and their changes from baseline. 
Sample size 
XM01-04: Based on information from other epoetins, the determination of the sample size was based 
on the assumption that average Hb increases of 0.35 and 0.61 g/dL per week  could be expected in the 
two Epoetin theta groups (20 and 120 IU/kg). The common SD was assumed to be σ = 0.23. A sample 
size of 25 patients in each of the 6 dose groups would have 97% power to detect a difference of 0.26 
g/dL/week  between  the  contrasted  groups  (α=0.05  level).  As  the  statistical  analysis  of  the  primary 
endpoint was to be performed on the ITT population (i.e. all randomised patients), drop-outs were not 
taken  into  consideration  for  the  sample  size  calculation.  Thus,  atotal  of  150  patients  were  to  be 
randomised into the 6 treatment groups. 
XM01-05:  Based  on  the  information  from  other  epoetins,  the  determination  of  the  sample  size  was 
based on the assumption that average Hb increases of 0.28 and 0.50 g/dL per week could be expected 
in the two Epoetin theta groups (40 and 120 IU/kgBW). The common SD was assumed to be σ = 0.23. 
A sample size of 25 patients in each of the 5 dose groups would have 91% power to detect a difference 
of  0.22  g/dL/week  between  the  contrasted  groups  (α=0.05  level).  As  the  statistical  analysis  of  the 
primary endpoint was to be performed on the ITT population (i.e. all randomised patients), drop-outs 
were not taken into consideration for the sample size calculation. Thus, a total of 125 patients were to 
be randomised. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1:1:1:1:1 ratio to the six treatment groups (XM01-04) or in a 1:1:1:1:1 
ratio to the five treatment groups (XM01-05). Randomisation was stratified by country as country was 
considered  an  important  factor  influencing  study  outcome.  Three  patients  were  erroneously 
randomised in Study XM01-05 but were not treated with any of the study medications and regarded as 
'screen failures' by the respective investigators. The Blinded Review Committee also decided to treat 
these patients as included not randomised patients. 
Blinding (masking) 
A double-blind design was chosen for this study to minimise bias but a true double blinding was not 
technically  feasible  because  Epoetin  theta  was  provided  in  vials  and  the  reference  drug 
(NeoRecormon®) as a solution in pre-filled syringes. Third party blinding was therefore used. 
Statistical methods 
The intent-to-treat (ITT) population was the primary population for efficacy analyses and consisted of 
all  randomised  patients.  The  safety  population  consisted  of  all  randomized  patients  who  received  at 
least 1 dose of study treatment. The according to protocol (ATP) population consisted of all patients of 
the  ITT  population  who  did  not  have  any  major  protocol  violations.  The  ATP  population  was  the 
secondary population for analyses of the primary efficacy variable. 
In  terms  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint:  A  stepwise-rejecting-multiple-test  procedure  for  a  priori 
ordered hypotheses was used to compare the lowest dose Epoetin theta group with the other Epoetin 
Page 22 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
theta  groups  (starting  with  the  highest  dose  group  and  followed  by  the  others  in  descending  dose 
order). The ANCOVA model included a term for treatment as fixed class variables and Hb at baseline 
as covariate. Exploratory comparisons of the Epoetin theta dose groups versus Epoetin beta were also 
performed.  Concerning  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  treatment  groups  were  compared  using 
descriptive statistics. No adjustments of the significance level for multiple testing were made. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In XM01-04, 320 patients were screened, 134 of whom were randomised and 133 were treated. 131 
(97.8%) patients completed the fixed dose phase and 112 (83.6%) patients completed the study. 
In  XM01-05,  263  patients  were  enrolled  and  150  (57.0%)  patients  were  randomised.  148  (98.7%) 
patients completed the fixed-dose phase and 138 (92.0%) patients completed the adaptation phase. 
Recruitment 
XM01-04: first patient enrolled: 29 July 2005; last patient completed the study: 20 March 2007 
XM01-05: first patient enrolled: 18 August 2005; last patient completed the study: 02 August 2006 
Conduct of the study 
XM01-04: There was one protocol amendment (dated 22 March 2005) that did not have a substantial 
impact on the study outcome.  Concerning the statistical analysis the most important deviation from 
the  planned  statistical  analysis  was  that  the  factor  “country”  was  not  included  in  any  of  the  two 
statistical  models  as  explanatory  variable.  This  was  not  feasible  due  to  the  imbalanced  number  of 
patients in the participating countries. 
XM01-05:  The  original  protocol  (issued  on  21  March  2005)  was  modified  by  1  local  and  2  global 
amendments which did not have a substantial impact on the study conduct. 
Baseline data 
In  study  XM01-04,  baseline  demographic  characteristics  were  similar  across  treatment  groups,  with 
the exception of the proportion of women in the Epoetin theta 20 IU/kgBW group, which was higher 
compared  to  the  other  groups,  but  this  was  not  considered  to  be  clinically  relevant.  The  history  of 
chronic renal failure varied across groups. Time since diagnosis of renal anaemia was similar across 
groups.  Baseline  haemoglobin  values  were  similar  across  the  6  treatment  groups.  With  some  minor 
exceptions, the most common causes of renal insufficiency were similar across groups. 
In  XM01-05,  baseline  demographic  characteristics  were  similar  across  treatment  groups,  with  the 
exception of the proportion of men in the Epoetin theta 60 IU/kgBW group, which was higher than in 
the  4  other  treatment  groups,  but  this  was  not  considered  to  be  clinically  relevant.  The  history  of 
chronic renal failure, the time since diagnosis of renal anaemia and the time since first dialysis were 
comparable across the 5 treatment groups. In terms of blood transfusions prior to study entry there was 
some imbalance between treatment groups: of the 9 patients having received blood transfusions in the 
3 months prior to study entry, 5 were in the Epoetin theta 120 IU/kgBW group, but due to the small 
number this  was not considered significant. Of the  same 9 patients, 3 had received transfusions less 
than  8  weeks  prior  to  study  entry,  contrary  to  study  protocol.  These  had  been  considered  as  minor 
protocol violations.  
Numbers analysed 
The analysis was performed on the ITT population as planned. In XM01-04, the ITT comprised 134 
patients.  One  patient  in  the  ITT  population  was  not  treated  and  was  therefore  not  included  in  the 
Safety population (comprising 133). In total, 12 patients with major protocol violations were excluded 
from  the  ATP  population  which  thus  comprised  122  patients.  In  XM01-05,  the  ITT  and  SP 
populations were  identical  because  all  randomised  patients  were  treated  at  least  once  with  the  study 
medication.  They  comprised  150  patients.  15  patients  with  major  protocol  violations  were  excluded 
from the ATP population which thus comprised 135 patients. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint: 
Page 23 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XM01-04:  Results  of  the  ANCOVA  analysis  showed  that  the  mean  (±  SD)  weekly  increase  of 
haemoglobin  in  the  Epoetin  theta  120  IU/kgBW  group  was  significantly  higher  than  in  the  Epoetin 
theta 20 IU/kgBW group: 0.73 ± 0.33 g/dL vs. 0.20 ± 0.28 g/dL, p < 0.0001. The primary endpoint 
was thus met. 
Table 7: Weekly increase of haemoglobin in the fixed-dose phase (ITT population) 
Statistic  
Mean weekly increase  
(g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Median  
Range  
Comparison vs. 
EpoTheta  
20 IU/kgBW  
Mean difference  
95% CI  
p value *  
EpoTheta 
20 IU/kg 
(N=21)  
EpoTheta 
30 IU/kg 
(N=23)  
EpoTheta 
40 IU/kg 
(N=25)  
EpoTheta 
80 IU/kg 
(N=22)  
EpoTheta 
120 IU/kg 
(N=22)  
EpoB       
20 IU/kg 
(N=21)  
0.20  
0.28  
0.20  
-0.50 to 
0.75  
0.39  
0.30  
0.48  
-0.30 to 
1.11  
0.45  
0.22  
0.41  
-0.05 to 
0.76  
0.52  
0.19  
0.50  
0.14 to 
0.83  
0.73  
0.33  
0.65  
0.17 to 
1.63  
0.30  
0.28  
0.22  
0.00 to 
1.05  
-0.20  
-0.35,  
-0.04  
0.0150  
-0.24  
-0.40,  
-0.09  
0.0023  
-0.32  
-0.48,  
-0.16  
0.0001  
-0.52  
-0.68,  
-0.36  
<0.0001  
-0.10  
-0.26,  
0.06  
0.2074  
* All statistical comparisons are against the lowest dose of Epoetin theta (20 IU/kgBW).  
XM01-05:  Results  of  the  ANCOVA  analysis  showed  that  the  mean  (±  SD)  weekly  increase  of 
haemoglobin  in  the  Epoetin  theta  120  IU/kgBW  group  was  significantly  higher  than  in  the  Epoetin 
theta 40 IU/kgBW group: 0.58 ± 0.27 g/dL vs 0.26 ± 0.26 g/dL, p < 0.0001. The primary endpoint of 
the study was thus met. 
Table 8: Weekly increase of haemoglobin (g/dL) in the fixed-dose phase (ITT population) 
EpoTheta 
40 IU/kg 
(N=29) 
EpoTheta 
60 IU/kg 
(N=30) 
EpoTheta 
80 IU/kg 
(N=32) 
EpoTheta 
120 IU/kg 
(N=30) 
EpoB         
40 IU/kg 
(N=29) 
Mean  
SD  
Median  
Range  
Comparison vs 
EpoTheta  
40 IU/kg  
Mean difference  
95%CI  
p value  
0.26 
0.26 
0.27 
0.46 
0.27 
0.45 
–0.27 to 0.76  –0.15 to 0.85  –0.02 to 1.15  –0.07 to 1.01  –0.40 to 1.05 
0.58 
0.27 
0.58 
0.33 
0.26 
0.35 
0.29 
0.25 
0.30 
–0.06 
–0.19, 0.07 
0.3852 
–0.20 
–0.33, –0.07 
0.0028 
–0.32 
–0.45, –0.18 
<0.0001 
–0.07 
–0.20, 0.07 
0.3349 
There were no statistically significant interactions between country and treatment or between baseline 
reading and treatment (data not shown). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Dose-response  relationship  of  weekly  haemoglobin  increase  in  the  fixed-dose  phase:  There  was  a 
statistically significant linear relationship between the mean weekly haemoglobin values in the fixed-
Page 24 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose phase and the dose of Epoetin theta over the range of doses administered in both studies (data not 
shown). 
Haemoglobin response rate: The majority of patients had a haemoglobin response (i.e. a haemoglobin 
level > 11.0 g/dL on 2 consecutive measurements in the adaptation phase without blood transfusions 
within the preceding 3 months) and similar response rates were found across treatment groups in both 
studies. The response rates of numerically corresponding Epoetin beta and Epoetin theta groups were 
identical  in  both  studies.  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  of  the  response  rates 
between the treatment groups (or between countries in study XM01-05, data not shown). 
Time  to  achieve  haemoglobin  response:  The  mean  time  to  response  generally  showed  a  dose-
dependent  decrease  with  increasing  doses  of  Epoetin  theta  in  both  studies  and  the  log-rank  test 
indicated a statistically significant difference among treatment groups in time to achieve haemoglobin 
response.  Numerically  corresponding  doses  of  Epoetin  theta  and  Epoetin  beta  showed  generally 
similar mean times to haemoglobin response in the two studies (data not shown). In study XM01-05, 
country-stratified  results  showed  similar  results  in  terms  of  time  to  achieve  haemoglobin  response 
(data not shown). 
Dose of epoetin in the week before the haemoglobin response: In both studies, the mean single doses 
of epoetin in the week before the response were similar between numerically corresponding Epoetin 
theta  and  Epoetin  beta  treatment  groups.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  patients  received  these  single 
doses three times each week (data not shown). 
Blood transfusions: Blood transfusions were administered on a case by case basis at the discretion of 
the investigator. In study XM01-05, a total of 5 patients received blood transfusions. There were no 
statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  with  regard  to  number  of  blood 
transfusions. In study XM01-04, only three patients received blood transfusions (data not shown). 
Measured values of haemoglobin, haematocrit, and reticulocytes 
Haemoglobin: In both studies, baseline haemoglobin values were similar across all treatment groups. 
In  accordance  with  the  study  design,  values  gradually  increased  during  the  fixed-dose  phase  and 
reached  a  plateau  during  the  adaptation  phase.  As  expected,  the  magnitude  of  the  increases  in  the 
Epoetin theta groups was dose dependent (data not shown). 
Haematocrit: In both studies, the changes of haematocrit values were very similar to the changes of 
haemoglobin values over time and across the treatment groups (data not shown). 
Reticulocyte: Values showed a high degree of variability in all treatment groups and at all timepoints 
and were thus difficult to interpret. 
Study CSR XM01-06: Safety and efficacy of Epoetin theta in chronic renal failure-associated 
anaemia patients not yet receiving dialysis (maintenance phase, subcutaneous route) 
Study CSR XM01-07: Safety and efficacy of Epoetin theta in chronic renal failure-associated 
anaemia patients receiving haemodialysis (maintenance phase, intravenous route) 
METHODS 
Studies  XM01-06  and  XM01-07  were  multinational,  multicenter,  randomised,  controlled,  double-
blind (“third party blinding”), comparative, parallel-group phase III studies. XM01-06 was conducted 
in 50 centres based in 10 countries. XM01-07 was conducted in 34 centres based in 5 countries. 
Study Participants  
Study XM01-06 included adult patients with chronic renal failure being treated for renal anaemia, not 
yet on dialysis and having a GFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 within the last three months. In study XM01-
07,  participants  were  adults  with  chronic  renal  failure  being  treated  for  renal  anaemia  and  on 
haemodialysis for at least 6 months.  
In  both  studies,  patients  should  have  been  maintained  on  s.c.  therapy  with  Epoetin  beta  and  having 
stable Hb levels within the previous 8 weeks (within the target range ≥ 9.5 g/dL and < 12.0 g/dL and 
the difference between the highest and lowest values < 2 g/dL, based on at least 4 Hb measurements). 
Female  patients  of  childbearing  potential,  patients  with  active  bleeding  or  with  red  blood  cell 
transfusion within the last 3 months were notably not included in the studies. 
Treatments 
Both studies comprised four parts:  
Page 25 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
- Screening visit 
- Baseline period (2 weeks, patients treated with intravenous or subcutaneous epoetin beta at the same 
dose and frequency as prior to the study) 
-  Treatment  period  (24  weeks;  patients  randomised  1:2  to  Epoetin  beta  or  an  equivalent  dose  of 
Epoetin  theta;  the  EVP  Weeks  15  to  26).  During  the  randomised  treatment  period,  the  epoetin  dose 
could be adjusted according to a protocol-defined dosing algorithm to maintain Hb values within the 
target interval (I=[baseline-1.0, baseline+1.0]∩[9.5, 12.0]) 
- Follow-up period (up to 30 days after last dose of study medication) 
Objectives 
Objectives  of  the  study  included  demonstration  of  non-inferiority  of  Epoetin  theta  compared  to 
Epoetin beta in terms of efficacy, safety and tolerability, as well as immunogenicity. 
target 
interval 
for  haemoglobin  values  was  defined  as 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
The primary endpoint was the change of Hb level from baseline (mean of Visits 1, 2, and 3) to end of 
treatment (mean of Weeks 15-26; the EVP).  
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
The following efficacy parameters were assessed during the EVP only (Visits 11 to 17; Weeks 15 to 
26)  
─  Mean  weekly  dose  of  epoetin  required  to  maintain  Hb  levels  during  the  EVP  within  the  target 
I=[baseline-1.0, 
interval.  The 
baseline+1.0]∩[9.5, 12.0], where the baseline value was the mean of Visits 1, 2 and 3. 
─ Percentage of patients with dose changes. The percentage of patients with dose changes during the 
EVP was calculated by treatment group within country, treatment group and overall. 
─ Number of dose changes per patient. The number of dose changes per patient within the EVP were 
analysed descriptively.  
─  Percentage  of  Hb  values  per  patient  within  the  target  interval  (defined  above).  Results  of  Hb 
assessments were used to monitor if patients had Hb levels within the target interval during the EVP. 
─ Percentage of patients with Hb values within the target interval (defined above) at each week during 
the EVP. Results of Hb assessments were used to monitor if patients had Hb levels within the target 
interval at each week during the EVP. 
─ Within-patient variance in Hb levels. For each patient the within-variance in Hb levels during the 
EVP was calculated. 
─ Hb changes from baseline. The Hb changes from baseline were analysed at each week during the 
EVP. 
Page 26 of 62 
 
 
Sample size 
Assuming a 2:1 randomisation for Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta and a difference of 1.0 g/dL in Hb as 
greatest clinically acceptable difference, a sample sizes of 128 (Epoetin theta) and 64 (Epoetin beta) 
would have 90% power to show that Epoetin theta was not inferior to Epoetin beta (α=0.05). In this 
calculation it was  assumed that the expected difference in  means was 0.5 g/dL in favour of Epoetin 
beta and that the common SD was 1.0 g/dL. Assuming a drop-out rate of 25%, 170 patients had to be 
treated  with  Epoetin  theta  and  85  patients  with  Epoetin  beta,  giving  a  total  of  255  patients  to  be 
randomised. The estimated drop-out rate was based on results from recently published clinical trials 
with Darbepoetin alfa. 
Randomisation 
At the randomisation visit at the end of the baseline period, patients were randomised in a ratio of 2:1 
to Epoetin theta: Epoetin beta. The randomisation was stratified by country, using blocks with length 
of  3  and  an  assignment  ratio  of  Epoetin  theta  to  Epoetin  beta  of  2:1.  The  size  of  the  randomisation 
blocks  was  not  disclosed  to  the  study  centres.  Patients  were  not  randomised  if  the  mean  of  the  Hb 
levels at Visit 1 and Visit 2 was < 9.5 g/dL or ≥ 12.0 g/dL. 
Blinding 
A true double-blind design was not technically feasible for this study because the test drug (Epoetin 
theta) was provided as a solution in vials and the reference drug (NeoRecormon®) as a solution in pre-
filled syringes. The investigator, any sub-investigators or study nurses, and the patient were blinded to 
the study medication.  
Statistical methods 
The full analysis set (ITT population) comprised all randomised patients. The per protocol set (ATP 
population)  was  the  primary  population  for  efficacy  analyses  and  comprised  all  patients  of  the  ITT 
population  who  were  treated  with  study  medication  and  who  did  not  have  any  major  protocol 
violations. The safety population was the population for the safety analyses and comprised all patients 
of the ITT population who received at least 1 dose of study treatment. The primary analysis was based 
on the ATP population, as a per protocol analysis is considered a more conservative approach for non-
inferiority analyses. 
In  terms  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  a  difference  of  1.0  g/dL  was  considered  the  greatest 
clinically  acceptable  difference;  therefore  the  limit  of  non-inferiority  was  defined  as  a  difference 
between the 2 treatment groups of -1.0 g/dL. The analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model for non 
inferiority testing included a term for treatment and country as fixed class variables and haemoglobin 
at  baseline  as  covariate.  Concerning  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  treatment  groups  were 
compared  using  descriptive  statistics.  No  adjustments  of  the  significance  level  for  multiple  testing 
were made.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In XM01-06, 373 patients were enrolled and screened. 288 patients were randomised and treated. 255 
(88.5%)  patients  completed  the  study;  167  (86.5%)  patients  in  Epoetin  theta  group  and  88  (92.6%) 
patients in the Epoetin beta group. 
In  XM01-07,  347  patients  were  screened.  270  patients  were  randomised  and  treated.  233  (86.3%) 
patients completed the study; 156 (86.7%) patients in Epoetin theta group and 77 (85.6%) patients in 
the Epoetin beta group. 
Recruitment 
XM01-06: first patient enrolled: 17 August 2005; last patient completed the study: 10 May 2007 
XM01-07: first patient enrolled: 22 August 2005; last patient completed the study: 09 November 2006 
Page 27 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
For XM01-06, no protocol amendments were made. For XM01-07, the original protocol (issued on 22 
February  2005)  was  modified  by  1  amendment  that  did  not  have  a  substantial  impact  on  the  study 
conduct. In both studies, changes and clarifications concerning statistical analyses were only minor. 
Baseline data 
In XM01-06, demographic and baseline characteristics were comparable across the 2 treatment groups 
with minor exceptions (slightly higher percentage of men in the Epoetin beta group and slightly higher 
percentage  of  patients  aged  ≥  65  years  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group)  of  little  clinical  relevance.  Time 
since diagnosis of renal failure and renal anaemia did not differ between treatment groups. Time since 
initiation of epoetin treatment was similar and differences in the most common causes of renal failure 
were not clinically relevant. 
In XM01-07, demographic and baseline characteristics were comparable across the 2 treatment groups 
and  across  the  5  countries.  Time  since  diagnosis  of  renal  failure  and  renal  anaemia  were  also 
comparable between treatment groups. Differences in the most common causes of renal insufficiency 
between treatment groups were not clinically relevant. 
Numbers analysed 
The  analysis  was  performed  on  the  ATP  population  as  planned.  In  XM01-06,  the  ITT  population 
comprised  288  patients  (193  receiving  Epoetin  theta  and  95  receiving  Epoetin  beta).  The  ATP 
population comprised 240 patients (159 Epoetin theta; 81 Epoetin beta). The SP was identical to the 
ITT population (288 patients). In XM01-07, the ITT population comprised 270 patients (180 receiving 
Epoetin  theta  and  90  receiving  Epoetin  beta).    46  patients  with  major  protocol  violations  were 
excluded from the ATP population which thus comprised 224 patients (150 and 74 respectively). The 
SP was identical to the ITT population (270 patients).  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint: Analysis of non-inferiority in the ATP population 
XM01-06: Mean Hb values were similar in both treatment groups at baseline and during the EVP for 
the  ATP  population.  The  primary  endpoint  was  thus  met  and  Epoetin  theta  was  considered  as  non-
inferior to Epoetin beta. 
Table 9 : Primary analysis of non-inferiority – change in Hb levels from baseline to the end of 
treatment (EVP) (ATP population) 
Haemoglobin values  
Epoetin theta N=159 
Epoetin beta N=81 
Total N=240 
Baseline (g/dL) 
Mean  
SD  
Range  
Mean EVP (g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Range  
Change from 
baseline  
to mean EVP (g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Range  
ANCOVA 
comparison*  
10.88 
0.59 
10.93 
0.61 
10.90 
0.60 
9.50 to 12.00 
9.50 to 11.90 
9.50 to 12.00 
11.07 
0.94 
8.29 to 14.06 
11.08 
0.82 
9.34 to 13.79 
11.08 
0.90 
8.29 to 14.06 
0.19 
0.80 
-1.59 to 2.86 
0.15 
0.73 
-1.85 to 1.89 
0.18 
0.78 
-1.85 to 2.86 
Page 28 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haemoglobin values  
Epoetin theta N=159 
Epoetin beta N=81 
Total N=240 
Epo theta – Epo beta  
Estimated difference  
(SE)  
95% CI  
p value  
0.01 (0.11) 
-0.20, 0.22 
0.9207 
The  ANCOVA  model  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  included  country  as  fixed  effect  and  Hb 
baseline  reading  as  covariable.  Baseline  Hb  values  had  an  effect  on  the  outcome  of  the  primary 
endpoint,  with  a  p  value  of  0.0076;  country  had  no  effect  on  the  outcome  of  the  primary  analysis 
(p=0.2820). For the baseline term, the estimated effect on the primary analysis was -0.24 (SE 0.09). 
Exploratory ANCOVA models with interaction effects for country and baseline readings by treatment 
group  were  performed.  These  analyses  revealed  no  statistically  significant  interaction  between 
baseline and treatment (p=0.2767), and between country and treatment (p=0.7820). 
The  findings  for  the  ITT  population  supported  the  primary  analysis  of  non-inferiority  in  the  ATP 
population.  The  estimated  treatment  difference  was  0.00  (SE  0.10)  g/dL  (95%  CI:  -0.20,  0.20), 
p=0.9983,  indicating  that  the  difference  between  groups  was  less  than  1.0  g/dL  and  it  was  not 
statistically significant. 
XM01-07: Mean Hb values were similar in both treatment groups at baseline and during the EVP. The 
primary aim of the study was met and Epoetin theta was considered as non-inferior to Epoetin beta.  
Table 10: Primary analysis of non-inferiority – change in Hb levels from baseline to the end of 
treatment (EVP) (ATP population) 
Haemoglobin values  
Epoetin theta N=150  
Epoetin beta N=74  
Total N=224 
Baseline (g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Range  
Mean EVP (g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Range  
Change from baseline  
to mean EVP (g/dL)  
Mean  
SD  
Range  
ANCOVA comparison* 
EpoTheta – EpoB 
Estimated difference (SE) 
95% CI 
p value 
10.86  
0.62  
9.70 to 11.90  
10.66  
0.89  
8.53 to 13.20  
-0.21  
0.82  
-1.98 to 2.51  
10.85 
0.61 
9.60 to 11.90 
10.66 
0.90 
8.36 to 14.50 
-0.19 
0.87 
-2.31 to 4.30 
10.83  
0.59  
9.60 to 11.90  
10.66  
0.92  
8.36 to 14.50  
-0.17 
0.96 
-2.31 to 4.30 
-0.01 (0.11) 
-0.24, 0.21 
0.9021 
The  ANCOVA  model  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  included  country  as  fixed  effect  and  Hb 
baseline reading as covariable. Both terms had an effect on the outcome of the primary endpoint, with 
p values of 0.0020 for country and < 0.0001 for baseline values. For the baseline term, the estimated 
effect on the primary analysis was -0.49 (SE 0.09), indicating that the higher the baseline Hb value, 
the lower the mean change from baseline. 
Page 29 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  findings  for  the  ITT  population  supported  the  ATP  analysis  of  non-inferiority:  the  estimated 
treatment difference was -0.08 (SE 0.11) g/dL (95% CI: -0.30, 0.14), p=0.4636. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
Mean weekly dose of epoetin 
During  the  EVP,  the  mean  weekly  dose  of  epoetin  was  similar  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group  and  the 
Epoetin  beta  group  for  the  ATP  population  in  both  studies.  Slight  differences  in  doses  of  epoetin 
between  groups  were  not  statistically  significant;  notably,  there  was  wide  variation  in  dosing  values 
for both groups. Similar results were obtained in the ITT population in both studies. 
In  study  XM01-06,  there  was  a  decrease  from  baseline  in  mean  weekly  dose  of  epoetin  during  the 
EVP for both Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta (data not shown).  
Percentage of patients with dose changes during the EVP: In both studies, dose changes during the 
EVP were required by about half of the patients in both the ATP and the ITT. The majority of patients 
with dose changes required only 1 or 2 dose changes during the EVP (data not shown).  
Rate  of  dose  changes  during  the  EVP:  The  rate  of  dose  change  was  the  number  of  dose  changes 
observed divided by the number of possible dose changes for each patient (including patients with no 
dose changes during the study). In both studies, there was no relevant difference in the mean rate of 
dose change during the EVP for the Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta groups (ATP and ITT population, 
data not shown).  
Percentage of haemoglobin values within the target interval during the EVP: For this endpoint, 
individual percentages of Hb values within the target interval during the EVP were described; i.e. for 
each patient the percentage of Hb values within the target interval out of all their observed Hb values 
in the EVP was calculated. 
In both studies, the individual mean percentage of Hb values within the target interval during the EVP 
was similar in both groups; the range was 0 to 100% for both groups, indicating that for some patients 
all Hb levels were within the target interval (ATP and ITT population, data not shown).  
Percentage  of  patients  with  haemoglobin  values  within  the  target  interval  during  the  EVP:  In 
study XM01-06, the percentage of patients with Hb values within the target interval during the EVP 
was higher for the Epoetin beta group than for the Epoetin theta group at all time points except Weeks 
17, 19, 24, and 26, when the difference between groups was < 5%. However, percentages at each week 
varied markedly, depending on the numbers of patients included in the analysis; a difference of only 1 
or 2 patients in the analysis population had a marked effect on the percentages of patients within the 
target interval (ATP population, data not shown). In study XM01-07, the percentage of patients with 
Hb values within the target interval was similar in both groups at almost all weeks during the EVP. 
The  percentage  was  slightly  higher  for  the  Epoetin  beta  group  than  for  the  Epoetin  theta  group  at 
Weeks 16 and 20; at all other time points, the difference between groups was < 5%. (ATP population, 
data not shown). 
Within-patient standard deviation and variability in haemoglobin levels during the EVP: In both 
studies and for both ATP and ITT populations, the within patient standard deviation and variability in 
Hb  levels  during  the  EVP  was  similar  for  the  Epoetin  theta  and  the  Epoetin  beta  groups  (data  not 
shown).  
Haemoglobin changes from baseline during the EVP: In both studies, the time courses of mean Hb 
values  during  the  study  for  the  Epoetin  theta  and  Epoetin  beta  groups  were  almost  superimposable. 
The mean changes from baseline to each visit were also almost identical between groups, showing that 
minor fluctuations in Hb values were normal in patients under stable maintenance therapy. Findings 
for  the  time  course  of  Hb  values  and  mean  changes  from  baseline  were  similar  across  countries. 
Results were similar for the ATP and ITT populations (data not shown). 
Blood  transfusions:  In  both  studies  and  for  both  ATP  and  ITT  populations,  the  difference  between 
Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta groups in terms of blood transfusions administered during the study as 
well  as  during  the  EVP  was  not  clinically  meaningful  or  statistically  significant.  Blood  transfusion 
during the EVP would have resulted in exclusion from the ATP population. 
Page 30 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  CSR  XM01-08:  Long-term  efficacy  and  safety  of  Epoetin  theta  in  chronic  renal  failure-
associated  anaemia  patients  not  yet  receiving  dialysis  (comparison  of  once-  and  thrice-weekly 
administration of Epoetin theta, subcutaneous route) 
METHODS 
This was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, open, parallel-group Phase III follow-up study for 
the  subcutaneous  application  in  patients  with  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure.  It  was 
conducted in 50 centres based in 11 countries. 
Study Participants  
Patients  successfully  treated  for  renal  anaemia  with  Epoetin  theta  or  Epoetin  beta  in  the  previous 
studies  XM01-04  (Correction  phase  study  -  subcutaneous)  or  XM01-06  (Maintenance  phase  study  - 
subcutaneous) were eligible for enrolment into this study. All eligible patients who completed study 
XM01-04  or  XM01-06  regularly  and  who  had  signed  and  dated  written  informed  consent  for  this 
follow-up study could be included.  
There were no formal exclusion criteria at visit 1. At visit 7 (week 13), patients presenting with any of 
the following were not eligible for randomisation:  
─ Serum ferritin ≤ 100 μg/L or transferrin saturation (TSAT) ≤ 20%  
─ Active bleeding  
─ Red blood cell transfusion within the last four weeks 
─ Known positive test for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibodies  
─ Concomitant therapy with immunosuppressive drugs, steroids (oral or intravenous) or androgens  
─ Resistance to epoetin (more than 300 IU/kgBW/week) 
Treatments 
Patients  previously  treated  with  Epoetin  theta  continued  their  individual  s.c.  therapy  with  Epoetin 
theta. Patients who were previously treated with Epoetin beta started s.c. treatment with Epoetin theta 
with the same dose and frequency they had been treated with Epoetin beta in the previous study. The 
planned complete study participation time was 36 weeks. For the first 12 weeks of the study (the pre-
randomisation  period),  all  patients  were  to  receive  Epoetin  theta  at  the  same  individual  dose  and 
frequency  of  administration  of  epoetin  treatment  (Epoetin  theta  or  Epoetin  beta)  that  they  were 
receiving at the end of study XM01-04 or XM01-06. It should be noted that in the parent study XM01-
04  a  thrice  weekly  dosing  frequency  was  predefined  in  the  protocol,  whereas  in  the  parent  study 
XM01-06  the  dosing  frequency  could  be  adapted  and  the  majority  of  patients  were  treated  once 
weekly with epoetin. At week 13, patients who met all the eligibility criteria were randomised 1:1 to 
receive  either  Epoetin  theta  once-weekly  s.c.  or  Epoetin  theta  three  times-weekly  s.c.  during  the 
following  24  weeks  (the  evaluation  period).  The  total  weekly  dose  was  based  on  their  previous 
therapy.  Dose  adaptations  were  to  be  made  throughout  the  study  to  maintain  haemoglobin  levels 
within the therapeutic range (9.5, 12.0 g/dL) and, in addition, during the evaluation period, to maintain 
haemoglobin  levels  within  ±  1  g/dL  of  the  individual  baseline  value  (determined  prior  to 
randomisation).  
Objectives 
To  demonstrate  therapeutic  equivalence  in  terms  of  efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  between  once-
weekly  and  three  times-weekly  administration  of  Epoetin  theta  (by  injecting  the  same  total  weekly 
dose).  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
Time-adjusted area under the curve for haemoglobin (AUC-Hb) during the efficacy evaluation period 
(EEP) (weeks 25 to 36, 12 weeks) (primary endpoint) and mean weekly Epoetin theta dose per kg of 
body weight during the efficacy evaluation period (weeks 25 to 36, 12 weeks) (co-primary endpoint). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
─ Percentage of patients with dose changes (increases, decreases) 
─ Number of dose changes per patient (increases, decreases) 
─ Percentage of haemoglobin values per patient within the target interval (both, 9.5 to 12.0 g/dL and 
individual baseline value ± 1.0 g/dL, determined prior to randomisation) 
─ Percentage of patients with haemoglobin values within the therapeutic range (9.5 to 12.0 g/dL) 
Page 31 of 62 
 
 
 
 
─ Within-patient variance in haemoglobin levels,  measured values of haemoglobin, haematocrit and 
reticulocytes 
─ Number of patients with blood transfusions 
Sample size 
The  determination  of  the  sample  size  was  based  on  the  primary  efficacy  endpoints,  i.e.  AUC  25-37 
and Dose 25-36. The sample size was determined to provide a power of at least 0.8 for the rejection of 
the null hypothesis for each of the primary variables at a two-sided level of α=0.05. Assuming a drop-
out rate of 15%, in total at least 266 patients were to be randomised at the end of week 12. Recruiting 
266 patients into the study would result in a power of 0.8 for the hierarchical test procedure (power of 
0.96 for the test concerning the primary variable AUC 25-37) in the ATP population.  
Randomisation 
At week 13, patients who met all the eligibility criteria were randomised 1:1 to receive either Epoetin 
theta  once-weekly  s.c.  or  Epoetin  theta  three  times-weekly  s.c.  during  the  following  24  weeks  (the 
evaluation period). 
Blinding (masking) 
This was an open study. To make sure that the prior study XM01-04 or XM01-06 was kept blinded, 
the drug administrator in study XM01-04 or XM01-06 informed the investigator only about the initial 
Epoetin theta dose that had to be administered at visit 1 (which was also the final visit of study XM01-
04 or XM01-06).  
Statistical methods 
Four analysis populations were evaluated:  
─ Followed-up not randomised (FNR): All patients who were treated at least once with Epoetin theta 
in study XM01-08 but were not randomised. 
─ Full analysis set (intent-to-treat [ITT] population): All patients who were randomised to one of the 
study  treatments  at  the  start  of  week  13  (all  randomised  patients)  including  patients  with  major 
protocol violations. This set was the secondary population for the efficacy analyses.  
─ Per-protocol set (according to protocol [ATP] population): All patients of the full analysis set who 
did not have any major protocol violations. This was the primary population for efficacy analyses.  
─ Safety set (safety population [SP]): All patients of the full analysis set (all randomised patients) who 
received at least 1 dose of study treatment. This population was used for the analyses of safety data.  
To  show  equivalence  between  once-weekly  and  thrice-weekly  administration  regarding  the  AUC,  a 
two-sided  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  difference  in  the  AUC  had  to  lie  entirely  within  the 
equivalence  range  of  -1.0  to  +1.0  g/dL.  A  difference  of  maximal  1.0  g/dL  was  considered  to  be 
thrice-weekly 
without  clinical  relevance.  To  show  equivalence  between  once-weekly  and 
administration regarding the total weekly dose a two-sided 95% confidence interval for the ratio had to 
lie entirely within the equivalence range of 0.8 to 1.25. For evaluation of secondary efficacy endpoints 
the treatment groups were compared using descriptive statistics. Descriptive p-values were calculated 
with  appropriate  statistical  tests  but  were  regarded  as  supportive  only.  No  adjustments  of  the 
significance level for multiple testing were made.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
209 of the 289 patients enrolled in this study were previously treated with Epoetin theta and continued 
their treatment. 80 of the 289 patients enrolled in this study were previously treated with Epoetin beta 
and  were  switched  to  treatment  with  Epoetin  theta  at  the  same  dose  and  frequency.    In  total,  177 
(61.2%) patients completed the study; 95 (85.6%) patients in the once weekly group and 82 (73.2%) 
patients in the thrice weekly group.  
Recruitment 
First patient enrolled: 2 February 2006; last patient completed the study: 21 January 2008 
Page 32 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
There were no amendments to the study protocol. There were two changes of the statistical analysis 
and some clarifications of the calculation of the efficacy endpoints which did not have a substantial 
impact on study conduct. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic characteristics were similar across treatment groups. Time since first diagnosis 
of renal failure and of renal anaemia was similar among treatment groups. Differences between groups 
in causes of renal failure were not clinically relevant. 
Numbers analysed 
289 patients were enrolled. 66 patients were followed-up but not randomised (FNR). 223 patients were 
randomised  at  the  end  of  week  12  (once  weekly  group:111,  thrice  weekly  group:112).  7  and  15 
patients discontinued before the efficacy evaluation period, respectively, so that 95 in the once-weekly 
group and 82 in the thrice-weekly group had a regular study end. The ATP population comprised 188 
patients  (99  once  weekly;  89  thrice  weekly)  and  the  Safety  population  comprised  223  patients  (111 
and 112, respectively). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint  
To  show  equivalence  between  once-weekly  and  thrice-weekly  administration  regarding  the  AUC,  a 
two-sided  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  difference  in  the  AUC  had  to  lie  entirely  within  the 
equivalence  range  of  -1.0  to  +1.0  g/dL.  A  difference  of  maximal  1.0  g/dL  was  considered  to  be 
without clinical relevance. 
Table 11: Time-adjusted area under the curve for haemoglobin during the EEP (ATP population) 
Parameter 
Time-adjusted AUC (g/dL) 
at baseline  
Mean ± SD 
Time-adjusted AUC (g/dL) 
during the EEP  
Mean ± SD 
Epoetin  theta  once  weekly 
vs thrice weekly  
Mean difference 
95% CI 
Parent  study  (XM01-04  – 
XM01-06)  
Mean difference  
95% CI 
p value 
Baseline Hb  
Effect estimate 
p value 
EpoTheta once weekly (N=99) 
EpoTheta thrice weekly (N=89) 
11.012 ± 0.902 
11.039 ± 0.878 
10.728 ± 0.829 
10.908 ± 0.960 
ANCOVA analysis 
-0.17 
-0.40, 0.06 
-0.03 
-0.31, 0.25 
0.8429 
0.45 
< 0.0001 
The parent study from which patients entered the current study did not have a statistically significant 
effect  on  AUC-Hb  (p  =  0.8429);  the  mean  difference  of  the  AUC  between  patients  coming  from 
XM01-04 and XM01-06 (XM01- 04 minus XM01-06) is estimated to be –0.03 g/dL. Baseline Hb did 
have  a  statistically  relevant  effect  on  AUC-Hb  (p  <  0.0001),  with  an  effect  estimate  of  0.45  g/dL, 
indicating  a  positive  correlation  between  baseline  Hb  and  AUC-Hb.  Exploratory  analyses  of  the 
interaction  effects  between  treatment  and  baseline Hb  and  between  treatment  and  parent  study  were 
performed and no important interactions were identified. Patients from each of the two parent studies 
were equally distributed between the once weekly and the thrice weekly regimen (data not shown). 
Page 33 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean weekly Epoetin theta dose per kg of body weight in the ATP population during the efficacy 
evaluation period (weeks 25 to 36, 12 weeks) is presented in Table 12. To show equivalence between 
once-weekly  and  thrice-weekly  administration  regarding  the  total  weekly  dose  a  two-  sided  95% 
confidence interval for the ratio had to lie entirely within the equivalence range of 0.8 to 1.25. 
EpoTheta once weekly (N=99)  EpoTheta thrice weekly (N=89) 
Table 12: Mean weekly Epoetin theta dose per kg of body weight during the EEP (ATP population) 
Mean weekly dose 
Baseline (IU/kgBW) 
 Mean ± SD 
Median 
EEP (IU/kgBW) 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
49.539 ± 50.240 
29.508 
37.091 ± 35.904 
27.397 
35.706 ± 35.967 
27.826 
39.051 ± 30.265 
29.116 
Epoetin  theta  once  weekly 
vs thrice weekly 
Mean ratio 
95% CI 
ANCOVA analysis 
0.7453 
0.6145, 0.9038 
Results of the ANCOVA analysis showed that the mean (± SD) weekly Epoetin theta dose during the 
EEP were not equivalent, as the 95% CI of 0.6145, 0.9038 does not lie entirely within the predefined 
equivalence  range  of  0.8  to  1.25.  Although  two  interaction  analyses  demonstrated  that  there  is  no 
interaction between parent study and treatment effect or between baseline dose and treatment effect, 
exploratory analyses showed that the parent study from which patients entered the current study had a 
statistically  significant  effect  on  the  mean  weekly  Epoetin  theta  dose  during  the  EEP  (p  =  0.0005). 
Patients from parent study XM01-04 had higher mean weekly doses at baseline, as starting doses of up 
to 120 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta thrice weekly had been used during the fixed-dose phase of the study. 
In addition, there was an imbalance between the once and thrice weekly treatment groups in patients 
from parent study XM01-04. Patients randomised to the once weekly regimen had a remarkably lower 
mean  dose  at  study  start  than  patients  randomised  to  the  thrice  weekly  regimen  (data  not  shown). 
Variability of epoetin dose during the EEP was also associated with study XM01-04, because patients 
coming from study XM01-04 had received higher predetermined epoetin doses during the fixed-dose 
phase and they also had higher and less stable haemoglobin levels at study entry. Finally, variability 
was again almost exclusively attributed to patients randomised to the thrice weekly regimen (data not 
shown). 
These differences had a statistically significant influence on the study results of the whole follow-up 
study despite the fact that the number of patients from parent study XM01-06 included into the follow-
up study was twice as high as patients included from parent study XM01-04 (151 patients versus 72 
patients, respectively, ITT population).  
Results in the ITT population were in  the same  line as the ones  for the ATP  population in both co-
primary endpoints and in subsequent exploratory analyses. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Percentage  of  patients  with  dose  changes  during  the  EEP:  In  the  ATP  population,  similar 
percentages of patients in the two treatment groups required doses changes (increases and decreases). 
Findings were similar for the ITT population (data not shown). 
Rate of dose changes per patient during the EEP: The rate of dose change was the number of dose 
changes observed divided by the number of possible dose changes for each patient (including patients 
with  no  dose  changes  during  the  study).  There  was  no  relevant  difference  in  the  mean  rate  of  dose 
change during the EEP for the once weekly and thrice weekly groups in both ATP and ITT population 
(data not shown).  
Percentage of haemoglobin values within the target interval during the EEP: The target interval 
for Hb values in this study was defined as I=[9.5, 12.0] ∩ [baseline-1.0, baseline+1.0]. The individual 
mean percentage of Hb values within the target  interval during the EEP was similar in both groups. 
Values  were  higher  in  patients  from  parent  study  XM01-06  compared  to  XM01-04.  Findings  were 
similar for the ITT population (data not shown).  
Page 34 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of patients with haemoglobin values within the therapeutic range during the EEP: In 
both groups, in the ATP population the percentage of patients with Hb values within the therapeutic 
range (9.5 to 12.0 g/dL) during the EEP was similar. The percentage of patients with Hb values within 
the therapeutic range during the EEP was in most cases higher in patients from parent study XM01-06 
compared to patients from XM01-04. Findings were similar for the ITT population (data not shown). 
Within-patient variance in haemoglobin levels during the EEP: Within patient standard deviation 
and variability in Hb levels during the EEP was similar for the once weekly and thrice weekly groups. 
Findings were similar for the ITT population (data not shown).  
Measured  values  of  haemoglobin:  A  slight  decrease  in  Hb  values  was  observed  in  both  groups 
during  the  first  12  weeks  on-study.  The  mean  Hb  at  study  entry  was  higher  in  patients  from  study 
XM01-04 compared to patients from study XM01-06 (12.2 vs 11.0 g/dL, respectively). Patients who 
entered this study from the parent study XM01-04 had higher Hb values at study entry due to the high 
starting  doses  of  up  to  120  IU/kgBW  Epoetin  theta  thrice  weekly.  Furthermore,  patients  from  study 
XM01-04  had  achieved  a  haemoglobin  response  just  prior  to  entering  this  study  (inclusion 
requirement), which was defined as haemoglobin values > 11.0 g/dL on 2 consecutive measurements. 
It  was  thus  expected  that  the  Hb  values  in  patients  from  study  XM01-04  would  decrease  in  study 
XM01-08 in order to reach the target Hb range of ≤ 12 g/dL. The time course for the ITT population 
was comparable to that for the ATP population. 
Blood transfusions:  Two (2.0%) Epoetin theta once weekly patients and two (2.2%) patients in the 
thrice  weekly  group  required  blood  transfusions  during  the  study  (ATP  population).  Both  of  the 
Epoetin theta once weekly patients and no thrice weekly patient required blood transfusions during the 
EEP. All 4 patients who received blood transfusions had entered this study from parent study XM01-
06. In the analysis of the ITT population, a total of 3 (2.7%) once weekly patients and 3 (2.7%) thrice 
weekly patients required blood transfusions during the study. Two Epoetin theta once weekly patients 
and no thrice weekly patient required blood transfusions during the EEP. 
Study  CSR  XM01-09:  Long-term  safety  Epoetin  theta  in  chronic  renal  failure-associated 
anaemia patients receiving haemodialysis (intravenous route) 
METHODS 
This  was  a  multinational,  multicentre,  open  study  in  patients  with  chronic  renal  failure  who  had 
completed  the  “Correction  phase  study  -  intravenous”  (XM01-05)  according  to  protocol.    It  was 
conducted in 22 centres in 4 countries. 
Study Participants  
All  eligible  patients  who  completed  study  XM01-05  as  per  protocol  and  who  had  signed  and  dated 
written informed consent for this safety follow-up study could be included. 
Treatments 
Epoetin theta was initially administered intravenously three times a week. All patients enrolled were to 
receive  Epoetin  theta  intravenously  at  the  dose  of  their  epoetin  treatment  (Epoetin  theta  or  Epoetin 
beta)  they  were  receiving  at  the  end  of  study  XM01-05.  Dose  adaptations  were  to  be  made  if 
haemoglobin levels left the therapeutic range [9.5, 12.0 g/dL]. The dose could be adjusted based on 
haemoglobin  levels.  The  investigator  had  the  option  to  reduce  the  frequency  of  administration  from 
three times a week to two times per week if four consecutive, weekly-measured haemoglobin values 
showed  a  stable  haemoglobin  level  (difference  ≤  2  g/dL  between  minimal  and  maximal  value).The 
study  participation  time  for  patients  was  36  weeks.  Thereafter  the  patient  was  observed  for  adverse 
events for 30 days after the last administration of study medication (Epoetin theta). 
Objectives 
To demonstrate long-term safety of intravenously administered Epoetin theta based on adverse events 
and  immunogenicity.  Secondary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  long-term  efficacy  of  intravenously 
administered Epoetin theta.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint  
Page 35 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  adverse  events  (AEs)  were  based  on  frequency  and  quality  as  well  as  frequency  of  study 
discontinuation due to AEs. Immunogenicity of Epoetin theta was evaluated by analysis of antibodies 
to Epoetin theta every 12 weeks during the whole study. 
Secondary endpoints : 
─ time adjusted-area under the curve (AUC) for haemoglobin during the treatment period 
─ percentage of haemoglobin values per patient within the therapeutic range [9.5, 12.0 g/dL] 
─ percentage of patients with haemoglobin values within the therapeutic range 
─ within-patient variance in haemoglobin levels 
─ mean weekly Epoetin theta dose in IU/kgBW of patients within therapeutic range 
─ percentage of patients with dose changes (increase/decrease) 
─ number of dose changes per patient, 
─ number of patients with blood transfusions. 
Sample size 
As  no  formal  statistical  hypothesis  testing  had  to  be  done  in  this  study,  no  exact  sample  size 
calculation was given. In the protocol it was planned that about 125 patients could enter this study, but 
as 138 patients completed the study “Correction phase study – intravenous” (XM01- 05) according to 
protocol, all of these patients had the possibility to enter this study 
Randomisation 
Not applicable. 
Blinding (masking) 
This study was an open study. To make sure that the prior study XM01-05 was kept blinded, the drug 
administrator  in  study  XM01-05  informed  the  investigator  only  about  the  initial  Epoetin  theta  dose 
that has to be administered at visit 1 (which was also the final visit of study XM01-05). 
Statistical methods 
The intent-to-treat (ITT) population was the primary population for efficacy analyses and consisted of 
all included patients. The safety population was the population for the safety analyses and consisted of 
all patients of the ITT population who received at least 1 dose of study treatment. These 2 populations 
were  identical  because  all  included  patients  were  treated  at  least  once  with  study  medication.  The 
according  to  protocol  population  (ATP)  consisted  of  all  patients  of  the  ITT  population  who  were 
treated  with  study  medication  and  who  did  not  have  any  major  protocol  violations.  The  ATP 
population  was  the  secondary  population  for  efficacy  analyses.  Demographic  and  baseline 
characteristics,  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  AEs  and  other  safety  endpoints  were  presented  as 
descriptive statistics (continuous variables) or frequency tables (categorical variables). 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Of  138  patients  having  completed  study  XM01-05,  124  patients  were  enrolled  and  treated  in  this 
study. 109 (87.9%) patients completed the study as planned; 15 patients prematurely discontinued the 
study. The primary reason for discontinuation was adverse event in 5 patients, renal transplantation in 
4 patients, patient’s request in 2 patients, loss to follow-up in 1 patient, other reasons in 3 patients. All 
patients who discontinued the study were followed up for AEs during a period of 30 days after their 
last visit, except for a single patient who was lost to follow-up. 
Recruitment 
First patient enrolled: 08 February 2006; last patient completed the study: 11 April 2007 
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol (issued on 12 July 2005) was modified by 1 global amendment that did not have 
a substantial impact on the study conduct. Some minor changes to the statistical analysis were made 
and some clarifications concerning the efficacy evaluation were made.  
Page 36 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
A  total  of  124  patients  were  enrolled  and  treated  in  this  study,  99  patients  previously  treated  with 
Epoetin theta and 25 previously treated with Epoetin beta. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy secondary endpoints 
Time-adjusted  area  under  the  curve  of  haemoglobin:  The  mean  (±  SD)  time-adjusted  AUC  of 
haemoglobin  remained  generally  stable  and  within  the  therapeutic  range  [9.5,  12.0  g/dL]  during  the 
treatment period (data not shown).  
Percentage of haemoglobin values per patient within the therapeutic range: The mean percentage 
of  haemoglobin  values  per  patient  within  the  therapeutic  range  generally  increased  during  the 
treatment  period,  thus  reflecting  patients  with  very  high  haemoglobin  levels  caused  by  the  high 
starting doses of up to 120 IU/kgBW Epoetin theta tiw administered during the previous study XM01-
05. Similar results were observed in the by country analysis (data not shown). 
Mean weekly Epoetin theta dose per kg of body weight: The mean dose of Epoetin decreased after 
the initial phase of the treatment period and remained stable during the rest of the treatment period. 
Variability  was  high.  The  majority  of  patients  received  Epoetin  theta  three  times  weekly  and  the 
number of patients treated with less than thrice weekly administrations is very small for comparison of 
treatment regimens (data not shown). 
The time course and the change from baseline of haemoglobin values: Mean haemoglobin values 
were high during the initial phase of the treatment period and then they decreased to a lower level and 
remained stable thereafter (data not shown). 
Percentage of patients with dose changes: More patients had a tendency towards dose decrease than 
dose  increase  during  the  initial  phase  of  the  treatment  period.  The  proportion  of  patients  having  a 
tendency  towards  dose  decrease  was  similar  to  the  proportion  with  a  tendency  to  dose  increase  in 
subsequent treatment phases (data not shown). 
Number of dose changes per patient (increases, decreases): The mean rate of dose changes, i.e. the 
number of dose changes  observed divided by the number of possible dose changes for each patient, 
over the course of the study was low. The mean rate of dose changes was higher in the initial period 
compared to subsequent periods (data not shown). 
Patients receiving blood transfusions: Blood transfusions were administered on a case-by-case basis 
at  the  discretion  of  the  investigator.  In  total,  4  (3.2%)  patients  received  blood  transfusions  over  the 
course of the study. Single transfusions were received by 3 patients (in week 9, 17 and 26), whereas 
one patient received 2 transfusions in weeks 2 and 3. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No efficacy cross-trial analyses for renal anaemia were submitted. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical studies for renal anaemia in special populations were submitted. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
No supportive clinical studies for renal anaemia were submitted. 
Anemia in cancer patients 
Three  studies  (all  phase  III)  have  been  submitted  in  support  for  the  use  of  Epoetin  theta  in  the 
treatment  of  anaemia  in  cancer  patients  receiving  chemotherapy.  Study  XM01-21  was  designed  to 
assess the efficacy and safety of Epoetin theta compared to placebo and Epoetin beta in patients with 
solid tumours receiving platinum-containing therapy whereas study XM01-22 included only patients 
with  solid  tumours  or  non-myeloid  haematological  tumours  receiving  non-platinum  chemotherapy. 
Finally,  study  XM01-23  included  patients  with  multiple  myeloma,  low-grade  non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  and  with  endogenous  erythropoietin  deficiency. 
However, this indication has since been removed from the list of possible oncological indications for 
Page 37 of 62 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
epoetins.  This  study  therefore  became  supportive  for  the  efficacy  and  safety  assessment  of  Epoetin 
theta in anaemic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. As this had become a supportive study and 
because recruitment was slow, recruitment stopped in December 2007. Table 13 gives an overview of 
the cancer anaemia studies: 
Table 13: Phase II and III studies in cancer anaemia patients 
Study & 
patient 
number 
Study design and 
type of control 
Type of study 
XM01-21 
N=223 
Patients with solid tumours 
receiving platinum-containing 
chemotherapy and having a 
haemoglobin level ≤ 11 g/dL 
Phase III , multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
placebo- and active-
controlled, double-blind, 
parallel-group study 
Test products; 
Dosage regimen; 
Route of administration 
Epoetin theta:Starting dose s.c. 20,000 
IU once weekly and two weekly placebo 
injections 
Adjustment up to 40,000 and to a 
maximum of 60,000 IU once weekly and 
two weekly placebo injections 
Placebo: s.c. thrice weekly 
Epoetin beta: Starting dose s.c.150 
IU/kgBW thrice weekly. Adjustment up to 
300 IU/ kgBW thrice weekly 
Epoetin theta or placebo: Starting dose 
s.c. 20,000 IU once weekly  
Adjustment up to 40,000 and to a 
maximum of 60,000 IU once weekly 
Phase III multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-blind, parallel-
group study 
Phase III multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-blind, parallel-
group study 
Epoetin theta or placebo: Starting dose 
s.c. 20,000 IU once weekly  
Adjustment up to 40,000 and to a 
maximum of 60,000 IU once weekly 
XM01-22 
N=186 
XM01-23 
N=177 
Patients with solid tumours or 
non-myeloid haematological 
malignancies receiving 
nonplatinum chemotherapy 
and having a haemoglobin 
level of ≤ 11 g/dL. 
Patients with low grade non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia or 
multiple myeloma with 
endogenous erythropoietin 
deficiency receiving 
anticancer therapy and 
having a haemoglobin level of 
≤ 10 g/dL (amended to 
≤ 11g/dL). 
•  Dose response study(ies) 
No formal dose-response studies were performed. However, dose escalation occurred in all studies 
submitted in support of the cancer anemia indication (see Treatments under main studies below). 
•  Main study(ies)  
Study  XM01-21:  Efficacy  and  safety of  Epoetin  theta  in  patients  with  solid  tumours,  receiving 
platinum-containing chemotherapy and having a haemoglobin level of ≤ 11 g/dL 
Study  XM01-22:  Efficacy  and  safety  of  Epoetin  theta  in  patients  with  solid  tumours  or  non-
myeloid  haematological  tumours,  receiving  nonplatinum  chemotherapy  and  having  a 
haemoglobin level of ≤ 11 g/dL 
Study XM01-23: Efficacy and safety of Epoetin theta in patients with low grade Non-Hodgkin´s 
lymphoma,  chronic 
leukaemia  or  multiple  myeloma,  with  endogenous 
erythropoietin deficiency, receiving anticancer-therapy and having a haemoglobin level of ≤ 10 
g/dL (amended to ≤ 11 g/dL) 
lymphocytic 
METHODS 
All  three  studies  were  multinational,  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind, 
parallel-group, Phase III studies. XM01-21 had in addition an active control. XM01-21 was conducted 
in 54 centres in 10 countries, XM01-22 was conducted in 72 centres in 10 countries and XM01-23 was 
conducted in 12 countries. 
Study Participants  
Page 38 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  were  to  have  anaemia  with  a  haemoglobin  level  of  ≤  11  g/dL  at  baseline.  In  XM01-21, 
patients were to have solid tumours and to be receiving platinum-containing chemotherapy. At least 3 
(amended  to  2)  additional  platinum-based  chemotherapy  cycles  or  2  months  of  platinum  based 
chemotherapy were to be scheduled at the time of inclusion. In XM01-22, patients were to have solid 
tumours  or  non-myeloid  haematological  malignancies  and  to  be  receiving  non-platinum-containing 
chemotherapy.  At  least  3  (amended  to  2)  additional  non-platinum-based  chemotherapy  cycles,  or  2 
months of non-platinum based chemotherapy were to be scheduled at the time of inclusion. In XM01-
23, patients were to have low grade non-Hodgkin´s lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL) or multiple myeloma (MM) and to be receiving anticancer therapy. 
Main exclusion criteria were as follows: any erythropoietin given during the last 4 weeks or ongoing 
treatment  with  other  erythropoietins,  known  presence  of  antibodies  to  epoetin,  more  than  two  red 
blood cell transfusions within 4 weeks before inclusion or any red blood cell transfusions within the 
last 2 weeks, life expectancy less than 6 months (this was amended to 3 months), chemotherapy during 
the  last  7  days  before  study  start,  radiotherapy  affecting  bone  marrow  or  surgery  during  the  last  14 
days  before  inclusion  or  planned  during  the  conduct  of  the  study.  Additional  exclusion  criteria  for 
XM01-21 included any other primary haematologic disorder that would cause anaemia (e.g. sickle cell 
anaemia) and malignancy of head and neck. For XM01-22, additional exclusion criteria included acute 
leukaemia  (acute  lymphocytic  leukaemia  or  acute  myeloid  leukaemia),  myeloid  malignancies  and 
malignancies  of  the  head  and  neck.  For  XM01-23,  additional  exclusion  criteria  were  anaemia  of 
unknown origin, acute or chronic bleeding and any other malignancy (except for NHL, CLL or MM). 
Treatments 
Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  Epoetin  theta  or  placebo.  In  study  XM01-21  an  additional 
treatment group received Epoetin beta as an active comparator. The starting dose was 20,000 IU/week 
delivered as a subcutaneous injection. This dose was increased to 40,000 IU/week in patients who did 
not partially respond after 4 weeks of treatment, and again to 60,000 IU/week if the haemoglobin level 
did  not  reach  the  designated  increase  after  the  second  4-week  period  of  treatment.  Dose  reductions 
could  be  made  according  to  protocol-defined  algorithms.  Patients  randomised  to  placebo  were  to 
receive injections of placebo according to the same schedule as patients randomised to Epoetin theta. 
Dose  adjustments  were  to  be  implemented  as  for  Epoetin  theta.  The  duration  of  treatment  was  12 
weeks in studies XM01-21 and XM01-22 and it was 16 weeks in study XM01-23. 
Patients randomised to Epoetin beta in XM01-21 received Epoetin beta subcutaneously according to 
the label, with a starting dose of 450 IU/kgBW per week to be injected in 3 equal aliquots. The weekly 
dose  of  Epoetin  beta  was  not  to  exceed  900  IU/kgBW.  Dose  increases  could  only  be  made  after  4 
weeks of treatment. Dose reductions followed the protocol-defined algorithm. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  superiority  of  Epoetin  theta  versus  placebo  in  terms  of 
efficacy. The secondary objectives were to compare efficacy, safety and tolerability of Epoetin theta 
versus placebo (and Epoetin beta only in XM01-21). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint is the number of patients with a complete haemoglobin response which 
was defined as an increase in the haemoglobin level of ≥ 2 g/dL from baseline without the benefit of a 
transfusion  within  the  previous  4  weeks  before  laboratory  sampling.  Haemoglobin  was  measured 
weekly  throughout  the  study  at  a  central  laboratory.  The  baseline  haemoglobin  level  was  defined  as 
the mean of the values resulting from measurements at visits 1 and 2. 
Secondary endpoints 
─ Number of patients having a partial haemoglobin response defined as an increase in haemoglobin 
levels of ≥ 1 g/dL from baseline without the benefit of a transfusion in the 4 weeks before laboratory 
sampling. 
─  Number  of  patients  having  a  complete  haemoglobin  response  with  the  initial  dose,  defined  as  an 
increase in haemoglobin levels of ≥ 2 g/dL from baseline without the benefit of a transfusion within 
the  previous  4  weeks,  and  without  requiring  any  dose  adjustment  (i.e.  the  dose  remained  at  20,000 
IU/week in the case of Epoetin theta [or 450 IU /kgBW in the case of Epoetin beta]). 
Page 39 of 62 
 
 
 
 
─  Number  of  patients  having  a  partial  haemoglobin  response  with  the  initial  dose,  defined  as  an 
increase in haemoglobin levels of ≥ 1 g/dL from baseline without the benefit of a transfusion within 
the  previous  4  weeks  and  without  requiring  any  dose  adjustment  (i.e.  the  dose  remained  at  20,000 
IU/week for Epoetin theta [or 450 IU /kgBW in the case of Epoetin beta]).  
─ Number of patients receiving one or more transfusions and number of blood units transfused. 
─ Time course of haemoglobin, haematocrit and reticulocytes. Change from baseline of haemoglobin, 
haematocrit and reticulocytes was analysed each week during the treatment period.  
─ Quality of life. Validated translations of the FACT-An questionnaire were used. The questionnaire 
was to be completed by the patient at visit 2 (baseline), at visit 8 (after 6 weeks, or visit 10 at 8 weeks 
specifically in the longer treatment duration study XM01-23) and at the end of study. 
─  Dose  of  Epoetin  theta  (and  Epoetin  beta,  XM01-21)  at  time  of  partial  or  complete  haemoglobin 
response. 
Sample size 
XM01-21: It was calculated that 58 patients per treatment group would give the study 90% power to 
detect a statistically significant difference assuming a response rate of 0.5 in the Epoetin theta group 
and 0.2 in the placebo group. It was planned to recruit 72 patients per group for a total of 216 patients 
because dropouts and protocol violations related to cancer therapy were anticipated to result in a slight 
decrease in the difference between treatment effects. Furthermore, 216 patients would provide a better 
base to evaluate the safety of the study treatments. 
XM01-22: It was calculated that 80 patients per treatment group would give the study 90% power to 
detect a statistically significant difference assuming a response rate of 0.45 in the Epoetin theta group 
and 0.2 in the placebo group. It was planned to recruit 88 patients per group for a total of 176 patients 
because dropouts and protocol violations related to cancer therapy were anticipated to result in a slight 
decrease in the difference between treatment effects. 
XM01-23: It was concluded, that when the sample size in the treatment groups are 97 (116), a χ2-test 
with  a  two-sided  significance  level  α=0.05  will  have  a  power  of  0.9  (0.95)  to  detect  the  difference 
between the proportions p(Epoetin theta)=0.6 and p(Placebo)=0.36. 
Although 97 patients per treatment group (i.e. 194 patients in total) were considered enough to achieve 
a power of 0.9 for the confirmatory test of the main endpoint, it was recommended to include a total of 
232 patients (i.e. 116 per treatment group) because possible dropouts and protocol violations related to 
the cancer therapy might result in a slight decrease of the treatment effect difference. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to Epoetin theta or placebo (or a 1:1:1 ratio to Epoetin theta, 
Epoetin beta, or placebo specifically in study XM01-21). The randomisation was stratified by country 
except in study XM01-23 for which recruitment was slow and the study was stopped prematurely.  
Blinding (masking) 
All  persons  involved  in  the  conduct  of  the  study  were  blinded  to  the  study  medication.  The 
investigator  performed  all  assessments  of  the  patient  (e.g.  evaluation  of  clinical  observations,  AEs) 
without knowledge of treatment. The syringes used for Epoetin theta and placebo were identical and 
the solutions of Epoetin theta and placebo were colourless and contained in identical vials; therefore 
they were indistinguishable from each other.  
In  study  XM01-21,  a  true  double-blinding  was  only  technically  feasible  between  Epoetin  theta  and 
placebo. Epoetin beta was provided as a solution in pre-filled syringes. The dosing scheme was also 
different between Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta. 
Statistical methods 
The intent-to-treat (ITT) population (full analysis set) was the primary population for efficacy analyses 
and  consisted  of  all  randomised  patients.  The  safety  population  was  the  primary  population  for  the 
safety  analyses  and  consisted  of  all  patients  of  the  full  analysis  set  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of 
study  treatment.  These  2  populations  were  identical  because  all  randomised  patients  were  treated  at 
least  once  with  study  medication.  The  per  protocol  set  (according  to  protocol  population  [ATP]) 
consisted of all patients of the full analysis set who were treated with study medication and who did 
not have any major protocol violations. The ATP was the secondary population for efficacy analyses.  
Page 40 of 62 
 
 
 
 
For the primary efficacy endpoint a logistic regression was used to test the difference in the proportion 
of  responders  between  Epoetin  theta  and  placebo.  The  logistic  regression  model  included  the 
qualitative explanatory variable ‘treatment’ (and ‘type of cancer’ in studies XM01-22 and XM01-23), 
and  the  continuous  variable  ‘haemoglobin  at  baseline’.  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  Treatment 
groups  were  compared  using  descriptive  statistics.  No  adjustments  of  the  significance  level  for 
multiple testing were made. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In  XM01-21,  350  patients  were  screened,  of  which  223  were  randomised.  76  patients  were  treated 
with  Epoetin  theta,  73  with  Epoetin  beta  and  74  with  placebo.  181  (81.2%)  patients  completed  the 
study  according  to  protocol.  Of  the  42  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  study  medication,  9 
were in the Epoetin beta group, 12 in the Epoetin theta group and 21 in the placebo group. The most 
common  reason  for  discontinuation  was  patient’s  request  (21  patients)  followed  by  other  reasons  (8 
patients) and AEs (7 patients). 
In XM01-22, 306 patients were screened, of which 186 were randomised. 95 patients received Epoetin 
theta  and  91  patients  received  placebo.  161  (86.6%)  patients  completed  the  study  according  to 
protocol. Of the 25 patients who prematurely discontinued study medication, 15 were in the placebo 
group and 10 were in the Epoetin theta group. The most common reason for discontinuation was the 
occurrence  of  an  AE  (10  patients),  followed  by  patient’s  request  (9  patients)  and  lack  of  efficacy, 
patient lost to follow-up, and other reasons (2 patients each). All patients who discontinued the study 
were followed up for AEs during a period of 30 days after their last visit. 
In XM01-23, 274 patients were screened and 177 patients were randomised. 90 patients were treated 
with  Epoetin  theta  and  87  with  placebo.  146  (82.5%)  patients  completed  the  study  according  to 
protocol. Of the 31 patients who prematurely discontinued study medication, 18 were in the placebo 
group  and  13  were  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group.  The  most  common  reasons  for  discontinuation  were 
patient’s  request  (12  patients,  7  in  the  placebo  group  and  5  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group)  and  the 
occurrence of an AE (8 patients, 4 in each group). 
Recruitment 
XM01-21: first patient enrolled: 10 October 2005; last patient completed the study: 23 July 2007 
XM01-22: first patient enrolled: 17 November 2005; last patient completed the study: 11 May 2007 
XM01-23: first patient enrolled: 17 November 2005; last patient completed the study: 21 April 2008 
Conduct of the study 
The  original  protocol  (issued  on  1  April  2005)  was  amended  by  4  global  amendments  and  1  local 
amendment. These amendments did not adversely affect the conduct of the study. Of most importance, 
amendment 2 concerned the upper Hb target limit and amendment 4 concerned the inclusion criteria. 
The original protocol specified that dose adjustment and withholding of treatment was to occur if total 
haemoglobin exceeded 14 g/dL. Based on EMEA CHMP recommendations, amendment 2 reduced the 
threshold  for  dose  adjustment  or  withholding  of  treatment  to  13  g/dL.  Furthermore,  the  original 
protocol specified treatment interruption for exceeding 14 g/dL, whereas the amendment indicated a 
50% reduction of the last dose for exceeding the new threshold of 13 g/dL, followed by interruption of 
treatment  if  required.  Under  amendment  4,  patients  with  ECOG  performance  status  3  were  also 
permitted to be included. Patients with a life expectancy less than 3 months (formerly 6 months) were 
not permitted to be included. In studies XM01-21 and XM01-22, inclusion and exclusion criteria were 
also  amended  to  permit  the  participation  of  patients  with  at  least  two  (formerly  three)  additional 
(non)platinum-based  chemotherapy  cycles  or  two  months  of  (non)platinum-based  chemotherapy 
planned.  In  study  XM01-23,  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  amended  to  change  the  upper 
limit of the baseline Hb value from 10 to 11 g/dL. 
Baseline data 
There  were  no  important  imbalances  in  demographic  characteristics,  nature  of  primary  malignancy 
and previous anticancer therapy between the treatment groups in the three studies.  
In  study  XM01-21,  ovarian  epithelial  cancer  was  the  primary  malignant  disease  in  55  (24.7%) 
patients.  The  next  most  common  malignant  diseases  were  gastric  cancer  in  18  (8.1%)  patients,  lung 
Page 41 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
squamous  cell  carcinoma  stage  unspecified  in  16  (7.2%)  patients  and  breast  cancer  and  ovarian 
epithelial cancer metastatic in 15 (6.7%) patients each.  
In study XM01-22, haematological malignancies were the primary malignant disease in 102 (54.8%) 
patients.  The  most  common  haematological  malignancies  were  multiple  myeloma  (39  patients)  and 
Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  (31  patients).  Solid  tumours  were  the  primary  malignant  disease  in  84 
(45.2%) patients. The most common solid tumour types were breast cancer (33 patients) and gastric 
cancer (9 patients). 
In  study  XM01-23,  the  primary  malignant  disease  was  multiple  myeloma  in  139  (78.5%)  patients, 
low-grade NHL in 19 (10.7%) patients, and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in 19 (10.7%) patients. 
Numbers analysed 
In study XM01-21, the ITT population comprised 223 patients (76 for Epoetin theta, 73 for Epoetin 
beta and 74 for placebo), the ATP population 196 patients and the safety population (SP) 223 patients.  
In  study  XM01-22,  the  ITT  population  comprised  186  patients  (95  for  Epoetin  theta  and  91  for 
placebo), the ATP population 171 patients (88 for Epoetin theta and 83 for placebo) and the SP 186 
patients.  
In  study  XM01-23,  the  ITT  population  comprised  177  patients  (90  for  Epoetin  theta  and  87  for 
placebo), the ATP population 157 patients (81 for Epoetin theta and 76 for placebo) and the SP 177 
patients.  
In  all  studies,  ITT  and  SP  were  identical  as  all  patients  in  the  ITT  received  at  least  one  dose  of  the 
study medication. Patients with major protocol violations were in each study excluded from the ITT to 
yield the ATP. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
In all studies, a higher proportion of patients in the Epoetin theta group than in the placebo group had a 
complete  haemoglobin  response  without  blood  transfusion  and  differences  between  the  treatment 
groups  were  statistically  significant  (p  <  0.0001).  Baseline  haemoglobin  levels  had  no  statistically 
significant effects on response rate and neither had the tumour type in studies XM01-22 and XM01-
23.  
Table 14: Study XM01-21-Complete Hb response without blood transfusion within the previous 4 
weeks (ITT) 
Characteristic  
Non-responders 
Responders  
Placebo 
(N=74) 
59 (79.7%) 
15 (20.3%) 
Epoetin theta 
(N=76) 
26 (34.2%) 
50 (65.8%) 
Logistic regression 
Treatment (Epoetin theta vs placebo)  
p value 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
Baseline Hb (1 unit of change)  
p value 
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
< 0.0001 
8.063 (3.886, 17.626) 
0.1408 
0.802 (0.596, 1.074) 
In  study  XM01-21,  the  proportion  of  patients  in  the  Epoetin  beta  group  who  achieved  a  complete 
haemoglobin response without blood transfusion was 71.2%. 
Table 15: Study XM01-22-Complete Hb response without blood transfusion within the previous 4 
weeks (ITT) 
Characteristic  
Non-responders  
Responders  
Placebo  
(N=91)  
68 (74.7%)  
23 (25.3%)  
Epoetin theta 
(N=95) 
26 (27.4%) 
69 (72.6%) 
Logistic regression 
Page 42 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment (Epoetin theta vs placebo)  
p value  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
Type of cancer (haemato. vs solid)  
p value  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
Baseline Hb (1 unit of change)  
p value  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
< 0.0001  
7.944 (4.182, 15.632)  
0.7058  
0.877 (0.443, 1.734)  
0.3619  
0.888 (0.684, 1.146)  
Table 16: Study XM01-23-Complete Hb response without blood transfusion within the previous 4 
weeks (ITT) 
Characteristic  
Non-responders  
Responders  
Placebo  
(N=87)  
64 (73.6%)  
23 (26.4%)  
Epoetin theta 
(N=90) 
32 (35.6%) 
58 (64.4%) 
Logistic regression 
Treatment (Epoetin theta vs placebo)  
p value  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
Type of cancer (Low grade NHL vs 
CLL vs MM)  
p value  
Baseline Hb (1 unit of change)  
p value  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
< 0.0001  
5.277 (2.736. 10.532)  
0.5045  
0.0757 
1.291 (0.979, 1.725)  
In studies XM01-22 and XM01-23, stratified analyses according to malignancy type showed that the 
overall  difference  between  Epoetin  theta  vs  placebo  and  placebo  was  statistically  significant.  Only 
within two strata with low patient numbers (CLL and NHL) the difference did not reach significance 
but  the  results  across  strata  are  consistent  as  in  all  strata  Epoetin  theta  vs  placebo  is  superior  to 
placebo.  
Table 17: Studies XM01-22 and XM01-23-Complete Hb response without blood transfusion within 
the previous 4 weeks, by type of cancer (ITT) 
Stratum (Tumour)  
P lacebo 
Responder rate 
 N total  
N total  
Epoetin theta 
Responder rate 
Odds ratio: Epoetin 
theta vs Placebo 
Chi2 p-value  
XM01-22 - CLL  
XM01-23 - CLL  
XM01-22 - NHL  
XM01-23 - NHL  
XM01-22 - MM  
XM01-23 - MM  
7  
8  
16  
14  
18  
65  
0.4286  
0.3750  
0.5000  
0.4286  
0.1111  
0.2154  
6  
11  
15  
5  
21  
74  
1.0000  
0.4545  
0.6000  
0.6000  
0.6667  
0.6757  
0.0261  
0.7288  
0.5761  
0.5099  
0.0004  
<.0001  
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Number  of  patients  having  a  partial  haemoglobin  response/  a  complete  haemoglobin  response 
with the initial dose/ a partial haemoglobin response with the initial dose: A higher proportion of 
Page 43 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients in the Epoetin theta groups than in the placebo groups achieved partial haemoglobin responses 
with or without dose adjustments and without blood transfusion or complete haemoglobin responses 
without dose adjustments and without blood transfusion. Differences between treatment groups were 
statistically significant. Baseline haemoglobin levels had no statistically significant effects on response 
rate.  In  study  XM01-21,  similar  results  were  found  for  Epoetin  beta  compared  to  placebo,  while  no 
differences we detected between Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta. In studies XM01-22 and XM01-23, 
type of cancer had no statistically significant effect on response rate (data not shown).  
Number of patients receiving blood transfusions and number of blood units transfused: A higher 
proportion  of  patients  in  the  placebo  groups  than  in  the  Epoetin  theta  groups  received  blood 
transfusions  after  randomisation.  The  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  was  statistically 
significant (except in study XM01-23 in which significance was not reached). Baseline haemoglobin 
levels  had  a  statistically  significant  effect  on  the  rate  of  blood  transfusion.  In  study  XM01-21,  the 
proportion  of  patients  receiving  blood  transfusions  in  the  Epoetin  beta  group  was  lower  than  in  the 
placebo group; however this difference was not statistically significant. Neither was the difference in 
the  proportion  of  patients  receiving  blood  transfusions  between  the  Epoetin  beta  and  Epoetin  theta 
groups. In studies XM01-22 and XM01-23, the type of cancer had no statistically significant effect on 
the rate of blood transfusion (data not shown).  
Time course of haemoglobin, haematocrit and reticulocytes 
Haemoglobin: Baseline haemoglobin values were similar between treatment groups. Over the course 
of  the  studies  mean  haemoglobin  levels  rose  steadily  in  the  Epoetin  theta  groups.  In  the  placebo 
groups, there were no consistent changes in haemoglobin levels. Treatment with Epoetin theta resulted 
in statistically significant increases in mean haemoglobin levels compared to placebo. Similar results 
were  observed  for  Epoetin  beta  in  study  XM01-21.  The  difference  between  treatment  with  Epoetin 
beta and Epoetin theta in the same study was not statistically significant (data not shown). 
Haematocrit:  Overall,  the  changes  of  haematocrit  values  were  very  similar  to  the  changes  of 
haemoglobin values over time (data not shown). 
Rticulocytes:  Absolute  reticulocyte  values  showed  a  high  degree  of  variability  in  all  3  treatment 
groups and at all timepoints and were thus difficult to interpret (data not shown). 
Quality  of  life:  In  study  XM01-21,  all  FACT  scores  and  subscores  but  one  showed  higher  mean 
changes from baseline in the Epoetin theta group and Epoetin beta group compared to placebo, but the 
differences were not statistically significant. Similar mean results were observed for all FACT scores 
and  subscores  between  Epoetin  theta  and  placebo  in  study  XM01-22.  A  subsequent  analysis 
comparing FACT scores before and after treatment in studies XM01-21 and XM01-22 showed that the 
Fact-F (fatigue) score had changed significantly in the course of the treatment in the Epoetin theta and 
Epoetin  beta  group,  but  not  in  the  placebo  group.  In  study  XM01-23,  FACT  scores  and  subscores 
showed lower mean changes from baseline in the Epoetin theta group compared to placebo and some 
of the differences were statistically significant; however, baseline values for all scores and subscores 
were  markedly  higher  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  in  this  study  (data  not 
shown). 
Dose of Epoetin theta or Epoetin beta at the time of partial or complete haemoglobin response:  
Table 18: Mean±SD of Epoetin theta (and Epoetin beta) dose at the time of response 
Study 
XM01-21 
XM01-22 
XM01-23 
Type of response 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Epoetin theta (IU) 
30,000.0±12,936.3 
27,826.1±12,469.9 
27,681.2±14,260.7 
24,871.8±10,659.3 
30,517.2±15,151.0 
25,144.9±11,179.4 
Epoetin beta (IU) 
42,230.8±23,455.9 
39,827.3±21,831.5 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
For  study  XM01-21,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  mean  dose  at  baseline  was  higher  for  Epoetin  beta 
(31050 IU) compared to Epoetin theta (20000 IU). 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A cross-study meta-analysis of Quality of Life and blood transfusion data was submitted for all three 
cancer  anaemia  studies  (XM01-21,  XM01-22  and  XM01-23).  For  the  Quality  of  Life  endpoint,  in 
Page 44 of 62 
 
 
 
addition to comparisons between treatment groups, changes from baseline within each treatment group 
were examined. The results of this meta-analysis were in line with those of the individual studies (see 
above, data not shown).  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical studies in special populations were submitted for cancer anaemia. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Study XM01-23 was stopped prematurely due to slow recruitment and because the specific indication 
targeted  with  this  study  was  removed  from  the  list  of  possible  oncological  indications  for  epoetins. 
Study XM01-23 is therefore considered supportive although described together with the main cancer 
anaemia studies due to similar design and results. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy  results  from  eight  double  blind  (except  one  study),  randomised,  multicentre  phase  II  (2)  or 
phase III (6) studies and from a single arm, multicentre phase III study were provided.  
Renal anaemia 
Study XM01-05 was a correction phase study designed to demonstrate the efficacy of Epoetin theta 
with respect to the dose-dependent average increase of haemoglobin  per week within the fixed-dose 
phase in CRF patients. Study XM01-07 was a maintenance phase study designed to demonstrate the 
non-inferiority of Epoetin theta compared with Epoetin beta in terms of efficacy. All patients received 
their treatments via the intravenous route. The correction phase study XM01-04 and the maintenance 
phase  XM01-06  study  enrolled  CRF  patients  not  yet  under  dialysis  and  had  similar  design  and 
objectives as studies XM01-05 and XM01-07, respectively. All patients received their treatments via 
the  subcutaneous  route.  The  primary  objective  of  follow-up  study  XM01-08  was  to  demonstrate 
therapeutic  equivalence  between  once-weekly  s.c.  administration  of  Epoetin  theta  and  three  times-
weekly s.c. administration of Epoetin theta. Finally, follow-up study XM01-09 was primarily a safety 
study and only included secondary efficacy endpoints. 
Separate  studies  were  submitted  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  epoetin  theta  using  the 
subcutaneous and the intravenous routes of administration. The correction phase, maintenance-phase 
and safety follow-up components of the clinical trial were considered separately for the subcutaneous 
and intravenous routes of administration. 
The  primary  objective  of  correction  phase  studies  was  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  Epoetin  theta 
with respect to the dose-dependent average increase of haemoglobin  per week within the fixed-dose 
phase. The aim in both treatment phases was to increase haemoglobin levels to between 11.0 and 12 
g/dL. Results showed that the mean weekly increase of haemoglobin in the highest Epoetin theta dose 
group was significantly higher than in the lowest Epoetin theta dose group. The primary objective of 
both studies was therefore met. 
In both maintenance phase studies, the primary efficacy endpoint was the same, namely: “change of 
haemoglobin from baseline to the end of treatment. Although the chosen delta of 1.0 g/dL was very 
permissive,  results  indicated  that  mean  Hb  values  were  similar  in  both  treatment  groups  at  baseline 
and  during  the  evaluation  period  and  the  ANCOVA  comparison  of  change  in  Hb  from  baseline  to 
treatment  end  showed  much  tighter  control  of  Hb  values  than  the  chosen  delta  permitted.  The 
difference  between  groups  was  <  1.0  g/dL  and  was  not  statistically  significant.  Consequently,  the 
primary aim of both studies was met and Epoetin theta was considered as non-inferior to Epoetin beta. 
The  primary  objective  of  follow-up  study  XM01-08  was  to  demonstrate  therapeutic  equivalence 
between  once-weekly  administration  of  Epoetin  theta  and  three  times-weekly  administration  of 
Epoetin theta. Patients treated for renal anaemia in studies XM01-04 and XM01-06 with Epoetin theta 
or  Epoetin  beta  were  eligible.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  time-adjusted  area  under  the  curve  for 
haemoglobin  (AUC-Hb)  during  the  efficacy  evaluation  period  and  the  co-primary  endpoint  was  the 
mean weekly Epoetin theta dose per kg of body weight during the same period. The primary endpoint 
was met; the equivalence range of -1.0 to +1.0 g/dL was again considered as very permissive, but the 
observed  difference  fell  well  within  this  margin,  hence  it  was  acceptable.  The  co-primary  endpoint 
was  not  met  due  to  reasons  delineated  in  exploratory  analyses  described  under  the  study  results. 
Page 45 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
Nevertheless,  the  SPC  contains  a  statement  that  if  the  frequency  of  administration  is  changed, 
haemoglobin level should be monitored closely and dose adjustments may be necessary. 
Although overall a safety study, XM01-09 included secondary efficacy endpoints. Patients treated for 
renal anaemia in study XM01-05 were enrolled and results showed that treatment with Epoetin theta is 
able to maintain Hb levels long-term within the target range.  
Anemia in cancer patients 
In  cancer  studies,  epoetin  theta  was  administered  via  the  subcutaneous  route.  All  three  studies  had 
parallel  designs.  Study  XM01-21  was  designed  to  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Epoetin  theta 
compared  to  placebo  and  Epoetin  beta  in  patients  with  solid  tumours  receiving  platinum-containing 
therapy. Study XM01-22 included patients with solid tumours or non-myeloid haematological tumours 
receiving  non-platinum  chemotherapy  and  study  XM01-23  included  patients  on  anticancer 
chemotherapy with low grade Non-Hodgkin´s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or multiple 
myeloma and with endogenous erythropoietin deficiency. In studies XM01-22 and XM01-23, Epoetin 
theta was compared to placebo only.  
Results in all three studies indicated that a higher proportion of patients in the Epoetin theta group than 
in the placebo group had a complete haemoglobin response without blood transfusion. The difference 
between  the  treatment  groups  was  statistically  significant.  In  studies  XM01-22  and  XM01-23, 
stratified analyses according to malignancy type showed that the overall difference between Epoetin 
theta and placebo was statistically significant. Only within two strata with low patient numbers (CLL 
and NHL) the difference did not reach significance but the results across strata are consistent as in all 
strata Epoetin theta is superior to placebo. In study XM01-21, the difference between the epoetin theta 
and  placebo  group  in  the  number  of  blood  transfusions  was  also  statistically  significant.  This 
difference was however not statistically significant between the epoetin beta and the placebo group. 
The  original  applied  indication  included  a  claim  for  “Increasing  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from 
patients  in  a  predonation  programme”.  No  studies  were  submitted  for  this  indication.  The  CHMP 
raised  a  major  objection,  as  the  product  had  been  accompanied  by  a  complete  and  independent 
application and not by an application for a ‘similar biological medicinal product’ (according to Article 
10  (4),  Directive  2001/83/EC),  as  initially  intended.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  considered  that  no 
extrapolation  from  the  indications  of  other  authorised  epoetins  was  acceptable.  The  Applicant 
subsequently withdrew this indication from the list of claimed indications. 
No studies in paediatric patients were submitted. As a result, the CHMP restricted the indications to 
the treatment of adults only. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The evaluation of safety focuses on findings from 9 completed phase II/III studies (XM01-04, 05, 06, 
07, 08, 09, 21, 22, 23). Supportive data come from 6 completed phase I studies (XM01-01, 10, 11, 12, 
20, 24). The studies are listed in tables 5, 6 and 13. 
The evaluations for the phase II/III studies were performed on the respective safety populations, which 
were defined as patients treated at least once with the randomised study medication in the controlled 
phase II/III studies (XM01-04, 05, 06, 07, 21, 22, 23) and as patients treated at least once with Epoetin 
theta  in  the  renal  anaemia  follow-up  studies  (XM01-09  and  08).  In  the  follow-up  studies  XM01-08 
(for XM01-04 and 06) and XM01-09 (for XM01-05) all patients received Epoetin theta, irrespective of 
whether they received Epoetin theta or Epoetin beta in the predecessor study. 
In the phase I studies no analysis populations were defined and all patients included in the individual 
studies were included. 
The types and numbers of patients as well as the type of medications administered in all phase I/II/III 
studies are listed in the following table 19. 
Page 46 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: 
Overall exposure in completed clinical studies 
Study category 
Study 
Number of patients 
number 
EpoTheta 
EpoB 
Placebo 
Controlled phase II/III RA studies 
Intravenous 
Intravenous 
Subcutaneous 
Subcutaneous 
Sub-total 
Controlled phase III CT studies 
Subcutaneous 
Subcutaneous 
Subcutaneous 
Sub-total 
XM01-05 
XM01-07 
XM01-04 
XM01-06 
XM01-21 
XM01-22 
XM01-23 
Total for controlled phase II/III studies 
Follow-up phase III RA study  
(for XM01-05) 
Intravenous 
XM01-09 
Sub-total 
Follow-up phase III RA study  
(for XM01-04 & XM01-06) 
Subcutaneous 
XM01-08 
121 
180 
112 
193 
606 
76 
95 
90 
261 
867 
25/99 
(EpoB / EpoTheta in 
XM01-05) * 
25 
80/209 
(EpoB / EpoTheta in 
XM01-04 & 
XM01-06)** 
80 
972* 
Sub-total 
Total for controlled phase II/III studies 
and follow-up studies 
Phase I studies 
End-stage renal disease treated by 
haemodialysis, subcutaneous + 
intravenous 
End-stage renal disease treated by 
haemodialysis, intravenous 
Chronic renal failure not yet receiving 
dialysis, subcutaneous 
CT, subcutaneous 
Healthy subjects, subcutaneous 
Healthy subjects, subcutaneous 
Total for phase I studies 
OVERALL TOTAL * 
XM01-01 
XM01-11 
XM01-10 
XM01-24 
XM01-12 
XM01-20 
18 
14 
14 
14 
18 
28 
106 
29 
90 
21 
95 
235 
73 
– 
– 
73 
308 
– 
– 
– 
– 
308* 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
74 
91 
87 
252 
252 
– 
– 
– 
– 
252 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
12 
12 
264 
*  124 patients who completed study XM01-05 (99 treated with Epoetin theta, 25 with Epoetin beta) all received Epoetin 
theta  in  study  XM01-09.  The  25 patients  who  switched  from  Epoetin  beta  to  Epoetin  theta  are  counted  twice  in  these 
Page 47 of 62 
1078*/** 
308*/** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
totals, i.e. once in the overall total for Epoetin beta and once in the overall total for Epoetin theta. However, patients who 
were continuously treated with Epoetin theta in both studies are counted only once in the totals for Epoetin theta. 
**  289 patients who completed study XM01-04 or XM01-06 (209 treated with Epoetin theta, 80 with Epoetin beta; 95 from 
study XM01-04, 194 from study XM01-06) all received Epoetin theta in study XM01-08. The 80 patients who switched 
from Epoetin beta to Epoetin theta are counted twice in these totals, i.e. once in the overall total for Epoetin beta and 
once in the overall total for Epoetin theta. However, patients who were continuously treated with Epoetin theta in both 
studies are counted only once in the totals for Epoetin theta. 
NA=not applicable 
The duration of exposure in all phase I/II/III studies is listed in the following table 20. 
Table 20: Overall exposure duration in completed clinical studies 
Duration of exposure (days) 
Persons 
Person years 
1 to 30 
31 to 90 
91 to 180 
181 to 270 
271 to 360 
27 
245 
328 
136 
95 
1.03 
48.86 
133.16 
90.57 
84.72 
141 
The number and size of administered doses of Epoetin theta and Epoetin beta in the controlled phase 
II/III studies is listed in the following table 21. Further exposure to Epoetin theta in patients continuing 
into the follow-up renal anaemia studies XM01-08 and XM01-09 is not shown. 
158.86 
> 360 
Table 21: Dosing exposure in controlled phase II/III studies 
Indication and studies 
Renal anaemia studies      
(XM01-04, -05, -06, -07) 
Cancer treatment anaemia studies        
(XM01-21, -22, -23) 
Treatment type 
Number of doses 
Total 
Mean, no./patient 
SD, no./patient 
Median, no. 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
EpoTheta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB 
N=73 
23823 
39.3 
19.0 
35.5 
9324 
39.7 
19.1 
41 
3132 
12.0 
3.1 
12 
2222 
12.5 
3.6 
12 
2201 
30.2 
8.4 
35 
Range 
1 to 73 
1 to 72 
1 to 16 
1 to16 
3 to 36 
Weekly dose, IU/kgBW 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
108.7 
89.9 
82.2 
72.1 
55.8 
58.0 
422.4 
172.3 
401.6 
8.3 to 490.2 
8.8 to 382.1 139.7 to 1014.1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
535.7 
159.7 
564.5 
257.8 to 981.5
Baseline demographic data by study treatment are listed for the pooled controlled phase II/III studies 
in the following table 22. 
Table 22: Basic demographic characteristics in controlled phase II/III studies 
Indication and 
Renal anaemia studies       
studies 
(XM01-04, -05, -06, -07) 
(XM01-21, -22, -23) 
Cancer treatment anaemia studies        
Treatment type 
Age 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
EpoTheta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB* 
N=73 
Page 48 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication and 
studies 
Treatment type 
Mean, yrs 
SD, yrs 
Renal anaemia studies       
(XM01-04, -05, -06, -07) 
Cancer treatment anaemia studies        
(XM01-21, -22, -23) 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
61.3 
14.0 
EpoB 
N=235 
61.7 
13.8 
EpoTheta 
N=261 
58.1 
12.5 
Placebo 
N=252 
58.5 
12.6 
≤ 64 yrs, n (%) 
326 (53.8) 
127 (54.0) 
170 (65.1) 
154 (61.1) 
65-74 yrs, n (%) 
172 (28.4) 
≥ 75 yrs, n (%) 
108 (17.8) 
59 (25.1) 
49 (20.9) 
75 (28.7) 
16   (6.1) 
77 (30.6) 
21   (8.3) 
Gender 
EpoB* 
N=73 
57.3 
10.5 
53 (72.6) 
16 (21.9) 
4   (5.5) 
Male, n (%) 
313 (51.7) 
140 (59.6) 
Female, n (%) 
293 (48.3) 
95 (40.4) 
109 (41.8) 
152 (58.2) 
91 (36.1) 
161 (63.9) 
22 (30.1) 
51 (69.9) 
Weight, kg 
Mean 
SD 
Race 
71.2 
14.5 
72.8 
14.9 
67.0 
14.4 
66.1 
13.2 
69.0 
14.6 
White, n (%) 
Other, n (%) 
603 (99.5) 
233 (99.1) 
3 (0.5) 
2 (0.9) 
226 (86.6) 
35   (13.4) 
219 (86.9) 
66 (90.4) 
33 (13.1) 
7 (9.6) 
•  Adverse events  
Analyses of all types of adverse events were performed separately for renal anaemia (RA) and cancer 
therapy anaemia (CT) studies. Within the RA group of studies, the controlled (XM01-04, -05, -06 and 
-07) studies were analysed separately from the follow-up (XM01-08 and -09) studies. Within the same 
group  additional  analyses  of  adverse  events  comparing  correction  vs  maintenance  phase  studies  and 
subcutaneous vs intravenous Epoetin theta administration were conducted. 
Table  23:  Overall  frequencies  of  TEAEs,  TEADRs,  severe  TEAEs,  and  severe  TEADRs  in  all 
controlled phase II/III studies 
Renal anaemia studies         
(XM01-04, -05, -06, -07) 
Cancer treatment anaemia studies        
(XM01-21, -22, -23) 
Category 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
EpoTheta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB 
N=73 
TEAEs 
TEADRs 
Severe TEAEs 
Severe TEADRs 
n 
421 
139 
57 
14 
% 
69.5 
22.9 
9.4 
2.3 
n 
155 
43 
24 
3 
% 
66.0 
18.3 
10.2 
1.3 
n 
200 
60 
44 
3 
% 
76.6 
23.0 
16.9 
1.1 
n 
190 
50 
45 
2 
% 
75.4 
19.8 
17.9 
0.8 
n 
63 
16 
13 
1 
% 
86.3 
21.9 
17.8 
1.4 
The  majority  of  the  TEAEs  in  all  phase  II/III  studies  were  assessed  as  unrelated  to  the  study 
medication. 
The most common adverse events across all renal anaemia patients treated with Epoetin theta in the 4 
controlled  studies  were  hypertension  (10.2%),  headache  (8.7%),  muscle  spasms  (6.4%)  and  chronic 
renal failure (5.3%). These adverse events are also most common under treatment with Epoetin beta in 
these studies. There are no clinically relevant differences between the TEAE profiles of the Epoetin 
theta groups and the Epoetin beta groups across or within the studies. In the correction phase studies 
XM01-04 and 05, the proportion of patients with TEAEs was higher for patients treated with Epoetin 
theta compared to those treated with Epoetin beta (70.4 vs 56.0%). In the maintenance phase studies 
XM01-06  and  07,  the  percentages  of  patients  who  experienced  TEAEs  were  similar  for  the  two 
Page 49 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  groups:  Epoetin  theta  257  (68.9%)  patients,  Epoetin  beta  127  (68.6  %).  Some  differences 
were  found  in  event  frequencies  between  the  studies  with  intravenous  administration  of  study  drug 
(XM01-05,  07)  and  those  with  subcutaneous  administration  (XM01-04,  06).  The  frequencies  of 
adverse  events  and  serious  adverse  events  and  discontinuations  were  somewhat  higher  in  the  i.v. 
treated patients. 
The  most  common  adverse  events  in  the  cancer  therapy  studies  were  asthenia  (17.6%),  neutropenia 
(16.9%), nausea (14.9%) and leukopenia (11.1%). The frequency of TEAEs in the Epoetin theta and 
placebo  group  was  similar  (76.6%  vs  75.4  %,  respectively),  while  the  frequency  of  TEAEs  in  the 
Epoetin beta group was slightly higher (86.3%). 
Most frequent treatment emergent adverse drug reactions (TEADRs) in controlled phase II/III 
studies.  
In  renal  anaemia  studies,  TEADRs  were  reported  in  139 (22.9%)  patients  treated  with  Epoetin  theta 
and 43 (18.3%) patients treated with Epoetin beta.  
Table 24: Most frequent SOCs for TEADRs in controlled phase III RA studies XM01-04, -05, -
06 and -07 
MedDRA SOC 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
n 
% 
n 
% 
Vascular disorders 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Nervous system disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Infections and infestations 
48 
25 
21 
21 
20 
17 
7 
5 
7.9 
4.1 
3.5 
3.5 
3.3 
2.8 
1.2 
0.8 
9 
9 
9 
8 
8 
2 
6 
5 
3.8 
3.8 
3.8 
3.4 
3.4 
0.9 
2.6 
2.1 
NOTE: This table contains all SOCs with TEADR frequencies ≥ 2% in either treatment group. SOCs are sorted 
by decreasing frequency in the Epoetin theta group. 
Frequencies of SOCs were low and comparable between treatment groups except for the SOC vascular 
disorders that was more common in the Epoetin theta group (difference ≥ 3%).  
Frequencies of TEADRs were also low and comparable between treatment groups. Hypertension was 
the only TEADR that occurred in ≥ 3% of patients in either treatment group and was more common in 
the  Epoetin  theta  group  than  the  Epoetin  beta  group:  41 (6.8%)  Epoetin  theta  patients  vs  7 (3.0%) 
Epoetin beta patients. Other TEADRs that occurred in ≥ 1% patients of the Epoetin theta group were 
headache  12 (2.0%)  vs  5 (2.1%),  arteriovenous  fistula  thrombosis  9 (1.5%)  vs  2 (0.9%),  and  blood 
pressure  increased  6 (1.0%)  vs  4 (1.7%).  Hypertension  and  headache  are  known  side  effects  of 
epoetins.  Arteriovenous  fistula  thrombosis  is  a  common  complication  in  patients  undergoing 
haemodialysis and was only observed in the studies with intravenous administration of study drugs. 
In  cancer  treatment  anaemia  studies,  TEADRs  were  more  common  in  patients  treated  with  Epoetin 
theta than those treated with placebo: 60 (23.0%) vs 50 (19.8%).  
Page 50 of 62 
 
 
 
 
Table 25: Most frequent SOCs for TEADRs in controlled phase III CT studies XM01-21, 22 and 
23  
MedDRA SOC  
EpoTheta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Infections and infestation 
Investigations 
n 
26 
18 
11 
8 
7 
4 
3 
% 
10.0 
6.9 
4.2 
3.1 
2.7 
1.5 
1.1 
n 
16 
19 
8 
6 
3 
5 
6 
% 
6.3 
7.5 
3.2 
2.4 
1.2 
2.0 
2.4 
EpoB 
N=73 
n 
4 
% 
5.5 
11 
15.1 
6 
4 
2 
0 
3 
8.2 
5.5 
2.7 
- 
4.1 
NOTE: This table contains all SOCs (preferred terms) with frequencies ≥ 2% (≥ 3%) in the Epoetin theta or 
placebo group. SOCs and preferred terms within each SOC are sorted alphabetically. 
Frequencies of TEADRs in most SOCs were low and comparable between treatment groups. General 
disorders and administration site conditions were more common (difference ≥ 3%) in the Epoetin theta 
group  than  the  placebo  group  (10.0 vs 6.3%)  and  this  was  largely  due  to  an  imbalance  in  asthenia 
(Epoetin theta 6.5%, placebo 3.6%). 
The  most  common  TEADRs  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group  were  asthenia  (6.5%),  nausea  (4.6%), 
headache (3.4%) and vomiting (3.1%). The most common TEADRs in the placebo group were nausea 
(5.6%) and asthenia (3.6%). 
Severe TEAEs and TEADRs in controlled phase II/III studies. The majority of TEAEs were 
assessed as mild or moderate. In renal anaemia studies, severe TEAEs occurred in 57 (9.4%) patients 
treated with Epoetin theta and 24 (10.2%) patients treated with Epoetin beta. Frequencies in all SOCs 
were low and comparable between treatment groups.  
Table 26: Most frequent SOCs for severe TEAEs in controlled phase III RA studies XM01-04, -
05, -06 and -07 
MedDRA SOC 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
Cardiac disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Infections and infestations 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
n 
% 
n 
% 
19 
15 
6 
6 
5 
3 
3.1 
2.5 
1.0 
1.0 
0.8 
0.5 
5 
6 
1 
4 
3 
4 
2.1 
2.6 
0.4 
1.7 
1.3 
1.7 
NOTE: This table contains all SOCs with severe TEAE frequencies ≥ 1% in either treatment group. SOCs are 
sorted by decreasing frequency in the Epoetin theta group. 
The only severe TEAE that occurred in ≥ 1% of patients of the Epoetin theta group was “worsening” 
of chronic renal failure in 11 (1.8%) Epoetin theta patients vs 5 (2.1%) Epoetin beta patients. Severe 
TEADRs were reported in 14 (2.3%) Epoetin theta patients and 3 (1.3%) Epoetin beta patients. 
Page 51 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  cancer  treatment  anaemia  studies,  severe  TEAEs  occurred  in  44 (16.9%)  patients  treated  with 
Epoetin theta and 45 (17.9%) patients treated with Epoetin beta. Frequencies in most SOCs were low 
and comparable between treatment groups.  
Table 27: Most frequent SOCs for severe TEAEs in controlled phase III CT studies XM01-21, 22 
and 23  
MedDRA SOC  
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant, unspec. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Infections and infestations 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
EpoTheta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB 
N=73 
n 
21 
10 
6 
8 
5 
4 
% 
n 
% 
n 
8.0 
3.8 
2.3 
3.1 
1.9 
1.5 
15 
11 
9 
6 
15 
6 
6.0 
4.4 
3.6 
2.4 
6.0 
2.4 
7 
1 
0 
0 
2 
0 
% 
9.6 
1.4 
- 
- 
2.7 
- 
NOTE: This table contains all SOCs (preferred terms) with frequencies ≥ 2% (≥ 3%) in the Epoetin theta or 
placebo group.  
Severe  TEADRs  were  reported  in  3 Epoetin  theta  patients,  2 placebo  patients,  and  1 Epoetin  beta 
patient. 
Adverse events in follow-up RA studies XM01-09 and -08 
In  study  XM01-09,  the  most  common  TEAEs  were  headache  (34.7%),  muscle  spasms  (30.6%), 
hypotension  (19.4%),  abdominal  pain  (17.7%),  procedural  hypotension  (16.9%),  hypertension 
(11.3%),  and  back  pain  (10.5%).  In  XM01-08,  these  were  hypertension  (15.9%)  and  chronic  renal 
failure (14.9%). The incidence of TEAEs was higher in the follow-up studies XM01-08 and -09 than 
in  the  predecessor  studies  XM01-04/06  and  -05,  respectively.  The  majority  of  the  TEAEs  were 
assessed  as  unrelated  to  the  study  medication  in  both  studies.  In  study  XM01-08,  the  adverse  event 
profile was comparable in once-weekly and thrice-weekly treated patients. 
In study XM01-09, the most common TEADRs were headache in 6 (4.8%) patients and hypertension 
in  5 (4.0%)  patients.  In  study  XM01-08  (pre-dialysis  patients),  the  most  common  TEADR  was 
hypertension, in 15 (5.2%) patients. 
In  both  studies,  the  majority  of  the  TEAEs  were  mild  or  moderate.  In  study  XM01-09,  severe 
TEADRs occurred in 3 patients: convulsion, hypertension and arteriovenous fistula thrombosis each in 
1 patient.  In  study  XM01-08,  one  patient  had  two  severe  adverse  events  (epistaxis  and  hypertensive 
crisis) that were assessed as TEADR. 
Immunogenicity 
In  phase  I  studies,  no  anti-Epoetin  theta  antibodies  could  be  detected  in  120  blood  samples  from 
60 subjects treated with Epoetin theta: 14 from study XM01-10, 14 from XM01-11, 18 from XM01-
12, and 14 from XM01-24.  
In  phase II/III  RA  studies,  antibody  testing  for  the  phase II/III  RA  studies  was  performed  on  3329 
samples from 946 patients in studies XM01-04, 05, 06, 07, 08, and 09. Only 2 patients with potentially 
positive anti-Epoetin theta antibody results were identified. One tested positive on a single occasion 
and  the  other  tested  positive  twice.  In  both  cases,  there  was  no  indication  of  lack  of  Epoetin  theta 
efficacy  or  of  PRCA  development.  Given  the  absence  of  seroconversion,  the  possibility  of  specific 
neutralising anti-Epoetin theta /anti-erythropoietin reactivity development was dismissed. 
Antibody analysis results for patients with long-term observation (>360 days) who were treated with 
Epoetin  theta  was  available  for  141  patients  (97  patients  s.c.  and  44  patients  i.v.  treatment).  The 
antibody  analysis  for  patients  with  long-term  s.c.  observation  (>360  days)  from  97  patients  showed 
that  most  patients  were  consistently  negative  for  the  screening  assays.  Isolated  positive  screening 
Page 52 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
results  were  negative  in  the  confirmation  assays.  Antibody  analysis  for  patients  with  long-term  i.v. 
observation (>360 days) from 44 patients showed that most patients were consistently negative for the 
screening  assays.  Isolated  screening  results  were  positive  for  a  single  patient  in  one  confirmation 
assay:  this  was  the  same  patient  who  tested  positive  twice  in  the  earlier  RA  studies,  as  described 
above. 
In  phase III  CT  studies,  antibody  testing  for  the  phase III  CT  studies  was  performed  on  1174  blood 
samples from 579 patients. Only 1 patient (22-10-503-3) treated wtih placebo in study XM01-22 was 
identified with one solitary positive result at baseline (visit 2). A cellular assay to detect neutralisation 
was negative. A blood sample taken from this placebo-treated patient at visit 14 was negative. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Table 28: Most frequent serious TEAEs in controlled RA studies XM01-04, 05, 06, and 07 (≥ 1% 
patients in either group) 
MedDRA SOC/preferred term 
EpoTheta 
N=606 
EpoB 
N=235 
Any serious TEAE 
Cardiac disorders 
Cardiac failure 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Condition aggravated 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Arteriovenous fistula thrombosis 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Renal failure chronic 
Vascular disorders 
n 
116 
29 
6 
9 
12 
8 
24 
8 
11 
8 
10 
7 
23 
19 
11 
% 
19.1 
n 
44 
% 
18.7 
4.8 
1.0 
1.5 
2.0 
1.3 
4.0 
1.3 
1.8 
1.3 
1.7 
1.2 
3.8 
3.1 
1.8 
7 
1 
4 
8 
3 
5 
4 
5 
1 
4 
7 
7 
6 
4 
3.0 
0.4 
1.7 
3.4 
1.3 
2.1 
1.7 
2.1 
0.4 
1.7 
3.0 
3.0 
2.6 
1.7 
Table 29: Most frequent serious TEAEs in CT studies XM01-21, 22 and 23 (≥ 1% patients in 
either group) 
MedDRA SOC / preferred term 
Epoetin theta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB 
N=73 
Any serious TEAE 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Febrile neutropenia 
Neutropenia 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Pyrexia 
Infections and infestations 
n 
42 
13 
6 
3 
7 
4 
0 
13 
% 
16.1 
5.0 
2.3 
1.1 
2.7 
1.5 
- 
5.0 
Page 53 of 62 
n 
46 
4 
1 
0 
11 
9 
3 
10 
% 
18.3 
1.6 
0.4 
- 
4.4 
3.6 
1.2 
4.0 
n 
9 
3 
2 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
% 
12.3 
4.1 
2.7 
1.4 
1.4 
1.4 
- 
– 
 
 
 
  
 
 
MedDRA SOC / preferred term 
Epoetin theta 
N=261 
Placebo 
N=252 
EpoB 
N=73 
Pneumonia 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
unspecified 
Malignant neoplasm progression 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Renal failure 
n 
8 
9 
6 
4 
3 
% 
3.1 
3.4 
2.3 
1.5 
1.1 
n 
2 
14 
11 
0 
0 
% 
0.8 
5.6 
4.4 
- 
- 
n 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
% 
– 
1.4 
1.4 
1.4 
- 
The  majority  of  the  serious  TEAEs  were  assessed  as  unrelated  to  the  study  medication.  In  renal 
anaemia  studies,  serious  TEADRs  occurred  in  26  (4.3%)  patients  treated  with  Epoetin  theta  and 
8 (3.4%)  patients  treated  with  Epoetin  beta.  Most  of  the  serious  TEADRs  only  occurred  in  1  or 
2 patients  of  one  or  both  treatment  groups.  The  only  serious  TEADR  with  a  frequency  ≥ 1%  was 
arteriovenous  fistula  thrombosis  that  occurred  in  8 (1.3%)  patients  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group  and 
1 (0.4%) patient in the Epoetin beta group. In the cancer treatment anaemia studies, serious TEADRs 
were only reported in 7 patients (Epoetin theta 3, 1.1%; placebo 3, 1.2%; Epoetin beta 1, 1.4%). 
Deaths. A total of 29/841 (3.4%) patients died in the controlled phase II/III RA studies: 21/606 (3.5%) 
patients  treated  with  Epoetin  theta  and  8/235  (3.4%)  patients  treated  with  Epoetin  beta.  In  study 
XM01-07  the  causal  relationship  to  the  study  medication  was  assessed  as  unlikely  in  2 patients 
(1 Epoetin  theta,  1 Epoetin  beta).  All  other  deaths  were  considered  to  be  unrelated  to  study 
medication. In the follow-up study XM01-09, 4 patients who completed study XM01-05 died. In the 
follow-up study XM01-08, 7 patients who had completed study XM01-04 or 06 died. The majority of 
the deaths were due to cardiac disorders (SOC): 20 of the 32 deaths (21 in the controlled studies, 11 in 
the follow-up studies in Epoetin theta patients and 4 of the 8 deaths in Epoetin beta patients.  
A total of 48/586 (8.2%) patients died in the controlled phase III CT studies: 18/261 (6.9%) patients 
treated with Epoetin theta, 26/252 (10.3%) with placebo, and 4/73 (5.5%) patients treated with Epoetin 
beta. In 1 patient treated with Epoetin beta in study XM01-21, the causal relationship of the death to 
study medication was assessed as unclassifiable by the investigator. All other deaths were considered 
to  be  unrelated  to  study  medication.  All  of  the  deaths  could  be  attributed  to  the  underlying  or 
concomitant disease or concomitant cancer treatment. 
the  administered 
•  Laboratory findings 
Coagulation  variables.  The  observed  changes  in  coagulation  variables  did  not  raise  concerns.  The 
various treatment groups exhibited similar changes in coagulation variables (data not shown).  
Clinical  chemistry  variables.  Baseline  values  of  clinical  chemistry  variables  as  well  as  changes  of 
these variables on study were expected, based on the nature of the underlying diseases (renal failure, 
treatment  (anaemia  correction, 
cancer),  of  concomitant  diseases  and  of 
chemotherapy). No imbalances between treatment arms were detected (data not shown). 
Transient increases in serum potassium and phosphate levels in isolated cases have been described for 
Epoetin  beta.  In  the  renal  anaemia  studies,  similar  elevations  were  observed  in  patients  treated  with 
Epoetin theta. No patient had an elevation for potassium or phosphate to above 3 times the upper limit 
of reference range (data not shown).  
Haematology variables. Values of haematology variables and changes in these variables on study were 
expected,  based  on  the  nature  of  underlying  diseases  (renal  failure,  cancer  under  chemotherapy 
treatment) and the pharmacodynamic action of epoetin. No imbalances between treatment groups were 
detected unless expected, e.g. changes due to the pharmacodynamic action of epoetin in the Epoetin 
theta but not the placebo group. Of note, dose-dependent rises in platelet counts within the reference 
range,  which  are  known  for  Epoetin  beta,  may  also  occur  in  Epoetin  theta-treated  patients  (data  not 
shown, see SPC section 4.4). 
Page 54 of 62 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety in special populations 
Analyses of TEAEs in patient subpopulations of the pooled controlled phase II/III RA studies and the 
pooled  controlled  phase III  CT  studies  on  the  following  intrinsic  factors  at  study  baseline  were 
provided:  
Age: ≤ 64, 65-74, ≥ 75 years for RA studies; ≤ 64, ≥ 65 years for CT studies 
Gender: male, female 
Hypertension at baseline: yes, no 
Diabetes mellitus at baseline: yes, no  
Analyses based on race were not performed due to the small numbers of non-white patients enrolled in 
the studies. 
Analyses for patients with or without cardiac impairment were not performed. Furthermore, the impact 
of hepatic impairment could not be assessed as patients with known liver disease or markedly elevated 
transaminase values were excluded from the studies. 
A higher incidence of serious and severe adverse events and deaths was observed in patients 75 years 
and  older  treated  with  Epoetin  theta  in  clinical  trials.  Moreover,  certain  adverse  events  were  more 
frequent in female patients than in males (data not shown).  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No drug-drug interaction studies were submitted and hence related safety has not been addressed. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Overall in phase II/III clinical studies, 19 (6.3%) of patients receiving Epoetin theta i.v. and 46 (8.1%) 
of patients receiving Epoetin theta s.c. discontinued treatment due to adverse events. This compares to 
6 patients (5%) having received Epoetin beta i.v. and 10 patients (5.3%) having received Epoetin beta 
s.c.,  respectively.  19  patients  (7.5%)  that  received  placebo  discontinued  treatment  due  to  adverse 
events. 
In the controlled RA studies, the following TEAEs led to study discontinuation and occured in more 
than  2 patients:  “worsening”  of  chronic  renal  failure  (18 (3.0%)  Epoetin  theta  patients  vs  5 (2.1%) 
Epoetin  beta  patients),  renal  impairment  (3  (0.5%)  Epoetin  theta  patients  vs  2  (0.9%)  Epoetin  beta 
patients) and cardiac failure (3 (0.5%) Epoetin theta vs 1 (0.4%) Epoetin beta patients). 
In  the  controlled  CT  studies,  frequencies  of  TEAEs  leading  to  premature  discontinuation  of  study 
medication  were  low.  The  only  TEAEs  leading  to  study  discontinuation  in  more  than  two  patients 
were:  neoplasm  progression  (2  (0.8%)  patients  in  the  Epoetin  theta  group,  6  (2.4%)  patients  in  the 
placebo group and 1 (1.4%) patient in the Epoetin beta group) and pneumonia (1 (0.4%) patient in the 
Epoetin theta group and 2 (0.8%) patients in the placebo group).  
In  study  XM01-09,  TEAEs  leading  to  premature  discontinuation  of  the  study  were  reported  in  6 
(4.8%) patients: none occurred in more than two patients.  
In study XM01-08, TEAEs that lead to premature discontinuation of the study and occurred in more 
than two patient were: chronic renal failure (28, 9.7%), renal impairment (7, 2.4%), renal failure (3, 
1.0%), and condition aggravated (3, 1.0%).  
•  Post marketing experience 
N/A 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall the safety profile of Epoetin theta is consistent with the known safety profile of epoetins and 
as expected for the investigated (patient) populations. There were no new or unexpected findings.  
The most common adverse events in renal anaemia patients treated with Epoetin theta are well known 
side effects of marketed epoetins and well known symptoms of the underlying chronic kidney disease. 
There were no clinically relevant differences between the TEAE profiles of the Epoetin theta groups 
and the Epoetin beta groups across or within the studies.  
In the correction phase studies XM01-04 and 05, the proportion of patients with TEAEs was higher for 
patients treated with Epoetin theta compared to those treated with Epoetin beta. This may be explained 
by the higher starting doses of Epoetin theta (up to 120 IU/kgBW) compared to Epoetin beta in these 
studies.  More  patients  with  higher  doses  of  Epoetin  theta  (60  IU/kg  BW  and  above)  had  serious 
Page 55 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse events and study discontinuations, whereas in the Epoetin beta group with the dose identical to 
the lowest dose of Epoetin theta less adverse events were seen. Particularly cardiac disorders occurred 
more frequently in the Epoetin theta treatment groups with the higher doses. For these adverse events, 
a dose-dependency was seen.  
In  the  maintenance  phase  studies  XM01-06  and  07,  the  percentages  of  patients  who  experienced 
TEAEs were similar for the two treatment groups. Some differences were found in event frequencies 
between  the  studies  with  intravenous  administration  of  study  drug  (XM01-05,  07)  and  those  with 
subcutaneous  administration  (XM01-04,  06).  The  frequencies  of  adverse  events  and  serious  adverse 
events and discontinuations were somewhat higher in the i.v. treated patients. These imbalances can 
probably  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  patients  in  the  studies  with  i.v.  administration  were  already 
receiving dialysis and had a more advanced stage of renal anaemia. 
Secondary  analyses  were  performed  on  adverse  events  of  special  interest  in  the  randomised  renal 
anaemia studies. Such adverse events included renal failure, tumour progression, pure red cell aplasia 
(PRCA),  hypertension,  thromboembolic  events,  arteriovenous  shunt  thrombosis,  cardiac  disorders, 
skin reactions/injection site disorders and infections/infestations.  
In studies XM01-09 (intravenous administration) and -08 (subcutaneous administration), the profile of 
the most frequent TEAEs can be expected in the rather elderly study population having chronic renal 
failure for several years accompanied by renal anaemia that had already been treated with epoetin. The 
higher incidence of adverse events in the follow-up studies XM01-08 and -09 than in the predecessor 
studies  XM01-04/06  and  -05  can  be  expected  due  to  the  longer  treatment  duration  in  the  follow-up 
studies.  The  higher  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  study  XM01-09  compared  to  XM01-08  can  be 
explained in the same way as in their respective predecessor studies (see above). 
In  cancer  studies,  the  overall  TEAE  profiles  were  consistent  with  those  expected  for  rather  elderly 
cancer  patients  who  had been  treated  with  epoetin  for  anaemia  resulting  from  administration  of  CT. 
The  observed  TEAEs  were  typical  for  the  underlying  cancer  (e.g.  asthenia)  or  known  side  effect  of 
either  epoetins  (e.g.  hypertension  and  headache)  or  CT  (e.g.  nausea,  vomiting,  leukopenia, 
neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia).  
The CHMP raised a major objection with regards to immunogenicity due to the different glycosylation 
pattern  of  Epoetin  theta  compared  to  other  licensed  epoetins.  The  applicant  claimed  that  the 
glycosylation pattern of Epoetin theta had been characterised and shown to be similar to that of other 
epoetins and that no indication for immunogenic potential of Epoetin theta had been detected in the 
clinical  studies  (in  the  phase  II/III  efficacy  studies  one  patient  of  the  renal  anaemia  studies  and  one 
patient with cancer indication were detected to have anti-epoetin antibodies in a single occasion each, 
and no patient had neutralizing antibodies). The CHMP considered the issue to be resolved. 
Patients over 75 years of age had a higher incidence of serious and severe adverse events irrespective 
of a causal relationship to treatment with epoetin theta. Furthermore, deaths were more frequent in this 
patient group compared to younger patients. 
No  drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  submitted  and  hence  related  safety  has  not  been  addressed. 
However, given the protein nature of the product, no drug-drug interactions are expected. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Summary of the EU Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Page 56 of 62 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Hypertensive 
disorders 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR 
Shunt thrombosis in 
haemodialysis 
patients 
Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR 
Thromboembolic 
events in cancer 
patients 
Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
An increase in blood pressure, 
hypertension and its aggravation and 
hypertensive crisis are mentioned in 
section 4.8 of the SPC.  
Detailed information concerning the close 
monitoring of blood pressure, symptoms 
and warning signals of hypertensive crisis 
and recommended  measures in case of 
increased blood pressure are included in 
the warning section 4.4 of the SPC.  
Uncontrolled hypertension is included in 
section 4.3 (contraindications). 
Routine 
Shunt thrombosis is mentioned in section 
4.8 of the SPC. 
In the warning section 4.4 it is mentioned 
that during haemodialysis, patients 
treated with Eporatio may require 
increased anticoagulation treatment to 
prevent clotting of the arterio-venous 
shunt. 
Routine 
Thromboembolic events are mentioned in 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Section 5.1 of the SPC mentions that, in a 
systematic review of 57 clinical trials 
involving more than 9000 cancer patients, 
an increased relative risk of 
thromboembolic events was observed in 
cancer patients under chemotherapy and 
treated with recombinant human 
erythropoietin. The risk for patients 
treated to achieve haemoglobin 
concentrations less than 13 g/dl is 
unclear, as few such patients were 
included in the data reviewed. 
Page 57 of 62 
Safety concern 
Pure red cell aplasia 
(PRCA) caused by 
neutralising anti-
erythropoetin 
antibodies  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Routine 
Signal detection procedure for 
all incoming spontaneous ADR 
reports, and offering of antibody 
testing in case of a suspected 
anti-erythropoietin antibody-
mediated PRCA.  
Presentation of collated data in 
the corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR. 
Increased 
cardiovascular risk 
in renal anaemia 
patients  
Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR. 
Additional 
Observational, non-
interventional, post-
authorization safety study with 
epoetin theta in patients with 
chronic kidney disease (XM01-
30). 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
Neutralising anti-erythropoietin antibody 
mediated pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) 
and the demand to discontine therapy 
with epoetin theta in case of its diagnosis 
is mentioned in section 4.8 of the SPC.  
In section 4.4 of the SPC 
recommendations concerning the 
detection and diagnosis of PRCA and 
information about the cross-reactivity of 
neutralising anti-erythropoietin antibodies 
are included.  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance is 
a contraindication (section 4.3 of the 
SPC) to the use of epoetin theta. 
Routine 
In section 4.2 of the SPC it is mentioned 
that in patients with chronic renal failure 
the haemoglobin level should be 
increased to no greater than 12 g/dl and 
that patients should be monitored closely 
to ensure that the lowest approved dose 
of epoetin theta is used to provide 
adequate control of the symptoms of 
anaemia.  
In section 4.4 of the SPC it is mentioned 
that in patients with chronic renal failure, 
maintenance haemoglobin concentration 
should not exceed the upper limit of the 
target haemoglobin concentration 
mentioned in section 4.2. In clinical 
trials, an increased risk of death and 
serious cardiovascular events was 
observed when epoetins were 
administered to target a haemoglobin 
level in excess of 12 g/dl. 
Page 58 of 62 
 
Safety concern 
Tumour growth 
progression, 
Increased mortality 
in cancer patients 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR 
Additional 
Long-term follow-up (up to 5 
years) for cancer patients 
treated in clinical studies 
XM01-21, -22 and -23 
Feasibility study for a 
randomised controlled trial 
investigating the risk of a 
potentially increased mortality in 
cancer patients treated with 
epoetins. 
Hyporesponsiveness  Routine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of 
collated data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
Routine risk minimisation including 
warning in section 4.4 of the SPC, 
mention that the upper limit of the 
recommended target haemoglobin 
concentration specified in section 4.2 
should not be exceeded, and provision of 
information in section 5.1. 
In section 4.2 of the SPC it is mentioned 
that in cancer patients a sustained 
haemoglobin level of greater than 12 g/dl 
should be avoided and that patients 
should be monitored closely to ensure 
that the lowest approved dose of epoetin 
theta is used to provide adequate control 
of the symptoms of anaemia. 
In section 4.4 of the SPC it is mentioned 
that as with all growth factors, there is 
concern that epoetins could stimulate the 
growth of any type of malignancy. 
Special patient populations for whose use 
epoetins are not indicated are listed. The 
decision to administer recombinant 
erythropoietins should be based on a 
benefit-risk assessment for the individual 
patient.  
The effect of erythropoietin on tumour 
growth is described in detail in section 
5.1 of the SPC. In this section it is also 
mentioned that data from three placebo-
controlled clinical studies in anaemic 
cancer patients conducted with epoetin 
theta showed no negative effect of 
epoetin theta on survival. During the 
studies, mortality was lower in the 
epoetin theta group compared to placebo. 
Routine 
Routine risk minimisation including 
warning in section 4.4 of the SPC (will be 
added as soon as finalised and provided 
by the CHMP) 
A warning will be added to section 4.4 of 
the SPC according to the demand of the 
PhVWP as soon as the wording is 
finalised and provided by the CHMP 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Page 59 of 62 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  Eporatio  is  considered  to  be  acceptable.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects 
relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  biological  efficacy  of  epoetin  theta  has  been  demonstrated  after  intravenous  and  subcutaneous 
administration  in  various  animal  models  in  vivo  (mice,  rats,  dogs).  After  administration  of  epoetin 
theta, the number of erythrocytes, the haematocrit values and reticulocyte counts increase. 
Non-clinical data with epoetin theta reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies 
of safety pharmacology and repeated-dose toxicity. 
Efficacy 
Symptomatic anaemia associated chronic renal failure 
Data  from  correction  phase  studies  in  284  chronic  renal  failure  patients  show  that  the  haemoglobin 
response rates (defined as haemoglobin levels above 11 g/dl at two consecutive measurements) in the 
epoetin  theta  group  were  high  (88.4%  and  89.4%  in  studies  in  patients  on  dialysis  and  not  yet 
undergoing  dialysis,  respectively)  and  comparable  to  epoetin  beta  (86.2%  and  81.0%,  respectively). 
The  median  time  to  response  was  similar  in  the  treatment  groups  with  56 days  in  haemodialysis 
patients and 49 days in patients not yet undergoing dialysis. 
Two randomised controlled studies were conducted in 270 haemodialysis patients and 288 patients not 
yet undergoing dialysis, who were on stable treatment with epoetin beta. Patients were randomised to 
continue their current treatment or to be converted to epoetin theta (same dose as epoetin beta) in order 
to  maintain  their  haemoglobin  levels.  During  the  evaluation  period  (weeks  15  to  26),  the  mean  and 
median  level  of  haemoglobin  in  patients  treated  with  epoetin  theta  was  virtually  identical  to  their 
baseline  haemoglobin  level.  In  these  two  studies,  180  haemodialysis  patients  and  193  patients  not 
undergoing dialysis were switched from maintenance phase treatment with epoetin beta to treatment 
with epoetin theta for a period of six months showing stable haemoglobin values and a similar safety 
profile as epoetin beta. 
In two long-term studies, the efficacy of epoetin theta was evaluated in 124 haemodialysis patients and 
289 patients not yet undergoing dialysis. The haemoglobin levels remained within the desired target 
range and epoetin theta was well tolerated over a period of up to 15 months. 
In the clinical studies, pre-dialysis patients were treated once-weekly with epoetin theta, 174 patients 
in the maintenance phase study and 111 patients in the long-term study. 
Symptomatic anaemia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving chemotherapy 
409  cancer  patients  receiving  chemotherapy  were  included  in  two  prospective,  randomised 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The first study was conducted in 186 anaemic patients with 
non-myeloid  malignancies  (55%  with  haematological  malignancies  and  45%  with  solid  tumours) 
receiving non-platinum chemotherapy. The second study was conducted in 223 patients with various 
solid  tumours  receiving  platinum-containing  chemotherapy.  In  both  studies,  treatment  with  epoetin 
theta  resulted  in  a  significant  haemoglobin  response  (p < 0.001),  defined  as  an  increase  in 
haemoglobin  of  ≥ 2 g/dl  without  transfusion,  and  a  significant  reduction  in  transfusion  requirements 
(p < 0.05) in comparison to placebo. 
Page 60 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  safety  of  epoetin  theta  has  been  evaluated  based  on  results  from  clinical  studies  including 
972 patients.  From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have  been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Approximately 9% of patients can be expected to experience an adverse reaction. The most frequent 
undesirable effects are hypertension, influenza-like illness and headache. 
Shunt  thrombosis  may  occur,  especially  in  patients  who  have  a  tendency  to  hypotension  or  whose 
arterio-venous fistulae exhibit complications (e.g. stenoses, aneurisms) (see SPC section 4.4). 
One of the most frequent adverse reactions during treatment with epoetin theta is an increase in blood 
pressure  or  aggravation  of  existing  hypertension.  Hypertension  occurs  more  often  during  the 
correction  phase  than  during  the  maintenance  phase.  Hypertension  can  be  treated  with  appropriate 
medicinal products (see SPC section 4.4). 
Skin reactions such as rash, pruritus or injection site reactions may occur. 
Symptoms of influenza-like illness such as fever, chills and asthenic conditions have been reported.  
Certain adverse reactions have not yet been observed with epoetin theta, but are generally accepted as 
being attributable to other epoetins: In isolated cases in patients with chronic renal failure, neutralising 
anti-erythropoietin  antibody-mediated  PRCA  associated  with  therapy  with  other  epoetins  has  been 
reported. If PRCA is diagnosed, therapy with epoetin theta must be discontinued and patients should 
not be switched to another recombinant epoetin (see SPC section 4.4). 
Erythropoietin is a growth factor that primarily stimulates red cell production. Erythropoietin receptors 
may be expressed on the surface of a variety of tumour cells. Survival and tumour progression have 
been examined in several large controlled studies. These studies have shown a consistent unexplained 
statistically significant excess mortality in patients who have anaemia associated with various common 
cancers  who  received  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  compared  to  controls.  Overall  survival 
outcome  in  the  trials  could  not  be  satisfactorily  explained  by  differences  in  the  incidence  of 
thrombosis  and  related  complications  between  those  given  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  and 
those in the control group.  
Data  from  three  placebo-controlled  clinical  studies  in  586  anaemic  cancer  patients  conducted  with 
epoetin theta, showed no negative effect of epoetin theta on survival. During the studies, mortality was 
lower in the epoetin theta group compared to placebo. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The Applicant performed a readability testing (“user consultation”) and a satisfactory report has been 
provided. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The preclinical pharmacodynamical effects of Epoetin theta were in full agreement with the expected 
profile of an epoetin. The provided clinical data globally demonstrated the efficacy of epoetin theta in 
the  treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  and  in  the  treatment  of 
symptomatic anaemia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. 
No  special  risks  of  Epoetin  theta  were  detected  in  the  safety  pharmacology  or  general  toxicology 
studies that would be beyond the risks of other epoetins. In clinical studies, Epoetin theta seems to be 
as  well  tolerated  as  Epoetin  beta  by  both  I.V.  and  S.C.  routes.  Overall  the  safety  profile  of  Epoetin 
theta  is  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  epoetins  and  as  expected  for  the  investigated 
(patient) populations. There were no new or unexpected findings. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns and no additional risk minimisation activities 
were required beyond those included in the product information. 
Page 61 of 62 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Eporatio  in  the  treatment  of  ‘symptomatic  anaemia 
associated  with  renal  failure  and  symptomatic  anaemia  in  cancer  patients  with  non-myeloid 
malignancies receiving chemotherapy’ was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 62 of 62 
 
 
