EMA/20134/2016 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Eptifibatide Accord (eptifibatide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Eptifibatide Accord, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Eptifibatide Accord is used as safely as possible. For more 
information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Eptifibatide Accord, which can be found on Eptifibatide Accord’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Eptifibatide Accord is a medicine used to prevent heart attacks in patients: 
•  who have unstable angina (episodes of chest pain caused by poor blood flow to the heart, that 
occur without an obvious trigger such as exertion)  
• 
or who have already had a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, a type of heart attack.  
A heart attack results from sudden interruption of the flow of oxygen-rich blood to a section of heart 
muscle and may cause chest pain (angina) and other signs such as changes in the electrical activity of 
the heart. If blood flow is not restored quickly, this section of heart muscle begins to die (myocardial 
infarction). 
Heart attack is one of the most common causes of mortality worldwide. Over seven million people die 
every year from heart attack, accounting for 12.8% of all deaths. Heart attacks can be associated with 
or lead to severe health problems, such as heart failure (when the heart can't pump enough blood to 
meet the body's needs) and life-threatening arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Eptifibatide Accord contains the active substance eptifibatide, which helps to stop cells in the blood 
called platelets from sticking together (aggregating) to form clots that can block blood supply. 
Eptifibatide Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union called Integrilin.  
Because Eptifibatide Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
those of the reference medicine. The company provided data from the published literature on 
eptifibatide. No additional studies were needed as Eptifibatide Accord is a generic medicine that is 
given into a vein by injection or infusion (drip), and contains the same active substance as the 
reference medicine, Integrilin.  
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is no information on the effectiveness of eptifibatide in children and adolescents below 18 years 
of age and such use is not recommended. Studies in patients with reduced liver function as well as in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women are lacking. 
Page 1/3 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Bleeding in 
There are few data on the effect of 
The product information for Eptifibatide 
patients with 
Eptifibatide Accord in patients with renal 
Accord contains advice for healthcare 
moderately 
impairment. In patients with moderate 
professionals on reducing the infusion 
reduced kidney 
renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
dose of the medicine to 
function 
30–50 ml/minute) eptifibatide 
1 microgram/kg/minute in patients with 
(haemorrhage 
completely stopped platelets from 
moderately reduced kidney function, and 
in moderate 
sticking together (100% inhibition) after 
on monitoring such patients carefully for 
renal 
24 hours of treatment with a standard 
bleeding. Before treatment with 
impairment) 
dose (2 micrograms/kg/minute).  
eptifibatide is started, patients should 
inform their doctor if they have or have 
had severe kidney problems, as the 
medicine may not be suitable for them. 
If patients notice any bleeding during 
treatment, they should tell a healthcare 
professional immediately. 
Reduction in 
This uncommon side effect may affect up 
Patients must not use Eptifibatide Accord 
the number of 
to 1 in 100 people. 
platelets in the 
blood 
(thrombocyto-
penia) 
if they have or have had difficulty with 
blood clotting or a low blood platelet 
count. 
If patients notice any bleeding during 
treatment, they should tell a healthcare 
professional immediately. 
Important potential risks 
Not applicable 
Missing information 
Not applicable 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Eptifibatide Accord can be found on Eptifibatide Accord’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
No studies planned. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Major changes to the Risk Management Plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2015. 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
