19 November 2015 
EMA/851528/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Eptifibatide Accord  
International non-proprietary name: eptifibatide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004104/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
  deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development................................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics.......................................................................................... 16 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 16 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 16 
2.6. PSUR submission ............................................................................................... 23 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 23 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 23 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 24 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 2/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AP 
AS 
API 
ASMF 
CABG  
Cltotal  
DE 
EP 
GC   
GC-MS  
GP 
h  
HDPE 
HPLC     
HPLC/MS 
IC 
ICH       
ICP-OES  
kg   
LC-MS    
LOQ 
MAA 
Mg 
MI 
Min 
NMR 
NMT 
NQMI 
PCI  
Ph. Eur.  
RH 
SmPC 
SMs 
STEMI   
RMP 
UA 
UV 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a ASMF 
Active substance 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Coronary arteries bypass grafting  
Total body clearance  
Deamidated eptifibatide  
European Pharmacopoeia 
Gas Chromatography 
Gas chromatography mass spectrometry 
Glycoprotein  
Hour (s)  
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
High-performance liquid chromatography- mass spectrometry  
Ion exchange chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry 
Kilograms  
Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry 
Limit of Quantitation 
Marketing Authorization Application  
Milligrams  
Myocardial infarction  
Minute (s) 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Non-Q-wave myocardial infarction 
Percutaneous coronary intervention  
European Pharmacopoeia 
Relative Humidity 
Summary of product characteristics  
Starting materials 
ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction 
Risk management plan 
Unstable angina 
Ultraviolet 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 3/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Accord  Healthcare  Limited  submitted  on  2  December  2014  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Eptifibatide  Accord,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a centrally authorised product’. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23/10/2014. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been granted in the Union 
on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Eptifibatide  Accord  is  intended  for  use  with  acetylsalicylic  acid  and  unfractionated  heparin.  Eptifibatide 
Accord  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  myocardial  infarction  in  adults  presenting  with  unstable 
angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, with the last episode of chest pain occurring within 24 hours 
and with electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. Patients most likely to benefit 
from Eptifibatide Accord treatment are those at high risk of developing myocardial infarction within the first 
3-4  days  after  onset  of  acute  angina  symptoms  including  for  instance  those  that  are  likely  to  undergo  an 
early PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. There is no 
requirement for bioequivalence testing according to cf.CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev. 1. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: INTEGRILIN 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion and 
INTEGRILIN 2 mg/ml solution for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd, United Kingdom 
Date of authorisation: 01-07-1999 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/109/001 (0.75 mg/ml) & EU/1/99/109/002 (2 mg/ml) 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 4/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: INTEGRILIN 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion and 
INTEGRILIN 2 mg/ml solution for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd, United Kingdom 
Date of authorisation: 01-07-1999 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/109/001 (0.75 mg/ml) & EU/1/99/109/002 (2 mg/ml) 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and 
to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
This medicinal product is a parenteral preparation. Therefore bioequivalence study is not applicable 
according to CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1. 
Scientific advice  
 The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
David Lyons 
Co-Rapporteur:  N/A 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 2 December 2014.  
The procedure started on 24 December 2014. 
The Rapporteur's Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 March 2015.  
The PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 10 April 2015. 
During the meeting on 23 April 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 18 July 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 28 August 2015.  
During the CHMP meeting on 24 September 2015, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 19 
October 2015. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 5/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 28 October 2015. 
• 
During the meeting on 19 November 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Eptifibatide Accord. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This  procedure  concerns  an  application  for  the  marketing  authorisation  of  Eptifibatide  Accord  0.75  mg/ml 
solution for infusion and 2 mg/ml solution for injection by Accord Healthcare via the centralised procedure. 
Eptifibatide  is  approved  in  the  EU  since  the  01/07/1999  under  the  trade  name  Integrilin  0.75  mg/ml 
solution for infusion and Integrilin 2 mg/ml solution for injection. 
Eptifibatide  Accord  0.75  mg/ml  solution  for  infusion  and  2  mg/ml  solution  for  injection  has  the  same 
qualitative and similar quantitative composition as the reference product, Integrilin 0.75 mg/ml solution for 
infusion and Integrilin 2 mg/ml solution for injection. 
INTEGRILIN is indicated for: 
use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin for the prevention of early myocardial infarction in 
adults presenting with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, with the last episode of chest 
pain occurring within 24 hours and with electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes.  
Patients  most  likely  to  benefit  from  Integrilin  treatment  are  those  at  high  risk  of  developing  myocardial 
infarction within the first 3-4 days after onset of acute angina symptoms including for instance those that 
are likely to undergo an early PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty). 
Eptifibatide,  a  synthetic  cyclic  heptapeptide  containing  six  amino  acids,  including  one  cysteine  amide  and 
one mercaptopropionyl (desamino cysteinyl) residue, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation and belongs to 
the class of RGD (arginine-glycine-aspartate)-mimetics. Eptifibatide reversibly inhibits platelet aggregation 
by  preventing  the  binding  of  fibrinogen,  von  Willebrand  factor  and  other  adhesive  ligands  to  the 
glycoprotein  (GP)  IIb/IIIa  receptors.  Eptifibatide  is  a  highly  specific  GP  IIb/IIIa  receptor  antagonist  that 
competes  with  fibrinogen,  vWF  and  other  adhesive  ligands  for  the  binding  site  on  GP  IIb/IIIa,  thereby 
preventing  their  ability  to  bind  to  the  activated  platelet.  Eptifibatide  binds  to  GP  IIb/IIIa  with  low  affinity 
(dissociation constant of 120 nM) and dissociates from the receptor rapidly.  Therefore, platelet aggregation 
inhibition  with  eptifibatide  is  reversible  following  the  cessation  of  the  treatment.  The  binding  location  of 
eptifibatide  is  in  the  binding  pocket  between  the  IIb  and  IIIa  arms  of  GP  IIb/IIIa,  thereby  blocking  the 
binding domain for fibrinogen and inhibiting the formation of thrombi.  
Although  eptifibatide  is  highly  specific  for  the  GP  IIb/IIIa  receptors,  eptifibatide  at  higher  concentrations 
may have the ability to interfere with vitronectin binding, the ligand for αvβ3 in vascular cells, which  may 
provide additional antithrombotic benefits. 
Eptifibatide is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and heparin (unless the use of acetylsalicylic acid or 
heparin is contraindicated). 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 6/25 
 
  
  
In  adults  (≥  18  years  of  age)  presenting  with  unstable  angina  (UA)  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction 
(NQMI)  the  recommended  dosage  is  an  intravenous  bolus  of  180  microgram/kg  administered  as  soon  as 
possible following diagnosis, followed by a continuous infusion of 2 microgram/kg/min for up to 72 hours, 
until  initiation  of  coronary  artery  bypass  graft  (CABG)  surgery,  or  until  discharge  from  the  hospital 
(whichever  occurs  first).  If  Percutaneous  Coronary  Intervention  (PCI)  is  performed  during  eptifibatide 
therapy,  the  infusion  should  be  continued  for  20-24  hours  post-PCI  for  an  overall  maximum  duration  of 
therapy of 96 hours.  
If  the  patient  requires  emergency  or  urgent  cardiac  surgery  during  the  course  of  eptifibatide therapy,  the 
infusion  should  be  terminated  immediately.  If  the  patient  requires  semi-elective  surgery,  the  eptifibatide 
infusion  should  be  stopped  at  an  appropriate  time  to  allow  time  for  platelet  function  to  return  towards 
normal. 
Hepatic impairment  
Experience  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  is  very  limited.  Eptifibatide  should  be  administered  with 
caution to patients with hepatic impairment in whom coagulation could be affected. It is contraindicated in 
patients with clinically significant hepatic impairment.  
Renal impairment  
In  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  ≥  30  -  <  50  ml/min),  an  intravenous 
bolus  of  180  microgram/kg  should  be  administered  followed  by  a  continuous  infusion  dose  of  1.0 
microgram/kg/min  for  the  duration  of  therapy.  This  recommendation  is  based  on  pharmacodynamic  and 
pharmacokinetic  data.  The  available  clinical  evidence  cannot  however  confirm  that  this  dose  modification 
results in a preserved benefit. Use in patients with more severe renal impairment is contraindicated. 
Paediatric population  
Eptifibatide is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age, due to a lack of 
data on safety and efficacy.  
Method of administration  
This product is for hospital use only. It should be administered by specialist physicians experienced in the 
management  of  acute  coronary  syndromes.  Eptifibatide  Accord  solution  for  infusion  must  be  used  in 
conjunction with Eptifibatide Accord solution for injection.  
Concurrent  administration  of  heparin  is  recommended  unless  this  is  contraindicated  for  reasons  such  as  a 
history  of  thrombocytopenia  associated  with  use  of  heparin.  Eptifibatide  Accord  is  also  intended  for 
concurrent  use  with  acetylsalicylic  acid,  as  it  is  part  of  standard  management  of  patients  with  acute 
coronary syndromes, unless its use is contraindicated. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a solution for infusion and a solution for injection containing 
respectively 0.75 mg/ml and 2 mg/ml of eptifibatide as active substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 7/25 
 
  
  
Other ingredients are: citric acid monohydrate, sodium hydroxide and water for injections as described in 
section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
Eptifibatide Accord solution for infusion and solution for injection are available in Type I clear glass vials 
with butyl rubber stoppers and flip-off aluminium seals, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of the active substance eptifibatide is cyclo(S-S)-mercaptopropionyl-(L)homoarginyl-
glycyl-(L)aspartyl-(L)tryptophanyl-(L)propyl-(L)cysteinamide, corresponding to the molecular formula 
C35H49N11O9S2 and has a relative molecular mass 831.32  g/mol. The active substance has the structure 
shown in figure 1: 
Figure 1: Eptifibatide structure 
The structure of the active substance (AS) has been confirmed by one and two dimensional 1H- and 13C-
NMR, sequencing by LC-MS and enantiomeric purity via chiral GC-MS, all of which support the chemical 
structure. 
It appears as a white, hygroscopic, amorphous powder. It is sparingly soluble in water and methanol, 
slightly soluble in ethanol and insoluble in non-polar solvents. The pH of a 0.1% solution in water is 4.44 
and of a 1% solution in water is 4.36. No crystalline structure has been identified for eptifibatide and 
therefore, it does not exhibit polymorphism. 
Five of the amino acids present in eptifibatide are chiral, each existing in their natural L-configuration. 
Thus, there are 32 (25) potential optical isomers, 30 of which are diastereomers and 1 of which is an 
enantiomer of the active substance.  
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 8/25 
 
  
  
 
 
The stereochemistry of the AS is controlled via the specification of the starting materials which include tests 
for enantiomers, and is further controlled by appropriate specifications on key synthesis intermediates. In 
addition the five diastereomers of the AS that each containing one D-amino acid, have been synthesized 
and it has been shown chromatographically that none is present in the AS at a level greater than 0.5 %. 
The probability of the pure enantiomer (all five amino acids in their D-configuration) being present is 
virtually nil. 
Finally, the optical purity of the amino acids in eptifibatide has been determined in one batch which was 
hydrolysed into the free amino acids. The enantiomers are separated using a chiral column and detected by 
mass spectrometry. The results obtained in this study confirm the theoretical stereochemistry of eptifibatide 
active substance. 
Thus, although there is the potential for the presence of many optical isomers, the specifications and tests 
on the starting materials, intermediates and the final drug substance provides assurance that they are not 
present in significant amounts. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls  
The information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure. 
Eptifibatide is synthesised in a convergent approach in six main synthetic steps whereby fragments are 
joined together in a specific order to produce the final peptide. The peptide is then purified in two steps and 
it is finally lyophilised and packaged. The originally proposed starting materials (SMs) have been redefined 
and the finally selected six SMs are considered acceptable in line with the principles of ICH Q11. Following 
the redefinition of the starting materials, not all analytical methods have been fully validated. However the 
validation protocol has been provided and the ASMF holder has also provided batch data for 3 historical 
batches of all the redefined starting materials and for the intermediate thus providing sufficient reassurance 
regarding the adequacy of the proposed controls and the quality of the AS. Nevertheless, although this is 
not considered as a quality concern that would prevent approval at this time, the HPLC methods for the 
identification, purity and levels of impurities in the recently redefined starting materials and the redefined 
intermediate should be validated as soon as possible and tabulated summaries of the validation results 
should be registered by way of an appropriate variation within 3 months of the finalisation of this 
procedure. 
The chemistry is well described and various combinations of routine protecting groups are used throughout 
the synthesis to ensure the desired final structure is obtained. The reaction conditions and parameters used 
in the synthetic and purification steps were described in sufficient detail. The lyophilisation process has 
been validated. The critical process parameters for the freeze-drying steps are well described and 
controlled. The purification steps involve standard methods for purifying peptides. The filtration and 
lyophilisation steps were also sufficiently described. Although the AS is not required to be sterile, a 
bioburden reducing filter is used given that the AS will ultimately be used to manufacture a sterile 
parenteral medicinal product.  
The active substance and its impurities have been sufficiently characterised. Potential and actual impurities 
were characterised and are well discussed with regards to their origin and fate.  
The active substance is packaged in high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles closed with polypropylene 
screw caps. The bottles are labeled and then sealed with an adhesive tape before being placed in a low 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 9/25 
 
  
  
 
density polyethylene bag sealed with a heat sealing system. The primary container complies with EU 
regulations and conforms to the Ph. Eur. monograph for plastic containers for parenteral aqueous solutions. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests and limits for appearance (visual), identity (NMR, HPLC), 
specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph. Eur), assay (HPLC), chromatographic purity (HPLC), 
acetate content (IC), residual solvents (GC), palladium (ICP-OES), microbial limits (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The omission of testing for heavy metals other than palladium is acceptable based on batch data showing 
that heavy metals have not been detected above the LOQ in the last 18 batches, and considering the fact 
that no other heavy metal is actually used in the manufacturing process. Tests for optical rotation and 
enantiomeric purity are included for those SMs where isomerism is possible. Since no epimerisation of the 
chiral centres occur during manufacture, no test for stereoisomers is included in the AS specification. The 
analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information on the reference standards has 
been provided. 
Batch analysis results for ten commercial scale batches manufactured by the proposed manufacturer were 
presented. The certificates of analysis of the AS from finished product manufacturer were also presented. 
The results comply with the proposed specification. 
Stability 
Stability data from more than 16 commercial scale batches packaged in the proposed packaging and stored 
under the long term storage condition (-25 ± 7 °C) for up to 72 months and under accelerated conditions 
(25 ± 2 °C / 60% ± 5% RH) for up to 36 months were presented.  
The following parameters were tested: appearance, purity, assay, water content, microbial quality and 
acetate content. Analytical procedures used in stability studies are the same as described for release which 
were shown to be stability indicating. All tested parameters remained within the specification except for a 
noticeable upward trend in water content under long term storage conditions (-25 ± 7 °C) in earlier batches 
which resulted in some out of specification results. In more recent batches, such a trend in water content 
was not observed, with the exception of one batch. This finding is not unexpected as eptifibatide is a 
hydroscopic active substance. The results at accelerated storage conditions where water content is out of 
specification already after 2 months showed that degradation impurities increase and there are out of 
specification impurity results from 9 months onwards. 
Nevertheless it has been further shown that higher water content does not adversely affect the overall 
quality of the active substance i.e. assay, impurities or microbial purity when stored under the long term 
conditions. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that the upward trend in water content observed in 
historical batches has not been seen in five additional more recent commercial scale batches stored under 
long term storage conditions. 
A photostability study on one commercial scale batch conducted as per ICH showed that the substance is 
stable under natural light and exhibited some degradation under UV light. As the AS is packaged in a non-
transparent HDPE bottle, there is no concern relating to its photostability. 
A forced degradation study was conducted using stress conditions of acid, alkali, water, heat, UV and H2O2. 
Various levels of degradation were observed under each of the above stress conditions. Mass balance 
between the main eptifibatide peak and sum of impurity peaks has been demonstrated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 10/25 
 
  
  
In conclusion, a re-test period of 36 months at -25 ± 7 °C when the active substance is stored in the 
proposed packaging is adequately supported by the stability data provided and is accepted. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The development activities were aimed towards achieving a generic, stable formulations of eptifibatide 
solution for infusion 0.75 mg/ml and solution for injection 2 mg/ml in glass vials which are equivalent to 
those of the reference product Integrilin solution for infusion 0.75 mg/ml, and Integrilin solution for 
injection 2 mg/ml. Eptifibatide Accord has qualitatively the same composition as the reference product, a 
comparable impurity profile and similar physicochemical properties.  The compositions of the solution for 
infusion and solution for injection are identical in terms of content per ml for the AS and each of the 
excipients. 
The excipients selected are commonly used in parenteral formulations. Eptifibatide Accord does not contain 
any preservatives or antioxidants. 
The manufacturing process has been optimised with regard to the conditions of AS solubilisation, pH of 
solution and order of addition of excipients in order to minimise the possible degradation of eptifibatide. The 
exact amounts of excipients have been also optimised to ensure the robustness of formulation. It was 
shown that slight variation in excipient quantities does not affect the quality of the final formulation (e.g. 
pH). Finally the pH of the formulation was optimised with regard to the stability of the product over its shelf 
life. 
Terminal sterilization was shown not to be an appropriate method of sterilization because the product is 
sensitive to heat. Hence sterilisation by filtration and aseptic processing is used.The choice of the 
sterilisation method has been well described and is considered acceptable. The suitability of the filters was 
demonstrated and the filtration step has been validated with regard to integrity, chemical compatibility, 
bacterial viability and challenge, and extractables. The bulk solution holding time has been sufficiently 
justified by data and the compatibility of the product with the equipment has been sufficiently 
demonstrated. Finally, the impact of headspace gas on AS degradation was investigated. Although inert gas 
sparging / headspace flushing did not show any obvious advantage over air, nitrogen was selected as an 
extra precaution. 
The product has been found to be light sensitive (see stability below) and precautions are taken to prevent 
exposure to light during manufacturing. 
A freeze thaw study was carried out to study the effects of temperature variations on the product when 
cycled through temperature conditions that simulate the short-term excursions outside of the proposed 
labeled storage conditions likely to be encountered by the drug product during distribution. Based on the 
review of this data, it was concluded that there is no significant impact on product quality which will remain 
acceptable upon unexpected exposure to very low temperature or high temperature which could occur 
during transit. 
The  product  does  not  require  reconstitution  or  further  dilution  in  appropriate  dilution  fluid  prior  to 
administration.  Although  the  data  presented  confirm  the  physical  and  chemical  stability  of  Eptifibatide 
Accord solution for injection after in-use storage at 20-25 °C for 12 hours, it is considered acceptable not to 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 11/25 
 
  
  
include  any  statement  in  this  regard  in  section  6.3  because  the  proposed  warning  “Discard  any  unused 
medicinal product after opening” in the section 6.6 is deemed sufficient. 
Compatibility  studies  have  been  submitted  confirming  the  compatibility  of  Eptifibatide  Accord  solution  for 
infusion  with  sodium  chloride  injection  and  dextrose  5%  in  Normasol  R  with  KCl.  Physical  and  chemical 
stability  of  these  mixtures  have  been  shown  up  to  92  hours  when  stored  at  20-25  °C.  The  submitted 
compatibility studies support the reference to these compatible diluents in the SmPC section 6.6.  
Since Eptifibatide Accord is a generic of Integrilin containing the same active substance and excipients, the 
wording of the SmPC Section 6.6. regarding the physical and chemical compatibility of Eptifibatide Accord 
when administered through an  intravenous  line  with  atropine  sulfate,  dobutamine,  heparin,  lidocaine,  
meperidine, metoprolol, midazolam, morphine, nitroglycerin, tissue plasminogen activator, or  verapamil, is 
considered acceptable as well.  
Eptifibatide Accord is packaged in Type I glass containers with butyl rubber stoppers. The Type I glass 
complies with Ph. Eur. requirements. The stopper complies with Ph. Eur. requirements and appropriate 
compatibility studies have been carried out with the drug product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The main steps of the manufacturing process are cleaning and sterilisation of equipment, vials, stoppers 
and seals, preparation of bulk solution, pre-filtration, sterile filtration of the bulk solution, aseptic filling of 
vials and stoppering, sealing of the vials, visual inspection and packaging.  
Critical  steps  and  process  parameters  that  are  considered  critical  for  the  quality  of  the  product  were 
identified.  The  following  process  steps  and  respective  process  control  parameters  are  defined  as  critical: 
aseptic filtration, sterilisation of materials, vial filling and sealing. Adequate in-process controls are in place 
for this type of manufacturing process including bioburden limit prior to aseptic filtration solution pH, filter 
integrity pre- and post-filtration, fill weight and assay.  
As the manufacturing process is a non-standard one as per the Annex II to the guideline on process 
validation one full process validation on three batches of each strength/ pharmaceutical form of the product 
at the proposed batch size has already been carried out and results have been presented. It has been 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner. 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for this kind of 
dosage form including appearance (visual), identification (HPLC, UV), pH (Ph. Eur.), extractable volume 
(Ph. Eur.), particulate matter (Ph. Eur.), clarity and colour of solution (Ph. Eur.), assay (Ph. Eur.), related 
substances (HPLC), sterility (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The proposed limits in the finished product specification are in line with Ph. Eur. general monograph #0502 
for Parenteral Preparations and the ICH Q6A guideline. The proposed limits of impurities have been set in 
line with the Ph. Eur. general monograph #2034 Substances for Pharmaceutical Use and are considered 
appropriate.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards of active substance and 
impurities has been presented. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 12/25 
 
  
  
 
Batch analysis data was provided on three commercial scale batches of each strength manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site. Results were in line with proposed specifications and confirm the consistency 
of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been conducted on three commercial scale batches per strength manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site and packaged in the proposed commercial packaging in accordance with ICH 
requirements. Stability results were provided for samples stored in inverted position for up to 24 months 
under long-term conditions (2-8 °C) and for six months under accelerated conditions (25±2 °C, 60%±5% 
RH). 
Parameters tested as per the stability protocol were: appearance, colour and clarity of the solution, pH of 
the solution, assay, related substances, particulate matter, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. Analytical 
methods used in stability studies are the same as described for release which were shown to be stability 
indicating. All the results under long term storage conditions met the specification and showed only a slight 
upward trend in individual and total impurities. However, the levels of these impurities don’t approach the 
specification limits after 24 months. Under accelerated conditions, the upward trend in impurity levels are 
more pronounced. There are, however, no significant changes (i.e. no out of spec results) observed 
between 0 and 6 months under these conditions. Based on the 6 month data submitted, it could be 
considered that the drug product could be stable when stored at 25°C. However as the applicant has not 
continued these studies past the 6 month time-points, it is not possible to conclude on this point. The 
choice of the more restrictive storage condition of 2-8 °C is considered acceptable. 
In addition, one pilot batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing. 
The results showed that the product failed to meet the specification for description, assay and related 
compounds thus indicating that the product is highly sensitive when exposed to light conditions (UV & 
visible) as per ICH guidance. As this product is highly sensitive to light, it was required to establish the 
impact of normal room light on product stability. Based on the latter study, it can be concluded that the 
product Eptifibatide Accord 0.75 mg/ml and 2.0 mg/ml is very sensitive even at room light exposure. Hence 
the product should be protected from light within its opaque secondary packaging material until its use. 
Forced  degradation  studies  were  performed  where  samples  were  stress  tested  under  acid,  alkali,  water, 
heat, UV, and oxidative conditions. Various levels of degradation were observed at each of the above stress 
conditions.  Mass  balance  between  the  main  eptifibatide  peak  and  sum  of  impurity  peaks  has  been 
demonstrated. Based on this study, the analytical methods were shown to be stability indicating. 
On the basis of the overall available stability data, the shelf life of 24 months when stored at 2-8˚C in the 
original package in order to protect from light as stated in sections 6.3 and 6.4 of the SmPC is accepted. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  proposed  starting  materials  have  been  re-defined  and  the 
overall  control  strategy  for  the  active  substance  is  acceptable.  The  finished  product  is  manufactured  by 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 13/25 
 
  
  
aseptic  processing  which  is  considered  a  non-standard  process  and  therefore  full  process  validation  data 
have  been  provided  confirming  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the  finished  product  of 
intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  choice  of  the  sterilisation  method  has  been  sufficiently 
justified  and  supported  by  data.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
-the validation of the HPLC methods for the identification, purity and levels of impurities in the recently 
redefined starting materials and the recently defined intermediate should be performed  as soon as possible 
and the tabulated summaries of the validation results should be registered by way of an appropriate 
variation. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature.  
The pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of eptifibatide are well known and have 
been adequately summarised in the Non-clinical Overview.  As the applicant considered this application an 
abridged application claiming essential similarity in accordance with article 10.1.a.iii of Directive 
2001/83/EC to an existing product (Integrilin 0.75 mg/ml and 2 mg/ml solution for injection), no additional 
studies have been provided.  The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Overall, it is considered that the non-clinical overview is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific 
literature.  It is agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
Eptifibatide Accord 0.75 mg/ml & 2 mg/ml solution for injection manufactured by Accord Healthcare Limited 
is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all eptifibatide 
containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 14/25 
 
  
  
expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
No new nonclinical studies were provided. The pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological 
properties of eptifibatide are well known and have been adequately summarised in the Non-clinical 
overview. The non-clinical aspects of the product information are in line with the product information of the 
reference medicinal product. Therefore the CHMP considered the approval of Eptifibatide Accord 0.75 mg/ml 
& 2 mg/ml solution for injection from a non-clinical point of view acceptale. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion and 2 mg/ml solution for injection containing 
eptifibatide. The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as efficacy and safety of eptifibatide based on published literature. The SmPC is 
in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) 
is of particular relevance.  
Exemption  
According 
to  the  Guideline  on 
the  Investigation  of  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), 
bioequivalence studies are generally not required for intravenous solution if: 
- 
- 
the test product contains the same active substance as the currently approved product.  
no  excipients  interact  with  the  drug  substance,  i.e.  do  not  affect  the  disposition  of  the  drug 
substance.  
Eptifibatide Accord is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution that contains the same active 
substance eptifibatide as the marketed product Integrilin. Excipients used in the 0.75 mg/ml and 2 mg/ml 
formulations  are  qualitatively  the  same  as  in  the  Originator.  Any  potential  differences  in  the  quantitative 
content  of  excipients  (e.g  citric  acid  monohydrate  or  sodium  hydroxide)  are  unlikely  to  have  any  impact 
(please refer to the quality assessment for more information). This was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No  new  PK  studies  were presented.  Reference  was made  to  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  product  Integrilin. 
This was considered acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 15/25 
 
  
  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The applicant has not conducted any clinical studies for the application. Instead appropriate data were 
provided to support the claim that the proposed product is essentially similar to the originator. The 
qualitative composition of Eptifibatide Accord is identical with that of the originator and the applicant’s 
proposed SmPCs are compliant with the reference product with no novel claims or dose recommendations. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The  application  contains  an  adequate  review  of  published  clinical  data  concerning  the  clinical  use  of 
eptifibatide  for  the  proposed  indication.  All  data  regarding  safety  and  efficacy  available  for  the  reference 
medicinal  product  also  apply  for  this  application.  The  clinical  sections  of  the  proposed  SmPCs  are  in  line 
with that of Integrilin and were considered acceptable to the CHMP. 
In accordance to the Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) and in the 
case of aqueous intravenous solution, no bioequivalence studies are requested because: 
- 
- 
the test product contains the same active substance as the currently approved product Integrilin. 
no  excipients  interact  with  the  drug  substance,  i.e.  do  not  affect  the  disposition  of  the  drug 
substance. 
The CHMP agreed with this conclusion and considered Eptifibatide Accord 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion & 
2 mg/ml solution for injection approvable from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 2.0 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC advice. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 3.0 with the following content: 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 16/25 
 
  
  
Safety concerns 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 17/25 
 
  
  
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 18/25 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 19/25 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 20/25 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 21/25 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 22/25 
 
  
  
 
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of eptifibatide 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion and 2 mg/ml 
solution for injection. The reference product Integrilin is indicated for  
use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin for the prevention of early myocardial infarction in 
adults presenting with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, with the last episode of chest 
pain occurring within 24 hours and with electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac 
enzymes.  
Patients most likely to benefit from Integrilin treatment are those at high risk of developing myocardial 
infarction within the first 3-4 days after onset of acute angina symptoms including for instance those that 
are likely to undergo an early PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty). 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 23/25 
 
  
  
 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
In accordance to the Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) and in the 
case of aqueous intravenous solution, no bioequivalence studies were requested because: 
- 
- 
the test product contains the same active substance as the currently approved product Integrilin. 
no  excipients  interact  with  the  drug  substance,  i.e.  do  not  affect  the  disposition  of  the  drug 
substance. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Eptifibatide Accord in the following indication:  
Eptifibatide Accord is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin. 
Eptifibatide  Accord  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  myocardial  infarction  in  adults  presenting  with 
unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction,  with  the  last  episode  of  chest  pain  occurring  within 
24 hours and with electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. 
Patients most likely to benefit from Eptifibatide Accord treatment are those at high risk of developing 
myocardial infarction within the first 3-4 days after onset of acute angina symptoms including for instance 
those that are likely to undergo an early PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty) (see 
section 5.1). 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 24/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to 
be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/21867/2016 
Page 25/25 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
