EMA/156583/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006036 
Epysqli (eculizumab) 
An overview of Epysqli and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Epysqli and what is it used for? 
Epysqli is a medicine used to treat adults and children with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH), a disease in which excessive breakdown of red blood cells results in various medical 
complications, including anaemia (low levels of red blood cells).  
Epysqli is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Epysqli is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Epysqli is Soliris. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Epysqli contains the active substance eculizumab. 
How is Epysqli used? 
Epysqli can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given by a healthcare professional and 
under the supervision of a doctor familiar with blood diseases. 
Epysqli is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein over 25 to 45 minutes (adults) or 1 to 4 hours 
(children) every week for the first 2 to 5 weeks and every 2 weeks thereafter. Patients are monitored 
for any reactions during the infusion and for at least one hour afterwards. 
Patients who have no major side effects with the first infusions may be able to have their infusions 
given at home by a healthcare professional. Epysqli should be given for life unless the patient develops 
serious side effects. 
For more information about using Epysqli, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Epysqli work? 
The complement system is a set of proteins that is part of the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences). In patients with PNH, the complement system is over-active and damages the patients’ own 
blood cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Epysqli, eculizumab, is an antibody (a type of protein) designed to attach to 
the C5 protein of the complement system. By blocking C5, eculizumab prevents the complement 
system from damaging cells, thereby helping to relieve the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Epysqli have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Epysqli with Soliris have shown that the active substance in Epysqli is 
highly similar to that in Soliris in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Epysqli produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Soliris. 
In addition, a study in 50 patients with PNH compared the blood levels of the enzyme lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) after treatment with Epysqli and treatment with Soliris. Lower levels of LDH 
mean that the breakdown of red blood cells is reduced. The study found that after 6 months of 
treatment, average LDH levels with Epysqli were similar to those seen with Soliris (about 284 units per 
litre with Epysqli compared with 250 units per litre with Soliris). 
Because Epysqli is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of eculizumab carried 
out with Soliris do not all need to be repeated for Epysqli. 
What are the risks associated with Epysqli? 
The safety of Epysqli has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side effects 
of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Soliris. 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions of Epysqli, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effect with Epysqli (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is headache 
and the most serious side effect is meningococcal sepsis (when bacteria infect the bloodstream, 
causing bleeding of the skin and organs). 
Because of the increased risk of developing meningococcal sepsis, Epysqli must not be given to people 
who have an ongoing infection caused by Neisseria meningitides. It must also not be given to patients 
who are not currently vaccinated against this bacterium unless they have the vaccination and take 
appropriate antibiotics to reduce the risk of infection for 2 weeks after receiving it. 
Why is Epysqli authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Epysqli has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Soliris and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, a study in patients with PNH has shown that the 
safety and effectiveness of Epysqli is equivalent to that of Soliris in PNH. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Epysqli will behave in the same way as Soliris 
in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised use in PNH. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Soliris, the benefits of Epysqli outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Epysqli? 
The company that markets Epysqli will ensure that distribution of the medicine occurs only after 
checking that the patient has been vaccinated appropriately. The company will also provide prescribers 
Epysqli (eculizumab)  
EMA/156583/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
and patients with information on the safety of the medicine and will send reminders to prescribers or 
pharmacists to check the vaccination status of patients.  
The company will provide prescribers and patients with a guide on the safety of the medicine. Patients 
will also be given a ‘safety card’ that explains the symptoms of certain types of infection, instructing 
them to seek medical care immediately if they experience them. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Epysqli have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Epysqli are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Epysqli are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Epysqli 
Epysqli received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 May 2023. 
Further information on Epysqli can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/epysqli.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Epysqli (eculizumab)  
EMA/156583/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
