EMA/13275/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000558 
EPAR summary for the public 
Erbitux 
cetuximab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Erbitux. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Erbitux. 
What is Erbitux? 
Erbitux is a solution for infusion (drip into a vein) that contains the active substance cetuximab. 
What is Erbitux used for? 
Erbitux is used to treat metastatic cancer of the colon or rectum (large intestine). ‘Metastatic’ means 
that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. Erbitux is used in patients whose tumour cells 
have a protein on their surface called epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and contain ‘wild-type’ 
(non-mutated) versions of a family of genes called ‘RAS’. Erbitux is given in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
together with anticancer treatments containing irinotecan; 
together with the oxaliplatin-containing treatment FOLFOX in patients who have not been treated 
before; 
on its own when previous treatment containing oxaliplatin and irinotecan has failed and the patient 
cannot receive irinotecan. 
Erbitux is also used to treat ‘squamous cell’ cancers of the head and neck. These types of cancer affect 
the cells of the lining of the mouth or the throat, or of organs such as the larynx (voice box). In locally 
advanced cancer (when the tumour has grown but has not spread), Erbitux is given in combination 
with radiotherapy (treatment with radiation). In cancer that is recurrent (when it has come back after 
previous treatment) or metastatic, Erbitux is used with a ‘platinum-based’ anticancer medicine 
combination (including medicines such as cisplatin or carboplatin). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Erbitux used? 
Erbitux should only be given under the supervision of a doctor who has experience in the use of 
anticancer medicines in a setting where facilities for resuscitation are available. Before receiving 
Erbitux, the patient must be given an antihistamine and a corticosteroid to prevent an allergic reaction. 
Patients must also be closely observed for any signs of allergic reaction for at least one hour after the 
end of the infusion. 
Erbitux is given once a week. The first infusion is given at a dose of 400 mg per square metre body 
surface area (calculated using the patient’s height and weight) over two hours. The following infusions 
are 250 mg/m2 given over one hour. When it is used on its own or with other anticancer medicines, 
Erbitux is continued for as long as the patient responds. When it is used with radiotherapy, Erbitux is 
started one week before the radiotherapy starts and continued until the radiotherapy has finished. 
How does Erbitux work? 
The active substance in Erbitux, cetuximab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is an 
antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure 
(called an antigen) in the body. Cetuximab has been designed to attach to EGFR, which can be found 
on the surface of some tumour cells. EGFR is involved in switching on genes called RAS that are 
involved in the growth of cells; by attaching to EGFR, cetuximab prevents this from happening in the 
tumour cells and helps stop them growing. Between 79 and 89% of colorectal cancers and more than 
90% of squamous cell cancers of the head and neck have EGFR on their cell surfaces. 
How has Erbitux been studied? 
For metastatic cancer of the colon or rectum, Erbitux was studied in six main studies: 
• 
• 
two studies involved 1,535 patients who had not received chemotherapy before, looking at the 
effects of adding Erbitux to a treatment combination containing either irinotecan or oxaliplatin 
(FOLFOX); a third study looked also at the effects of adding Erbitux to two treatment 
combinations containing oxaliplatin (one of which was similar to FOLFOX) in 1,630 patients. 
three studies involved 2,199 patients whose disease had got worse while they were on 
previous treatment including irinotecan, oxaliplatin or both, or who could not receive these 
medicines. 
For cancers of the head and neck, Erbitux was investigated in two main studies: 
• 
• 
the first study involved 424 patients with locally advanced cancer, looking at the effects of 
adding Erbitux to radiotherapy; 
the second study involved 442 patients with recurrent or metastatic cancer, looking at the 
effects of adding Erbitux to a platinum-based anticancer medicine combination. 
All of the studies looked at how long the patients lived without their cancer getting worse or how long 
they survived. Most of the studies looked at the results separately in patients whose tumours had wild-
type KRAS (one of the types of RAS genes) and patients whose tumours had mutated KRAS. One of 
the studies also looked at the results separately in patients whose tumours carried wild-type forms of 
all RAS genes and patients with mutated forms of any RAS gene. When RAS genes (such as KRAS) are 
mutated they can stimulate the tumour cells to grow without being switched on by EGFR, so Erbitux 
would not be expected to be of much help. 
Erbitux  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
What benefit has Erbitux shown during the studies? 
In the studies of cancer of the colon or rectum, Erbitux was shown overall to increase the time patients 
lived without their cancer getting worse or how long they survived: 
• 
in patients who had not received chemotherapy before, patients who had wild-type KRAS in their 
tumours lived for longer without their disease getting worse when they received Erbitux in addition 
to chemotherapy including irinotecan (9.9 months compared with 8.4 months, on average). In 
patients receiving Erbitux in combination with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy (FOLFOX) 
patients with wild-type RAS lived for longer without their disease getting worse compared with 
patients on FOLFOX alone (12.0 months compared with 5.8 months, on average). However, in the 
third study, patients with wild-type KRAS only survived overall for 16.3 months when Erbitux was 
added to the another oxaliplatin-based treatment similar to FOLFOX, compared with 18.2 months 
when the oxaliplatin-based treatment was used alone. 
• 
the first study in patients who had taken chemotherapy before did not look at RAS mutations, but 
in the other two studies, patients with wild-type KRAS in their tumours lived for longer without 
their disease getting worse when Erbitux was added to their treatment. Patients who had failed 
both oxaliplatin and irinotecan treatment lived for an average of 3.6 months without their disease 
getting worse with Erbitux, compared with 1.9 months in those receiving best supportive care 
alone (the treatment of symptoms but not the cancer itself). Patients who had failed oxaliplatin 
treatment lived for an average of 4.0 months without their disease getting worse with Erbitux plus 
irinotecan, compared with 2.6 months in those receiving irinotecan alone. 
In locally advanced head and neck cancers, the patients lived for longer without their disease getting 
worse when Erbitux was added to radiotherapy (24.4 months compared with 14.9 months, on 
average). In recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer, survival was longer when Erbitux was 
added to a platinum-based anticancer medicine combination (10.1 months compared with 7.4 months, 
on average). 
What is the risk associated with Erbitux? 
The most common side effects with Erbitux (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are skin reactions such 
as rash, hypomagnesaemia (low blood magnesium levels), mild or moderate reactions linked to the 
infusion (such as fever, chills, dizziness and difficulty breathing), mucositis (inflammation of the lining 
of the mouth) and raised levels of some liver enzymes. Skin reactions are seen in more than 80% of 
patients. For the full list of all side effects reported with Erbitux, see the package leaflet. 
Erbitux must not be used with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy for metastatic colorectal cancer in 
patients with mutated RAS or for whom RAS status is unknown. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Erbitux can be associated with severe reactions during the infusion, so the patients must be monitored 
carefully while the medicine is being given. 
Why has Erbitux been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Erbitux’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Erbitux  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Erbitux 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Erbitux on 29 June 2004.  
The full EPAR for Erbitux can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Erbitux, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
This summary was last updated in 12-2013. 
Erbitux  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
