SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Erbitux. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Erbitux  contains  the  active  substance  cetuximab,  a  chimeric  monoclonal  antibody  of  the 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) class that is directed against the human epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR).  With  the  present  application,  the  applicant  sought  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Erbitux, 
either  in  combination  with  irinotecan  or  as  a  single  agent,  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  EGFR-
expressing  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  after  failure  of  irinotecan-including  cytotoxic  therapy. 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  documentation  submitted,  the  CPMP  expressed  doubts  on  whether 
there  was sufficient evidence to establish a positive benefit risk profile for Erbitux  as a single agent 
treatment in the applied indication. Subsequently, the applicant restricted the indication for Erbitux to 
the  combination  treatment  with  irinotecan.  The  scientific  discussion  in  this  report  focuses  on  this 
indication. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer 
Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide, with an estimated 950,000 
new  cases  diagnosed per  year, and  is  the  second  most common  cause  of cancer  mortality  in Europe 
and  North  America.  About  280,000  new  cases  and  150,000  deaths  are  expected  in  the  European 
Economic Area including an enlarged EU, based on projected estimates for the year 2005 1. 
Surgery forms the  mainstay of treatment for stages I and II patients. Radical resection with curative 
intent is appropriate for the majority of patients, whilst 10% to 15% of patients with primary colorectal 
cancer  present  with  synchronous  metastatic  cancer  2.  Despite  curative  surgery,  patients  still  have  a 
significant  probability  of  disease  relapse  and  cancer-related  death.  Comparative  trials  have 
consistently demonstrated a benefit for adjuvant chemotherapy over surgery alone in stage III disease, 
with  disease-free,  5-year  survival  rates  of  approximately  60%.  Radiotherapy  is  often  considered  as 
adjuvant treatment of rectal cancer 2-4. 
About 40 to 50% of patients develop metastatic (stage IV) disease 5,6. Metastatic colorectal cancer is a 
resistant disease, and the long-term prognosis is poor. 5-FU/leucovorin (LV) (including new variants), 
oxaliplatin  and  irinotecan  remain  in  different  combinations  mainstays  in  the  treatment  of  stage  IV 
colorectal cancer. Randomized phase III trials have shown that the infusional 5-FU/FA-based triple-
drug combinations produced response rates of 38 to 58%, a median progression-free survival of 7 to 9 
months,  and  a  median  overall  survival  of  17  to  21  months  7-22.  In  patients  failing  irinotecan-based 
regimens,  oxaliplatin-based  regimens  are  used  in  Europe.  Despite  the  progress  obtained  to  date, 
metastatic  CRC  remains  incurable  except  for  some  rare  cases  in  patients  whose  tumors  can  be 
completely resected after first-line chemotherapy.  
Cetuximab  
EGFR is a member of the ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases. EGFR signalling in tumor cells is 
responsible for regulating a diverse network of cellular functions that influence neoplastic growth. The 
expression of EGFR in human cancer has provided a scientific rationale for the development of EGFR 
antagonists as potentially useful therapeutic agents. Monoclonal antibodies that inhibit EGFR function 
offer  a  specific  class  of  EGFR  antagonists.  The  EGFR  expression  rate  in  CRC  is  reported  to  be 
between 25 and 77%  23. EGFR-expressing CRC tumors are associated with a worse stage and a poor 
prognosis in terms of survival 24-26. 
Cetuximab (also referred to as C225-03, IMC-C225, C225, ch225) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody 
that  binds  with  high  specificity  to  the  extracellular  domain  of  the  human  EGFR.  The  antibody  is 
intended  to  function  as  a  competitive  antagonist  that  inhibits  ligand  binding  to  the  EGFR,  and  may 
lead  to  degradation  of  EGFR.  Preclinical  studies  provided  the  initial  rationale  for  the  clinical 
evaluation  of  the  combination  therapy  of  cetuximab  with  topoisomerase  I  inhibitors  27,28.  Strong 
synergistic  effects  were  observed  when  cetuximab  was  combined  with  irinotecan  compared  to  the 
tumor growth control exerted by the single agents 29. 
1/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
phosphate 
dihydrate 
Disodium 
phosphate 
dihydrate 
Cetuximab  has  been  developed  jointly  by  Merck  KGaA  and  ImClone  Systems  Incorporated/Bristol-
Myers  Squibb  for  the  treatment  of  several  types  of  human  cancer  that  express  the  EGFR,  including 
colorectal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, nasopharyngeal cancer, pancreatic 
cancer, ovarian cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer.  
This  marketing  authorization  application  has  been  submitted  as  a  complete  and  independent 
application (so-called “stand-alone application”), based on article 8.3(i) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The drug product is a sterile liquid formulation (100 mg cetuximab per vial) intended for intravenous 
infusion. The composition of the formulated product and the respective functions and quality 
standards of the various ingredients are summarised in Table A. 
Table A. Composition of cetuximab  
Component  
Cetuximab, 
chimeric antibody 
Amount 
per vial 
Amount 
(mg/ml) 
100 mg 
2 mg/ml 
Sodium chloride 
424 mg 
8.48 mg/ml 
Function 
Quality standards 
Active 
ingredient 
Isotonicity 
agent 
In-house specification 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
20 mg 
0.40 mg/ml 
Buffer 
66 mg 
1.32 mg/ml 
Buffer 
Ph. Eur. 
Water for injection 
ad 50 ml* 
ad 1 ml 
Diluent 
Ph. Eur. 
* 
Action levels of the filling procedure are 50.5 to 52.0 ml of cetuximab solution. This 
overfill, which assures the specified extractable volume of 50 ml, does not represent a 
risk for the patient because the dose to be administered is calculated and controlled for 
each individual patient. 
The drug product is presented at a concentration of 2 mg/ml in 50 ml type 1 glass vials closed with a 
Teflon-coated,  bromobutyl  rubber  stopper.  Both  the  primary  packaging  materials  are  of  Ph.  Eur. 
Quality. 
Active substance 
Production and control of starting materials 
Cetuximab  is  a  chimeric  mouse/human  monoclonal  antibody.  Cetuximab  has  two  N-linked 
carbohydrate  sites  on  both  heavy  chains.  The  molecular  weight  of  cetuximab  is  approximately  152 
kDa  including  carbohydrates.  The  recombinant  protein  is  produced  in  a  stably  transfected  murine 
myeloma cell line.  
A  holding  step,  concentrated  bulk,  is  introduced  during  manufacture  of  drug  substance.  Drug 
substance  is  produced  by  a  simple  dilution  of  concentrated  bulk  in  formulation  buffer.  The 
manufacture  is  performed  at  two  sites  using  similar  processes:  The  ImClone  process  (IC  or  CS-US) 
produces  concentrated  bulk  for  shipping  and  the  Boehringer  Ingelheim  process  (BI  or  CS-EU) 
produces concentrated bulk and drug substance.  
2/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  description  of  the  two  commercial  processes  CS-US  and  CS-EU,  (representing  IC  and  BI, 
respectively) are provided. At each production site one vial of Working Cell Bank (WCB) yields one 
batch  of  concentrated  bulk  material.  This  bulk  can  then  be  divided  or  pooled  to  constitute  the  drug 
substance at 2 mg/ml. 
Cell culture and harvesting 
Cetuximab is produced by cell culture in 10,000 L or 12,000 L scale (IC and BI, respectively) stirred 
tank  bioreactors,  using  batch  mode.  All  cell  culture  steps  upon  thawing  of  WCB  is  performed  in 
serum-free media. Purification 
The cell-free media is concentrated and classified by diafiltration at 0.2µm. 
One  batch  of  fermentation  corresponds  to  one  batch  of  concentrated  bulk  as  obtained  from 
purification. 
The final purification step is diafiltration into formulation buffer. This solution is sterile filtered and 
can  be  stored  1  year  at  2-8o  C.  Final  preparation  of  drug  substance  is  performed  by  dilution  of  the 
concentrated bulk to 2 mg/ml in formulation buffer.  
Gene construct 
The chimeric antibody is encoded from the variable region cDNAs of the murine monoclonal antibody 
M225 and the cDNAs for human kappa and gamma 1 constant regions. The cDNAs are inserted into 
an  expression  vector  containing  separate  expression  cassettes  for  light  chain  and  heavy  chain, 
respectively. 
Cell banking system 
The preparation of established cell banks have been described in sufficient detail and tests performed 
for stability and safety are in agreement with EU guidance. 
A thorough genetic characterisation has been performed on the cell banks of concerns for production 
and includes separate tests of the transcription units for the heavy chain as well as the light chain. 
In  general,  the  extent  of  the  control  for  manufacture  of  this  recombinant  product  is  considered 
adequate.  
The documentation of the cell banks used is acceptable,  
Control of steps 
In-process testing encompass 3 categories of test: 
In-process monitoring, In-process control parameters and In-process specifications. 
The  control  of  cell  culture,  starting  from  inoculum  to  production  fermentor,  is  basically  related  to 
viability and purity from microorganisms. 
Biochemical characterisation  
The  biochemical  characterisation  was  performed  using  state-of-the-art  methods,  including  mass 
spectroscopy. The substance exerts a significant degree of charge heterogeneity. Comparability 
During  the  development  of  the  manufacturing  process  different  process  development  stages  in 
different  manufacturing  sites  have  been  documented.  To  demonstrate  comparability  of  products, 
pivotal  and  supporting  comparability  studies  have  been  presented.  An  extended  characterisation  has 
been performed to demonstrate comparability of commercial and clinical trial batches. The provided 
data are conclusive and demonstrate for instance that a similar extent of charge heterogeneity seen in 
commercial and clinical trials batches of cetuximab.  
Control of drug substance 
The methods and specifications chosen for routine control are adequate.  
3/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
In  addition,  during  the  centralised  procedure  for  marketing  authorisation  of  cetuximab  three 
commercial  scale  batches  together  with  different  standard  materials  have  been  analysed  at  the  Paul-
Ehrlich-Institut.  Tests  included  visual  inspection,  determination  of  pH,  osmolality,  protein  content, 
IEF,  HP-SEC,  SDS-PAGE  (reduced  and  non-reduced),  endotoxin  and  both  potency  assays  (ELISA 
and DiFi).  
The  same  list  of  specifications  is  also  applied  for  drug  product.  The  extent  of  specifications  is 
acceptable.  
Impurities 
Impurities derived from fermentation and purification process are described. Their reduction has been 
evaluated  in  the  process  validation  section  and  their  profile  has  been  evaluated  in  relation  to 
comparability studies performed on commercial scales and intermediate scale. 
Potential  product-related  impurities  in  drug  substance  have  been  characterised  as  being  either 
degradation products, impurities induced by physical stress or aggregation products. 
Drug product 
Erbitux  is  a  sterile  solution  for  infusion,  containing  cetuximab  at  a  concentration  of  2  mg/ml.  Each 
glass  vial  contains  50  ml  solution  (i.e.  100  mg  cetuximab).  Erbitux  is  formulated  as  a  phosphate 
buffered saline (PBS) solution consisting of 10 mM sodium phosphate and 145 mM sodium chloride 
(ph  7.2).  No  other  excipients  are  used  (composition  table  introduced  above).  This  formulation  has 
been used in all clinical trials. 
Container closure 
The packaging components used by CH and BI were obtained from different suppliers. The choice of 
materials for the container closure system is adequate for the stability and use of the product. There 
are no significant differences between the container closure system used in the clinical trials and the 
one proposed for commercial material. 
Microbiological attributes 
Cetuximab drug product is manufactured aseptically and is presented as a sterile solution for injection 
containing no preservatives. All batches are tested for sterility and bacterial endotoxins during release 
of the drug product. The aseptic filling procedure has been validated using media fills. The integrity of 
the  container  closure  system  to  prevent  microbial  contamination  has  been  shown  using  a  dye  bath 
method. 
Product development and finished product 
Erbitux  is  manufactured  simply  by  sterile  filtration  of  the  drug  substance  and  then  filling  it  into  the 
final  container.  The  sterilising  filter  is  validated  specifically.  After  filling  and  capping,  all  vials  are 
visually inspected. Defective vials are rejected. 
Clinical  trial  material  has  been  produced  at  two  sites:  Cardinal  Health  (CH),  formerly  SP 
Pharmaceuticals  in  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico,  USA,  and  Boehringer  Ingelheim  (BI)  in  Biberach, 
Germany. Only the German site will be used for production of commercial material. Minor differences 
in  the  formulation  components  between  the  US  site  and  the  proposed  commercial  formulation)  are 
clearly described and should have no significance for the final formulation. 
The product does not contain an overage but all vials are overfilled (target volume 51.0 ml) to assure 
the specified extractable volume. 
A detailed comparison of manufacturing of cetuximab drug product at Cardinal Health and BI Pharma 
is presented. Pharmaceutical quality of cetuximab drug product manufactured at the two sites can be 
regarded as similar. 
Packaging and labelling are performed by Merck KGaA in Germany. 
Precipitation  of  cetuximab  is  observed  during  storage,  yielding  visible  particles.  Also  sub-visible 
particles  are  present  at  levels  exceeding  the  PhEur  limits  for  parenteralia.  As  pointed  out  by  the 
4/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Applicant, the product is exempted from the PhEur test for sub-visible particles, since it is to be used 
with a final filter. 
The Applicant has shown that the particles consist of cetuximab, do not cause a measurable decrease 
in  protein  concentration  after  filtration,  and  can  be  eliminated  by  filtration.  These  experiments  were 
made  using  a  batch  of  Erbitux  that  had  been  stored  for  over  3  years  and  contained  a  relative  high 
amount of sub-visible particles. It can thus be viewed as a ”worst case” considering particle amount. 
The kinetics of particle formation in Erbitux has been studied by the applicant in three batches for one 
month (data from an ongoing study). The particles are formed already after one day, and after this time 
point no significant increases are seen. Regarding the influence of product age on particle amount, the 
applicant has provided data from analyses of subvisible particles on 16 batches of various ages. The 
influence  of  age  on  the  particle  amount  differs  between  batches,  but  a  possible  trend  is  that  older 
batches have more particles.  
Control of the steps 
In-process controls include filter integrity testing and filling weight control. 
Process validation  
A prospective validation of the manufacturing process has been performed. 
All tests result complied with the pre-defined specifications. The aseptic filling has been validated. No 
vials with bacterial growth were detected. 
Validation of primary packaging material was also done and all results were within pre-set acceptance 
criteria.  
Control of exicipients 
All excipients fulfil the criteria of Ph. Eur. 
Control of the drug product 
The proposed specifications for Erbitux are the same as those for drug substance, with the addition of 
tests for sterility and extractable volume. The comments made above regarding the specifications for 
the drug substance are valid also for the drug product specifications. 
Analytical procedures 
The same analytical package employed for release of drug substance is also used for release of drug 
product  (with  the  exception  of  bioburden,).  Release  testing  of  cetuximab  drug  product  bulk  is 
performed at BI and the product is shipped to Merck KGaA for packaging and labelling. At Merck, an 
identity test by IEF is performed prior to final packaging. 
Validation 
Analytical  procedures  have  been  validated  according  to  ICH  guidelines.  Testing  included  material 
from bulk drug substance as well as drug product. 
Stability of the product 
In  support  of  the  claimed  shelf-life  of  24  months,  stability  data  up  to  15  months  are  available  for 
batches including cetuximab produced at the commercial scale at the US site and up to 9 months for 
batches including cetuximab produced at the EU site. In addition, data up to 30 months are available 
from  supportive  stability  studies,  with  batches  including  cetuximab  produced  at  pilot  scale.  No 
stability problems at 5ºC are seen so far in the studies. Particle amount was originally not monitored in 
the stability studies, but the Applicant has provided particle data on from a number of batches near and 
above the proposed shelf life of 24 months. The data shows that the particle amount in Erbitux batches 
during  shelf  life  is  not  likely  to  significantly  exceed  the  amount  in  the  batch  used  in  the  filtration 
validation.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  include  the  test  for  sub-visible  particles  (PhEur)  in  the 
ongoing stability studies of drug product, and to continue these studies for the duration of the proposed 
shelf life. Data from the finalised studies will be submitted to the authorities. 
Adventitious agents 
TSE risk assessment 
5/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
Compliance  with  the  TSE  Guideline  has  been  widely  demonstrated.  The  active  drug  substance  is 
produced  in  a  serum-free  culture  medium.  The  only  animal  derived  material  added  during 
fermentation of Cetuximab is Bovine Serum Albumin and Bovine Lipoprotein for which Certificates 
of Suitability have been provided. The MCB´s and WCB´s, which have been established, are free from 
TSE-risk substances. 
Virus safety 
The fermentation process of the monoclonal antibody Cetuximab is in a serum-free medium. The only 
animal  derived  material  added  during  fermentation  of  Cetuximab  is  Bovine  Serum  Albumin  and 
Bovine  Lipoprotein  both  tested  for  bovine  viruses.  This  minimises  a  possible  contamination  for 
adventitious viruses. The cells used for production of Cetuximab have been extensively screened for 
viruses.  These  tests  failed  to  demonstrate  the  presence  of  any  viral  contaminant  in  the  MCB  of 
Cetuximab,  with  the  exception  of  intracellular  type-A  and  type-C  retroviral  particles  which  are  well 
known  to  be  present  in  murine  hybridoma  cells  (Sp2/O-).  However,  this  is  acceptable  since  there  is 
sufficient capacity within the manufacturing procedure of Cetuximab for reduction of this type of viral 
particles. Therefore, there are no concerns for the use in the production process of Cetuximab.  
There are two important steps during purification of Cetuximab. The robustness and effectiveness of 
these  steps  for  the  inactivation/removal  of  enveloped  viruses  has  been  demonstrated.  In  addition,  a  
chromatography purification step of the Cetuximab also contributes to the virus safety. However, the 
effectiveness of this step is virus specific and is very low for removal of small non-enveloped viruses 
(MVM).  The  other  chromatographic  steps  might  further  contribute  to  additional  virus  removal 
capacity but this has not been validated. A filtration step also contributes only very limited to removal 
of  small  non-enveloped  viruses.  This  can  be  accepted  since  routine  virus  screening  for  viruses 
including  MVM  is  routinely  performed  at  the  end  of  the  fermentation  runs.  In  summary,  the  virus 
safety of Cetuximab is deemed acceptable. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Introduction 
The  toxicology  program  included  GLP  studies  of  repeat-dose  toxicity,  genotoxocity  and  local 
tolerance. However, validation of the analytical method used for pharmacokinetics, and serum analysis 
of cetuximab were not in compliance with GLP.  
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  conducted  by  the  applicant  with  Cetuximab  included  mainly 
tissue  binding  studies  with  normal  and  malignant  human  tissues,  in  vitro  anti-tumor  activity  studies 
using  EGFR-positive  cancer  cell  lines  and  in  vivo  anti-tumor  activity  in  EGFR-positive  and  EGFR-
negative human tumor xenograft models, and in vivo and in vitro studies on combination therapy with 
Cetuximab and cytotoxic drugs. 
Tissue binding 
The binding affinity of cetuximab and the corresponding mouse monoclonal antibody M225 to human 
EGFR several-fold higher for the chimerised antibody cetuximab than for (Table 1) 
In a non-GLP study, the binding affinity of cetuximab to immobilised soluble EGFR was compared to 
that of M225. The avidity (EC50) of cetuximab binding was about two-fold higher than that of M225. 
Both antibodies bound to the same epitope. Competition experiments showed that cetuximab displaced 
FITC-labelled  EGF  bound  to  human  epidermal  vulva  cancer  derived  cell  line  A431  cells  with  an 
avidity 6-fold higher than that of unlabelled EGF. The EC50 for M225 was only slightly higher than 
for cetuximab. 
6/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  reactivity  of  cetuximab  was  tested  against  cryosections  of  liver  tissue  from  mouse,  rat,  dog, 
Cynomolgus  monkey,  Rhesus  monkey  and  baboon.  Human  placenta  was  used  as  a  positive  control. 
Cetuximab  reacted  only  with  the  positive  control.  Subsequent  studies  using  more  sensitive  methods 
(labelled  cetuximab  instead  of  a  biotinylated  secondary  antibody)  showed  that  FITC-labelled 
cetuximab  had  affinity  to  epithelial  cells  of  Cynomolgus  monkey  and  to  mesenchymal  cells  of  the 
colon, esophagus, fallopian tube, ovary, pancreas, parathyroid, peripheral nerve, spinal cord, stomach, 
testis, thymus, ureter, urinary bladder, and uterus. 
Table 1 Binding affinities of cetuximab and M225 to human EGFR30 
Kd (nM) 
Method 
ELISA 
Receptor form 
cetuximab 
Fixed A431 cells 
0.15 
SPR (Biacore) 
soluble receptor 
0.20 
M225 
1.2 
0.87 
Mechanism of Action 
EGFR 
The EGFR family (Her family) consists of four closely related protein tyrosine kinase receptors, each 
with  a  number  of  synonyms:  (1)  EGFR,  erb  B-1,  c-erb-B;  (2)  erb  B-2/neu,  Her-2/neu;  (3)  erb  B-3, 
Her-3;  (4)  erb  B-4,  Her-4.  EGFR  signalling  in  tumor  cells  is  responsible  for  regulating  a  diverse 
network  of  cellular  functions  that  influence  neoplastic  growth  including  proliferation,  survival, 
damage repair, adhesion, migration, and neovascularisation. EGFR is expressed at various levels in a 
number of human cancers of epithelial origin. Epithelial tumors that commonly express EGFR include 
bladder, breast, cervix, colon, head and neck, kidney, lung, pancreatic, and prostate.  
Specific ligands of EGFR are EGF and EGF-related peptides including transforming growth factor-α 
(TGF-α),  amphiregulin,  and  heparin-binding  EGF-like  growth  factor.  EGF  and  TGF-α,  stimulate 
molecular events necessary for the transition through the restriction point, R, near the end of the G1-
phase of the cell cycle. Once past the R-point, cells are committed to continue through the other stages 
of  the cell cycle, even in the absence of growth factors. Erb B-2, erb B-3 and erb B-4 are receptors for 
the cell-signalling neuregulin proteins. The erb B-2 receptor is overexpressed in a significant number 
of  adenocarcinomas,  and  is  the  target  of  antibody  (trastuzumab)  therapy  of  breast  cancer. 
Overexpression of the erbB-3 receptor is associated with tumorigenesis. 
To  activate  EGFR,  the  ligand  EGF  (a  monomer)  binds  simultaneously  and  cross-links  two  adjacent 
receptor  chains.  The  cross-linking  enables  intracellular  kinase  domains  of  the  receptor  chains  to 
phosphorylate each other on multiple tyrosines. The tyrosine kinase activity of the receptor chains is 
thus  increased  and  will  in  turn  activate  several  signaling  pathways  such  as  the  Ras-induced  MAP-
kinase pathway, the PI3-kinase pathway and the JAK/STAT pathway. 
Excessive EGFR function, through receptor overexpression and constitutive activation (not requiring a 
ligand) of EGFR mutants and autocrine stimulation, have been implicated in a wide variety of cancers. 
Human carcinomas of colon, head and neck, pancreas, lung, breast, kidney, ovary, brain, and bladder 
frequently  overexpress  EGFR.  The  oncogenic  effects  of  EGFR  include  initiation  of  DNA  synthesis, 
enhanced  cell  growth,  invasion,  and  metastasis.  Specific  abrogation  of  EGFR  results  in  cell  cycle 
arrest, apoptosis, and dedifferentiation of cancer cells.  
Mechanism of action of cetuximab 
The direct mechanism of action of cetuximab is the blockade of ligand-receptor binding and thereby 
inhibition  of  ligand-mediated  activation  of  the  EGFR  tyrosine  kinase.  As  a  result  of  this  EGFR 
blockade a variety of processes regulated by the EGFR-signaling pathways in tumor cells or stromal 
cells in the tumor microenvironment were shown to be disrupted. Several such processes relevant for 
the tumor phenotype have been identified in nonclinical models, including EGFR downregulation31,32, 
inhibition of intracellular signalling33, inhibition of cell cycle progression34-39, induction of apoptosis39-
42, inhibition of DNA repair39,43, inhibition of angiogenesis44-55, and inhibition of tumor cell motility, 
invasion  and  metastasis46,50,56.  Stimulation  of  antibody-dependent  cellular  cytotoxicity  (ADCC)  has 
also been described57.  
7/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Preclinical  studies  on  the  effects  of  the  combination  of  cetuximab  and  the  camptothecin  analogue 
topotecan  on  the  growth  behavior  of  GEO  cells  (colon  adenocarcinoma)  in  vitro  and  as  xenografts 
provided the initial rationale for the clinical evaluation of the combination therapy of cetuximab with 
topoisomerase I inhibitors  27,28. The  studies  with  GEO cells were extended in 2 additional colorectal 
xenograft  models  with  the  DLD-1  and  HT-29  cell  lines  and  the  combination  of  cetuximab  with 
irinotecan. In those models, strong synergistic effects were observed when cetuximab was combined 
with irinotecan compared to the tumor growth control exerted by the single agents 29.  
Synergies between receptor signaling and genotoxic agents can be hypothesised based on theoretical 
grounds.  Tumor  cells  can  react  to  genotoxic  treatment  with  an  upregulation  of  the  activity  of  their 
growth factor signal pathways. Growth factor dependent enhancement of DNA damage repair might 
be an important mechanism by which cells try to compensate genotoxic treatment effects 58-61.  
Anticancer activity 
In vivo tumour models 
In immuno-deficient mice, GEO (human colon cancer) cell tumour growth was markedly reduced by 
cetuximab 1 mg twice weekly for 3-5 weeks and even more by a combination of cetuximab and VEGF 
antisense. Tumour growth resumed after discontinued treatment 48. Tumour growth was also inhibited 
by 0.25 mg/dose of cetuximab twice weekly 47.  
According  to the results of a non-GLP  study submitted  by the applicant,  mice with renal carcinoma 
Caki-1 cell i.p. xenografts had an increased survival rate after cetuximab treatment for 4 weeks. The 
number of mice in each group is not given in the report, but probably 6/7 in the control group were 
dead after 8 weeks as compared to 1/7 in the treated group. Another study showed similar results, and 
included tumour volume data from mice xenografted with renal carcinoma SK-RC-29 cells in the right 
flank  29. The 200 mm3 tumour volume reached before treatment started was almost unchanged in the 
treatment group for 5 weeks of treatment plus a further three weeks, therafter tumour growth resumed 
in  these  previously  treated  animals.  In  control  animals,  an  at  least  5-fold  increase  in  the  tumour 
volume was seen after 5+3 weeks.  
Renal cancer ACHN cell subcutaneous xenografts did not grow after initiation of twice weekly 0.25 
mg  cetuximab  treatment,  and  combination  of  cetuximab  and  a  protein  kinase  A  antisense 
oligonucleotide resulted in reduction of the tumour volume, while control tumours tripled in volume 
during the 3 weeks treatment period 62. 
According  to  the  results  of  a  non-GLP  study  submitted  by  the  applicant,  colon  adenocarcinoma 
IMC480rz cell and gastric carcinoma KKVR cell subcutaneous xenograft growth was not significantly 
inhibited  by  cetuximab  treatment.  These  cells  do  not  express  EGFR  and  the  result  supports  the 
hypothesis that the antitumour effect of cetuximab is linked to blockade of EGFR. 
Epidermoid  vulva  cancer  A431  cell  subcutaneous  xenografts  regressed  in  a  dose-dependent  fashion 
after initiation of twice weekly 0.2 to 1 mg cetuximab treatment, while control tumours increased in 
size at least 3-fold during the 5 weeks treatment period30. Treatment with the mouse antibody M225 
had only minor effects and the difference might be due to the lower a higher affinity of the chimeric 
antibody for human EGFR compared to the M225 mouse antibody. By starting the M225 treatment at 
time of inoculation of A431, or shortly after, (rather than at the time of established tumours) tumour 
formation was completely inhibited 63-65. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics  
Specific secondary pharmacodynamic studies have not been submitted. According to the applicant, the 
major  adverse  effects  observed  in  toxicology  studies  with  cetuximab  can  be  clearly  related  to  its 
primary pharmacological effects (i.e. skin reactions due to interaction with EGFR) and as the safety 
pharmacological evaluation yielded no concerns. Secondary pharmacodynamic investigations have not 
been performed. 
Safety pharmacology 
Safety  pharmacology  was  studied  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  in  a  dedicated  study  after  single 
administration, and as part of the 39-week toxicology study. 
8/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
A single-dose safety pharmacology GLP study was conducted to assess cardiovascular and respiratory 
effects  after  administration  of  0,  9.84,  31  and  98.4 mg/kg  of  cetuximab  in  male  anaesthetised 
Cynomolgus monkeys (4 animals per group). The high dose was chosen to be more than 10-fold the 
human therapeutic loading dose level of 400 mg/m2 body surface, and the low dose to be similar to the 
therapeutic dose. The high dose of cetuximab did not elicit any noticeable changes in cardiovascular 
parameters examined. A transient hypotension following administration of the intermediate dose was 
observed in 2 of 4 animals. An increase in heart rate was observed in the low dose group. The effects 
were not statistically significant and not dose-related and thus considered to be of no pharmacological 
relevance. Small gradual increases in the rate and depth of respiration were common to all groups and 
were  not  considered  to  have  biological  significance.  Serum  concentrations  of  cetuximab  were 
measured during 3 hours after infusion. No cetuximab was detected in the serum of control monkeys, 
mean peak serum levels were 246, 765 and 1990 µg/ml for the respective groups. A validated ELISA 
method was used for analysis. 
Safety  pharmacology  endpoints  have  been  incorportated  in  the  design  of  a  39-week  repeat-dose 
toxicology study in Cynomolgus monkeys. Electrocardiography, determination of heart rate and blood 
pressure (pre-dose, week 4, 13, 26 and 39, 1 h after infusion) revealed no findings related to treatment 
with  cetuximab.  There  were  no  apparent  changes  in  respiratory  rate.  In  conclusion,  there  were  no 
indications of an effect of cetuximab on the cardiovascular and respiratory system.  
Effects on the central nervous system (CNS) were not specifically investigated. However, no findings 
indicative of CNS effects were observed within the 39-week repeat-dose toxicity study in Cynomolgus 
monkeys. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  applicant  submitted  the  results  of  a  non-GLP  study  using  xenografts  of  the  human  colon 
carcinoma  cell  lines  DLD-1  and  HT-29,  which  are  poorly  responsive  to  irinotecan,  to  study  the 
combined  effect  of  cetuximab  and  the  topoisomerase  inhibitor  irinotecan.  Cetuximab  (twice  weekly 
during the 8 week study) or irinotecan (100 mg/kg weekly for 3 weeks) alone had little effect on DLD-
1  tumours;  combination  treatment  significantly  reduced  tumour  growth.  Cetuximab  alone  had  some 
activity against HT-29 cells and the combination with irinotecan resulted in significant enhancement 
of the antitumour activity. Histological examination of the tumours showed large areas of necrosis and 
fibrosis.  A  marked  decrease  in  tumour  cell  proliferation  was  observed  after  combined  treatment,  in 
comparison to control or single agent-treated tumours. A marked decrease in tumor cell proliferation 
was  also  observed  in  cetuximab/irinotecan  treated  tumors,  as  measured  by  anti-Ki-67  IHC,  in 
comparison  to  control  or  single  agent-treated  tumors.  In  addition,  a  decrease  in  microvessel  density 
was observed using anti-CD31 IHC. 
Combination  therapy  of  0.25  mg/dose  of  cetuximab  and  2  mg/kg  of  the  topoisomerase  inhibitor 
topotecan  twice  weekly  resulted  in  a  significantly  prolonged  delay  of  tumour  growth  in  mice  with 
established tumours, as compared to either drug alone 28. Furthermore, cetuximab in combination with 
radiotherapy, 10 Gy/day for 4 days, also resulted in a significantly prolonged delay of tumour growth, 
as compared to either treatment alone 66. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic data were collected in studies with the Cynomolgus monkey and in 
rats. 
Methods of analysis 
Serum  concentrations  of  cetuximab  were  determined  via  surface  plasmon  resonance  (SPR)  using  a 
Biacore  instrument.  In  this  assay  soluble  human  recombinant  EGFR  is  immobilised  to  the  sensor 
surface. Test solutions containing cetuximab flow continously over the sensor surface. As cetuximab 
binds  to  the  immobilised  EGFR  a  response  is  registered.  The  SPR  assay  was  accepted  if  the  two 
quality control samples (0.2 and 5 nM, in serum-free buffer) were within 15% of the expected value. 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
9/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Cetuximab  is  administered  intravenously  and  the  bioavailability  is  therefore  100%.  No  studies  have 
been performed to address absorption of cetuximab. 
The  results  of  a  pharmacokinetics  of  cetuximab  after  a  single  intravenous  infusion  to  Cynomolgus 
monkeys were submitted. Groups of 3 male and 3 female animals received 7.5, 24 and 75 mg/kg for 
60 minutes. Samples were taken before infusion, at end of infusion (1h), at 4, 8, 12, 24 hours, and days 
3,  5,  7,  9,  11,  13,  15,  17  and  19  (Table  2and  Figure  1.  Clearance  decreased  and  terminal  half-life 
increased with increasing dose, indicating a saturated clearance at higher doses. Distribution volume 
indicated that cetuximab is mainly located in the plasma volume. 
Table 2 Summary of mean pharmacokinetic parameters after a single infusion 
Dose (mg/kg) 
Gender 
Cmax** (µg/ml) 
Cmax (nM) 
Cmax/Dose ([µg/ml]/[mg/kg]) 
t½ (days) 
AUClast* (µg/ml × h) 
AUCinf/Dose ([µg/ml × h] / 
[mg/kg]) 
CL (ml/h/kg) 
Vss (ml/kg) 
7.5 
24 
75 
M 
166 
1100 
22 
2.7 
10933 
1619 
0.6 
61 
F 
175 
1150 
23 
3.1 
8854 
1354 
0.8 
76 
M 
949 
6200 
40 
4.0 
61113 
2623 
F 
936 
6100 
39 
4.7 
65523 
2877 
M 
2300 
15000 
31 
6.8 
F 
2460 
16000 
33 
6.7 
200753  213637 
3149 
3187 
0.4 
50 
0.3 
48 
0.3 
67 
0.3 
64 
*AUC at the last measurement taken, see figure below.  
**Tmax was at the end of the infusion period. 
Figure 1 Serum concentrations of cetuximab after a single infusion, n=3. 
Toxicokinetics after repeated infusions of cetuximab to Cynomolgus monkeys, (0, 12, 38 and 120 
mg/kg  at  week  1,  subsequent  weekly  doses  0,  7.5,  24  and  75  mg/kg).  No  accumulation  after  daily 
dosing beyond week 4 was observed.  
Distribution 
No  studies  in  a  relevant  species  have  been  performed  to  address  the  distribution  of  cetuximab. 
111Indium-labelled mouse monoclonal M225 was studied in mose xenograft models of human tumours, 
showing specific uptake into the tumours 67.  
10/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and Excretion 
No studies addressing the metabolism and excretion of cetuximab were performed. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No pharmacokinetic studies in non-clinical models of disease were performed. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No single dose toxicity studies were performed in relevant species. Doses of 300 mg/kg in mice and 
200  mg/kg  in  rats  revealed  no  significant  signs  of  toxicity  in  the  parameters  body  weight,  food 
consumption, clinical hematology, serum biochemistry and gross necropsy.  
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The pivotal repeat-dose toxicity study is a 39 week study in Cynomolgus monkeys (study 070-087). A 
4-week study in Sprague-Dawley rats was also conducted (study 54167). 
Study 070-087 
The dosage was based on the human therapeutic starting dose of 400 mg/m2 and subsequent weekly 
doses of 250 mg/m2, which translates to 12 and 7.5 mg/kg for a human ofbody surface area of 1.8 m2 
and 60 kg body weight. The initial doses and subsequent weekly doses were 12 and 7.5 mg/kg for the 
low  dose  group,  38 and  24  mg/kg for the intermediate dose group, and 120 and 75  5  mg/kg for the  
high  dose  group.  Two  additional  animals  were  included  in  the  control  and  high  dose  groups  for 
recovery assessment during 6 additional weeks. Due to 5 deaths the high dose group was terminated 
with one surviving male at 36 weeks, and at 36 weeks plus a 9-week recovery period (2 males and 2 
females). 
Clinical  and  necropsy  findings  indicated  that  the  skin  was  the  primary  target  organ,  with  dose-
dependent  effects  observed  at  all  dose  levels.  Severe  skin  reactions  and  5  intercurrent  deaths  were 
observed in the high dose group.  Due to  moderate to severe skin reactions in all high dose females, 
treatment  of  these  females  was  discontinued  from  weeks  25  to  28.  Following  improvement  in  the 
general health status of these animals, treatment was resumed from week 29. One high dose male was 
found  dead  in  week  30  and  1  additional  male  and  3  females  were  sacrificed  in  moribund  condition 
between  weeks  14  and  35.The  5  high  dose  decedents  displayed  reduced  food  consumption,  body 
weight loss or reduced body weight gain, apathy, prostration and general morbidity preceding death. 
Weight loss of dead or moribund animals was up to 40%. 
The intercurrent deaths were considered to be drug-related due to sequelae of skin lesions as well as 
tongue, nasal cavity and esophageal lesions leading to infection, and impairment of food consumption 
and body weight development. Further sequelae of skin lesions included scale formation at legs, arms, 
extremities, inguinal region and whole body, erythema/redness, swelling, exanthema, dermatitis, hair 
thinning/loss, wounds/fissures, and paleness, which in most cases manifested as the study progressed. 
The  development  of  the  skin  alterations,  their  severity  and  the  incidence  of  the  lesions  were  dose-
related.  The  onset  of  the  skin  toxicity  (scaling)  was  15,  22,  and  64  days  in  high;  mid  and  low  dose 
groups,  respectively.  There  was  no  evidence  of  moderation  of  skin  effects  during  treatment. 
Conjunctivitis,  reddened,  swollen  and/or  incrusted  eyes  observed  in  individual  monkeys  of  the 
cetuximab-treated  groups  can  also  be  interpreted  as  alterations  related  to  the  epithelial  effects  of 
cetuximab. At the end of a 9-week treatment-free recovery period, skin lesions in 4 high dose animals 
were less pronounced but proved to be not fully reversible within this time period.  
Diarrhea  or  soft  feces  were  noted  in  the  majority  of  high  dose  monkeys.  Soft  feces  and/or  diarrhea 
were  also  noted  in  several  monkeys  treated  with  a  single  dose  of  cetuximab  within  the  single  dose 
pharmacokinetic  study.  A  relation  of  cetuximab  to  the  intestinal  disturbances  observed  cannot  be 
excluded.  
Further  alterations  noted  in  high  dose  animals  essentially  comprised  occasional  changes  in  red  and 
white blood cell counts as well as increases in serum enzymes (gamma glutamyl transferase [GGT], 
glutamate dehydrogenase, alanine aminotransferase) and globulin levels and decreases in albumin and 
11/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
albumin/globulin ratio (A/G ratio). The changes observed for GGT, albumin, A/G ratio and globulin 
were  observed  in  the  intermediate  and  low  dose  groups  as  well  and  generally  showed  dose-
dependency. 
Tremor during infusion was observed  occasionally in  few  monkeys, predominantly of the high dose 
group, on days 57 and occured repeatedly until days 225. The cause of this observation has not been 
established; a relation to an immunogenic reaction cannot be totally excluded. Other treatment related 
findings were seen in some animals during infusion on day 22 (hypoactivity & sluggishness).  
Organ  weight  determination  revealed  increases  in  popliteal  lymph  node  and  kidney  weights  in  all 
cetuximab-treated groups. In high dose decedents, elevated weights for adrenals, spleen and liver were 
found additionally. 
Major gross necropsy findings included skin lesions in all cetuximab treated groups that were clearly 
dose-related.  Enlarged  popliteal  lymph  nodes  were  also  noted  in  several  cetuximab-treated  animals. 
Further  gross  necropsy  findings  in  high  dose  decedents  included  enlargement  of  liver,  spleen  and 
kidneys or liquefaction of sternal bone marrow, which were considered to be the result of secondary 
infections. At the end  of the treatment-free recovery period, the occurrence  of  squamous  skin  in the 
high dose group was partly associated with hair loss/alopecia. 
Histopathology  revealed  epidermal  lesions  (circumscribed  to  multifocal)  of  the  skin  in  all  monkeys 
treated with cetuximab. The severity was dose-dependent. The squamous epithelium of tongue, nasal 
cavity and esophagus showed alterations comparable to those observed in the skin in some high dose 
animals.  Pathogenetically  the  skin  lesions  were  considered  to  be  related  to  a  pharmacologically-
mediated  maturation  defect  of  the  epidermis.  This  defect  accounts  for  hyper-,  parakeratosis, 
acanthosis, and acantholysis with clefts, pustules, and vesicle formation. All of these findings can be 
summarized as dermatosis. 
Secondary  bacterial  superinfections,  especially  in  high  dose  animals  caused  an  erosive  to  ulcerative 
dermatitis with subsequent involvement of inner organs due to septicemia, especially in liver, spleen, 
bone  marrow,  and  kidney.  The  degree  of  severity  and  organs  affected  varied  among  animals.  Skin 
lesions  were  still  observed  in  high  dose  animals  at  the  end  of  the  treatmentfree  recovery  period.  A 
microscopic  correlate  to  these  changes  was  found  in  the  presence  of  purulent  superficial  skin 
inflammation at the injection sites.  
Microscopy  of  lymphoid  tissues  (spleen,  thymus,  lymph  nodes)  and  bone  marrow  yielded  no 
indications for an immunotoxicological concern. Thus, no separate immunotoxicity studies have been 
performed.  
Electrocardiography,  determination  of  heart  rate  and  blood  pressure  revealed  no  findings  related  to 
treatment  with  cetuximab.  There  were  no  apparent  changes  in  respiratory  rate.  In  conclusion,  there 
were no indications of an effect of cetuximab on the cardiovascular and respiratory system.  
Study 54167 
In a standard repeated dose toxicity study 0; 2,5; 10 and  40 mg/kg cetuximab were administered to 
groups  of  30 rats (15F+15M) for  4  weeks. Parameters studied  were food consumption/body  weight; 
hematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis. These parameters were not significantly affected by the 
administration of Cetuximab. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
No  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  were  performed.  In  the  39-week  repeat-dose 
toxicity study in Cynomolgus monkeys, examination of individual sexual cycle length from week 25 
onwards,  including  the  treatment-free  period,  revealed  an  impairment  of  menstrual  cyclicity  in 
Cetuximab treated females such as increased incidences of irregular cyclicity or absence of cyclicity 
when  compared  to  controls.  However,  since  pre-treatment  cycles  were  not  evaluated  in  any  of  the 
females  in  any  group,  this  result  cannot  be  confirmed.  Evaluation  of  testosterone  data  and  sperm 
analysis  did  not  show  any  toxicologically  significant  differences  among  the  treated  groups  when 
compared to controls. Histological examinations of organs of the reproductive system in the males and 
females treated with Cetuximab revealed no abnormalities attributable to Cetuximab. 
Genotoxicity 
12/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
In vitro genotoxicity investigations using Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli as test systems 
with and without addition of liver S9 mix as external metabolising system yielded no indications of a 
mutagenic  potential  of  Cetuximab.  Furthermore,  in  an  in  vivo  cytogenetic  assay  performed  as  a 
micronucleus test in male Wistar rats, cetuximab was not genotoxic. The results of the micronucleus 
test  are  considered  of  limited  value  due  to  the  lack  of  immunoreactivity  of  Cetuximab  with  tissues 
from rats 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were performed.  
Local tolerance 
Local  tolerance  testing  has  been  performed  in  New  Zealand  White  rabbits  with  material  originating 
from three different production processes. Cetuximab drug product and the vehicle were administered 
to 12 female rabbits - 6 females received IV, IM, and SC injections and 6 females received IA and PV 
injections  -  as  a  single  injection  of  each  type  of  administration  on  day  1.  Afterwards  animals  were 
observed for 48 hours (3 females that received IV, IM, and SC; 3 females that received IA and PV) or 
96 hours (the remaining 3 females of each group) before their scheduled necropsy.  
No  signs  of  systemic  toxicity  were  observed.  Gross  pathological  and  histological  examinations 
revealed no toxicologically relevant alterations. 
Other toxicity studies 
Immunogenicity 
Antigenicity  was  demonstrated  in  rats  as  expected  for  chimeric  proteinaceous  product.  Antibody 
responses  were  observed  in  3/22  (13.6%)  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  An  effect  on  cetuximab  serum 
concentrations was observed for one of these animals only. The assay for anti-cetuximab response was 
a non-species specific double antigen radiometric assay.  
Immunotoxicity 
No separate studies were performed. 
Dependence 
No studies were performed 
Metabolites 
No studies were performed 
Studies on impurities 
No studies were performed. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No environmental risk assessment was submitted.   
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Comparability  of  the  various  batches  used  in  the  submitted  studies  and  clinical  batches  has  been 
discussed  (data  not  shown).  The  drug  batches  used  in  the  published  pharmacodynamic  studies  have 
not been described. 
Pharmacodynamics  
Although  batch  characteristics  for  the  cetuximab  substance  used  are  not  described,  overall,  there  is 
sufficient knowledge from in vitro studies published in the literature that cetuximab binds to the EGFR 
and to some degree inhibits the signals required for cell growth and expression of angiogenetic factors. 
Cetuximab binds to the EGFR with an affinity that is approximately 5- to 10fold higher than that of 
endogenous ligands. Cetuximab blocks binding of endogenous EGFR ligands resulting in inhibition of 
the function of the receptor. It further induces the internalisation of EGFR, which could lead to down-
regulation of EGFR  (see SPC section 5.1). 
13/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
A  number  of  effects  have  been  observed  on  cultured  cancer  cell  lines  with  respect  to  cell  cycle 
progression,  which  was  arrested  in  the  G1  phase,  induction  of  apoptosis,  inhibition  of  angiogenesis 
and  expression  of  angiogenetic growth  factors, of ras-MAPK-signalling,  of tumour  cell  motility and 
metastasis,  of  cell  proliferation,  of  DNA  repair  after  exposure  to  radiation,  and  of  stimulation  of 
antibody-dependent  cellular  cytotoxicity.  Cetuximab  also  targets  cytotoxic  immune  effector  cells 
towards  EGFR-expressing  tumour  cells  (antibody  dependent  cell-mediated  cytotoxicity,  ADCC). 
These effects are adequately summarised in the SPC (see section 5.1). 
Data  on  cross-reactivity  or  binding  to  the  other  receptors  of  the  EGFR  family,  for  example  erb  B-2 
have not been submitted, and at present, there is no evidence to suggest that cetuximab binds receptors 
outside the EGFR family. However, because of their structural relationship, the other members of the 
EGFR  family  are  candidates  for  a  cross-reactivity  of  cetuximab.  Since  heteromerization  of  the 
members of EGFR family occurs in cell signalling, it is of special interest to know whether cetuximab 
binds  to  any  member  of  the  family  beside  EGFR  and  whether  it  interferes  with  receptor 
heteromerization  and  signal  transduction  of  receptor  heteromers.  The  applicant  has  committed  to 
submit the results of an ongoing study to address this issue.  
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  justification  for  the  lack  of  specific  secondary  pharmacodynamic 
studies. Taking into consideration the findings from the safety pharmacology studies, it is not expected 
that  additional  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  would  contribute  significantly  to  the  safety 
evaluation for potential adverse effects in humans 68. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  justification  for  not  conducting  specific  studies  on  the  effects  of 
cetuximab  on  the  CNS.  Taking  into  consideration  the  nature  of  the  product,  the  specific  receptor 
targeting, and  the  findings from the toxicology studies,  the  justification provided  by the applicant is 
acceptable.  Additional  investigations  such  as  using  a  functional  observation  battery  to  investigate 
effects  on  the  CNS  would  not  contribute  significantly  to  the  safety  evaluation  for  potential  adverse 
effects in humans 68. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The lack of distribution data is acceptable considering the nature of the product.  
Cetuximab is expected to be metabolised following the pathway of antibodies in general, and classical 
biotranformation studies are not needed 69. 
It  is  not  known  whether  cetuximab  is  excreted  in  breast  milk.  Low  levels  of  maternal  IgG  are  also 
found in breast milk of normal humans70,71, including xenogenic IgG72. Therefore, besides a placental 
passage, a transfer of cetuximab into breast milk cannot be excluded. It is recommended that women 
do not breast-feed during treatment with Erbitux and for 1 month after the last dose (see SPC, section 
4.6). 
No  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  non-clinical  models  of  disease  were  performed.  Given  the  extensive 
clinical  data  available  (see  Part  IV,  Clinical  aspects),  which  allow  the  provision  of  adequate 
information in the SPC (see section 5.2), additional non-clinical studies are not required. 
Toxicology 
A comprehensive 39-week repeat-dose toxicology study in the Cynomolgus monkey was conducted.  
The study was of adequate duration in line with applicable requirements 73,74.  
In this study, severe toxicity was observed with cetuximab. Dose-related skin lesions were observed in 
all animals. Occasionally other epithelial effects e.g. conjunctivitis, reddened and swollen eyes were 
noted,  as were signs  of intestinal disturbances. Half  of the animals in the high  dose  group died as  a 
result of the treatment, which caused lesions of the skin, tongue, nasal cavity and oesophagus.  
Pathogenetically  the  skin  lesions  were  considered  to  be  related  to  a  Cetuximab  induced  maturation 
defect  of  the  epidermis.  This  defect  accounts  for  hyper-,  parakeratosis,  acanthosis,  and  acantholysis 
with  clefts,  pustules,  and  vesicle  formation,  summarised  as  dermatosis.  Secondary  bacterial 
superinfections,  especially  in  high  dose  animals  caused  an  erosive  to  ulcerative  dermatitis  with 
subsequent involvement of inner organs due to septicemia, especially in liver,  spleen, bone  marrow, 
and kidney.  
14/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
The  results  of  the  39-week  toxicology  study  were  in  general  agreement  with  those  obtained  from 
human clinical trials, where skin reactions were observed in >80 % of patients receiving cetuximab in 
the target indication studies and approximately 14 % experienced a grade 3 or 4 toxicity (see Part IV, 
Clinical aspects). However, obvious hypersensitivity reactions were not noted in the chronic primate 
toxicology study whereas this adverse event was of most clinical concern in humans. 
The Cynomolgus monkey was considered an appropriate species for safety testing of cetuximab. The 
similarity  of  adverse  reactions  seen  in  monkeys  and  humans  supports  this  notion.  However, 
information  about  the  binding  affinity  of  cetuximab  to  monkey  EGFR  relative  to  human  EGFR  is 
lacking, and this makes the evaluation of the toxicology findings difficult. 
Based on pharmacodynamic data, a potentiation of the toxicity of cetuximab in combination could be 
expected (although  this has not been observed in the clinical studies). No toxicological  studies  have 
investigated  the  the  co-administration  of  cetuximab  and  irinotecan.  The  applicant  has  committed  to 
submit  further  clinical  data  on  the  combination  of  cetuximab  and  irinotecan  generated  in  the 
ongoing/planned  phase  III  studies.  These  studies  will  allow  assessment  of  potential  interactions  of 
cetuximab and irinotecan in more than 1,000 patients over prolonged periods of time. Thus, the lack of 
non-clinical  invistigations  on  the  toxicity  of  co-administration  with  irinotecan  has  been  adequately 
justified by the applicant. 
Toxicology  studies  revealed  no  cardiovascular  and  respiratory  effects.  However,  it  is  possible  that 
non-clinical studies are not suitable for evaluation of cardiovascular effects mediated by receptors of 
the EGFR family, and that the risk assessment must be based on clinical data. The clinical experience 
with trastuzumab (a humanised monoclonal antibody to the erb B-2 receptor, which is closely related 
to  EGFR),  has  revealed  cardiotoxicity  (particularly  when  combined  with  anthracyclines)  as  a  main 
safety  concern75-78.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  include  the  potential  risk  of  cardiotoxicity  in  its 
safety surveillance programme. 
Genotoxicity  studies  would  normally  not  be  required  for  pure  proteins  other  than  growth  factors  79. 
However, since cetuximab was shown to induce redistribution from the nucleus to the cytosol of the 
enzyme  DNA-dependent  protein  kinase43,  which  repairs  breaks  in  DNA,  the  applicant  decided  to 
perform a partial genotoxicity study using in vitro and in vivo assays in terms of an AMES test and a 
rat micronucleus test. No genotoxic potential of Cetuximab was observed. 
No standard carcinogenicity studies were performed with cetuximab as these are generally considered 
inappropriate for biotechnology-derived products79. The patient population targeted within the current 
indication  comprises  male  and  female  adults  suffering  from  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  with 
palliative treatment options only (and the disease being at a life-threatening stage) and an anticipated 
life-expectancy of generally less than 1 year. Based on the life-expectancy in the intended therapeutic 
indication, no long-term carcinogenisity studies are required80. Rodents were considered unsuitable for 
toxicity testing of cetuximab in consideration of the potential immunogenic responses to a humanised 
protein.  In  addition,  there  were  no  concerns  regarding  carcinogenicity  from  the  results  of  the 
genotoxicity  studies  and  the  chronic  toxicity  study  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys,  so  that  the  lack  of 
carcinogenicity studies seems justified80. 
Based  on  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  study,  there  are  no  serious  concerns  regarding  reproductive 
toxicity  as  the  only  alteration  possibly  related  to  treatment  with  cetuximab  was  an  impairment  of 
menstrual cyclicity. Studies of toxicity to reproduction are not required for anticancer agents, since it 
is assumed that reproductive occurrences are generally expected 81.  
EGFR has been described as being implicated in the control of prenatal development such that EGFR 
may be essential for fertility and implantation as well as normal organogenesis and may play a role in 
proliferation and differentiation. Since antibodies of the IgG class are actively transported across the 
placenta,  cetuximab  might  be  transported  across  the  placental  barrier.  Additionally,  considerable 
immunoreactivity of cetuximab was observed with placental probes of human or Cynomolgus monkey 
origin. Cetuximab should not be given to pregnant patients unless the potential benefit for the mother 
outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. It is also recommended that females should not breast-feed 
during cetuximab treatment or for 1 month after the last dose (see SPC section 4.6). 
The local tolerance studies submitted by the applicant are not informative because the species (rabbit) 
is  not  considered  relevant.  In  the  pivotal  repeated  dose  toxicity  study  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys 
15/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
purulent superficial skin inflammation at the injection sites were detected. Given the extensive clinical 
experience available, further local tolerance testing are not required 81. 
For  EGFR  inhibitors  no  immunotoxicological  profiles  have  been  reported.  This  seems  to  be  in  line 
with the lack of EGFR expression on immune cells. Nevertheless immunomodulatory effects of EGFR 
inhibitors  cannot  be  excluded  entirely.  From  limited  published  data  it  can  be  speculated  that  EGFR 
inhibitors  might  interfere  with  the  epitheliotrophic  functions  of  EGFR  in  primary  and/or  secondary 
immune organs  82-84. No significant hematological aberrations were observed so far in patients under 
cetuximab monotherapy. No formal studies on immunotoxicological effects of cetuximab are planned 
in  nonclinical  primate  models.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  specific  monitoring  of  the 
effects  of  Erbitux  treatment  on  haematological-immunotoxicological  parameters  in  ongoing  and 
planned clinical trials. 
EGFR signalling blockade before antigen challenge can enhance the immune response with increased 
chemokine  expression  and  heavier  inflammatory  cell  infiltrate85.  EGFR  targeting  will  thus  have  an 
impact  on  inflammatory  and  immune  responses.  Depending  on  the  disease  and  the  role  of  EGFR 
signalling in that disease, the outcome could be adverse, no effect or beneficial. Patients with medical 
histories of inflammatory diseases, should be assessed for any possible aggravation of these conditions 
following Erbitux treatment in ongoing and planned clinical studies. The applicant has committed to 
conduct specific monitoring of the effects of Erbitux treatment on underlying inflammatory disorders 
in ongoing and planned clinical trials. 
No  environmental  risk  assessment  was  submitted.  Considering  the  intended  use,  the  metabolic 
pathways  of  antibodies  in  general  and  the  ubiquitous  presence  of  decomposing  organisms,  no 
environmental concerns are expected with use of cetuximab. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
A  total  of  19  Phase  I/II  studies  have  been  submitted  evaluating  the  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  of 
intravenously administered cetuximab in 906 cancer patients. The documentation on clinical efficacy 
is  based  on  three  phase  II  clinical  trials:  EMR  62  202-007  (pivotal),  IMCL  CP02-9923,  and  IMCL 
CP02-0141.  Clinical  trials  were  conducted  according  to  the  principles  of  Good  Clinical  Practice 
(GCP). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  PK  profiles  of  cetuximab  have  been  investigated  after  administration  of  single  or  multiple 
intravenous  (iv)  doses  in  cancer  patients.  Results  from  individual  studies  were  analysed  by  non-
compartmental PK analysis. Results of all studies were analysed by a population PK approach with a 
total of 8388 concentration values. 
All  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  in  cancer  patients  with  different  solid  tumours  of 
epithelial  origin.  In  most  studies,  only  patients  with  EGFR  positive  tumours  were  included.  A 
diagnostic  assay  (EGFR  pharmDxTM)  was  used  for  immunohistochemical  detection  of  EGFR 
expression  in  tumour  material.  Approximately  80%  of  the  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer 
screened for clinical studies had an EGFR-expressing tumour and were therefore considered eligible 
for  cetuximab  treatment.  Four  of  the  target-dose  studies  were  performed  in  patients  with  colorectal 
cancer.  In  the  studies  where  full  pharmacokinetic  profiling  was  performed,  the  mean  age  ranged 
between  50  and  64  years  (range  22  –  86  years).  No  formal  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  were 
conducted due to the risk of hypersensitisation.  
Summaries of single- and multiple dose pharmacokinetic parameters of cetuximab as monotherapy at 
the  target  dose  are  presented  in  Table  3  and  Table  4.  The  exposure  to  cetuximab  was  similar  when 
cetuximab was administered in combination with irinotecan. 
Intrasubject  variability  was  not  determined.  The  inter-individual  variability  was  wide  spread  and 
ranged  from  approximately  30-100%  in  study  CP02-9502  to  4-50%  in  study  CP02-9607.  The 
interpatient variability of the PK parameter estimates from the population PK analyses ranged between 
6% and 40%.  
16/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic parameters of cetuximab after single doses of 400 or 500 mg/m2 as 
monotherapy (target-dose study IMCL CP02-9710 and dose-escalation studies CA225004 and 
CA225005) (modified from clinical summary) 
Parameter 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
AUC0-∞  
(µg /ml*h) 
t1/2 (h) 
Dose (mg/m²)
400 
400 
Study IMCL CP02-9710  CA225 004, 005 
Mean (S.D.) 
167.83 (45.47) 
226.14 (61.62) 
N 
35 
10 
Mean (S.D.) 
19263 (6878) 
22051 (8413) 
N 
33 
10 
Mean (S.D.) 
93.53 (35.14) 
87.03 (19.13) 
N 
33 
10 
CL (L/hr/m²) 
Mean (S.D.) 
0.024 (0.009) 
0.021 (0.008) 
N 
33 
10 
Vss (L/m²) 
Mean (S.D.) 
3.04 (0.95) 
2.51 (1.03) 
N 
33 
10 
Table 4. Combined pharmacokinetic parameters of cetuximab from different studies at the target dose 
400/250 mg/m2, once weekly dosing (modified from clinical summary).  
Studies 
AUC (µg/ml*h) 
CL (L/h) 
Statistic 
Weeks 
Vss (L) 
t1/2 (h) 
1 
3 
4 
IMCL CP02-
9503, 9504, 
9607, 9608, 
9709, 9710; 
CA225004, 005 
IMCL CP02-
9709 and EMR 
62 202-012 
IMCL CP02-
9607, 9608 and 
EMR 62 202-
012 
N 
Mean 
S.D. 
N 
Mean 
S.D. 
N 
Mean 
S.D. 
53 
0.022 
0.009 
8 
0.020 
0.006 
13 
0.017 
0.006 
53 
21142 
8657 
8 
22723 
10313 
11 
24329 
11202 
53 
97.24 
37.38 
8 
123.25 
41.39 
11 
108.09 
29.32 
53 
2.88 
0.93 
8 
2.30 
0.83 
11 
2.00 
0.59 
(cid:131)  Distribution 
The mean volume of distribution at steady state, Vss, was about 2-3 L/m2 at the target dose (absolute 
values  about  4-6.5  L),  suggesting  distribution  only  within  the  vascular  space.  The  volume  of 
distribution was independent of dose. 
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis,  the  estimated  volumes  of  the  central  and  peripheral 
compartments  were  4.49  and  4.54  L,  respectively,  with  a  27%  reduction  in  the  typical  value  of  the 
central volume in females. Total Vss from the population analysis was, thus, about 9 L.  
Plasma protein binding studies were not performed.  
(cid:131)  Elimination 
The elimination pathways of cetuximab have not been specifically studied.  
(cid:131)  Dose proportionality 
Single-dose pharmacokinetics of cetuximab as monotherapy at different doses was evaluated in three 
studies. Doses from 5 to 500 mg/m2 were administered as single infusion, and plasma sampling was 
performed  during  3  or  4  weeks  after  dosing.  In  all  three  studies,  Cmax  increased  in  a  dose-related 
manner, while AUC increased more than dose proportionally. Mean CL values decreased from 0.079 
L/h/m2 after a single dose of 20 mg/m2 to 0.018-0.022 L/h/m2 after a single dose of 200-500 mg/m2. 
These observations were supported by the population PK, indicating that following single infusions in 
the range of 250 to 500 mg/m2 the clearance tends to become constant. A dose-dependant relationship 
17/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  also  observed  for  the  elimination  half-life  (t1/2).  The  mean  t1/2  values  increased  with  dose  from 
33.9 h to 119.4 h after single doses of 20 mg/m2 to 500 mg/m2. At the target dose, 400/250 mg/m2, t1/2 
values were about 80-120 hr.  
•  Time dependency 
Peak  and  trough  concentrations  of  cetuximab  were  determined  after  up  to  eight  weekly  doses.  No 
apparent  changes  in  pharmacokinetics  of  cetuximab  over  time  at  repeated  dosing  were  observed.  In 
general, the peak and trough concentration appeared to be stable from dose three or four and onwards, 
which is consistent with a half-life of about 100 hours.  
•  Antibody formation  
Anti-cetuximab  antibodies  (HACA)  data  were  available  from  a  total  of  534  patients.  Most  of  these 
patients were treated at target dose. The incidence of positive antibody response in individual studies 
was  variable  and  did  not  follow  a  clear  trend.  In  total,  only  20  patients  (3.7%)  displayed  positive 
HACA  responses.  Data  from  two  patients  indicated  that  anti-cetuximab  antibody  response  leads  to 
lower cetuximab exposure. There was no clear relationship between response incidence and cetuximab 
dose.  
(cid:131)  Special populations 
There  are  no  formal  studies  in  special  patient  sub-populations,  but  a  population  pharmacokinetic 
analysis was performed. The database included data from all cetuximab studies with pharmacokinetic 
sampling.  The  final  dataset  contained  8388  observations  from  906  patients,  and  from  19  studies. 
Approximately 45% of the observations came from three studies (CP02-9504, CP02-9710 and EMR 
202-007). A two-compartment model with a single saturable elimination pathway was finally selected. 
Adding a linear elimination pathway to the model only marginally improved the model, and the linear 
pathway was estimated to be more than 30 times slower than the saturable pathway. 
Impaired renal function 
Only 49 and 4 patients (of total 906) had moderate and severe impairment, respectvely. Renal function 
(based  on  CLcr)  was  not  identified  as  an  important  factor  for  cetuximab  pharmacokinetics.  The 
median CLcr in the population was 93.3 ml/min with the range 6.7 to 150 ml/min.  
Impaired hepatic function 
More than 90 % of the patients had normal hepatic function, as assessed by AST and total bilirubin 
levels.  Thus,  influence  of  hepatic  function  on  cetuximab  pharmacokinetics  could  not  be  adequately 
estimated.  
Gender 
Of  the  patients  included  in  the  final  dataset,  578  were  male  (63.8%)  and  328  were  female  (36.2%). 
Gender  was  identified  as  a  significant  co-variate  for  volume  of  the  central  compartment  (absolute 
volume) and for CL (Vmax and Km). However, the effect did not necessitate dose adjustments based on 
gender.  
Race 
The  majority  of  patients  included  in  the  integrated  pharmacokinetic  database  were  Caucasian  (815 
patients, representing 90%). An evaluation of impact on race could not be made.  
Weight 
The median weight was 73.5 kg, range 36.8 to 167 kg. Weight and BSA were identified as significant 
co-variates for volume of the central compartment.  
Elderly 
The median age was 60 and 57 years for males and females, respectively. The age range was 22 to 88 
years.  Age  did  not  seem  to  have  an  impact  on  volume  of  distribution  (absolute  volume)  or  CL  of 
cetuximab.  
18/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
Children 
There are no pharmacokinetic data for children.  
Interaction studies 
In  an  interaction  study  with  irinotecan  (Study  EMR  62  202-012),  cetuximab  and  irinotecan  were 
administered at the therapeutic dosages. Effects of cetuximab on pharmacokinetics of irinotecan and 
its  active  metabolite  SN-38  were  assessed  in  patients  who  received  irinotecan  day  1  and  22,  and 
cetuximab  day  8,  15  and  22.  Effects  of  irinotecan  on  cetuximab  were  evaluated  in  another  group, 
receiving cetuximab on day 1, 8, 15 and 22 and irinotecan on day 22. Statistical analysis of the data 
was  not  performed,  but  there  were  no  apparent  changes  in  pharmacokinetics  of  either  irinotecan  or 
cetuximab, when administered together with the other drug. For  SN-38 the variability was large and 
since only samples around Tmax had SN-38 levels above LLQ, a meaningful analysis of data could not 
be  made  for  the  metabolite.  A  possible  impact  of  co-administered  chemotherapies  and  radiation 
therapy  on the PK of  cetuximab  was  evaluated  in the  population pharmacokinetic analysis (data  not 
shown). 
Discussion on pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of cetuximab were investigated in patients with solid, epithelial tumours using 
adequately validated assays. A population pharmacokinetic analysis was conducted using appropriate 
modelling  techniques.  Comparability  of  all  investigated  materials  was  demonstrated  with  regard  to 
their  structure  and  function.  The  manufacturing  processes  were  also  comparable.  An  integrated 
pharmacokinetic database analysis across all studies confirmed these findings showing that the use of 
different materials results in comparable PK profiles of cetuximab (data not shown). 
Cetuximab has a long elimination half-life with values ranging from 70 to 100 hours at the target dose. 
Cetuximab  serum  concentrations  reached  stable  levels  after  three  weeks  of  cetuximab  monotherapy. 
Mean  peak  cetuximab  concentrations  were  155.8 microgram  per  ml  in  week 3  and  151.6 microgram 
per  ml  in  week 8,  whereas  the  corresponding  mean  trough  concentrations  were  41.3  and 
55.4 microgram  per  ml,  respectively.  In  a  study  of  cetuximab  administered  in  combination  with 
irinotecan,  the  mean  cetuximab  trough  levels  were  50.0 microgram  per  ml  in  week 12  and 
49.4 microgram  per  ml  in  week 36  (see  SPC  section  5.2).  The  interpatient  variability  was  generally 
large. 
Throughout  the  clinical  development,  cetuximab  was  dosed  based  on  body  surface  area  (BSA).  The 
accuracy  of  this  regimen  has  not  been  convincingly  demonstrated.  The  population  pharmacokinetic 
analysis  did  indicate  a  relationship  between  weight  as  well  as  BSA  and  cetuximab  volume  of 
distribution,  but  not  with  clearance.  Simulations  of  plasma  concentrations  in  patients  with  different 
BSA indicated that higher steady state concentrations are reached in patients with a large BSA, while 
observed  trough  concentrations  did  not  seem  to  correlate  with  BSA.  The  estimated  clearance  was 
slightly higher in men than in women, which to some extent may be explained by gender differences 
in  body  weight.  The  effect  was  minor,  and  small  compared  to  the  overall  variability.  Consequently, 
dosing  based  on  BSA  is  not  supported  by  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  and  a  risk  for 
underexposure  in  patients  with  a  small  BSA  cannot  be  completely  excluded.  Indeed,  a  tendency  to 
higher  incidence  of  skin  reactions  in  patients  with  larger  BSA  has  been  observed.  The  Applicant 
therefore intends to further evaluate a potential difference in exposure depending on BSA, when more 
data become available from ongoing and planned clinical studies. 
target 
No  metabolism  or  mass-balance  studies  have  been  performed,  and  this  is  acceptable  since 
biotechnology-derived  pharmaceuticals  are  expected  to  degrade  into  small  peptides  and  individual 
amino  acids  79.  Several  pathways  have  been  described  that  may  contribute  to  the  metabolism  of 
antibodies.  Targeted  antibodies  such  as  cetuximab  disappear  from  the  central  compartment  via  a 
specific,  saturable 
receptor/ligand 
internalization86-88. At a certain serum concentration, the EGF receptors will become saturated. At this 
point, second, non-saturable, unspecific elimination becomes apparent, as indicated by the observation 
that  CL  and  t1/2  values  remain  constant.  This  elimination  pathway  is  common  for  all  antibodies. 
Antibodies are usually recognized by several receptors that have binding affinities to either the protein 
and  carbohydrate  moieties  on  the  Fc  region.  Binding  of  antibodies  to  these  receptors  is  usually 
followed  by  internalization  and  further  catabolism  89,90.  This  process  of  antibody  catabolism  is 
19/47 
(antigen)  specific  elimination  process  based  on 
EMEA 2004 
 
believed  to take  place primarily in  the intestine, the liver  and the reticuloendothelial system.  Due  to 
the very large number of receptors in the body it is believed that these receptors are not saturable at 
cetuximab doses that were applied in clinical studies. All of these pathways involve the biodegradation 
of the antibody to smaller molecules, i.e. small peptides or amino acids (see SPC section 5.2). 
Plasma  protein  binding  studies  were  not  performed.  Such  studies  are  not  considered  necessary  as 
significant binding to plasma proteins in not expected for a humanised monoclonal IgG1 antibody.  
The  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  showed  that  the  overall  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of 
cetuximab did not appear to be importantly influenced by race, age, gender, renal or hepatic status (see 
SPC  setion  5.2).  However,  due  to  the  low  number  of  patients  with  significantly  impaired  renal  or 
hepatic  function  included  in  the  analysis,  conclusions  regarding  these  populations  cannot  be  drawn. 
Moreover,  the  relevance  of  the  two  chosen  markers  for  hepatic  function  for  all  types  of  hepatic 
impairment might be questioned. The lack of data is adequately refelected in the SPC (see section 4.4 
and 5.2).  
Only one formal interaction study has been performed, with cetuximab and irinotecan. No effects were 
seen  on  either  cetuximab  or  irinotecan  pharmacokinetic  parameters  when  the  two  were  given  in 
combination (see SPC, section 4.5). According to the population pharmacokinetic analysis there were 
no effects of other concomitant cytotoxics or irradiation on cetuximab pharmacokinetics, but for most 
of the concomitantly used treatments, there were too few  patients to draw  definite conclusions (data 
not shown). However, the potential for pharmacokinetic interactions with cetuximab is expected to be 
small. Thus, the lack of other formal interaction studies than that with irinotecan is accepted.  
Like other monoclonal antibodies Cetuximab has the potential to induce an immune response and to 
form  antibodies  when  administered  to  patients.  Most  study  protocols  included  sampling  for 
determination of anti-cetuximab antibodies (HACA). The analysis methods for HACA are considered 
at  best  qualitative,  and  large  amounts  of  cetuximab  still  present  in  the  samples  may  have  interfered 
with the analysis, masking a positive antibody response. Thus, data regarding antibody formation are 
difficult to interpret. The data indicate that only few patients (3.7%) had a positive antibody response 
to cetuximab treatment. Data from two patients indicate that anti-cetuximab antibody response leads to 
lower  cetuximab  exposure.  Thus,  the  observations  that  cetuximab  pharmacokinetics  do  not  change 
over  time  may  support  a  low  frequency  of  antibody  response.  The  appearance  of  HACA  did  not 
correlate with the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions or any other undesirable effect to cetuximab 
(see  SPC,  section  5.1).  However,  there  remain  potential  effects  of  antibodies  on  the  results  of  the 
cetuximab  assays.  Serum  from  patients  with  high  titres  of  antibodies  did  not  inhibit  cetuximab-
induced effects on cell growth in vitro.  The lack of conclusive data has been adequately reflected in 
the SPC (see section 5.1). 
Pharmacodynamics 
Two studies were performed to evaluate the pharmacodynamics of cetuximab: IMCL CP02-9608 and 
CA225005. 
In study IMCL CP02-9608 tumour tissues from 12 patients were obtained at baseline, 24 hours after 
the initial infusion and 24 hours before the third infusion in order to assess tumour EGFR binding and 
function.  Results  of  immunohistochemistry  indicated  saturation  by  cetuximab  of  tumour  EGFR  of 
between 10 and 95 % depending on dose.  
In  study  CA225005,  with  PK  data  collected  for  26  patients,  the  PK/pharmacodynamic  relationships 
were investigated in skin and tumor biopsies after single cetuximab doses of 50 to 500 mg/m². Single 
doses of cetuximab at 250, 400, and 500 mg/m² resulted in decreases of EGFR protein levels in skin. 
The  administration  of  cetuximab  doses  lower  than  250  mg/m²  resulted  in  a  slight  increase  in  EGFR 
protein  levels.  EGFR  receptor  saturation  could  not  be  reliably  determined.  Attempts  were  made  to 
investigate expression of related down-stream proteins. Results were, however, inconclusive. 
In addition, the relationship between cetuximab serum concentrations after the target dose and efficacy 
were  investigated  in  the  integrated  PK  database  analysis.  No  association  between  clearance  and 
efficacy was observed. 
Dose finding 
20/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
The maximum tolerated dose was not reached in the clinical dose-escalation studies. The chosen dose 
and dosing regimen are based on the results of the PK analysis in combination with the efficacy and 
safety  data  generated  in  the  clinical  studies.  Based  on  the  PK  data  (half  life  of  about  4  days,  no 
relevant accumulation), a weekly regimen is expected to give a predictable PK for cetuximab using the 
target dose. Cmax and AUC values increased linearly with dose, while the CL values at the target dose 
are  approximately  0.02  L/h/m2.  The  pharmacokinetic  behavior  of  cetuximab  appeared  to  remain 
similar  after  multiple  dosing.  A  concentration  dependent  decrease  in  clearance,  interpreted  as 
saturation  of  receptor  mediated  clearance  and  finally  a  “plateau”  in  the  incidence  of  skin  reactions 
contributed to the choice of dose and dosing regimen. 
Irinotecan was used at the approved dose in the 3 target-indication studies, and this is recommended 
for combination therapy. The 2 drugs did not show overlapping toxicities, and there was no evidence 
for a PK interaction. 
Discussion on pharmacodynamics 
The limited data presented indicate that cetuximab at doses within the target dose-range led to down-
regulation  of  EGFR  in  normal  tissue  and  there  was  some  correspondence  between  higher  AUC0-inf 
values  and decrease in EGFR expression.  The variability was large and  at low dosages,  an  apparent 
upregulation of EGFR and activated (phosphorylated) EGFR was noted. The number of samples was 
much  too  low,  however,  to  allow  a  meaningful  interpretation  and  the  applicant  has  committed  to 
conduct further studies in order better to characterise the prerequisites for cetuximab activity.  
Partial  reversal  of  resistance  to  cytotoxic  compounds  has  been  convincingly  demonstrated  and  is  of 
major  clinical  interest,  but  the  hypothesis  that  this  is  due  to  inhibition  of  EGF  signalling  requires 
further confirmation (ADCC is an alternative explanation). Further studies have been initiated in order 
better to characterise cetuximab activity.  
No studies evaluating pharmacodynamic interactions especially with irinotecan have been performed. 
There  were  no  studies  designed  in  order  to  try  to  disentangle  the  mechanisms  behind  reversal  of 
irinotecan resistance.  It is  acknowledged that the  poor predictive  value  in general  of in  vitro studies 
makes them less than ideal to address this issue. It is also acknowledged that biopsy data under clinical 
conditions  in  general  are  likely  to  be  much  more  informative  than  data  derived  from  fresh  tumour 
samples  under  ex  vivo  conditions.  However,  clinical  biopsies  seem  less  suitable  to  disentangle  the 
mechanisms  behind  reversal  of  irinotecan  resistance.  From  this  perspective,  it  would  be  of  some 
interest  to  know,  e.g.  whether  add-on  of  cetixumab  to  irinotecan  (and  other  compounds)  in  vitro  is 
similarly active in samples resistant or not to irinotecan. Further pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic 
and pharmacogenomic studies have been designed to explore different cetuximab dosing strategies. 
With  respect  to cetuximab resistance, the applicant has committed to  further investigate  the  issue of 
primary resistance in studies programme, including biopsy data at time of progression of disease. 
For conventional cytotoxic compounds, toxicity is an accepted surrogate for efficacy in dose-finding 
trials.  In  principle,  the  same  approach  has  been  used  here  although  not  aiming  at  defining  the 
maximum  tolerated  dose.  Thus,  dose  selection  essentially  relies  on  three  elements,  all  seemingly 
related  to  effects  on  normal  tissues:  EGFR  down-regulation,  saturation  of  elimination  capacity  and 
skin toxicity.  
Sparse data on receptor down-regulation in healthy tissue (skin), saturation of likely receptor mediated 
clearance of the compound (see pharmacokinetics) and “maximum” skin toxicity altogether indicates 
receptor saturation. It could be said, however, that for a large molecule such as a monoclonal antibody, 
apparent  saturation  of  normal  tissue  EGFR  might  not  reflect  saturation  of  deep  tumour  tissue 
receptors.  
At  this  stage,  however,  the  proposed  posology  is  considered  reasonably  justified,  but  further  dose 
finding studies are in the planning phase. The posology and method of administration are adequately 
described in the SPC (section 4.2). Erbitux is administered once a week, until progression. The initial 
dose  is  400 mg  cetuximab  per  m2  body  surface  area.  The  subsequent  weekly  doses  are  250 mg/m2 
each.  Normally,  the  same  dose  of  irinotecan  is  used  as  administered  in  the  last  cycles  of  the  prior 
irinotecan-containing regimen.  
21/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
Main study(ies) 
Study EMR 62202-007 (BOND) was an open, randomised, multi-center, phase II study of cetuximab 
alone  or  in  combination  with  irinotecan  in  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  adenocarcinoma 
expressing  the  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  (EGFR)  and  progressing  on  a  defined  irinotecan 
based regimen 91. 
Methods 
•  Study Participants  
The  main  eligbility  criteria  were  stage  IV  histologically  confirmed  adenocarcinoma  of  the  colon  or 
rectum  with  measurable  disease  (at  least  1  unidimensionally  measurable  lesionoutside  previously 
irradiated area), immunohistochemical evidence of  positive EGFR expression prior to study entry in 
primary tumor or at least 1  metastasis, documented progression by comparison of CT  or MRI scans 
(new lung lesions could be documented by chest X-ray) on irinotecan-based therapy (irinotecan 125 
mg/m² weekly for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by 2 weeks rest, as a single agent or in combination 
with 5-FU/FA, or  irinotecan 180 mg/m² every 2 weeks in combination with 5-FU/FA, or irinotecan 
350 mg/m² every 3 weeks as a single agent; with a maximum of 2 licensed dose reductions) for at least 
6  weeks    within  3  months  of  randomization.  Other  criteria  included  age  ≥18  years,  Kanofsky 
performance  status  ≥60,  life  expectancy  of  ≥3  months,  effective  contraception,  neutrophils 
≥1.5×109/L, platelets ≥100×109/L, and hemoglobin ≥9 g/dL; bilirubin level <1.5×ULN (upper limit of 
normal  range),  aspartate  aminotransferase  (ASAT)  and  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALAT)  ≤5×ULN, 
serum creatinine <1.5×ULN, recovery from relevant toxicities. Patients who  met  one  or  more of the 
following criteria were to be excluded from the study: brain metastasis (known or suspected), surgery 
(excluding  diagnostic  biopsy)  or  irradiation  in  the  4  weeks  prior  to  study  entry,  concurrent  chronic 
systemic  immune  therapy,  or  hormone  therapy  not  allowed  by  the  protocol,  any  investigational 
agent(s) within 4 weeks prior to study entry, previous exposure to EGF, monoclonal antibodies, signal 
transduction  inhibitors,  or  EGFR-targeting  therapy,  clinically  relevant  coronary  artery  disease  or 
history  of  myocardial  infarction  within  the  last  12  months,  acute  or  subacute  intestinal  occlusion  or 
history of inflammatory bowel disease, known grade 3 or 4 allergic reactions to any of the components 
of  the  study  treatment,  pregnancy  or  breast  feeding,  previous  malignancy  with  the  exception  of  a 
history of a previous basal cell carcinoma of the skin or pre-invasive carcinoma of the cervix, known 
drug or alcohol abuse. 
•  Treatments 
All patients were to be treated with study medication until PD or occurrence of unacceptable 
toxicity. The treatment period consisted of 2 parts:  
Part 1: 
−  Arm  A:  Patients  received  cetuximab  in  combination  with  the  same  irinotecan  regimen  to  which 
they  became  refractory.  Patients  who  benefited  from  the  combination  therapy  but  developed 
unacceptable toxicity to irinotecan were allowed to continue cetuximab as a single agent. 
−  Arm B: Patients received cetuximab monotherapy. Patients with treatment failure were eligible for 
part 2 of the study. 
Part 2:  
Patients who failed cetuximab monotherapy in arm B of part 1 could continue cetuximab treatment in 
combination with the same irinotecan regimen to which they had become refractory. Irinotecan was to 
be  reintroduced  within  2  weeks  after  documentation  of  PD  on  cetuximab  monotherapy.  Cetuximab 
was to be continued as weekly therapy without an initial dose whereby therapy could be interrupted 
for up to 2 weeks after documentation of PD on cetuximab as a single agent.  
Cetuximab  was  to  be  administered  as  an  initial  dose  of  400  mg/m²  (infusion  duration  120  min), 
including a test dose of 20 mg, followed by weekly doses of 250 mg/m² (infusion duration 60 min). 
Infusions  were  given  via  an  infusion  pump  or  gravity  drip,  whereby  the  infusion  rate  was  not  to 
exceed  10  mg/min  (5  ml/min).  A  physician  had  to  be  present  during  the  first  administration  of 
22/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
cetuximab (i.e. initial dose). The cetuximab infusion was to end at least 1 hour before the start of the 
irinotecan infusion. 
Irinotecan  was  to  be  administered  over  30  to  90  minutes  at  the  same  dosage  regimen  on  which  the 
patient  had  become  refractory  (including  up  to  2  dose  reductions  for  prior  irinotecan-associated 
toxicity), i.e. 125 mg/m² weekly for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by 2 weeks rest, 180 mg/m² every 
2 weeks, or 350 mg/m² every 3 weeks 
•  Objectives and endpoints 
The primary objective was to determine the confirmed objective response rate of the combination of 
cetuximab  plus  irinotecan  and  of  cetuximab  as  a  single  agent.  Secondary  objectives  included  the 
assessment  of  progression-free  survival,  duration  of  response,  overall  survival,  toxicity,  population 
pharmacokinetic  parameters,  response  rate  and  time  to  second  progression  in  part  2  of  the  study. 
Objective tumour response rate was defined as the proportion of patients in the study population with 
best  overall  confirmed  complete  response  (CR)  or  partial  response  (PR).  An  Independent  Review 
Committee (IRC) assessed the primary efficacy endpoints according to modified WHO criteria for part 
1 of the study92. Response was also assessed by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation 
Criteria  in  Solid  Tumours  (RECIST)93.  Assessments  of  tumour  response  were  based  on  computed 
tomography  (CT)  or  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  scans  that  were  to  be  performed  every  6 
weeks.  The  size  of  index  lesions  was  measured,  non-index  lesions  were  assessed,  and  new  lesions 
recorded.  The  IRC  comprised  3  qualified  radiologists  (readers)  and  1  oncologist  who  did  not 
participate in this study. Each IRC was blinded with regard to institution, patient and treatment group 
but  was  not  blinded  with  regard  to  pre-  versus  on  study  scans.  The  IRCs  reviewed  all  images  and 
appropriate  clinical  data,  but  were  not  presented  with  information  on  efficacy  from  the  clinical 
investigator,  such  as  lesion  measurements  or  response  assessments  based  on  CT  or  MRI  scans.  The 
IRCs were convened separately to review the pre-study irinotecan data and the on study efficacy data. 
Data  from  each  patient  were  evaluated  independently  by  2  of  the  radiologists  who  were  asked  to 
determine:  date  of  PD  (if  any)  on  prior  irinotecan  therapy,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  best 
overall response, date of response, date of response confirmation, date of progression. If the 2 readers 
disagreed  on  any  of  the  assessments,  the  third  reader  had  to  adjudicate  the  differences.  Finally,  the 
third reader and the oncologist re-assessed the patient response based on integration of the clinical data 
with the existing radiological findings. 
•  Sample size 
Initially the study was designed to enrol 225 patients: 150 to be treated with cetuximab in combination 
with irinotecan and 75 with cetuximab monotherapy. The sample size for the combination group was 
calculated  in  order  to  allow  for  an  observed  lower  95%-confidence  limit  of  about  12%  when 
anticipating  an  observed  response  rate  of  19%.  No  formal  rationale  was  given  for  the  number  of 
patients receiving monotherapy.  
Discussions  with  authorities  during  the  study  revealed  that  a  patient  population  that  fulfilled  more 
restrictive inclusion  criterion  of  being  progressive at  most  1  month after  end  of irinotecan  treatment 
course  would  be  considered  truly  refractory  to  irinotecan.  Thus,  the  sample  size  of  this  study  was 
increased to a total of 300 patients (200 combination and 100 monotherapy) in order to ensure that the 
study objectives could be met for the subset of patients who fulfil the stricter definition of ‘failure of 
irinotecan  treatment’.  While  this  increase  of  sample  size  was  primarily  made  to  achieve  sufficient 
power  for  a  subgroup  of  patients,  it  increased  the  chance  of  distinguishing  the  effect  of  the 
combination therapy from that of monotherapy in the primary ITT population (secondary objective of 
the study).  
This  was  considered  desirable  because  evidence  from  another  study  indicated  that  the  response  rate 
under cetuximab monotherapy was higher than expected at the time when the study was planned. With 
the final sample size a statistical comparison between the 2 treatments would have a power of about 
80% to detect an association (Fisher’s exact test) if the response rates in the 2 treatments groups were 
19% (combination therapy) and 7% (monotherapy), respectively. 
•  Randomisation 
Eligible patients who had given their written informed consent were centrally randomised by means of 
telephone randomisation. Patients were randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to cetuximab in combination with 
23/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
irinotecan  or  cetuximab  monotherapy.  The  time  between  randomisation  and  first  infusion  of 
cetuximab  was  not  to  exceed  3  days.  Randomisation  was  performed  by  minimisation  with  the 
following stratification factors: KPS: 60 to 70 vs. 80 to 100, previous treatment (first-line treatment, 
subsequent treatment line with or without prior oxaliplatin), as well as centre. 
•  Blinding (masking) 
This was an open-label study. Radiological scans and clinical data for evaluation of tumour response 
were assessed by an independent review committee blinded to patient’s treatment. No information on 
efficacy as reported by the clinical investigator was passed to this committee (see also objectives and 
endpoints). 
•  Statistical methods 
Analyses of objective response (as the primary parameter), disease control rate, best overall response, 
duration of response, time to response, and time to progression (TTP) were based on the IRC assessed 
data.  Point  estimates  and  (exact)  95%  confidence  interval  were  used  to  describe  objective  response, 
disease control rate and best overall response for both treatment groups. Objective confirmed response 
rates  as  well  as  disease  control  rates  were  compared  using  2-sided  Fisher’s  exact  test  and  Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel  test  to  adjust  for  stratification  factors  used  in  the  randomisation  process  (KPS  and 
line of treatment). In addition, the difference in response rates between groups and its 95% confidence 
interval (CI) were computed.    
For those mono-therapy patients who entered part 2 of the study, descriptive statistics for best overall 
response as well as for disease control rate (according investigator) were presented. No formal testing 
was done in part 2. 
Results  
Patients  were  enrolled  at  56  centres  in  11  European  countries  (Austria,  Belgium,  France,  Germany, 
Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden, United Kingdom). 
•  Participant flow  
At  56  centres  in  11  European  countries  the  EGFR  status  of  577  patients  was  pre-screened,  474 
(82.1%)  were  positive  and  screened  for  eligibility.  Finally  329  patients  were  randomised  to  study 
medication in a 2:1 ratio: 218 to cetuximab in combination with the same irinotecan regimen to which 
they had become refractory (arm A) and 111 to cetuximab monotherapy (arm B). The most common 
reasons for not randomizing patients into the study were: no PD on previous irinotecan before stop of 
recruitment  (n=58),  patient  not  eligible  (n=38),  rapid  PD  or  death  (n=18),  worsening  of  physical 
condition (n=16), and refusal (n=8) 
In  both  groups  1  patient  was  randomised,  although  they  were  not  EGFR  positive.  Two  patients 
randomised  in  arm  A  did  not  receive  any  study  medication.  Four  patients  were  randomised  to  the 
combination  group,  but  received  only  1  dose  of  cetuximab  as  a  single  agent  due  to  a  severe 
hypersensitivity reaction. In the efficacy evaluation these patients were analysed as randomised, in the 
safety population they were analysed together with the other patients of the monotherapy group. 
After randomisation 279 (84.8%) patients discontinued from or completed part 1 of the study, mostly 
because  of  PD:  82.0%  of  monotherapy  patients  discontinued  due  to  PD  compared  with  61.5%  of 
combination  therapy  patients  until  the  cut-off  date.  The  percentage  of  withdrawals  due  to  AEs  and 
deaths  was  higher  in  the  combination  therapy  group  than  in  the  monotherapy  group,  which  can  be 
explained  by  the  longer  observation  period.  In  part  1  of  the  study  54  patients  with  PD  under 
monotherapy elected to start combination therapy in part2, but finally 40 of these patients discontinued 
from  the  study.  Three  patients  with  major  protocol  deviations  were  excluded  from  the  per-protocol 
population and analysed in the ITT population: one patient in each treatment group without positive 
EGFR status and one patient without metastatic CRC at baseline in the monotherapy group (Figure 2). 
24/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Figure 2. Partcipant flow of study EMR 62202-007 
Screened 
577
(474 EGFR positive) 
Not randomized 
248 
Randomized 
329
ARM A 
Cetuximab + 
irinotecan 
218 
ARM B 
Cetuximab 
monotherapy 
111 
Compl ./disc. 175 
134 
PD 
21 
AE 
12 
Death 
8 
Other 
Compl./disc.104 
91 
PD 
6 
AE 
3 
Death
4 
Other 
PART 2
Cetuximab +  
irinotecan
54 
Compl./disc. 40 
35 
PD 
3 
AE 
1 
Death 
1 
Other 
Ongoing 
15 Nov 02 
43 
Ongoing
15 Nov 02
7
Ongoing 
15 Nov 02 
14 
•  Baseline data 
Both  randomised  groups  were  well  balanced  with  regard  to  demographic,  baseline  and  disease 
characteristics (Table 5). The median age of the overall population was 59 years. There were only 12 
patients  (4%) aged  75 years  or  above.  All  but  6  of the  329  patients  were Caucasian. There were  no 
differences with regard to the number of metastases or their location. In both treatment arms, over half 
of  the  patients  had  <20%  EGFR-positively  stained  cells.  The  maximal  EGFR  staining  intensity  of 
tumour  material  was  similar  in  both  groups.  In  about  one-third  of  the  patients  (33.1%)  staining 
intensity was classified as strong.  
A total of 141 (42.8%) patients had 3 or more prior treatment lines for metastatic CRC, 206 (62.6%) 
received  a  previous  oxaliplatin-based  regimen,  and  59  (27.1%)  patients  had  prior  adjuvant 
chemotherapy.  The  majority  of  the  patients,  178  (54.1%),  received  180  mg/m2  irinotecan  every  2 
weeks  as  their  most  recent  pre-study  regimen.  The  median  duration  of  the  most  recent  irinotecan 
treatment  was  79  days  and  the  best  overall  response  to  the  most  recent  irinotecan-containing 
chemotherapy was PR in 23 (7.0%) patients and SD in 71 (21.6%) patients. The time between the end 
of the last course of pre-study  irinotecan treatment  and documented PD (IRC)  was <30  days  in 249 
(75.7%) patients and >30 days in 40 (12.2%) patients; the pre-study IRC-PD dates were not available 
for the remaining 40 (12.2%) patients.  
25/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 5: Baseline characteristics 
Combination therapy 
(N=218) 
Monotherapy 
(N=111) 
Total 
(N=329) 
Characteristic  
Age (years) 
Age categories, n (%) 
Gender, n (%) 
KPS <80 
KPS >80 
Metastatic CRC(months) 
Tumour localisation (n;%) 
Metastatic sites (n;%) 
Location (n;%) 
Median
Range
<65 yrs
>65 yrs
Males
Females
Median
Range
Colon
Rectum
Missing
1
2
>2
Liver
Lung/ lymph node chest
Lymph node abdomen/ pelvis
Intestine/ bowel/ visceral 
Other 
No. (%) patients with EGFR-positive cells 
0%
>0-<10%
10-<20%
20-<30%
30-<40%
>40%
Degree of EGFR staining, no. (%) patients 
Faint/barely
Weak/moderate
Strong
Missing
3
>3
treatment lines for CRC 
Prior adjuvant therapy 
59 
26–82 
155 (71.1%) 
63 (28.9%) 
143 (65.6%) 
75 (34.4%) 
58 
39–84 
78 (70.3%) 
33 (29.7%) 
63 (56.8%) 
48 (43.2%) 
59 
26–84 
233 (70.8%) 
96 (29.2%) 
206 (62.6%) 
123 (37.4%) 
25 (11.5%) 
15 (13.5%) 
40 (12.2%) 
193 (88.5%) 
96 (86.5%) 
289 (87.8%) 
16 
1.4–97.1 
125 (57.3%) 
90 (41.3%) 
3 (1.4%) 
102 (46.8%) 
78 (35.8%) 
9 (4.1%) 
153 (70.2%) 
71 (32.6%) 
21 (9.6%) 
3 (1.4%) 
38 (17.4%) 
1 (0.5%) 
93 (42.7%) 
23 (10.6%) 
18 (8.3%) 
21 (9.6%) 
62 (28.4%) 
53 (24.3%) 
89 (40.8%) 
75 (34.4%) 
1 (0.5%) 
61 (28.0%)  
37 (17.0%) 
59 (27.1%) 
17 
0.1–64.6 
65 (58.6%) 
43 (38.7%) 
3 (2.7%) 
62 (55.9%) 
27 (24.3%) 
6 (5.4%) 
76 (68.5%) 
29 (26.1%) 
16 (14.4%) 
0 (0%) 
13 (11.7%) 
1 (0.9%) 
40 (36.0%) 
22 (19.8%) 
10 (9.0%) 
6 (5.4%) 
32 (28.8%) 
21 (18.9%) 
55 (49.5%) 
34 (30.6%) 
1 (0.9%) 
20 (18.0%)  
23 (20.7%)  
37 (33.3%) 
16.1 
0.1–97.1 
190 (57.8%) 
133 (40.4%) 
6 (1.8%) 
164 (49.8%) 
105 (31.9%) 
15 (4.6%) 
229 (69.6%) 
100 (30.4%) 
37 (11.2%) 
3 (0.9%) 
51 (15.5%) 
2 (0.6%) 
133 (40.4%) 
45 (13.7%) 
28 (8.5%) 
27 (8.2%) 
94 (28.6%) 
74 (22.5%) 
144 (43.8%) 
109 (33.1%) 
2 (0.6%) 
81 (24.6%) 
60 (18.2%) 
96 (29.2%) 
•  Numbers analysed 
The number of patients analysed for efficacy in the different patient populations are summarized in 
Table 6. 
Table 6: Analysed patients populations 
Number of patients analysed 
Combination  Monotherapy  Total 
Population 
329 
ITT 
IRC-PD1 
206 
ITT oxali2 
206 
IRC-PD oxali3 
130 
Per protocol 
188 
1 – all ITT patients with objective confirmed irinotecan refractory status 
2 – all ITT patients with prior oxaliplatin treatment 
3 – all IRC-PD patients with prior oxaliplatin treatment 
218 
135 
135 
84 
122 
111 
71 
71 
46 
66 
26/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  results  are  summarised  in  Tables  7  and  8.  The  proportion  of 
responders in the combination group was 22.9% (95%-CI: 17.5% - 29.1%), exceeding the minimum 
12%  limit  prespecified  as  clinically  important.  No  complete  responses  were  observed.  In  the 
monotherapy group, the proportion of responders was 10.8% (95%-CI: 4.1% - 20.2%). An exploratory 
treatment  comparison  showed  that  the  combination  treatment  results  in  a  statistically  significant 
difference of 12.1% favouring the combination arm (p=0.0074). The difference in the disease control 
rate (CR+PD+SD) was also statistically significant (23,1% and p=0.0001) favouring the combination 
therapy (55.5%) over the monotherapy (32.4%).  
The  investigators’and  the  IRC  assessments  of  objective  response  rate  and  disease  control  rate  were 
compared  for  the  ITT  and  the  IRC-PD  population.  In  the  majority  of  patients  (236,  71.7%),  the 
evaluation was conform with similar objective response rates in  both treatment groups. However, in 
comparison to the IRC the disease control rate was higher assessed by the investigators. 
In the IRC-PD population, a difference to the ITT population was found for the monotherapy group 
with a higher assessed response rate by the investigator (16.9% vs. 13.5%). 
The  combination  therapy  with  cetuximab  +  irinotecan  was  superior  to  the  monotherapeutic  regimen 
with  cetuximab  alone.  With  regard  to  the  median  time  to  progression  (TTP)  this  difference  was 
statistically  significant  (combination  4.1  months  vs.  1.5  months  in  the  monotherapy  group).  The 
estimated hazard ratio was 0.54 (95%-CI: 0.42 – 0.71) indicating a 46% risk reduction for progression 
for a patient receiving the combination instead of cetuximab alone. The robustness of this statistically 
significant  difference  was  confirmed  by  the  hazard  ratios  in  all  four  subpopulations  (IRC-PD,  ITT 
oxali, IRC-PD oxali, per protocol) assessed. 
Subgroup  analysis  according  to  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  revealed  that  in  almost  all 
subgroups  there  was  a  significant  risk  reduction  for  progression  under  combination  compared  to 
monotherapy.  Patients  with  an  objective  response  (CR+PR)  after  receiving  the  combination  therapy 
had a TTP of 8.4 months in comparison to patients in the monotherapy with a TTP of 5.6 months.  
Cut-off date for survival data was 31 January 2003. Up to this timepoint 215 (65.3%) of the 329 ITT 
patients had died (140 in the combination therapy group, 75 in the monotherapy group).  
In the combination therapy group patients had a longer median survival time of 8.6 months (95% CI 
7.6, 9.6) compared with 6.9 months (95% CI 5.6, 9.1) in the monotherapy group, resulting in a harzard 
ratio of 0.91 (95% CI: 0.68 – 1.21). This difference was not statistically significant (p=0.48). In the 
other populations the survival time was similar to the ITT population. Overall the 1-year survival rate 
was around 1 year. 
27/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
Table 7. Summary objective response rates and disease control rates in the ITT population and in 
secondary analysis populations (IRC assessment) 
Response parameter 
Combination 
therapy (N=218) 
Monotherapy 
(N=111) 
n  
% (95%-CI) 
n  
% (95%-CI) 
Difference in 
Proportions 
% (95%-CI)  p-value* 
Objective response (CR+PR)   50 
Disease control (CR+PR+SD)  121  
22.9 
(17.5, 29.1) 
55.5 
(48.6, 62.2) 
12 
36 
10. 8 
(5.7, 18.1) 
12.1 
(4.1, 20.2) 
32.4 
(23.9, 34.0) 
23.1 
(12.1, 34.0) 
0.0074 
0.0001 
n/N  
% 
n/N   % 
% 
p-value* 
IRC-PD 
Objective response rate 
Disease control rate 
ITT oxali 
Objective response rate  
Disease control rate 
IRC-PD oxali 
Objective response rate 
Disease control rate 
34/135 
76/135 
25.2 (18.1, 33.4) 
56.3 (47.5, 64.8) 
10/71 
24/71 
14.1 (7.0, 24.3) 
33.8 (23.0, 46.0) 
11.1 
22.5 
30/135  
68/135  
22.2 
50.4 
6/71 
22/71 
8.5 
31.0 
21/84 
45/84  
25.0  
53.6 
5/46 
14/46 
10.9 
30.4 
Per-protocol 
Objective response rate  
Disease control rate 
*p-value for difference between treatment groups determined by Fisher’s exact test (2-tailed). 
34/122 
74/122  
10/66  
23/66 
27.9  
60.7 
15.2  
34.8 
0.0747 
0.0032 
0.0127 
0.0081 
0.0673 
0.0163 
0.0702 
0.0008 
13.8 
19.4 
14.1 
23.1 
12.7 
25.8 
Efficacy analysis in part 2 of the study: 
Fifty-four patients with PD in the monotherapy group entered part 2 of the study until the cut-off date. 
Efficacy variables for this part were only assessed by the investigators. Only 1 patient (1.9%) reached 
the primary endpoint, the objective response rate (CR+PR) while being in PR. However, 21 patients 
(38.9%) had SD, resulting in an overall disease control rate of 40.7%. 
Endpoint 
Duration of response 
Median months 
Time to response 
Median months 
Duration of disease control 
Median months 
Time to progression (TTP) 
Median months 
Table 8: Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Combination 
therapy  
Monotherapy 
ITT  
(N=218) 
n=50 
5.7 
n=50 
1.4 
n=121 
6.0 
n=152 
4.1 
IRC-PD 
(N=135) 
n=34 
4.2 
n=34 
1.4 
n=76 
5.6 
n=97 
4.0 
ITT  
(N =111) 
n=12 
4.2 
n=12 
1.4 
n=36 
4.0 
n=92 
1.5 
IRC-PD 
(N=71) 
n=10 
4.1 
n=10 
1.4 
n=24 
4.1 
n=62 
1.5 
Time to treatment failure 
Median months 
Survival time (n died) 
Median months 
n=218 
4.1 
n=140 
8.6 
n=135 
4.0 
n=89 
8.4 
n=111 
1.7 
n=75 
6.9 
n=71 
1.8 
n=49 
7.0 
Hazard ratio 0.54 
95% CI 0.42; 0.71 
P<0.0001 (ITT) 
P<0.0001 (IRC-PD) 
Hazard ratio 0.91 
95% CI 0.68; 1.12 
P=0.48 (ITT) 
P=0.59 (IRC-PD) 
% survived 
n denotes the number of patients with PD or death, N denotes the total number of patients in the specified 
treatment group and population 
31% 
32% 
34% 
36% 
28/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Objective  response,  TTP  and  survival  were  additionally  evaluated  for  subgroups.  In  general  the 
analyses  confirmed  the  advantage  of  the  combination  therapy  in  comparison  to  the  monotherapy.  In 
both treatment arms better results were seen in those subgroups of patients with a predictive factor for 
a  favourable  outcome  of  CRC  (male  patients,  KPS>80,  1  metastatic  site,  leukocytes  at  base  line  ≤ 
10000/mm3 or and AP at baseline <300U/l). 
The  combination  regimen  possibly  slightly  favoured  patients  with  grade  3  to  4  skin  reactions  and 
patients with a prior 2 weekly irinotecan dose of 250 mg/m2, whereas the monotherapy increased the 
survival time in patients with a prior weekly irinotecan dose of 125 mg/m2 (Tables 9 and 10). In both 
regimens  the  beginning  of  a  cetuximab  therapy  >30  days  after  the  most  recent  pre-study  irinotecan 
treatment was correlated with a more favourable outcome in both studies. With respect to grade 3 and 
4  reactions,  it  should  be  noted  that  about  40  %  of  these  reactions  were  reported  after  week  10  thus 
introducing  a  lead-time  bias.  As  regards  “any  reactions”,  however,  the  vast  majority  was  observed 
prior to week 4.  
Patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic CRC were eligible for treatment in the 3 target-indication 
studies.  An  immunohistochemical  assessment  was  selected  as  an  appropriate  method  to  measure 
EGFR expression. The used kit (EGFR pharmDxTM Kit, DakoCytomation) allowed direct detection of 
the  target.  Older  samples,  in  most  cases  from  the  primary  surgery,  were  used.  EGFR  staining  with 
respect to percentage of stained cells (from less than 10 to more than 35%) or intensity (from faint to 
strong) showed no relationship to ORR, PFS or OS. 
In  the  pivotal  study,  24.6%  of  patients  had  received  3  treatment  lines  and  18.2%  of  patients  had 
received  more  than  3  treatment  lines  therapy  for  CRC.  These  subgroups  of  patients  showed  no 
significant differences compared to the whole population.  
Table 9. Skin reactions vs. outcome 
Combination therapy 
PFS 
RR  
N 
median 
% 
1.4 
6 
4.2 
26 
8.2 
55 
32 
186 
29 
OS 
median 
3.0 
9.1 
13.7 
None 
Any 
Grade 3 o 4 
18 
93 
6 
Monotherapy 
n 
RR  
% 
0 
13 
33 
PFS 
median 
1.3 
1.6 
2.7 
OS 
median 
2.5 
8.1 
7.3 
Table 10. Efficacy, in relation to last prior irinotecan regimen 
Most recent irinotecan regimen 
Combination 
Monotherapy 
125 mg/m2 weekly 
180 mg/m2 every 2 wk 
350 mg/ m2 every 3 week 
ORR 
5/33 
29/124 
15/57 
95% CI 
5.1; 31.9 
16.3; 31.8 
15.5; 39.7 
ORR 
4/20 
5/54 
2/31 
95% CI 
5.7; 43.7 
3.1; 20.3 
0.8; 21.4 
Supportive study(ies) 
Two studies were considered as supportive studies, IMCL CP02-0141 for the monotherapy and IMCL 
CP02-9923 for the combination therapy with an approved irinotecan regimen. Both studies were open-
label, phase II, multi-center, uncontrolled studies in patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic CRC, 
who had shown progression of disease on an irinotecan-containing regimen. The primary objective of 
IMCL  CP02-9923  was  to  evaluate  the  response  rate  to  cetuximab  administered  in  combination  with 
irinotecan  in  patients  with  advanced  colorectal  carcinoma  who  were  refractory  to  treatment  with  an 
irinotecan-containing  regimen.  Per  protocol  refractory  was  defined  as  either  stable  disease  (SD) 
following 12 weeks of irinotecan therapy or progressive disease (PD) at any time following treatment 
with irinotecan.  In the statistical analyses presented, the definition of refractory was PD based on an 
Independent  Review  Committee’s  (IRC)  review  of  selected  prestudy  scans  and  clinical  information. 
IMCL CP02-0141 was designed to evaluate the response rate to single-agent cetuximab administered 
to patients with stage IV   advanced  colorectal carcinoma who  were  refractory, i.e.,  had documented 
progressive  disease,  to  treatment  with  an  irinotecan-containing  regimen.  Demographic  and  baseline 
characteristics  in  the  ITT  population  of  both  studies  were  similar  to  the  pivotal  study,  except  for 
disease  characteristics  and  pre-study  treatment.  In  the  supportiv)  studies  the  primary  tumour  was 
29/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
localised  in  around  80%  in  the  colon  and  in  20%  in  the  rectum  compared  to  60%  and  40%  in  the 
pivotal study. The  majority of patients in study IMCL CP02-9923 had tumour material with at least 
20% EGFR-positive cells, whereas in the pivotal study most patients had tumour material with <20% 
EGFR-positive  cells.  Approximately  60%  of  the  patients  in  the  European  study  had  received  prior 
oxaliplatin treatment compared to only 10% or 14% in the supportive studies IMCL CP02-9923 and 
0141, respectively.  
This difference can be explained by the fact that oxaliplatin was not approved in the US when studies 
IMCL CP02-9923 and 0141 were initiated. All patients were pre-treated with irinotecan, but in study 
IMCL  CP02-9923  79%  received  irinotecan  as  monotherapy  compared  to  63.8%  in  the  BOND  and 
75.4% in study IMCL CP02-141 who were pre-treated with a combination mostly including 5-FU/FA. 
The  majority of patients  in the pivotal  study received  irinotecan  180  mg/m² given every 2 weeks as 
their most recent pre-study treatment. However, this regimen was not used in the IMCL CP02-9923, 
where about 80% of patients in IMCL CP02-9923 received 125 mg/m².  
The efficacy results for the supportive studies are summarised in table 11. For the monotherapy group 
the  results  did  not  show  any  difference  between  the  pivotal  and  supportive  studies,  however,  the 
objective response rate was higher for the pivotal trial (25.2%) receiving the combination therapy than 
in the supportive trial (13.3%).  
Primary  
endpoint 
Secondary  
endpoints 
Table 11. Efficacy results of the supportive studies 
IMCL CP02-9923 
Combination therapy 
IRC-PD 
All treated 
(N=83) 
(N=138) 
(95% CI) 
15.2% 
(9.7, 22.3) 
13.3% 
(6.8, 22.5) 
IMCL CP02-0141 
Monotherapy 
All treated 
(N=57) 
(95% CI) 
8.8% 
(2.9, 19.3) 
IRC-PD 
(N=28) 
14.3% 
(4.0, 32.7) 
60.9% 
(52.2, 69.1) 
6.5 
53.0% 
(41.7, 64.1)
5.7 
45.6% 
(32.4, 59.3) 
4.2 
39.3% 
(21.5, 59.4) 
4.2 
2.6 
5.5 
1.3 
5.4 
1.2 
5.3 
1.9 
5.3 
2.9 
(2.6, 4.1) 
8.4 
(7.2, 10.3) 
32% 
2.6 
(1.7, 3.1) 
7.7 
(6.2, 9.8) 
25% 
1.4 
(1.3, 2.8) 
6.4 
(4.1, 10.8) 
33% 
1.3 
(1.3, 3.2) 
8.8 
(4.1, 12.9) 
36% 
Objective response rate 
(CR+PR) 
Disease control rate 
(CR+PR+SD) 
Duration of response 
Median months 
Time to response 
Median months 
Duration of disease control 
Median months 
Time to progression (TTP) 
Median months 
Survival time (n/N died) 
Median months 
1-year survival rate 
CI = confidence interval, disease control rate (patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease for at least 
6 weeks)  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Two  exploratory,  proof  of  concept  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  failing  irinotecan  therapy  for 
advanced CRC. In the first study, cetuximab was added to the failing regimen. The study results were 
compatible with improved anti-tumour activity if cetuximab was administered as add-on to the failing 
regimen.  This  hypothesis  was  further  explored  in  an  open-label,  randomised,  multicentre  study  
(“BOND”)  comparing  combination  with  monotherapy  in  329  patients  with  metastatic  CRC  failing 
defined  and  recognised  irinotecan  regimens.  Also  in  this  study,  patients  randomised  to  the 
combination  arm  continued  the  failing  irinotecan  regime  (without  5-FU/LV  if  part  of  the  failing 
regimen). With respect to resistance to irinotecan, the best overall response to the most recent regimen 
was partial response (PR) in 7.0% of the patients and about 3 in 4 patients showed progressive disease 
on  or  within  30  days  after  the  last  treatment  course.  The  clear  majority  of  patients  may,  thus,  be 
characterised as refractory to irinotecan therapy. 
The BOND study convincingly demonstrated superior anti-tumour activity of cetuximab as add-on to 
a  failing  irinotecan  regimen  compared  with  cetuximab  alone,  but  no  effects  on  survival  have  been 
30/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
established. In terms ORR and PFS, the activity of the combination regimen is clinically relevant. At 
the time of study initiation, there were no generally recognised treatment options available for patients 
failing  irinotecan-based  regimens.  The  results  of  cetuximab  combination  treatment  compare 
favourably to what has been reported recently for the oxaliplatin plus infusional 5-FU/FA (FOLFOX4) 
regimen  used  in  second  line  in  patients  failing  irinotecan.  One  study  compared  FOLFOX4  with 
intermittent infusional 5FU/FA alone (De Gramont regimen) and with single-agent oxaliplatin 94. The 
treatments  were  administered  as  second-line  therapy  to  patients  with  metastatic  CRC  whose  disease 
progressed during or within 6 months after cessation of first-line treatment with irinotecan combined 
with  bolus  5-FU/FA  (IFL  regimen).  Oxaliplatin  combined  with  infusional  5-FU/FA  showed 
statistically  significant  advantages  over  intermittent  infusional  5-FU/FA  alone  in  terms  of  response 
rate (10% versus 1%) and median TTP (5.6 versus 2.6 months), however the median survival time was 
not  statistically  significantly  prolonged  (9.8  versus  8.7  months).  Single-agent  oxaliplatin  achieved  a 
response rate of 1%, a median TTP of 2.6 months and a median survival time of 8.1 months. About 
80%  of  the  patients  showed  progression  within  6  weeks  after  last  prior  regimen.  In  this  subgroup 
(n=126) and for the FOLFOX4 regimen, the ORR was 9.5% (5.0; 16.1%) and median PFS 4.9 months 
(4,2;  6.3).  The  ORR  in  the  cetuximab  combination  arm  thus  appears  higher  while  PFS  is  similar  or 
numerically  shorter.  In  another  study,  the  sequence  FOLFOX6  (infusional  5FU/LV  +  oxaliplatin)  at 
time  of  progression  followed  by  FOLFIRI  (infusional  5FU/LV  +  irinotecan)  was  compared  with 
FOLFIRI followed by FOLFOX6. With respect to OS, the results were similar (p=0.99). The ORR for 
FOLFOX6, second line to FOLFIRI was 15% and PFS was 4.2 months13.  
Despite median two prior regimens, the patients had overall good performance status, were relatively 
young  (median  60  years)  and  close  to  50%  had  only  one  metastatic  site.  From  that  perspective, 
included  patients  are  non-representative  for  patients  with  advanced  CRC,  but  rather  typical  for 
confirmatory late-line studies. This has been reflected in the SPC. 
The  principal  features  of  the  study  are  in  accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Evaluation  of 
Anticancer  Medicinal  Products  in  Man95.  The  randomisation  procedure  is  judged  to  be  appropriate. 
The  assessment  of  the  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  is  based  on  modified  international 
standards92,93. As required given the pivotal role of the trial, the evaluation of response was undertaken 
by  an  external  Independent  Review  Committee  (IRC).  The  measures  of  blinding  taken  seem 
appropriate to avoid a bias in the assessment of the primary endpoint. In general the statistical methods 
used are appropriate.  
Only few patients were treated with the 125 mg/m2 weekly regimen, a regimen currently not approved 
in  the  EU,  but  possibile  as  an  alternative  in  risk  patients.  For  the  approved  regimens  activity  was 
similar, but as expected the 180 mg/m2 every 2 weeks dominated. 
In  the  pivotal  trial,  an  apparent  relationship  was  demonstrated  between  skin  toxicity  and  tumour 
response but  this could  have  been  due  to lead time  bias. Further  studies  are  planned in order  to test 
whether  dose  escalation  in  case  of  absence  of  skin  toxicity  will  result  in  improved  anti-tumour 
activity. The studies programme also includes pharmacogenomics. 
All  patients  in  the  pivotal  study  had  EGFR  expressing  tumours.  Concernig  assessment  of  EGFR 
expression,  prerequisites  for  laboratories  that  perform  the  tests  have  been  appropriately  described  in 
the  SPC  (section  4.2).  Adequate  guidelines  on  the  perfomance  of  such  tests  are  available  in  the 
respective product information.  
No relationship was found between degree of expression (percentage of positive cells or intensity of 
staining) and tumour response. Similar findings have been reported from studies with EGFR-selective 
tyrosine-kinase  inhibitors  such  as  erlotinib  96.  This  is  in  apparent  contrast  to,  e.g.  HER-2/neu 
expression and trastuzumab 97. It should be noted that most samples derived from the time of diagnosis 
and  that  EGFR  expression  is  likely  to  increase  over  time.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  further 
address this issue within the planned studies programme.  
Clinical safety 
Data  from  the  3  target-indication  studies  were  pooled  according  to  whether  the  patients  received 
cetuximab in combination with irinotecan (N=350) or as a single agent (N=172). 
Patient exposure 
31/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
In  the  target-indication  studies,  cetuximab  was  to  be  administered  at  an  initial  dose  of  400  mg/m² 
followed  by  weekly  doses  of  250  mg/m².  According  to  the  study  protocols,  the  dose  could  only  be 
modified in the case of allergic reactions and skin reactions. Irinotecan regimens were to be continued 
at  the  same  dose  under  which  the  patient  progressed.  Dose  modifications  in  accordance  with  the 
product label were allowed for both the pre- and on-study phases. 473 (90.6%) patients discontinued 
study  treatment:  308  (88.0%)  patients  in  the  combination  therapy  group  and  165  (95.9%)  in  the 
monotherapy  group.  The  main  reasons  for  discontinuations  were  progressive  disease  (68.6%  vs 
82.0%), AEs (9.4% vs 8.7%), and withdrawal of consent (2.6% vs 0.6%).  
Patients  on  combination  therapy  received  a  median  number  of  12.5  cetuximab  infusions  (range  1  to 
84). Patients on monotherapy received a median number of 7 cetuximab infusions (range 1 to 63). The 
median  cumulative  dose  was  3256  mg/m²  in  the  combination  therapy  group  and  1839  mg/m²  in  the 
monotherapy group. The cetuximab dose was reduced (mainly 1 reduction) in 5.3% and 3.5% patients, 
respectively.  In  both  treatment  groups,  more  than  86%  of  the  patients  received  at  least  80%  of  the 
planned  dose  intensity  of  cetuximab.  In  the  combination  therapy  group,  almost  half  of  the  patients 
(163 [46%]) received the 125 mg/m² irinotecan regimen, 108 (31%) received the 180 mg/m² regimen, 
and  75  (21%)  received  the  350  mg/m²  regimen.  The  4  remaining  patients  received  some  other 
undefined regimen. 61% of the patients in the 180 mg/m² biweekly group and 60% of the patients in 
the 350 mg/m² 3-weekly group received at least 80% of the planned dose density of irinotecan. The 
corresponding percentage for the 125 mg/m² weekly regimen was only 34%.  
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
All patients in the pooled combination therapy group and the pooled monotherapy group of the target-
indication studies experienced at least one AE, irrespective of relationship to cetuximab. 
The very commonly occurring AEs in the target indication studies are presented in Table 12. The most 
frequent  AEs  occurring  in  more  than  one-third  of  patients  under  combination  therapy  were  (in 
decreasing order of frequency) diarrhea, asthenia, nausea, rash, abdominal pain, vomiting, acne, and 
anorexia. The most common AEs under monotherapy were asthenia, acne, fever, and rash.  
Grade  3  or  4  AEs  were  reported  in  251  (71.7%)  patients  in  the  combination  therapy  group  and  91 
(52.9%)  in  the  monotherapy  group.  The  most  common  grade  3  and  4  AEs  are  listed  in  Table  13. 
Although a reliable causality assessment was difficult, cetuximab-related AEs were reported in 96.9% 
of the patients in the combination therapy group and 97.7% in the monotherapy group (Table 14). The 
most  common  cetuximab-related  AEs  observed  in  more  than  one-third  of  patients  in  both  treatment 
groups were rash, asthenia, and acne. Further AEs  observed in  more than one-third of patients were 
diarrhea in the combination therapy group and fever in the monotherapy group.  
32/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table 12. Frequency of very commonly occurring AEs (≥10% patients) in target indication studies 
COSTART preferred term 
% patients with AE 
Pooled combination 
(N=350) 
Pooled monotherapy 
(N=172) 
Any 
Abdominal pain 
Acne 
Alopecia 
Anemia 
Anorexia 
Asthenia 
Back pain 
Chills 
Conjunctivitis 
Constipation 
Cough increased 
Dehydration 
Diarrhea 
Dry skin 
Dyspepsia  
Dyspnea 
Fever 
Headache 
Infection 
Insomnia 
Leukopenia 
Nail disorder 
Nausea 
Pain 
Peripheral edema 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Skin disorder 
Stomatitis 
Vomiting 
Weight loss 
100.0 
43.1 
37.7 
21.7 
16.3 
35.7 
70.9 
16.0 
11.1 
14.6 
29.1 
20.0 
14.9 
72.0 
29.7 
12.9 
22.3 
32.9 
14.0 
16.0 
12.0 
24.6 
12.6 
54.9 
22.0 
15.1 
10.3 
53.4 
15.1 
25.7 
40.6 
21.1 
100.0 
31.4 
45.9 
5.8 
6.4 
25.6 
55.2 
11.0 
12.2 
6.4 
32.0 
12.8 
4.7 
27.9 
24.4 
9.3 
25.6 
44.2 
25.6 
12.2 
11.6 
0.6 
15.1 
26.7 
18.0 
8.1 
11.0 
39.0 
10.5 
11.0 
26.2 
9.9 
COSTART 
preferred term 
Table 13. Most common grade 3 or 4 AEs occurring in ≥5% patients in target-indication studies. 
Irinotecan plus 
cetuximab 
(N=350) 
(%) 
21.7 
16.6 
13.7 
6.6 
6.3 
6.3 
6.0 
5.7 
5.7 
5.4 
1.7 
Cetuximab 
monotherapy  
(N=172) 
(%) 
1.7 
0.0 
10.5 
3.5 
7.0 
1.7 
3.5 
5.8 
1.7 
4.1 
9.9 
Diarrhea 
Leukopenia 
Asthenia 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
Dehydration 
Rash 
Acne 
Nausea 
Pain 
Dyspnea 
33/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table 14. Number (%) of patients with treatment-related grade 4 and corresponding grade 3 or 4 AEs 
in target indication studies 
COSTART preferred term 
Pooled combination therapy 
(N=350) 
Pooled monotherapy 
(N=172) 
Grade 3 + 4  
Grade 4 
Grade 3 + 4  
Grade 4 
Any  
Anaphylactoid reaction 
Anorexia 
Asthenia 
Dehydration 
Diarrhea 
Dyspnea 
Exfoliative dermatitis 
Fever 
Headache 
Herpes simplex 
Hypocalcemia 
Hypokalemia 
Hypotension 
Infection 
Intestinal obstruction 
Kidney failure 
Leucopenia 
Myocardial infarct 
Nausea 
Pulmonary embolus 
Thrombocytopenia 
Vesiculobullous rash 
Vomiting 
141 (40.3) 
23 (6.6) 
49 (28.5) 
4 (1.1) 
7 (2.0) 
22 (6.3) 
4 (1.1) 
28 (8.0) 
2 (0.6) 
5 (1.4) 
4 (1.1) 
3 (0.9) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (0.9) 
2 (0.6) 
3 (0.9) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
19 (5.4) 
1 (0.3) 
11 (3.1) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
9 (2.6) 
4 (1.1) 
4 (1.1) 
2 (0.6) 
2 (0.6) 
3 (0.9) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (0.9) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.6) 
2 (1.2) 
0 (0.0) 
8 (4.7) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (1.2) 
5 (2.9) 
3 (1.7) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.7) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (1.2) 
4 (2.3) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (1.2) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
(cid:131)  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  the  integrated  database,  death  within  30  days  of  last  cetuximab  administration  was  reported  for 
14.6% (180/1230) of patients. The primary reason for death was most frequently disease progression, 
followed by disease-related complications and intercurrent illnesses/events unrelated to treatment.  
In  one  patient  the  death  was  considered  related  to  cetuximab.  Shortly  after  the  first  cetuximab 
infusion, this patient developed an anaphylactic reaction and failure to intubate due to larynx oedema 
and  obstruction  by  the  tumour  of  the  tongue  caused  his  death.  AEs  related  to  chemotherapy 
(irinotecan,  cisplatin)  were  held  responsible  in  two  patients.  The  cause  of  death  was  unknown  in  9 
patients. 
AEs  causing  discontinuation  of cetuximab were reported  for  51 (14.6%) patients  under combination 
therapy and 21 (12.2%) patients under monotherapy.  
Hypersensitivity Reactions (HSRs) 
A  total  of  65  patients  experienced  70  cetuximab-related  HSRs,  including  32  patients  experiencing 
grade  3  or  4  HSRs.  In  the  target  indication  studies  13/522  (2.5%)  experienced  a  grade  3  or  4  HSR 
event.  
The first occurrence of any cetuximab-related HSR was reported during or after the first infusion of 
cetuximab in 54/65 of the patients, and in 27/32 of the patients with a grade 3 or 4 event. One serious 
event, however, was reported as late as after the 33rd infusion. Five patients  were re-exposed after a 
HSR and no change in severity was observed in 4 patients while one patient with a grade 1 event at 
infusion number 31 experienced a grade 3 event at infusion 33.  
34/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The vast majority (63/65) occurred within one day after administration, but the general database did 
not provide more detailed information on the temporal relationship. Further analyses based on patients 
administered a test dose (20 mg/m2, 20 minutes prior to the remainder of the dose) showed that 11 out 
of  21  patients  experiencing  a  grade  3  or  4  reaction,  had  this  reaction  before  administration  of  the 
remainder  of  the  initial  dose.  Two  developed  a  HSR  during  administration  of  the  remainder  of  the 
dose, 4 after (exact time unknown) and 4 during subsequent administrations. 
The  overall  incidence  of  discontinuations  of  treatment  due  to  cetuximab-related  HSRs  was  1.1% 
(4/350) in the combination therapy group and 4.1% (7/172) in the monotherapy group. 
Skin Reactions 
Skin  reactions,  including  acne-like  rash  characterise  EGFR  targeting  substances.  Skin  reactions  in 
target  indication  studies  are  summarised  in  Table  15.  There  is  no  specific  therapy,  but  dose-
reduction/interruption  is  considered  efficient  in  case  the  toxicity  is  considered  unacceptable.  Two 
percent  of  the  patients  discontinued  due  to  skin  toxicity.  In  about  half  of  the  patients  the  reaction 
resolved within 30 days of discontinuing therapy (all reasons). 
Table 15. Skin reactions in target indication studies 
Parameter 
% patients 
Severity of AE (grade) 
(N=350) 
(N=172) 
Pooled combination 
therapy 
Pooled monotherapy 
Any grade 
1+2 
3 
4 
87.7 
73.7 
13.7 
0.3 
86.6 
75.6 
11.0 
0.0 
Duration of skin reaction (days)  
(N=307) 
(N=149) 
1-7 
8-21 
22-60 
61-90 
>90 
Ongoing 
1.4 
7.1 
15.1 
6.3 
27.7 
22.6 
1.2 
2.3 
15.7 
6.4 
23.8 
33.1 
Time to first occurrence of skin 
reaction (weeks) 
(N=307) 
(N=149) 
1 
2-5 
6-10 
>10 
61.2 
31.9 
4.9 
2.0 
71.8 
22.8 
4.0 
1.3 
Respiratory Disorders 
Altogether 10 cases on “interstitial pneumonitis” were identified during a search of the database 
carried out 3 March 2003. 
Laboratory findings 
Frequencies of patients with any NCI-CTC toxicities (grade 1–4) or grade 3 or 4 toxicities are 
summarized for the most clinically relevant variables in Table 16. 
35/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16: Summary of NCI-CTC grades of laboratory parameters in the target indication 
No. (%) of cetuximab patients 
Variable 
Combination therapy (N=350) 
Monotherapy (N=172) 
Any grade 
Grade 3 or 4 
Grade 4 
Any grade 
Grade 3 or 4 
Grade 4 
Hematology 
Anemia 
Thrombo-
cytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Leukopenia 
Blood chemistry 
High creatinine 
High gamma-GT 
High AP 
High ASAT 
High ALAT 
High total bilirubin 
Low serum 
albumin 
133 
(38.0) 
48 
(13.7) 
115 
184 
(32.9) 
(52.6) 
13 
121 
201 
119 
93 
34 
(3.7) 
(34.6) 
(57.4) 
(34.0) 
(26.6) 
(9.7) 
6 
1 
36 
31 
1 
49 
24 
2 
1 
5 
(1.7) 
(0.3) 
(10.3) 
(8.9) 
(0.3) 
(14.0) 
(6.9) 
(0.6) 
(0.3) 
(1.4) 
186 
(53.1) 
66 
(18.9) 
0 
0 
9 
5 
0 
4 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(2.6) 
(1.4) 
(0.0) 
(1.1) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
42 
10 
15 
35 
5 
57 
91 
57 
22 
21 
84 
(24.4) 
(5.8) 
(8.7) 
(20.3) 
(2.9) 
(33.1) 
(52.9) 
(33.1) 
(12.8) 
(12.2) 
(48.8) 
2 
0 
4 
4 
0 
24 
16 
5 
1 
4 
(1.2) 
(0.0) 
(2.3) 
(2.3) 
(0.0) 
(14.0) 
(9.3) 
(2.9) 
(0.6) 
(2.3) 
24 
(14.0) 
0 
0 
2 
1 
0 
5 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(1.2) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
(2.9) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
Two immune assays were used to detect anti-cetuximab antibodies. Both assays relied on capture of 
free  antibodies  by  cetuximab  itself  and  interference  with  excess  amount  of  free  cetuximab  in  the 
samples might thus decrease the sensitivity. In addition a bioassay was tested in two individuals with a 
high  titre  antibody  response.  Altogether  20  patients  with  anti-antibodies  were  also  analysed  with 
respect to possible effects on pharmacokinetics.  
Altogether  534  patients  were  considered  evaluable  for  antibody  response,  thereof  only  59  from  the 
pivotal  BOND  study.  In  most  cases,  samples  were  drawn  immediately  prior  to  next  infusion  of 
cetuximab and in some (not further detailed cases) 6 weeks after end of therapy. 
The overall incidence of anti-cetuximab responses was about 4% and responses were typically of low 
titre.  The  incidence  appeared  not  to  be  affected  by  concomitant  chemotherapy  and  if  anything  the 
incidence  decreased  with  duration  of  therapy.  Allergic  reactions  in  patients  receiving  cetuximab  did 
not  appear  to  correlate  with  the  presence  of  an  anti-cetuximab  antibodies.  Increased  clearance  of 
cetuximab was shown in 2 of 20 tested anti-cetuximab positive patients (one at 100 mg/m2 and one at 
250 mg/m2 weekly cetuximab dose). In the two individuals with a high titre response, no neutralising 
effect of serum was shown in the bioassay. 
Safety in special populations 
Safety  data  were  detailed  separately  for  the  following  groups  of  patients:  age  ≥65,  male/female, 
white/non-white, KPS<80, creatinine ≥1.5xULN, cardiac disease, liver abnormalities (defined). 
Due  to  the  impact  of  irinotecan,  this  review  is  focused  on  monotherapy  with  cetuximab  and  only 
events  where  an  apparent  difference  is  noted  and  causality  is  not  unlikely  are  presented.  A  higher 
incidence of grade 3 and 4 dyspnea was observed in the elderly (8/47 vs. 8/125). A higher incidence of 
acne was observed in male vs.female patients (52/102 vs. 27/70).  
The number of individuals with KPS<80 was low, but seemingly fewer reported acne 5/21 vs. 74/151. 
The number of individuals with abnormal liver tests was low (n=21), but a seemingly higher incidence 
of skin reactions was observed in patients with normal tests (in-line with findings in the combination 
group).  Dyspnea  was  more frequently reported in  patients with  a history of  cardiac  disease24/69 vs. 
20/103  (for  the  combination  arm,  the  corresponding  figures  were  38/168  vs.40/182).  The  overall 
incidence of heart failure was 10/1230.  
36/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety  
HSRs are expected for this kind of products, but the incidence of grade 3 and 4 events appears high, 
about 2.5% overall and even higher in the monotherapy setting. In the target indication studies, pre-
medication  with  an  antihistamine  was  required  and  a  test  dose  was  also  administered.  In  the  SPC, 
antihistamines  are  recommended.  At  present,  the  test  dose  is  omitted  since  the  incidence  of  serious 
events is unlikely to be reduced by this procedure. Erbitux must be administered under the supervision 
of  a  physician  experienced  in  the  use  of  antineoplastic  medicinal  products.  Close  monitoring  is 
required  during  the  infusion  and  for  at  least  1 hour  after  the  end  of  the  infusion.  Availability  of 
resuscitation equipment must be ensured (see SPC, section 4.2). Erbitux is contraindicated in patients 
with  known  severe  (grade 3  or  4)  hypersensitivity  reactions  to  cetuximab  (see  SPC  section  4.3). 
Symptoms usually occurred during the initial infusion and up to 1 hour after the end of infusion, but 
may  occur  after  several  hours.  It  is  recommended  to  warn  patients  of  the  possibility  of  such  a  late 
onset and instruct them to contact their physician if symptoms of hypersensitivity occur. Occurrence 
of a severe hypersensitivity reaction requires immediate and permanent discontinuation of cetuximab 
therapy and may necessitate emergency treatment. Special attention is recommended for patients with 
reduced  performance  status  and  pre-existing  cardio-pulmonary  disease.  If  the  patient  experiences  a 
mild  or  moderate  (grade 1  or  2)  hypersensitivity  reaction,  the  infusion  rate  may  be  decreased.  It  is 
recommended to maintain this lower infusion rate in all subsequent infusions (see SPC section 4.4). 
Dyspnoea  may  occur  in  close  temporal  relationship  to  the  cetuximab  infusion  as  part  of  a 
hypersensitvity reaction, but has also been reported after several weeks of therapy, possibly related to 
the underlying disorder (see SPC section 4.8). Patients with high age, impaired performance status and 
underlying pulmonary disorders  may be at increased risk for dyspnoea, which  may be severe and/or 
long-standing.  If  patients  develop  dyspnoea  during  the  course  of  cetuximab  treatment,  it  is 
recommended  to  investigate  them  for  signs  of  progressive  pulmonary  disorders  as  appropriate. 
Individual cases of interstitial lung disorders of unknown causal relationship to cetuximab have been 
reported (see SPC section 4.4). 
Skin  reactions,  including  acne-like  rash  characterise  EGFR  targeting  substances.  The  experience  as 
regards long-term exposure is limited and this constitutes a concern as severe skin reactions may occur 
relatively late (about 40% after ten weeks to be compared with a median duration of exposure of 12 
and  7  weeks,  in  combination  and  monotherapy  studies,  respectively).  Skin  reactions  as  a  putative 
entrance portal for infections were further investigated without conclusive findings. Several measures, 
including topical steroids or systemic tetracylines, have been tried on a single-patient basis. However, 
currently, there is no known specific therapy, but dose-reduction/interruption is considered efficient in 
case the toxicity is considered unacceptable. If a patient experiences a severe skin reaction (grade 3; 
NCI-CTC),  cetuximab  therapy  must  be  interrupted.  Treatment  may  only  be  resumed,  if  the  reaction 
has  resolved  to  grade  2  (see  section  SPC  4.4).  This  toxicity  will  be  further  studied  in  ongoing 
mechanistic studies, and will be part of the risk management programme.  
EGFR targeting could have an impact on inflammatory and immune responses85,98. The applicant has 
committed  to  study    that  possible  effects  on  underlying  inflammatory  conditions  in  the  post-
authorisation risk management programme. 
EGFR is one of the major receptor tyrosine kinases involved in wound healing. Caution is indicated in 
the  design  of  EGFR  inhibitor  studies  with  patients  with  surgical  wounds  or  in  patients  with  chronic 
wounds.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  specific  monitoring  of  the  effects  of  Erbitux 
treatment on wound healing in ongoing and planned clinical trials. 
The  database  as  regards  anti-cetuximab  antibodies  (HACA)  is  currently  too  limited  to  allow  firm 
conclusions. In samples assessed for HACA at least 4 weeks after last dose of cetuximab the incidence 
of positive samples was 6/73 and after at least 6 weeks, corresponding figures were 5/37. There was 
no  apparent  relationship  between  HACA  and  allergic  reactions.  The  applicant  committed  to  present 
furher results from ongoing studies to confirm these aspects.  
Only  patients  with  adequate  renal  and  hepatic  function  have  been  investigated  to  date  (serum 
creatinine  ≤ 1.5fold,  transaminases  ≤ 5fold  and  bilirubin  ≤ 1.5fold  the  upper  limit  of  normal). 
Cetuximab  has  not  been  studied  in  patients  presenting  with  haemoglobin  < 9 g/dl,  leukocyte  count 
< 3000/mm³,  absolute  neutrophil  count  < 1500/mm³,  platelet  count  < 100000/mm³.  The  safety  and 
effectiveness  of  cetuximab  in  paediatric  patients  have  not  been  established.  There  is  limited 
37/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
experience in the use of cetuximab in combination with radiotherapy in colorectal cancer. The lack of 
available  information  is  adequately  refelected  in  the  SPC  (see  section  4.4).  No  dose  adjustment  is 
required in the elderly, but the experience is limited in patients 75 years of age and above (see SPC, 
section 4.2). 
Overall, the current knowledge on undesirable effects of cetuximab is adequately detailed in the SPC 
(see section 4.8). There is no evidence that the safety profile of cetuximab is influenced by irinotecan 
or vice versa. Infusion-related reactions, dyspnoea, fever and headache tended to be more frequently 
reported  for  monotherapy.  This  might  be  partly  explained  by  differences  as  regards  premedication, 
especially  with  respect  to  glucocorticosteroids.  Excluding  these  reactions,  no  interaction  in  terms  of 
toxicity was observed between irinotecan and cetuximab (see SPC section 4.5).  
No  studies  on  the  effects  on  ability  to  drive  and  use  machines  have  been  performed.  If  patients 
experience  treatment-related  symptoms  affecting  their  ability  to  concentrate  and  react,  it  is 
recommended that they do not drive or use machines until the effect subsides (see SPC, section 4.7). 
No  case  of  overdose  has  been  reported.  There  is  no  experience  with  single  doses  higher  than 
500 mg/m2 body surface area to date (see SPC, section 4.9). 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The applicant has shown by extensive investigation that the particle formation does not lead to loss of 
potency and that particle-containing batches have been used in clinical trials using in-line filters. The 
company has provided further data suggesting to better characterise the occurrence of visible particles.  
In addition, the applicant has also presented a plan for development of a new formulation (containing 
polysorbate)  aimed  at  reducing  the  amount  of  particles.  An  extension  application  is  planned  to  be 
submitted in 2005. 
In summary the quality of the product is considered satisfactory on the basis of the submitted data, and 
the overall quality of Erbitux is considered acceptable. A number of follow-up measures will need to 
be resolved post-marketing. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  in  vivo  inhibitory  effect  of  cetuximab  on  xenograft  tumours  was  impressive  and  thoroughly 
documented.  Pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  of  cetuximab  with  chemotherapeutic  drugs  have 
been extensively studied and are discussed in the literature. Combination therapy with a topoisomerase 
inhibitor or radiotherapy resulted in reduced tumour growth, and combination with various anti-cancer 
agents even induced reduction of the tumour volume (data not shown). It has been speculated that the 
discrepancy  between  the  potency  of  the  effects  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  illustrates  the  importance  of 
angiogenesis inhibition, which would be of little importance in cell cultures and normal tissues (with 
few exceptions), but significant in tumours 49. 
Resistance  to  cituximab  therapy  may  be  due  to  various  intrinsic  or  acquired  mechanisms,  including 
redundancy  in  signalling  by  other  EGFR  receptors99,  autocrine  or  paracrine  EGFR  loops  in  the 
tumor100, receptor transactivation101,102. Both inactivation of tumor suppressor genes (e.g. von Hippel-
Lindau tumor suppressor gene103) or constitutive activation of protooncogenes like Ras downstream of 
the EGFR104 could result in a reduced therapeutic efficacy of cetuximab. Although the relevance for 
CRC is unknown, different mutated EGFR variants have been identified in tumorigenic cell lines105. 
Lastly, cancer cells might be able to adapt to blockade of EGFR signaling by compensatory changes in 
angiogenic growth factor (VEGF) output106. 
Pharmacokinetic  data  both  after  single  dose  and  at  steady  state  were  essentially  as  expected  for  a 
humanised  antibody.  Cetuximab  is  administered  IV.  The  distribution  volume  corresponded  to  the 
plasma  volume,  Cmax  was  proportional  to  the  dose,  and  the  terminal  half-life,  T½,  was  slightly  less 
than  one  week.  The  values  agree  with  those  found  in  clinical  studies.  Clearance  tended  to  decrease 
with increasing doses, and consequently T½ tended to increase with increasing doses. The reason for 
this  is  not  clear,  but  could  be  a  consequence  of  the  analytical  method  used  rather  than  a  true 
38/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
physiological  result.  Steady  state  was  apparently  reached  after  4  consecutive  weekly  doses,  and  no 
accumulation of cetuximab was noted over 26 weeks.  
Skin toxicity was the major finding observed in a chronic repeat-dose toxicity study in Cynomolgus 
monkeys at clinically relevant levels. Cetuximab induced severe skin toxicity and lethal complications 
in  monkeys,  which  exhibited  blood  levels  of  approximately  17-fold  of  those  achieved  under  the 
standard human treatment regimen. 
Preclinical  data  on  genotoxicity  and  local  tolerability  after  accidental  administration  by  routes  other 
than the intended infusion revealed no special hazard for humans. 
No formal animal studies have been performed to establish the carcinogenic potential of cetuximab or 
to determine its effects on male and female fertility or its teratogenic potential. 
Toxicity studies with co-administration of cetuximab and irinotecan have not been performed. 
No  preclinical  data  on  the  effect  of  anti-EGFR  antibodies  on  wound  healing  are  available  to  date. 
However, in preclinical wound healing models EGFR selective tyrosine kinase inhibitors were shown 
to retard wound healing. 
Efficacy 
A  total  of  356 patients  with  EGFR-expressing  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  who  had  recently  failed 
irinotecan-including cytotoxic therapy and who had a minimum Karnofsky performance status of 60, 
but  the  majority  of  whom  had  a  Karnofsky  performance  status  of  ≥  80,  received  the  combination 
treatment  of  cetuximab  with  irinotecan.  In  the  main  study,  the  proportion  of  responders  in  the 
combination  group  was  22.9%  (95%-CI:  17.5%  -  29.1%).  The  efficacy  of  the  combination  of 
cetuximab  with  irinotecan  was  superior  to  that  of  cetuximab  monotherapy,  in  terms  of  objective 
response  rate  and  progression-free  survival,  but  no  effects  on  overall  survival  were  demonstrated 
(hazard ratio 0.91, p = 0.48). 
Safety 
Adverse  reactions  related  to  cetuximab  may  be  separated  in  two  categories,  those  non-specifically 
related  to  the  antibody  character  of  the  compound  and  those  related  to  EGF-R  targeting.  Infusion-
related  reactions  including  grade  3  and  4  hypersensitivity  reactions  were  reported  in  a  rather  high 
frequency  (about  6  and  3%,  respectively).  As  regards  EGFR  targeting,  skin  and  gastrointestinal 
reactions  were  most  prominent.  Cases  of  late  occurring  and  durable  dyspnoea  have  been  reported, 
although  the  majority  was  reported  in  association  with  infusion  of  cetuximab.  The  possibility  that 
EGFR blockade might enhance an underlying inflammatory condition should be considered. Cases of 
interstitial  lung  disorder  have  been  reported,  but  the  incidence  appears  similar  to  the  reported 
background  incidence,  about  0.3%.  Special  warnings  and  special  precautions  for  use  are  adequately 
addresse din the SPC (see section 4.4). 
The  toxicity  profile  of  the  combination  regimen  was  dominated  by  irinotecan-related  adverse 
reactions.  The  main  toxicities  of  irinotecan  are  diarrhea,  nausea  and  vomiting,  early  cholinergic 
syndrome,  alopecia,  and  neutropenia  107.  Patients  with  metastatic  CRC  are  known  to  suffer  from 
asthenia and gastrointestinal symptoms 108. 
Diarrhea, asthenia, nausea, rash, abdominal pain, vomiting, anorexia, stomatitis, leukopenia, alopecia, 
weight  loss,  and  dehydration  were  more  common  in  the  combination  therapy  group  than  in  the 
monotherapy  group.  In  the  monotherapy  group,  there  was  a  tendency  for  more  fever  and  headache 
than  in the  combination  therapy group. Fever and  headache are common findings in patients  treated 
intravenously with monoclonal antibodies109,110. 
Undesirable  effects  related  to  cetuximab,  include  hypersensitivity  reactions  in  approximately  5%  of 
patients  during  treatment  with  cetuximab.  Approximately  half  of  these  reactions  are  severe.  Mild  or 
moderate reactions (grade 1 or 2) include symptoms such as fever, chills, nausea, rash, or dyspnoea. 
Severe  hypersensitivity  reactions  (grade 3  or  4)  usually  occur  during  or  within  1 hour  of  the  initial 
cetuximab infusion. Symptoms include the rapid onset of airway obstruction (bronchospasm, stridor, 
hoarseness,  difficulty  in  speaking),  urticaria,  and/or  hypotension.  Conjunctivitis  may  be  expected  in 
approximately 5% of patients. 
Dyspnoea  has  been  reported  in  25%  of  patients  with  end  stage  colorectal  cancer.  In  elderly  patients 
39/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
and  in  patients  with  reduced  performance  status  or  pre-existing  pulmonary  disorders,  an  increased 
incidence of dyspnoea, sometimes severe, was observed.  
Skin  reactions  may  develop  in  more  than  80%  of  patients;  approximately  15%  of  these  are  severe. 
They mainly present as acne-like rash and/or, less frequently, as nail disorders (e.g. paronychia). The 
majority  of  skin  reactions  develop  within  the  first  week  of  therapy.  They  generally  resolve,  without 
sequelae, over time following cessation of treatment if the recommended adjustments in dose regimen 
are followed. According to NCI-CTC, grade 2 skin reactions are characterised by rash up to 50% of 
body surface area, while grade 3 reactions affect equal or more than 50% of body surface area. 
In  combination  with  irinotecan,  additional  reported  undesirable  effects  were  those  expected  with 
irinotecan (such as diarrhoea 72%, nausea 55%, vomiting 41%, mucositis, e.g. stomatitis 26%, fever 
33%, leukopenia 25%, alopecia 22%). 
Benefit/risk assessment 
According  to  CPMP  guidance95,  randomised  clinical  trials,  which  show  superiority  when  compared 
with treatment regimens/strategies that have been used previously for the tumour type being treated, 
are  required  to  prove  efficacy  and  safety  in  previously  treated  patients  with  no  existing  established 
regimen. Concerning Erbitux, the data presented were of high quality, and robust methods have been 
used to minimise bias in the evaluation of efficacy, ensuring overall credibility of the results. In terms 
ORR  and  PFS  the  activity  observed  for  the  combination  regimen  met  the  prespecified  criteria  in  an 
ITT population. Tumour response has been found to be a valid surrogate endpoint for overall survival 
for  patients  with  advanced  colorectal  cancer,  albeit 
first-line  chemotherapy  with 
fluoropyrimidines111.  Compared  to  the  combination  group,  the  monotherapy  group  included  in  the 
pivotal trial had similar baseline characteristics, and provided a reliable concurrent control. Although 
no  differences  in  survival  have  been  observed  (this  may  in  part  be  due  to  a  cross-over  from  the 
monotherapy to the combination arm), in terms ORR and PFS from a clinical perspective it has been 
convincingly demonstrated that add-on of cetuximab to a failing irinotecan regimen results in a high 
level of tumour control and this is of clinical relevance. Further investigations are ongoing to clarify 
the value of different regimens that have been described recently in similar populations13,94. Second-
line  randomised  studies  studies  are  ongoing  to  study  cetuximab  +  IRI  vs.  IRI  (CA225006)  and 
cetuximab+FOLFOX4  vs.  FOLFOX4  (CA225014).  The  applicant  committed  to  submit  the  results 
from  these  studies  as  follow-up  measures.  In  conclusion,  based  on  the  randomised  trial  presented,  a 
clear  benefit  has  been  established  for  Erbitux  in  combination  with  irinotecan  for  the  treatment  of 
patients  with  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  (EGFR)-expressing  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  after 
failure of irinotecan-including cytotoxic therapy.  
for 
Concerning clinical safety, irinotecan dominates the toxicity profile of the combination regimen, and 
the incidence of fatigue, anorexia, diarrhoea is rather high for a therapy administered with palliative 
intent.  Irinotecan,  however,  is  an  established  therapy  in  this  setting  and  skin  toxicity,  dyspnoea  and 
infusion-related  reactions  due  to  cetuximab  do  not  materially  alter  the  risk  profile.  Altogether  the 
benefit  risk  profile  of  the  combination  therapy  is  considered  favourable.  The  proposed  post-
authorisation  risk  management  programme  is  adequate  and  encompasses,  as  examples  of  potential 
risks, interstitial lung disorders and septicaemia.  
Cetuximab in monotherapy has a clearly favourable toxicity profile, but activity in terms of ORR and 
especially  PFS  is  rather  modest  and  cannot  be  regarded  as  “outstanding”  compared  with  available 
alternatives used in clinical practice. Furthermore, its use would most likely be focused on patients not 
expected  to  tolerate  combination  therapy.  As  reduced  performance  status  (KPS  >60  and  <80) 
correlates  with  reduced  antitumour  activity,  this  indicates  that  in  practice  monotherapy  will  be  even 
less active. Thus, given the data submitted the benefit/risk profile of cituximab monotherapy was not 
considered favourable, and the applicant restricted the indication to the combination therapy. 
The  applicant  has  committed  to  undertake  certain  follow-up  measures  addressing  outstanding  issues 
especially related to safety and pharmacodynamics. The accuracy of a dosage regimen based on BSA 
has  not  been  convincingly  demonstrated,  and  some  further  exploration  will  be  made  during  future 
development of cetuximab. The proposed post-authorisation risk management programme is adequate 
and encompasses, as examples of potential risks, interstitial lung disorders and septicaemia.  
40/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk ratio of Erbitux in combination with irinotecan in  the  treatment of patients  with 
epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  (EGFR)-expressing  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  after  failure  of 
irinotecan-including cytotoxic therapy was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
41/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
References 
1. GLOBOCAN 2000: Cancer Incidence, Mortality and Prevalence Worldwide, Version 1.0. 
[program], 2001. 
2. Skibber J, Minsky B, PM PH. Cancer of the colon. In: DeVita V, Hellman S, Rosenberg SA, eds. 
Cancer: principles and practice of oncology 6th ed., 2001. 
3. Skibber J, Hoff P, Minsky B. Cancer of the rectum. In: DeVita V, Hellman S, Rosenberg SA, eds. 
Cancer: principles and practice of oncology 6th ed., 2001. 
4. Chau I, Cunningham D. Adjuvant chemotherapy in colon cancer: state of the art. ASCO educational 
book, 38th annual meeting. 2002: 228–239. 
5. Cunningham D, Findlay M. The chemotherapy of colon cancer can no longer be ignored. Eur J 
Cancer 1993;29A(15):2077-9. 
6. Twelves CJ, Cassidy J. Which endpoints should we use in evaluating the use of novel 
fluoropyrimidine regimens in colorectal cancer? Br J Cancer 2002;86(11):1670-6. 
7. de Gramont A, Figer A, Seymour M, et al. Leucovorin and fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin 
as first-line treatment in advanced colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000;18(16):2938-47. 
8. Douillard JY, Cunningham D, Roth AD, et al. Irinotecan combined with fluorouracil compared with 
fluorouracil alone as first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer: a multicentre 
randomised trial. Lancet 2000;355(9209):1041-7. 
9. Giacchetti S, Perpoint B, Zidani R, et al. Phase III multicenter randomized trial of oxaliplatin added 
to chronomodulated fluorouracil-leucovorin as first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal 
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000;18(1):136-47. 
10. Grothey A, Deschleri B, Kroeningr H, et al. Bolus 5.Fluorouracil (5-FU)/ Foljnlc Acid (FA) 
(Mayo) Vs. Weekly High.Dose 24H 5.FU InfuslDn/ FA + Oxaliplatin (OXA) In Advanced 
Colorectal Cancer (CRC). Results of a Phase III Study. 2001. 
11. Köhne C-H, Cutsem Ev, Wils J, et al. Weekly high-dose infusional 5-FU plus folinic acid (FA) 
with or without irinotecan (IRI) in metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC): Interim safety results 
of EORTC study 40986. 2002. 
12. Tournigand C, Louvet C, Andre T, et al. FOLFIRI followed by FOLFOX followed by FOLFIRI in 
metastatic colorectal cancer: which is the best sequence? Safety and preliminary efficacy 
results of a randomized phase III study. 2000. 
13. Tournigand C, Andre T, Achille E, et al. FOLFIRI followed by FOLFOX6 or the reverse sequence 
in advanced colorectal cancer: a randomized GERCOR study. J Clin Oncol 2004;22(2):229-
37. 
14. Carmichael J, Popiela T, Radstone D, et al. Randomized comparative study of tegafur/uracil and 
oral leucovorin versus parenteral fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients with previously 
untreated metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002;20(17):3617-27. 
15. Cassidy J, Twelves C, Van Cutsem E, et al. First-line oral capecitabine therapy in metastatic 
colorectal cancer: a favorable safety profile compared with intravenous 5-
fluorouracil/leucovorin. Ann Oncol 2002;13(4):566-75. 
16. de Gramont A, Bosset JF, Milan C, et al. Randomized trial comparing monthly low-dose 
leucovorin and fluorouracil bolus with bimonthly high-dose leucovorin and fluorouracil bolus 
plus continuous infusion for advanced colorectal cancer: a French intergroup study. J Clin 
Oncol 1997;15(2):808-15. 
17. Douillard JY, Hoff PM, Skillings JR, et al. Multicenter phase III study of uracil/tegafur and oral 
leucovorin versus fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients with previously untreated metastatic 
colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002;20(17):3605-16. 
18. Goldberg R, Morton R, Sargent D, al. e. N9741: oxaliplatin (oxal) or CPT-11 + 5-fluorouracil 
(5FU)_leucovorin (LV) or oxal + CPT-11 in advanced colorectal cancer (CRC). Initial 
toxicity and response data from a GI intergroup study. 2002. 
19. Hoff PM, Ansari R, Batist G, et al. Comparison of oral capecitabine versus intravenous 
fluorouracil plus leucovorin as first-line treatment in 605 patients with metastatic colorectal 
cancer: results of a randomized phase III study. J Clin Oncol 2001;19(8):2282-92. 
20. Saltz LB, Cox JV, Blanke C, et al. Irinotecan plus fluorouracil and leucovorin for metastatic 
colorectal cancer. Irinotecan Study Group. N Engl J Med 2000;343(13):905-14. 
21. Schmoll H, Köhne C, Lorenz M, al. e. Weekly 24h infusion of highdose (HD) 5-fluorouracil 
(5FU24h) with or without folinic acid (FA) vs. bolus 5-FU_FA (NCCTG_Mayo) in advanced 
42/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
colorectal cancer (CRC): A randomized phase III study of the EORTC GITCCG and the AIO. 
2000. 
22. Van Cutsem E, Twelves C, Cassidy J, et al. Oral capecitabine compared with intravenous 
fluorouracil plus leucovorin in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: results of a large 
phase III study. J Clin Oncol 2001;19(21):4097-106. 
23. Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F, Normanno N. Epidermal growth factor-related peptides and 
their receptors in human malignancies. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995;19(3):183-232. 
24. Messa C, Russo F, Caruso MG, Di Leo A. EGF, TGF-alpha, and EGF-R in human colorectal 
adenocarcinoma. Acta Oncol 1998;37(3):285-9. 
25. Hemming AW, Davis NL, Kluftinger A, et al. Prognostic markers of colorectal cancer: an 
evaluation of DNA content, epidermal growth factor receptor, and Ki-67. J Surg Oncol 
1992;51(3):147-52. 
26. Mayer A, Takimoto M, Fritz E, Schellander G, Kofler K, Ludwig H. The prognostic significance 
of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, epidermal growth factor receptor, and mdr gene 
expression in colorectal cancer. Cancer 1993;71(8):2454-60. 
27. De Luca A, Arra C, D'Antonio A, et al. Simultaneous blockage of different EGF-like growth 
factors results in efficient growth inhibition of human colon carcinoma xenografts. Oncogene 
2000;19(51):5863-71. 
28. Ciardiello F, Bianco R, Damiano V, et al. Antitumor activity of sequential treatment with 
topotecan and anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody C225. Clin Cancer 
Res 1999;5(4):909-16. 
29. Prewett MC, Hooper AT, Bassi R, Ellis LM, Waksal HW, Hicklin DJ. Enhanced antitumor 
activity of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody IMC-C225 in 
combination with irinotecan (CPT-11) against human colorectal tumor xenografts. Clin 
Cancer Res 2002;8(5):994-1003. 
30. Goldstein NI, Prewett M, Zuklys K, Rockwell P, Mendelsohn J. Biological efficacy of a chimeric 
antibody to the epidermal growth factor receptor in a human tumor xenograft model. Clin 
Cancer Res 1995;1(11):1311-8. 
31. Fan Z, Lu Y, Wu X, Mendelsohn J. Antibody-induced epidermal growth factor receptor 
dimerization mediates inhibition of autocrine proliferation of A431 squamous carcinoma cells. 
J Biol Chem 1994;269(44):27595-602. 
32. Fan Z, Mendelsohn J, Masui H, Kumar R. Regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor in 
NIH3T3/HER14 cells by antireceptor monoclonal antibodies. J Biol Chem 
1993;268(28):21073-9. 
33. Albanell J, Codony-Servat J, Rojo F, et al. Activated extracellular signal-regulated kinases: 
association with epidermal growth factor receptor/transforming growth factor alpha 
expression in head and neck squamous carcinoma and inhibition by anti-epidermal growth 
factor receptor treatments. Cancer Res 2001;61(17):6500-10. 
34. Wu X, Fan Z, Masui H, Rosen N, Mendelsohn J. Apoptosis induced by an anti-epidermal growth 
factor receptor monoclonal antibody in a human colorectal carcinoma cell line and its delay by 
insulin. J Clin Invest 1995;95(4):1897-905. 
35. Peng D, Fan Z, Lu Y, DeBlasio T, Scher H, Mendelsohn J. Anti-epidermal growth factor receptor 
monoclonal antibody 225 up-regulates p27KIP1 and induces G1 arrest in prostatic cancer cell 
line DU145. Cancer Res 1996;56(16):3666-9. 
36. Fan Z, Shang BY, Lu Y, Chou JL, Mendelsohn J. Reciprocal changes in p27(Kip1) and p21(Cip1) 
in growth inhibition mediated by blockade or overstimulation of epidermal growth factor 
receptors. Clin Cancer Res 1997;3(11):1943-8. 
37. Prewett M, Rockwell P, Rockwell RF, et al. The biologic effects of C225, a chimeric monoclonal 
antibody to the EGFR, on human prostate carcinoma. J Immunother Emphasis Tumor 
Immunol 1996;19(6):419-27. 
38. Prewett M, Rockwell P, Rose C, al. e. Altered cell cycle distribution and cyclin-CDK protein 
expression in A431 epidermoid carcinoma cells treated with doxorubicin and a chimeric 
monoclonal antibody to the epidermal growth factor receptor. Mol Cell Differen 1996 
1996;4(2):167-86. 
39. Huang SM, Bock JM, Harari PM. Epidermal growth factor receptor blockade with C225 
modulates proliferation, apoptosis, and radiosensitivity in squamous cell carcinomas of the 
head and neck. Cancer Res 1999;59(8):1935-40. 
43/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
40. Bonner JA, Raisch KP, Trummell HQ, et al. Enhanced apoptosis with combination C225/radiation 
treatment serves as the impetus for clinical investigation in head and neck cancers. J Clin 
Oncol 2000;18(21 Suppl):47S-53S. 
41. Tortora G, Caputo R, Pomatico G, et al. Cooperative inhibitory effect of novel mixed backbone 
oligonucleotide targeting protein kinase A in combination with docetaxel and anti-epidermal 
growth factor-receptor antibody on human breast cancer cell growth. Clin Cancer Res 
1999;5(4):875-81. 
42. Saleh MN, Raisch KP, Stackhouse MA, et al. Combined modality therapy of A431 human 
epidermoid cancer using anti-EGFr antibody C225 and radiation. Cancer Biother Radiopharm 
1999;14(6):451-63. 
43. Bandyopadhyay D, Mandal M, Adam L, Mendelsohn J, Kumar R. Physical interaction between 
epidermal growth factor receptor and DNA-dependent protein kinase in mammalian cells. J 
Biol Chem 1998;273(3):1568-73. 
44. Fox S, Gasparini G, Harris A. Angiogenesis: pathological, prognostic, and growth-factor pathways 
and their link to trial design and anticancer drugs. Lancet Oncol. 2001;2(5):278-89. 
45. Huang SM, Harari PM. Modulation of radiation response after epidermal growth factor receptor 
blockade in squamous cell carcinomas: inhibition of damage repair, cell cycle kinetics, and 
tumor angiogenesis. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6(6):2166-74. 
46. Bruns CJ, Harbison MT, Davis DW, et al. Epidermal growth factor receptor blockade with C225 
plus gemcitabine results in regression of human pancreatic carcinoma growing orthotopically 
in nude mice by antiangiogenic mechanisms. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6(5):1936-48. 
47. Ciardiello F, Damiano V, Bianco R, et al. Antitumor activity of combined blockade of epidermal 
growth factor receptor and protein kinase A. J Natl Cancer Inst 1996;88(23):1770-6. 
48. Ciardiello F, Bianco R, Damiano V, et al. Antiangiogenic and antitumor activity of anti-epidermal 
growth factor receptor C225 monoclonal antibody in combination with vascular endothelial 
growth factor antisense oligonucleotide in human GEO colon cancer cells. Clin Cancer Res 
2000;6(9):3739-47. 
49. Petit AM, Rak J, Hung MC, et al. Neutralizing antibodies against epidermal growth factor and 
ErbB-2/neu receptor tyrosine kinases down-regulate vascular endothelial growth factor 
production by tumor cells in vitro and in vivo: angiogenic implications for signal transduction 
therapy of solid tumors. Am J Pathol 1997;151(6):1523-30. 
50. Perrotte P, Matsumoto T, Inoue K, et al. Anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody C225 
inhibits angiogenesis in human transitional cell carcinoma growing orthotopically in nude 
mice. Clin Cancer Res 1999;5(2):257-65. 
51. Milas L, Mason K, Hunter N, et al. In vivo enhancement of tumor radioresponse by C225 
antiepidermal growth factor receptor antibody. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6(2):701-8. 
52. Inoue K, Slaton JW, Perrotte P, et al. Paclitaxel enhances the effects of the anti-epidermal growth 
factor receptor monoclonal antibody ImClone C225 in mice with metastatic human bladder 
transitional cell carcinoma. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6(12):4874-84. 
53. Karashima T, Sweeney P, Slaton JW, et al. Inhibition of angiogenesis by the antiepidermal growth 
factor receptor antibody ImClone C225 in androgen-independent prostate cancer growing 
orthotopically in nude mice. Clin Cancer Res 2002;8(5):1253-64. 
54. Eller JL, Longo SL, Hicklin DJ, Canute GW. Activity of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor 
monoclonal antibody C225 against glioblastoma multiforme. Neurosurgery 2002;51(4):1005-
13; discussion 1013-4. 
55. Bancroft CC, Chen Z, Yeh J, et al. Effects of pharmacologic antagonists of epidermal growth 
factor receptor, PI3K and MEK signal kinases on NF-kappaB and AP-1 activation and IL-8 
and VEGF expression in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines. Int J Cancer 
2002;99(4):538-48. 
56. Huang SM, Li J, Harari PM. Molecular inhibition of angiogenesis and metastatic potential in 
human squamous cell carcinomas after epidermal growth factor receptor blockade. Mol 
Cancer Ther 2002;1(7):507-14. 
57. Naramura M, Gillies SD, Mendelsohn J, Reisfeld RA, Mueller BM. Therapeutic potential of 
chimeric and murine anti-(epidermal growth factor receptor) antibodies in a metastasis model 
for human melanoma. Cancer Immunol Immunother 1993;37(5):343-9. 
58. Zuckier G, Tritton TR. Adriamycin causes up regulation of epidermal growth factor receptors in 
actively growing cells. Exp Cell Res 1983;148(1):155-61. 
44/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
59. Hagan M, Wang L, Hanley JR, Park JS, Dent P. Ionizing radiation-induced mitogen-activated 
protein (MAP) kinase activation in DU145 prostate carcinoma cells: MAP kinase inhibition 
enhances radiation-induced cell killing and G2/M-phase arrest. Radiat Res 2000;153(4):371-
83. 
60. Baselga J, Norton L, Masui H, et al. Antitumor effects of doxorubicin in combination with anti-
epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibodies. J Natl Cancer Inst 
1993;85(16):1327-33. 
61. Gupta AK, Bakanauskas VJ, McKenna WG, Bernhard EJ, Muschel RJ. Ras regulation of 
radioresistance in cell culture. Methods Enzymol 2001;333:284-90. 
62. Ciardiello F, Caputo R, Bianco R, et al. Cooperative inhibition of renal cancer growth by anti-
epidermal growth factor receptor antibody and protein kinase A antisense oligonucleotide. J 
Natl Cancer Inst 1998;90(14):1087-94. 
63. Masui H, Kawamoto T, Sato JD, Wolf B, Sato G, Mendelsohn J. Growth inhibition of human 
tumor cells in athymic mice by anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibodies. 
Cancer Res 1984;44(3):1002-7. 
64. Fan Z, Masui H, Altas I, Mendelsohn J. Blockade of epidermal growth factor receptor function by 
bivalent and monovalent fragments of 225 anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal 
antibodies. Cancer Res 1993;53(18):4322-8. 
65. Fan Z, Baselga J, Masui H, Mendelsohn J. Antitumor effect of anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor monoclonal antibodies plus cis-diamminedichloroplatinum on well established A431 
cell xenografts. Cancer Res 1993;53(19):4637-42. 
66. Bianco C, Bianco R, Tortora G, et al. Antitumor activity of combined treatment of human cancer 
cells with ionizing radiation and anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 
C225 plus type I protein kinase A antisense oligonucleotide. Clin Cancer Res 
2000;6(11):4343-50. 
67. Goldenberg A, Masui H, Divgi C, Kamrath H, Pentlow K, Mendelsohn J. Imaging of human tumor 
xenografts with an indium-111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal 
antibody. J Natl Cancer Inst 1989;81(21):1616-25. 
68. ICH. Note for guidance on safety pharmacology studies for human pharmaceuticals 
(CPMP/ICH/539/00), 2000. 
69. ICH. Note for guidance on preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals 
(CPMP/ICH/30295), 1997. 
70. Semenov DV, Kanyshkova TG, Kit YY, et al. Human breast milk immunoglobulins G hydrolyze 
nucleotides. Biochemistry (Mosc) 1998;63(8):935-43. 
71. Telemo E, Hanson LA. Antibodies in milk. J Mammary Gland Biol Neoplasia 1996;1(3):243-9. 
72. Maeda S, Morikawa A, Tokuyama K, Kuroume T. The concentration of bovine IgG in human 
breast milk measured using different methods. Acta Paediatr 1993;82(12):1012-6. 
73. ICH. Topic S4A - Step 4 Note for guidance on duration of chronic toxicity testing in animals 
(rodent and non-rodent toxicity testing), 1998. 
74. ICH. Topic M3 - Step 5 Note for guidance on non-clinical safety studies for the conduct of human 
clinical trials for pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/286/95, modification). 2000. 
75. Gianni L. Tolerability in patients receiving trastuzumab with or without chemotherapy. Ann Oncol 
2001;12 Suppl 1:S63-8. 
76. Keefe DL. Trastuzumab-associated cardiotoxicity. Cancer 2002;95(7):1592-600. 
77. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. EMEA public statement on 
Trastuzumab (Herceptin) – New pharmacokinetic data (EMEA/CPMP/1696/01), 2001. 
78. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. Herceptin INN:Trastuzumab 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR), rev. 1, 2002. 
79. ICH. Topic S6 - Step 4 Note for guidance on preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-
derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95), 1997. 
80. ICH. Topic S1A - Step 4 Note for guidance on the need for carcinogenicity studies of 
pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/140/95), 1995. 
81. CPMP. Note for guidance on the pre-clinical evaluation of anticancer medicinal products 
(CPMP/SWP/997/96), 1998. 
82. Kuznetsov SA, Friedenstein AJ, Robey PG. Factors required for bone marrow stromal fibroblast 
colony formation in vitro. Br J Haematol 1997;97(3):561-70. 
45/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
83. Maroder M, Bellavia D, Vacca A, Felli MP, Screpanti I. The thymus at the crossroad of 
neuroimmune interactions. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2000;917:741-7. 
84. Reindel JF, Gough AW, Pilcher GD, Bobrowski WF, Sobocinski GP, de la Iglesia FA. Systemic 
proliferative changes and clinical signs in cynomolgus monkeys administered a recombinant 
derivative of human epidermal growth factor. Toxicol Pathol 2001;29(2):159-73. 
85. Mascia F, Mariani V, Girolomoni G, Pastore S. Blockade of the EGF receptor induces a deranged 
chemokine expression in keratinocytes leading to enhanced skin inflammation. Am J Pathol 
2003;163(1):303-12. 
86. Emrich JG, Bender H, Class R, Eshleman J, Miyamoto C, Brady LW. In vitro evaluation of 
iodine-125-labeled monoclonal antibody (MAb 425) in human high-grade glioma cells. Am J 
Clin Oncol 1996;19(6):601-8. 
87. Sunada H, Magun BE, Mendelsohn J, MacLeod CL. Monoclonal antibody against epidermal 
growth factor receptor is internalized without stimulating receptor phosphorylation. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci U S A 1986;83(11):3825-9. 
88. van 't Hof RJ, Defize LH, Nuijdens R, de Brabander M, Verkleij AJ, Boonstra J. Dynamics of 
epidermal growth factor receptor internalization studied by Nanovid light microscopy and 
electron microscopy in combination with immunogold labeling. Eur J Cell Biol 1989;48(1):5-
13. 
89. Makiya R, Stigbrand T. Placental alkaline phosphatase is related to human IgG internalization in 
HEp2 cells. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 1992;182(2):624-30. 
90. Stone DL, Suzuki Y, Wood GW. Human amnion as a model for IgG transport. Am J Reprod 
Immunol Microbiol 1987;13(2):36-43. 
91. Cunningham D, Humblet Y, Siena S, al. e. Cetuximab (C225) alone or in combination with 
irinotecan (CPT-11) in patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-positive, 
irinotecan-refractory metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC). 2003. 
92. WHO. Handbook for reporting results of cancer treatment. Geneva, 1979. 
93. Therasse P, Arbuck SG, Eisenhauer EA, et al. New guidelines to evaluate the response to 
treatment in solid tumors. European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, 
National Cancer Institute of the United States, National Cancer Institute of Canada. J Natl 
Cancer Inst 2000;92(3):205-16. 
94. Rothenberg ML, Oza AM, Burger B, et al. Final results of a phase III trial of 5-FU/leucovorin 
versus oxaliplatin versus the combination in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer 
following irinotecan, 5-FU, and leucovorin. 2003. 
95. CPMP. Note for Guidance on Evaluation of Anticancer Medicinal Products in Man 
(CPMP/EWP/205/95 Revision 2), 2003. 
96. Dancey JE, Freidlin B. Targeting epidermal growth factor receptor--are we missing the mark? 
Lancet 2003;362(9377):62-4. 
97. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. Herceptin INN:Trastuzumab 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR), rev. 1 (CPMP/1774/00), 2002. 
98. Sinha A, Nightingale J, West KP, Berlanga-Acosta J, Playford RJ. Epidermal growth factor 
enemas with oral mesalamine for mild-to-moderate left-sided ulcerative colitis or proctitis. N 
Engl J Med 2003;349(4):350-7. 
99. Liu B, Fang M, Schmidt M, Lu Y, Mendelsohn J, Fan Z. Induction of apoptosis and activation of 
the caspase cascade by anti-EGF receptor monoclonal antibodies in DiFi human colon cancer 
cells do not involve the c-jun N-terminal kinase activity. Br J Cancer 2000;82(12):1991-9. 
100. Normanno N, Bianco C, De Luca A, Salomon DS. The role of EGF-related peptides in tumor 
growth. Front Biosci 2001;6:D685-707. 
101. Carpenter G. The EGF receptor: a nexus for trafficking and signaling. Bioessays 2000;22(8):697-
707. 
102. Prenzel N, Fischer OM, Streit S, Hart S, Ullrich A. The epidermal growth factor receptor family 
as a central element for cellular signal transduction and diversification. Endocr Relat Cancer 
2001;8(1):11-31. 
103. Perera AD, Kleymenova EV, Walker CL. Requirement for the von Hippel-Lindau tumor 
suppressor gene for functional epidermal growth factor receptor blockade by monoclonal 
antibody C225 in renal cell carcinoma. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6(4):1518-23. 
46/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
104. Ennis BW, Valverius EM, Bates SE, et al. Anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibodies 
inhibit the autocrine-stimulated growth of MDA-468 human breast cancer cells. Mol 
Endocrinol 1989;3(11):1830-8. 
105. Ge H, Gong X, Tang CK. Evidence of high incidence of EGFRvIII expression and coexpression 
with EGFR in human invasive breast cancer by laser capture microdissection and 
immunohistochemical analysis. Int J Cancer 2002;98(3):357-61. 
106. Viloria-Petit A, Crombet T, Jothy S, et al. Acquired resistance to the antitumor effect of 
epidermal growth factor receptor-blocking antibodies in vivo: a role for altered tumor 
angiogenesis. Cancer Res 2001;61(13):5090-101. 
107. Aventis Pharma. Camptosar – Summary of Product 
Characteristics, 2001. 
108. Cunningham D, Pyrhonen S, James RD, et al. Randomised trial of irinotecan plus supportive care 
versus supportive care alone after fluorouracil failure for patients with metastatic colorectal 
cancer. Lancet 1998;352(9138):1413-8. 
109. Dillman RO. Antibodies as cytotoxic therapy. J Clin Oncol 1994;12(7):1497-515. 
110. Dillman RO. Infusion reactions associated with the therapeutic use of monoclonal antibodies in 
the treatment of malignancy. Cancer Metastasis Rev 1999;18(4):465-71. 
111. Buyse M, Thirion P, Carlson RW, Burzykowski T, Molenberghs G, Piedbois P. Relation between 
tumour response to first-line chemotherapy and survival in advanced colorectal cancer: a 
meta-analysis. Meta-Analysis Group in Cancer. Lancet 2000;356(9227):373-8. 
47/47 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
