European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008   
Doc. Ref No.:EMEA/590803/2008  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ERBITUX 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
cetuximab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/558/II/0026 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-
expressing, KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer 
• in combination with chemotherapy 
• as a single agent in patients who have failed oxaliplatin-  and irinotecan-based therapy and who are 
intolerant to irinotecan. 
Erbitux in combination with radiation therapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced squamous cell cancer of the head and neck. 
This indication is now revised as follows (new in bold):   
Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck 
• in combination with radiation therapy for locally advanced disease 
• in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic disease. 
2 
Clinical aspects 
Early-stage Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck (SCCHN) is curable with surgery and/or 
radiotherapy, but about 75% of SCCHN patients present with locally advanced disease and with 
current therapy 50 to 60% of these patients will experience a locoregional or distant relapse within 2 
years of initial treatment. This is the target population for this application: recurrent and/or metastatic 
(R/M) SCCHN. 
Clinical Studies Supporting the Efficacy off Cetuximab in the First-line Treatment of R/M 
SCCHN 
2. 1.  Clinical efficacy 
Main study EMR 62 202-002 (“EXTREME”)  
The study was an open-label, randomized (1:1), multicenter (80 centers in Europe) study in R/M 
SCCHN comparing cetuximab + cisplatin or carboplatin + 5-FU versus cisplatin or carboplatin + 5-FU 
as first-line therapy for R/M SCCHN.  
Group A: 1 treatment cycle consisted of dosing with chemotherapy (CTX) plus cetuximab on day 1, 
and doses of cetuximab on days 8 and 15, with follow-up through to day 20 of the cycle. 
Group B: 1 treatment cycle consisted of dosing with CTX on day 1 with follow-up through to day 20 
of the cycle. 
Groups A and B received the same CTX regimen every 21 days. The regimen was based on cisplatin 
or carboplatin + 5-FU. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment was continued until PD, symptomatic deterioration, or unacceptable toxicity.  
Subjects with unacceptable toxicity on cisplatin could be switched to carboplatin. CTX was given for a 
maximum of 6 cycles and cetuximab was continued in subjects without PD as monotherapy after the 
end of CTX in subjects in the cetuximab + CTX group. 
Subjects were stratified according to previous CTX (defined as neoadjuvant or induction CTX, 
adjuvant CTX or CTX in combination with concomitant radiotherapy as therapy for locally advanced 
disease) (yes/no) and Karnofsky performance score (KPS) (<80/≥80).  
Tumour response assessments using modified World Health Organization (WHO) criteria were based 
on computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) every 6 weeks and evaluated at 
study sites.  
PD and survival status were assessed every 3 months after the end-of-study visit. 
Primary endpoint: Survival 
Secondary endpoints: PFS, RR, duration of response, QoL 
Main Inclusion Criteria: 
(cid:190)  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of SCCHN 
(cid:190)  Recurrent (locoregional) and/or metastatic SCCHN, not suitable for local therapy 
(cid:190)  At least 1 bi-dimensional lesion measurable by either CT or MRI 
(cid:190)  KPS of ≥70 at study entry 
(cid:190)  Total bilirubin ≤2 xupper limit of normal range (ULN); aspartate aminotransferase 
(cid:190)  (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≤3 xULN 
(cid:190)  Tumor tissue available for evaluation of EGFR 
Important Main Exclusion Criterion: 
(cid:190)  Prior systemic CTX except if given as part of a multimodal treatment for locally advanced 
disease which was completed more than 6 months before study entry (i.e. neoadjuvant or 
induction CTX, adjuvant CTX or CTX in combination with concomitant radiotherapy as 
therapy for locally advanced disease) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposition of Subjects: 
a) 6 subjects who were not eligible were randomized 
b) 3 not treated 
c) 5 not treated 
AE=adverse event; 5-FU=5-fluorouracil; ITT=intention-to-treat; N=number of subjects; PD=progressive disease 
4 
  
 
Baseline Characteristics 
5 
 
 
 
a) Multiple mentions possible 
b Table is sorted on cetuximab + CTX column 
Best Response to Prior Therapy 
Efficacy Results 
Summary of Primary Analysis of Overall Survival Time (ITT Population) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cox regression with a stepwise selection procedure identified only one additional potential prognostic 
baseline factor, namely the type of primary tumour. Adjustment for the most important prognostic 
variables confirmed the primary analysis on OS time: HR=0.786, 95% CI: 0.636, 0.973. 
7 
 
 
Overall Survival Time: Results of Subgroup Analyses (ITT Population) 
8 
 
9 
 
 
Summary of Analysis of Progression-free Survival Time (ITT Population) 
10 
 
 
Progression-free Survival Time: Results of Subgroup Analyses (ITT Population) 
11 
 
12 
 
 
Summary of Best Overall Confirmed Response in All Subjects (ITT Population) 
Summary of Best Overall Confirmed Response in Subjects who Started Platinum Therapy with 
Cisplatin or Carboplatin (ITT Population) 
13 
 
 
 
Subgroup Analyses of Best Overall Response (ITT Population) 
14 
 
 
Supportive studies  
EMR 62 202-008 was an open-label, uncontrolled, randomized, multicenter phase I/II study on the 
safety and tolerability of escalating doses of infusional 5-FU in combination with cetuximab in the 
first-line treatment of subjects with R/M SCCHN combined with cisplatin or carboplatin . Altogether 
53 subjects received the licensed dose of cetuximab in combination with 3-weekly cycles of cisplatin 
(100 mg/m²) or carboplatin (AUC 5), each in combination with a 5-day infusion of 5-FU at escalating 
doses of 600 (low dose), 800 (medium dose) or 1000 mg/m²/day (high dose). The frequency of dose-
limiting toxicities (DLTs) in the first 2 cycles was acceptable according to the protocol definition for 
all regimens, for cetuximab in combination with either cisplatin or carboplatin given together with 
infusional 5-FU at a daily dose of 1000 mg/m². 
As infusional 5-FU at 1000 mg/m², in combination with cisplatin (100 mg/m²) or carboplatin (AUC 5), 
is considered standard without cetuximab, this dose was selected for the confirmatory study. The 
pooled efficacy analysis of the study showed a median survival time of 9.8 months, a median PFS time 
of 5.1 months, and an overall response rate of 36%. These efficacy results and the safety profile of 
cetuximab in combination with either cisplatin (100 mg/m²) or carboplatin (AUC 5) given together 
with infusional 5-FU at a daily dose of 1000 mg/m² were the basis for the selection of this dose of 5-
FU for further study. 
Study ECOG E5397 was conducted in the first-line setting of R/M SCCHN. Cisplatin + cetuximab 
and cisplatin + placebo were compared in 117 subjects.  
Time-related efficacy parameters tended to favour the cetuximab containing arm, although not 
reaching statistical significance (median OS time: 9.2 vs 8.0 months; median PFS time: 4.2 vs 2.7 
months), and the overall response rate was superior (26 vs 10%, p=0.03). The safety profile of 
cisplatin was essentially not altered by add-on cetuximab. 
Main study 
EMR 62 202-002 – FISH analysis 
The MAH was requested by the CHMP to provide further analyses of the outcome of the pivotal study 
in relation to EGFR gene copy number status (assessed by FISH) of the tumour using the most mature 
outcome data available and to discuss possible bias introduced by censoring. The clinical data cut-off 
for the study was 12 March 2007.  
The “Colorado Score definition” and five additional FISH score definitions were tested to investigate a 
possible association of EGFR gene copy number status and cetuximab efficacy in EMR 62 202-002. 
No informative relationship was seen between EGFR gene copy number status and study 
outcome for overall survival, progression-free survival and response.  
Therefore, it can be concluded that EGFR gene copy number status is not a predictive marker 
for cetuximab in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic 
disease. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Efficacy 
Add-on efficacy of a magnitude normally considered clinically relevant has been demonstrated in the 
pivotal study. These data are supported by add-on activity demonstrated in a small ECOG study.  
Survival benefit has not been consistently demonstrated in the subgroup analyses reported, but add-on 
activity in terms of response rate and PFS benefit was shown. This constitutes no major concern as it 
would be expected for an add-on therapy to show less activity in patients with affected performance 
status, more aggressive tumours, etc.   
In the current SPC and in relation to the radiotherapy study the following is stated: “Patients with a 
good prognosis as indicated by tumour stage, Karnofsky performance status (KPS) and age had a more 
pronounced benefit, when cetuximab was added to radiation therapy. No clinical benefit could be 
demonstrated in patients with KPS ≤ 80 who were 65 years of age or older.” The same situation 
applies similarly to the new study in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy.  
Relevant add-on activity is seen for FISH positive and FISH negative tumours, where FISH status is 
defined according to the Colorado Scoring system definition. This seems to be the case also with 
respect to exploratory analyses.  
Available data on KRAS mutation in SCCHN and evaluation of the feasibility of further investigations 
to address this issue, were discussed assuming that a mutated KRAS would have similar consequences 
in the SCCHN population as in mCRC. In contrast to mCRC where KRAS mutations are found in 30-
40% of tumors, KRAS mutations in SCCHN are rare events. Therefore, KRAS mutational status does 
not appear to be a meaningful biomarker in SCCHN to identify patients who derive most benefit from 
cetuximab treatment. 
Also, it has to be considered that the results from mCRC cannot automatically be extrapolated to other 
indications given the complexity of the EGFR and KRAS biology. The impact of KRAS mutations on 
cetuximab efficacy is most likely dependent on the relative importance of KRAS and its downstream 
mediators for EGFR mediated signalling in the respective indication vs. other (KRAS independent) 
EGFR triggered pathways such as PI3K/Akt or STAT signalling. Furthermore, the prominence of 
other EGFR signalling independent mechanisms such as ADCC could reduce the predictive power of 
KRAS mutations. 
2.2 
Clinical safety 
EMR 62 202-002 
Cetuximab was given as weekly infusions until PD, symptomatic deterioration or unacceptable 
toxicity. CTX was given in cycles of 21 days and subjects could receive up to 6 cycles of CTX 
provided that they did not show PD or unacceptable toxicity. Cetuximab could be continued in 
subjects without PD as monotherapy after the end of CTX in subjects in the cetuximab + CTX group. 
Of the 442 randomized subjects, 219 subjects were exposed to cetuximab + CTX and 215 subjects 
were exposed to CTX only. Subjects in the cetuximab + CTX group received a median of 17 
cetuximab infusions. A total of 100 subjects continued to receive cetuximab as monotherapy after 
CTX; the median number of cetuximab monotherapy infusions was 10 (interquartile range: 6–23, 
range: 1–71). 
Overall, the median cumulative cetuximab dose was 4,139 mg/m². The median dose intensity for the 
weekly treatment was 241 mg/m² and thus very close to the target dose of 250 mg/m². Overall, 
75.2% subjects achieved a relative dose intensity of ≥90%.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Most Common Grade 3 or 4 AEs Occurring in >5% Subjects in Either Treatment Group of 
Study EMR 62 202-002 
Grade 3 or 4 AEs in <5% Subjects of Study EMR 62 202-002 with Higher Frequencies in the 
Cetuximab + CTX group (Relative Increase >2) 
17 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths: The profile of primary reasons for death differed slightly between the 2 treatment groups with 
a lower frequency of deaths due to disease progression in the cetuximab + CTX group than in the CTX 
group (4.6 vs 7.0% subjects). Frequencies in the cetuximab + CTX group were higher for deaths due 
to intercurrent or unrelated illnesses (5.5 vs 2.8%) and deaths due to unknown causes (4.6 vs 
0.9%). The primary reason for death was not considered to be due to cetuximab-related events in any 
of the subjects; 9 deaths were considered to be due to an AE related to CTX (2 in the cetuximab + 
CTX group, 7 in the CTX group). 
SAEs were reported in both treatment groups in a similar proportion of subjects: 50.2% in 
the cetuximab + CTX group and 47.4% in the CTX group.  
The following SAEs were more frequent in the cetuximab + CTX group than in the CTX group 
(relative increase >2): pneumonia (4.6 vs 1.9%), dehydration (4.1 vs 1.4%), sepsis (2.7 vs 0.5%), and 
septic shock (1.4 vs 0%).  
Withdrawals due to AEs: Cetuximab was discontinued due to AEs in 44 (20.1%) of the 219 subjects 
in the cetuximab + CTX group; in 28 (12.8%) of these subjects, CTX was also discontinued.  
The most frequent reason for discontinuation of cetuximab was hypersensitivity (1.8% subjects). The 
proportion of subjects in whom AEs led to discontinuations of CTX was higher in the cetuximab + 
CTX group compared to the CTX group: 22.8 vs 17.7% subjects. The most frequent AEs leading to 
discontinuation of CTX were neutropenia (2.7 vs 0.9%), mucosal inflammation (1.8 vs 0.9%), and 
general physical health deterioration (1.8 vs 0%). 
Special AE Categories  
In study EMR 62 202-002, the following AE categories were examined based on relevant MedDRA 
preferred terms as they represent known side effects of cetuximab:  
skin reactions, acne-like rash, IRRs, mucositis, cardiac events (in combination with infusional 5-FU), 
and thromboembolic events.  
In addition, events related to haemorrhage were analyzed. Frequencies of corresponding NCI-CTC 
terms and categories in study ECOG E5397 were also reviewed. 
The coincidence of electrolyte imbalances and two categories of AEs (cardiac events or death of 
unknown cause, severe diarrhea) was also examined in study EMR 62 202-002. 
Known Side Effects: Incidences and severities of skin reactions, acne-like rash, IRRs, deep vein 
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and cardiac events were in line with previous findings and 
consistent with the current product labeling.  
Severe cardiac AEs occurred more often in the cetuximab + CTX group than in the CTX group (7.3 vs 
4.2%). This was mainly due to AEs of ‘infarction/ischemia’ occurring primarily during the first 5-FU 
infusion, as well as ‘congestive heart failure’ and ‘sudden death’ due to unknown causes. 
Other Safety Issues. The frequency of ‘hemorrhages’ was not increased by the combination of 
cetuximab with platinum-based CTX as compared to platinum-based CTX alone. 
The data on coincidence of electrolyte imbalances with cardiac events, death of unknown cause, or 
severe diarrhoea were limited and did not allow clinically meaningful conclusions to be drawn. 
Discussion of Safety 
The safety profile of cetuximab as add-on to CTX is as expected and is dominated by acne-like rash, 
diarrhoea, electrolyte disturbances and infusion-related reactions.   
Based on the increased incidence of grade 3 and 4 hypocalcaemia in study EMR 62202-002 in the 
cetuximab plus CTX group, it is at least possible that this is a cetuximab related event. It was agreed 
that cases of severe hypocalcaemia should be mentioned in the SPC. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As diarrhoea and mucositis are both known side effects of cetuximab irrespective of indication and 
combination therapy, this indicates that the occurrence of dehydration is not only limited to the 
combination with platinum-based therapy. Therefore it was agreed to include dehydration in particular 
secondary to diarrhoea or mucositis as a side effect of cetuximab in the product information. 
It is very likely that the association of severe neutropenia (based on AE and laboratory values) to 
subsequent infectious complications, such as febrile neutropenia, pneumonia or sepsis is present in 
patients with SCCHNTherefore these findings were reflected in the product information. 
3. 
OVERALL DISCUSSION AND Benefit-risk assessment 
Benefit 
Patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer (SCCHN) have a poor prognosis and 
treatment is administered with the aims to palliate symptoms and to prolong survival. In selected 
patients, cisplatin + infusional 5FU is considered standard therapy. In certain individuals, cisplatin is 
substituted with carboplatin due to its favourable safety profile. As add-on, cetuximab has shown 
increased anti-tumour activity in two studies and in the pivotal study also a survival benefit. The 
results of the pivotal study EMR 62 202-002 demonstrate a positive benefit-risk for combination 
therapy of cetuximab with platinum-based chemotherapy in terms of improvements in overall survival, 
progression-free survival, overall response rate, disease control rate, and time to treatment failure 
compared to platinum-based chemotherapy alone.  
KRAS is typically not mutated in head and neck cancer and thus constitutes no concern.   
Relevant add-on activity is seen for FISH positive and FISH negative tumours, also with respect to 
exploratory analyses and it can be concluded that no informative relationship is seen between FISH 
status and study outcome. 
Risk 
Patients with head and neck cancer are often elderly with co-morbidities and at time of recurrence or 
with metastatic disease, treatment is administered selectively. In patients deemed suitable for 
cisplatin/5FU the add-on toxicity of cetuximab is manageable and associated tolerability problems are 
foreseeable. The safety profile of cetuximab as add-on to CTX is as expected and is dominated by 
acne-like rash, diarrhoea, electrolyte disturbances and infusion-related reactions.  Appropriate 
revisions of the SPC have been made to further clarify these safety aspects. 
In certain subgroups, mainly groups with poor prognosis, benefit in terms of survival, seems not to be 
present. This, however, is rather what would be expected and there are no good reasons to restrict the 
indication from an efficacy perspective. This is already captured in the SPC section 5.1 in relation to 
cetuximab.  
Balance 
The benefit – risk relationship of adding cetuximab to standard platinum based chemotherapy in 
patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN is favourable.  
4. 
CONCLUSION 
On  23  October  2008  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  add  “use  of  Erbitux  in 
combination  with  platinum-based  chemotherapy  for  recurrent  or  metastatic  squamous  cell  cancer  of 
the head and neck”, to be acceptable and agreed on the amendments to be introduced in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
