London, 17 November 2011 
EMA/CHMP/873904/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Erbitux 
cetuximab   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000558/II/0047 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Merck KGaA submitted to the 
European Medicines Agency on 29 July 2011 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
cetuximab 
See Annex A 
Erbitux 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
C.I.3.b 
Implementation of change(s) requested following the 
assessment of an USR, class labelling, a PSUR, RMP, 
FUM/SO, data submitted under A 45/46, or amendments 
to reflect a Core SPC - Change(s) with new additional data 
submitted by the MAH 
Type 
II 
Submission of data from the Nordic VII study in order to fulfil an Annex II condition adopted with 
variation EMEA/H/C/000558/II/0042. Based on all available data from combination studies with 
oxaliplatin, the MAH proposed to update section 4.1 of the SmPC with extension of the current 
indication in combination with FOLFOX4 to the combination with continuous infusional 5-
fluoruracil/folinic acid plus oxaliplatin. 
The Agency considered this variation application to be an extension of indication (variation category 
C.I.6.a) and finalised the procedure as such.   
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
29 July 2011 
21 August 2011 
Rapporteur’s variation assessment report 
circulated on: 
26 September 2011 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
20 October 2011 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
26 October 2011 
Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
1 November 2011 
17 November 2011 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 2/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/345/2010 for the following condition:  
 
 
Treatment of adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum 
Treatment of oropharyngeal, laryngeal or nasal epithelial carcinoma (excluding nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma or lymphoepithelioma)  
on the granting of a class waiver.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Cetuximab  is  a  chimeric  monoclonal  Immunoglobulin  G1  (IgG1)  antibody  directed  against  the 
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR). EGFR signaling pathways are involved in the control of cell 
survival,  cell  cycle  progression,  angiogenesis,  cell  migration  and  cellular  invasion/metastasis. 
Cetuximab  binds  to  the  EGFR  with  an  affinity  higher  than  that  of  endogenous  ligands.  Cetuximab 
blocks  binding  of  endogenous  EGFR  ligands  resulting  in  inhibition  of  the  function  of  the  receptor  and 
induces the internalization of EGFR, which can lead to down-regulation of the receptor. Cetuximab also 
targets  cytotoxic  immune  effector  cells  towards  EGFR-expressing  tumour  cells  (antibody  dependent 
cell-mediated cytotoxicity, ADCC).  
Erbitux  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  EGFR-expressing,  KRAS  (Kirsten  rat  sarcoma 
viral oncogene homologue) wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer: 
in combination with irinotecan-based chemotherapy or FOLFOX4 
as a single agent in patients who have failed oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based therapy, and who are 
intolerant to irinotecan. 
Erbitux is also indicated for the treatment of patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck: 
in combination with radiation therapy for locally advanced disease 
in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic disease. 
In  all  indications,  Erbitux  is  administered  once  a  week  as  intravenous  infusion  at  a  maximum  rate  of 
10 mg/min. The initial dose is 400 mg/m2, and all subsequent weekly doses are 250 mg/m2.  
With this variation application the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) submitted high level results of 
the Nordic VII study, which was an independent study not sponsored by the MAH, as well as responses 
to  additional  questions  in  order  to  fulfil  the  Annex  II  condition  adopted  by  the  CHMP  in  conclusion  to 
the  EMEA/H/C/000558/II/0042  (II/42)  variation.  With  variation  II/42,  the  mCRC  indication  ‘in 
combination  with  chemotherapy’  had  been  restricted  to  the  ‘combination  with  irinotecan-based 
chemotherapy or FOLFOX4’ based on all relevant available data at the time and the CHMP proposed to 
revisit this indication upon availability of the results of the Nordic VII study. 
In  accordance  with  the  conclusion  of  the  variation  II/42,  conditions  were  imposed  as  set  out  in  the 
Annex II of the marketing authorisation and which were as follows:  
-  As  data  for  the  Nordic  VII  study,  which  also  employed  a  combination  of  cetuximab  with  an 
oxaliplatin/fluoropyrimidine regimen, were not available at the time of the assessment, the Marketing 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 3/15
 
 
 
 
Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  committed  to  submit  a  new  variation  application  with  the  intention  to 
include data from the Nordic VII study in section 5.1 of the SmPC. 
-  In  3  out  of  4  studies  with  oxaliplatin-containing  chemotherapy  background  regimens,  no  add  on 
activity of cetuximab was seen in KRAS wild type tumours, the only positive study being a randomised 
phase  II  trial.  The  MAH  should  justify  why  the  add-on  option  to  FOLFOX4  should  be  retained  in  the 
SmPC. 
-  Taking  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  from  MAH  sponsored  and  investigator  initiated  studies  into 
account, are there reasons to believe that: 
 
there  might  be  a  negative  dynamic  interaction  between  oxaliplatin  (FOLFOX4)  and  cetuximab 
in case of KRAS mutation positive tumours, something not seen for irinotecan? 
 
the  apparent  relationship  between  percentage  of  EGFR  positive  tumour  cells  and  negative 
outcome in KRAS mutation positive tumours has a biological foundation? 
Based  on  the  data  collected  in  fulfilment  of  these  above  conditions,  the  MAH  proposed  through  this 
variation  to  extend  the  mCRC  indication  in  combination  with  FOLFOX4  to  the  combination  with 
continuous infusional 5-fluoruracil/folinic acid plus oxaliplatin. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
Cetuximab/oxaliplatin interaction and mechanism of adverse outcome in 
patients with mutant KRAS tumours 
In response to the questions whether: 
- there might be a negative dynamic interaction between oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) and cetuximab in case 
of KRAS mutation positive tumours, something not seen for irinotecan 
- the apparent relationship between percentage of EGFR positive tumour cells and negative outcome in 
KRAS mutation positive tumours has a biological foundation 
the  MAH  summarised  data  from  non-clinical  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  (data  not  shown)  discussed 
below. No experiments have been conducted in fresh tumour samples from patients with CRC with wild 
type or mutated KRAS. 
2.2.1.  Discussion 
The MAH argued that the majority of nonclinical data rather provide evidence for a positive or neutral 
interaction of cetuximab and oxaliplatin in in vitro and in vivo models from CRC and other indications, 
similarly  as  it  is  reported  for  combination  of  cetuximab  with  other  chemotherapies  such  as  other 
platinum  derivates  or  topoisomerase  I  inhibitors.  Two  major  molecular  mechanisms  contribute  to  the 
positive interaction of cetuximab and oxaliplatin: 
1. Inhibition of oxaliplatin-induced activation of EGFR-mediated survival pathways by cetuximab. 
2. Inhibition of EGFR-mediated DNA damage repair by cetuximab. 
Both mechanisms were demonstrated in nonclinical models and were shown to be associated with the 
efficacy of the combination of cetuximab and oxaliplatin as well as other chemotherapies. 
One in vitro study reported a negative interaction between cetuximab and oxaliplatin. It is difficult to 
put the data of this study into the overall context since: 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 4/15
 
 
 
1. the antagonistic activity was observed in cell lines in which other nonclinical studies saw a positive 
combination effect and  
2.  the  antagonistic  effect  was  obtained  in  KRAS  wild-type  cells,  but  not  in  KRAS  mutated  cell  lines 
which is in contradiction to the situation observed in the clinical setting.  
Nevertheless,  the  study  provided  a  potential  mechanistic  rationale  that  might  be  of  relevance  to 
explain  the  observed  antagonistic  effect  of  the  combination  of  cetuximab  and  oxaliplatin  in  patients 
with KRAS mutated tumours: In order to exert its cytotoxic effect, oxaliplatin relied on EGFR-mediated 
reactive  oxygen  species  (ROS)  production  via  Nox1,  a  mechanism  that  was  blocked  by  cetuximab  in 
those cells, so that addition of cetuximab to oxaliplatin produced an antagonistic activity. 
The reason for the opposite role of the KRAS mutation status in this study is not known. However, the 
antagonistic  effect  occurred  in  two  cell  lines  (HT-29-D4  and  Caco-2)  expressing  EGFR  on  the  cell 
surface  whereas  no  combination  effect  was  observed  in  two  cell  lines  (SW480  and  SW620)  lacking 
EGFR  expression  on  the  cell  surface.  This  is  in  line  with  the  clinical  data  which  suggested  that  the 
potential antagonistic effect in KRAS mutated tumours is absent or less pronounced in tumours with no 
or very low EGFR expression. 
Cell  line  data  are  further  complicated  by  the  fact  that  certain  cell  lines  are  sensitive  to  cetuximab 
alone.  E.g.,  the  mechanistic  interaction  between  cetuximab  and  oxaliplatin  is  currently  being 
investigated  in  the  parental  CRC  cell  line  SW48  (KRAS  wt)  and  seven  isogenic  SW48  cell  lines 
harbouring  the  most  commonly  occurring  KRAS  mutations  in  CRC.  The  parental,  KRAS  wt  cell  line 
SW48 has low to medium EGFR expression levels, but is very sensitive to EGFR inhibition by cetuximab 
already in in vitro growth assays. Interestingly, introducing KRAS mutations rendered the isogenic cell 
lines  more  resistant  to  cetuximab  treatment.  The  degree  of  resistance  varied  among  the  different 
isogenic cell lines with KRAS mutations, but they all displayed higher IC50 values and/or less maximal 
inhibition in the in vitro growth assay compared to the parental, KRAS wt cells. 
The  cell  lines  showed  variable  sensitivity  to  growth  inhibition  to  oxaliplatin,  however  within  the  same 
order  of  magnitude.  No  apparent  difference  was  visible  between  KRAS  wt  and  KRAS  mt  cells.  The 
addition  of  cetuximab  to  oxaliplatin  resulted  in  stronger  growth  inhibition  than  oxaliplatin  alone  for 
SW48  KRAS  wt  cells.  Similar,  but  weaker  effects  were  observed  for  SW48  cells  harboring  the  KRAS 
mutations  with  the  exception  of  one  cell  line,  which  reacted  antagonistically  when  cetuximab  was 
added to oxaliplatin concentrations particularly at or below the IC50 of oxaliplatin.  
In conclusion, the MAH considered that most nonclinical studies point to a rather positive (or at least 
neutral)  interaction  of  cetuximab  and  oxaliplatin  including  mechanistic  rationales,  similarly  as  it  was 
described  for  combinations  of  cetuximab  with  other  chemotherapies,  such  as  topoisomerase  I 
inhibitors.  Until  now,  only  limited  nonclinical  evidence  exists  for  an  antagonistic  interaction  that 
appears  to  occur  in  the  clinical  setting  under  certain  circumstances  such  as  mutated  KRAS  CRC 
tumours  with  higher  EGFR  expression  levels.  However,  first  hypotheses  have  been  generated  how 
EGFR signalling might not only protect against the cytotoxic action of chemotherapy, but could also be 
required for the activity of chemotherapy, thereby providing a mechanistic explanation for a potential 
negative interaction of cetuximab and oxaliplatin.  
So  far  the  nonclinical  data  do  not  allow  a  robust  judgement  of  the  influence  of  the  KRAS  mutation 
status  and  EGFR  expression  levels  on  the  efficacy  of  the  combination  of  cetuximab  and  oxaliplatin. 
More dedicated studies are needed to identify the main central factors and mechanisms that influence 
the interaction of the two compounds. 
The CHMP considered that robust data on the possible association between EGFR expression level and 
interaction  with  oxaliplatin  are  not  available.  Further  mechanistic  studies  are  underway  and  might,  if 
explants studies are undertaken, even shed some light on the clinical observation that there seems to 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 5/15
 
 
 
be  a  negative  interaction  between  oxaliplation  containing  regimens  and  cetuximab  in  KRAS  mt  CRC. 
Moreover,  it  is  of  obvious  interest  to  investigate the  reasons  behind  the  negative  effect  of  cetuximab 
on  the  activity  of  oxaliplatin in  the isogeneic  SW40 cell line  carrying  a  specific  KRAS  mutation  and  to 
also see results of the above-mentioned cell line experiments (in SW40 cellls with wt KRAS or isogeneic 
clones carrying KRAS mutations) with irinotecan, too. 
In  conclusion,  in  the  cell  lines  tested,  KRAS  status  was  non-informative  for  the  interaction  between 
oxaliplatin and cetuximab. The mechanistic background to the observed clinical phenomenon remains 
unexplained.         
2.3.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
Nordic VII 
The  Nordic  VII  study  was  an  investigator-sponsored  trial  sponsored  by  the  Nordic  Colorectal  Cancer 
Biomodulation  Group  (NCCBG).  The  NCCBG  owns  the  data  collected  in  the  Nordic  VII  study  and  is 
responsible for statistical analysis, reporting, and publication.  
2.3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
NORDIC  VII  was  performed  in  Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway,  and  Sweden  from  May  2005  until 
May  2009.  Important  inclusion  criteria  were  age  >  18  and  <  75  years,  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO) performance status 0–2, no prior chemotherapy for advanced/metastatic disease, no previous 
oxaliplatin, and no current indications for resection with curative intent.  
Eligible patients were randomly assigned, independently of KRAS status, in a ratio of 1:1:1 to one of 3 
intravenous  (IV)  treatment  regimens,  administered  in  cycles  of  2  weeks,  with  stratification  by  study 
centre: 
Arm  A:  (Nordic)  FLOX  (oxaliplatin  85  mg/m²  over  1  h  (30  to  90  min),  5-FU  500  mg/m²  as  a  bolus 
infusion (< 5 min), followed 30 min later by bolus FA 60 mg/m² (< 10 min) on days 1 and 2) 
Arm  B:  Cetuximab  plus  FLOX  (Cetuximab  was  given  as  an  initial  infusion  of  400  mg/m²  followed  by 
weekly infusions of 250 mg/m²) 
Arm C: Cetuximab and intermittent FLOX 
The  primary  endpoint  was  progression-free  survival  (PFS)  (RECIST)  assessed  every  8  weeks, 
calculated from randomisation to first recorded progression or death. Patients who had not progressed 
or  died  by  a  pre-specified  cut-off  date  (approximately  12  months  after  last  enrolled  patient)  were 
treated  as  censored.  The  main  comparison  was  between  arm  B  and  A.  As  PFS  is  not  considered  an 
appropriate  endpoint  with  regard  to  the  stop  and  go  principle  (arm  C),  comparisons  including  arm  C 
are primarily of interest for the secondary endpoint overall survival (OS). 
2.3.2.  Results 
In terms of biomarkers of interest, the following numbers were reported at baseline: 
- KRAS: evaluable 88% (498/566), wild type 61% (303/498), mutant 39% (195/498) 
- KRAS wild type: arm A 63% (97/155), arm B 57% (97/169), arm C 63% (109/174) 
- BRAF: Evaluable 81% (457/566), mutant: 12% (55/457) 
- BRAF mutant in KRAS wild type: arm A 21%, arm B 22% and arm C 17%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 6/15
 
 
 
Efficacy  results  are  reported  in  the  following  tables  and  figure.  Results  presented  in  the  tables  are 
taken from the draft study report. Figures were copied from the relevant ASCO GI 2011 presentation 
and results reported in it were based on a slightly smaller number of events. 
Table 1: Confirmed ORR by treatment arm; ITT, wtKRAS, mtKRAS populations; Nordic VII 
Table 2: PFS and OS by treatment arm; ITT, wtKRAS, mtKRAS populations; Nordic VII 
Table 3: Statistical comparisons of PFS and OS between treatment arms; ITT, wtKRAS, 
mtKRAS populations; Nordic VII 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 7/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves of PFS in wtKRAS and mtKRAS populations, Nordic VII 
In terms of exposure and in the ITT population, the dose intensities and number of cycles for 5-FU and 
oxaliplatin were similar in arms A and B. However, relative dose intensities compared to the expected 
intensity without dose adjustments were not reported. 
2.3.3.  Discussion 
The description of the results for the Nordic VII study was based on the study protocol, a draft study 
report prepared by an involved contract research organization and records from a poster published at 
the ASCO GI 2011 conference.  
With  regard  to  study  treatments,  5-FU  was  administered  in  Nordic  VII  as  a  bolus  infusion  (FLOX 
regimen)  while  the  FOLFOX  regimens  utilise  continuous  infusion.  The  Nordic  FLOX  regimen  is  used 
almost exclusively within the Nordic area. 
On  the  biomarker  data,  mutated  BRAF  appears  to  be  a  prognostic  factor  of  poor  outcome  in  CRC; 
whether it is also predictive of poor cetuximab activity is disputed. 
With regard to ORR data (Table 1), the MAH stated that 95% CI and p-values were not available. The 
seemingly  higher  ORR  in  arm  B  than  in  arm  A  in  the  mutant  KRAS  groups  prompted  the  assessor  to 
calculate the 95% CI for the difference between arms A and B: this was (-8%, +26%), B performing 
‘better’ than A. Even though the difference is not statistically significant, note that the ORRs in the wild 
type  KRAS  groups  are  rather  similar  in  arms  A  and  B.  Thus  the  results  must  be  regarded  as 
unexpected in that they are showing a tendency for benefit from cetuximab in the mutant KRAS group 
and no difference in the wild type KRAS group. 
In terms of PFS (Tables 2 and 3, Figure 1), the comparison of primary interest is between arms A and 
B. In KRAS wild type, results are similar, while in the KRAS mutant groups, arm B tends to be better 
than A (HR 0.7, p=0.07), again clearly unexpected.  
OS results (Tables 2 and 3) indicate similarity. 
Overall, available results were considered by the MAH as incomplete as, among other information, the 
following  were  missing:  results  for  the  KRAS-evaluable  and  non-evaluable  populations,  relative  dose 
densities, safety analyses by KRAS status, and second-line treatment. Based on this, reported results 
were considered to be preliminary. Therefore, a meaningful and complete assessment of the outcome 
of the Nordic VII study is not yet possible. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 8/15
 
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that NORDIC VII is the only study where cetuximab as add-on to chemotherapy 
in  CRC  appears  to  be  associated  with  add-on  activity  in  patients  with  KRAS  mutant  disease,  albeit 
statistically  formally  not  significant  (p=0.07  for  PFS).  Actually,  as  add-on  to  FOLFOX  a  negative 
interaction between FOLFOX and cetuximab has been seen in this population (in contrast to irinotecan 
based regimens). No mechanistic explanation has been identified as discussed previously.  In contrast, 
no  discernable  add-on  activity  is  seen  in  the  target  population,  i.e.  patients  with  wild  type  KRAS 
tumours.  
Absence of add-on activity in the target population could be related to the background chemotherapy 
regimen, i.e. 5-FU as bolus instead of infusional as in FOLFOX, but why that should be the case is not 
obvious. Alternative explanations include differences in study populations, less rigorous assessment of 
events  of  progression,  censoring  rules  etc.,  i.e.  factors  reducing  ‘assay  sensitivity’  (as  in  the  COIN 
study). However, the dose intensity of the FLOX regimen seems similar in arms A and B.     
Apparent add-on activity in mutant KRAS tumours could be a spurious finding related to imbalances in 
hidden  and  important  prognostic  factors  (but  not  predictive  of  cetuximab  activity)  as  all  available 
clinical  data indicate  that cetuximab  (and  panitumumab)  are  devoid  of  activity in  this  population.   As 
the study was not stratified by KRAS status for obvious reasons, such imbalances could affect results in 
both  wild  type  and  mutant  KRAS  subgroups  and  could  produce  the  reported  results  seemingly 
contradicting all available prior data independently of and without any consequence for the predictive 
value of KRAS mutation status.         
The  results,  as  reported  by  the  MAH,  were  reviewed  in  detail  and  no  convincing  explanation  to  the 
rather  surprising  results  of  an  apparent  add-on  benefit  of  cetuximab  in  patients  with  mutant  KRAS 
tumours  has  been  identified.  Whether  the  full  study  report,  e.g.  with  respect  to  dose  intensity, 
discontinuations,  distribution  of  PFS  events,  sensitivity  analyses,  etc.  will  provide  further  clarity  is 
considered  rather  unlikely.  However,  the  MAH  should  still  provide  the  final  clinical  study  report  of 
Nordic VII, when available although provision of this report is no longer considered key to the benefit-
risk balance of cetuximab in combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy used in the treatment of 
metastatic  colorectal  cancer.  This  is  because  the  report  is  unlikely  to  pinpoint  the  reason(s)  for  the 
unexpected  results,  while  the  study  also  used  an  oxaliplatin-based  regimen  with  bolus  5-FU 
administration, which is outside the final indication in combination with FOLFOX in which a continuous 
5-FU infusion is being employed. 
Cetuximab add-on activity to oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy 
As mentioned earlier, in three out of four studies with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy background 
regimens, no add on activity of cetuximab is seen in KRAS wild type tumours, the only positive study 
being  a  randomised  phase  II  trial  (OPUS).  The  MAH  was  asked  to  justify  why  the  add-on  option  to 
FOLFOX4 should be retained in the SmPC. 
2.3.4.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
The  MAH  provided  a  tabulated  overview  of  studies  employing  cetuximab  in  combination  with 
oxaliplatin-containing  regimens.  This  included  the  four  studies  mentioned  before  (OPUS,  CAIRO2, 
COIN, Nordic VII). 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 9/15
 
 
 
Table 4: Overview of studies employing cetuximab and oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy 
beva=  bevacizumab,  CRT=  chemoradiotherapy,  CT=  chemotherapy,  IST=  investigator  sponsored  trial,  mCRC= 
metastatic colorectal cancer, NA= not available, q1w= weekly, q2w= every 2 weeks, wt= wild type 
*arm  with  cetuximab  plus  continuous  CT  only 
in  case  of  controlled  studies  **third  arm  using 
cetuximab+bevacizumab+FOLFIRI  or  FOLFOX  stopped  prematurely.  All  studies  were  open-label,  multicentre;  in 
controlled studies with more than 1 arm randomisation was with equal allocation  
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 10/15
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Results 
Results  from  the  tabulated  studies  were  reported  by  the  MAH.  The  most  pertinent  results  for  the 
discussion are presented below. 
The first line studies ‘OPUS’ and ‘COIN’ have been discussed in detail before. For COIN, the MAH has 
focused on the modified De Gramont regimen (OxMdG), i.e. the arm with infusional 5-FU and presents 
pooled  results  of  OPUS  and  COIN  and  then  compares  the  results  with  “CRYSTAL”  i.e.  the  first-line 
FOLFIRI +/- cetuximab study.   
Table 5: Comparison of pooled efficacy results in OPUS and COIN (OxMdG) vs CRYSTAL 
In the CECOG CORE study, the FOLFIRI or FOLFOX6 regimens were compared, each with cetuximab as 
add-on.  
Table 6: Efficacy of cetuximab+infusional 5-FU/FA+oxaliplatin vs cetuximab+FOLFIRI, 
study CECOG CORE 1.2.001 
Moreover, the MAH has tabulated the results of single arm studies where cetuximab was used as add-
on to infusional 5-FU and oxaliplatin. The table also contains the controlled CECOG CORE 1.2.002 study 
which did not employ any treatment arm without cetuximab, as well as the controlled FUTURE study, in 
which  the  control  (no-cetuximab)  arm  received  an  non-infusional  fluoropyrimidine  regimen;  hence, 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 11/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
these  two  studies  were  considered  as  single-arm  for  the  purposes  of  this  table.  As  reference,  EMR 
62 202-047 (OPUS) was also included in the table. 
Table  7:  Efficacy  of  cetuximab+infusional  5-FU/FA+oxaliplatin  in  studies  without  a  control 
group and comparison with results from OPUS 
Finally,  EXPERT-C  was  a  small,  complex,  randomised  study  where  neoadjuvant  capacitabine  + 
oxaliplatin  (CAPOX)  +/-  cetuximab  (followed  by  chemoradiotherapy  (CRT),  surgery  and  adjuvant 
CAPOX) were compared. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 12/15
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Efficacy results, study EXPERT-C 
                        ITT 
        KRAS wild type 
2.3.6.  Discussion 
The  MAH  claimed  that  studies  investigating  cetuximab  in  combination  with  continuous  infusional  5-
FU/FA plus oxaliplatin show that this is an effective therapy with consistent results across studies and 
efficacy endpoints. The results overall compare well with those obtained in the pivotal EMR 62 202-013 
(CRYSTAL) study investigating cetuximab in combination with FOLFIRI. 
Overall the combinations of cetuximab with continuous infusional 5-FU/FA and oxaliplatin or irinotecan 
show  acceptable  and  manageable  toxicity  in  the  treatment  of  first-line  metastatic  CRC.  The 
corresponding safety profile is adequately reflected in the current product information for cetuximab.  
The  CHMP  commented  that  there  are  numerous  ways  to  administer  5-FU,  folinic  acid  and  oxaliplatin; 
infusional  5-FU  such  as  in  FOLFOX4,  FOLFOX6  and  OxMdG,  but  also  as  bolus  5-FU  as  in  the  Nordic 
FLOX regimen. While these regimens may show differences in terms of benefit/risk, there are no good 
reasons  to  assume  that  the  add-on  activity  of  cetuximab  should  differ  if  the  chemotherapy  regimens 
and the combinations with cetuximab are reasonably well tolerated.    
The current indication for cetuximab is restricted to add-on to FOLFOX4. Submitted data supporting an 
extension of the indication to ‘continuous infusional 5-FU’ regimens are weak; only add-on to OxMdG 
(similar  to  FOLFOX  regimens)  provides  some  insight  as  regards  benefit/risk.  Add-on  efficacy  of 
cetuximab with all FOLFOX regimens is nevertheless highly likely. 
Finally,  the  MAH  was  invited  to  provide  data  on  a  possible  relationship  between  rash  development  in 
the  course  of  cetuximab  treatment  and  cetuximab  efficacy  and  to  comment  whether  treatment 
continuation  should  be  re-assessed  in  the  absence  of  rash  development  within  the  first  4-8  weeks  of 
treatment. The MAH provided data from two clinical studies (CRYSTAL and EVEREST, data not shown) 
which were inconclusive, so that at this stage it is agreed that it cannot be concluded that absence of 
early  rash  in  patients  with  CRC  warrants  reconsideration  of  cetuximab  therapy.  A  follow-on  study  to 
EVEREST (EVEREST-II) is currently ongoing. This study is conducted first-line and as cetuximab add-on 
to  FOLFIRI  with  dose  escalation  vs.  standard  dose  in  patients  with  vs.  without  rash  at  week  3, 
respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 13/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical Safety aspects  
Nordic VII 
2.4.1.  Results 
With  respect  to  safety,  grade  3/4  febrile  neutropenia  was  common  in  both  arms  A  and  B  (9.4  vs. 
12.9%),  grade  3  fatigue  was  higher  in  arm  B  compared  to  arm  A  (16  vs.  10%)  and  so  was  grade  3 
diarrhoea (17 vs. 10%). 
2.4.2.  Discussion 
With  regard  to  skin  reactions,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  consider  whether  other  measures  should  be 
recommended  in  addition  to  interruption  of  cetuximab  treatment,  such  as  use  of  mild  steroids,  sun 
screen,  antibiotics  etc,  and  whether  such  measures  could  also  be  of  potential  benefit  used  pre-
emptively. 
The  MAH  summarised  published  trial  data  on  the  use  of  antibiotics  (data  not  shown)  which,  with  the 
exception of one standard tetracycline trial, all indicated that the skin-related Quality of Life was better 
in those patients receiving antibiotics regardless of the assessment tool used. 
One  study  is  ongoing  to  evaluate  in  a  randomised  double-blinded  trial  setting  the  use  of  Vitamin  K 
versus placebo in the prophylactic treatment of skin rash induced by cetuximab. The MAH argued that 
data  from  the  ongoing  trials  should  be  awaited  to  decide  on  the  value  of  topical  Vitamin  K  for  the 
treatment of skin rash. 
With regard to sunscreen, the MAH submitted a published study (data not shown) which failed to show 
any benefit from pre-emptive or symptomatic treatment of EGFR inhibitor-induced rash. 
Based  on  randomised  data,  the  recommended  preventive  therapy  for  the  development  of  rash  would 
be the topical application of 1% hydrocortisone cream with moisturizer and sunscreen twice daily and 
systemic monocycline or doxycycline. Reactive use of medium to high-potency topical steroids is also 
recommended based on pathophysiological considerations, while tetracyclines are a therapeutic option 
in the treatment of patients who already experienced skin rash, as well.  
2.5.  Changes to the Product Information 
Based  on  all  data  from  the  combination  of  cetuximab  with  oxaliplatin-based  chemotherapy,  the 
MAH  proposed  that  cetuximab  should  be  indicated  for  metastatic  CRC  in  combination  with 
continuous infusional 5-FU/FA plus oxaliplatin.  
During  the  procedure,  the  CHMP  considered  that  a  final  amendment  of  the  mCRC  indication  in 
combination  with  oxaliplatin  chemotherapy  appears  warranted  as  discussed  in  detail  above.  More 
specifically, the indication should be extended from FOLFOX4 to all FOLFOX regimens but restricted to 
the  first  line  therapy  in  agreement  with  clinical  trials  conducted.  Moreover,  the  requirement  for 
demonstration  of  wild  type  KRAS  tumour  status  before  starting  cetuximab  treatment  should  be 
strengthened  and  a  contraindication  against  use  of  cetuximab  with  oxaliplatin-containing 
chemotherapy  for  patients  with  mutant  KRAS  mCRC  or  for  whom  KRAS  mCRC  status  is  unknown 
should  be  added.  Finally,  information  regarding  prevention  and  treatment  of  skin  rash  should  be 
provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 14/15
 
 
 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Benefit – risk remains favourable for the use of cetuximab in accordance with the approved and now 
modified indication.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends by consensus the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, 
concerning the following change: 
Variation(s) accepted 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) 
Addition of a new therapeutic indication or modification of 
an approved one 
Type 
II 
Modification of the metastatic colorectal cancer indication in combination with FOLFOX4 to an extended 
combination with FOLFOX but restricted to first line treatment only based on data from the Nordic VII 
study and additional data on the potential negative dynamic interaction between oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) 
and cetuximab in case of KRAS mutation positive tumours and on the potential biological foundation of 
the apparent relationship between percentage of EGFR positive tumour cells and negative outcome in 
patients with KRAS mutation positive tumours. Both sets of data are fulfilling an Annex II condition.   
As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC are amended with the modified 
mCRC indication, strengthening of the wording on the requirement for KRAS testing prior to treatment 
initiation, adoption of a new contraindication against use of cetuximab in combination with oxaliplatin-
containing chemotherapy in patients with mutant KRAS metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) or for 
whom KRAS mCRC status is unknown, introduction of prophylaxis treatment recommendations for skin 
reactions and inclusion of statements regarding paediatric use. 
The Package Leaflet (PL) is updated accordingly. In addition minor editorial amendments are included 
in the SmPC and PL. Moreover, the condition imposed on the marketing authorisation is considered 
fulfilled. Therefore, the obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures is deleted from the Annex II. 
Assessment report  
EMA/55483/2012Rev10.11 
Page 15/15
 
 
 
 
