EMA/556800/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004192 
Erelzi (etanercept) 
An overview of Erelzi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Erelzi and what is it used for? 
Erelzi is an anti-inflammatory medicine for treating the following immune system diseases: 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints), used with another medicine, 
methotrexate, or alone;  
• 
• 
• 
• 
certain forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (diseases causing inflammation in the joints); 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin); 
psoriatic arthritis (psoriasis with inflammation of the joints); 
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis which is when there are clear signs of 
inflammation but X-ray does not show disease. 
Erelzi is mostly used when these conditions are severe or moderately severe, or when other treatments 
have not worked well enough or cannot be used. For detailed information on the use of Erelzi in all 
conditions, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Erelzi contains the active substance etanercept and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Erelzi is 
highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the 
EU. The reference medicine for Erelzi is Enbrel. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see 
here. 
How is Erelzi used? 
Erelzi is available for injection under the skin. The patient or the patient’s carer can give the injection 
after appropriate training. In adults, the usual recommended dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg 
once a week. Treatment with 50 mg twice a week can also be used during the first 12 weeks of 
treatment for plaque psoriasis. In children, the dose depends on body weight. Erelzi is not for use in 
children who need doses other than 25 or 50 mg (e.g. those weighing less than 62.5 kg), because it is 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
only available in these strengths; an alternative etanercept medicine should be used in such children. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Treatment is started and supervised by specialised doctors with experience in diagnosing and treating 
the diseases that Erelzi is used for. For more information about using Erelzi, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Erelzi work? 
The active substance in Erelzi, etanercept, is a protein that has been designed to block the activity of a 
substance called tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF). This substance is involved in causing 
inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that Erelzi is used to treat. By 
blocking TNF, etanercept reduces the inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Erelzi have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Erelzi with Enbrel have shown that the active substance in Erelzi is 
highly similar to that in Enbrel in terms of structure, purity and biological activity.  
Because Erelzi is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of etanercept carried 
out with Enbrel do not all need to be repeated for Erelzi. Studies were carried out to show that Erelzi 
produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to Enbrel. 
Erelzi was also shown to be as effective as Enbrel in one main study involving 531 adults with plaque 
psoriasis. Over 70% of those given Erelzi (186 of 264 patients) and roughly 72% of those given Enbrel 
(191 of 267) had at least 75% reduction in their symptom score after 12 weeks of treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Erelzi? 
The most common side effects with etanercept (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are injection-site 
reactions (including bleeding, redness, itching, pain and swelling) and infections (including nose, 
throat, lung, bladder and skin infections). The doctor may stop Erelzi treatment in patients developing 
a serious infection. For the full list of side effects of Erelzi, see the package leaflet. 
Erelzi must not be used in patients who have or are at risk of sepsis (when bacteria and toxins 
circulate in the blood and start to damage the organs), or in patients with active infections.  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Erelzi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Erelzi has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Enbrel and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies have shown that the safety and 
effectiveness of Erelzi is equivalent to that of Enbrel in plaque psoriasis. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Erelzi? 
The company that markets Erelzi will provide a card for patients that contains information on how to 
recognise serious side effects and know when to see their doctor urgently. Recommendations and 
precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe and effective use of 
Erelzi have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Erelzi (etanercept)  
EMA/556800/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Erelzi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Erelzi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Erelzi 
Erelzi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Erelzi on 23 June 2017. 
Further information can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/erelzi.  
This summary was last updated in 11-2020.  
Erelzi (etanercept)  
EMA/556800/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
