SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ERIVEDGE (VISMODEGIB)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Erivedge.  The RMP details 
important risks of Erivedge, how these risks can be minimized, and how more 
information will be obtained about Erivedge risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Erivedge summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Erivedge should 
be used.
This summary of the RMP for Erivedge should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Erivedge RMP.
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Erivedge is authorized for metastatic breast cancer and locally advanced basal cell 
carcinoma mBCC and laBCC (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains vismodegib
as the active substance and it is given by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of Erivedge benefits can be found in Erivedge 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage.
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS
Important risks of Erivedge, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Erivedge risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of Erivedge, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate
action can be taken as necessary.  These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION
Important risks of Erivedge are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Erivedge.  Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-
term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Teratogenicity
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
None
II.B
Important identified risk of Teratogenicity
SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT RISKS
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Nonclinical study results and literature.
The ‘at risk’ group for experiencing vismodegib-related 
teratogenicity comprises female patients of child-bearing 
potential or female partners of male patients treated with 
vismodegib.
Risk factor in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy:
Treatment with chemotherapy in the first trimester, during 
organogenesis, substantially increases the risk of fetal 
malformation compared to exposure to chemotherapy in the 
second and third trimesters of pregnancy.
Routine risk communication:
Text in SmPC:



Section 4.3 (Contraindications)
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use)
Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation)
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk:
 Women of childbearing potential must have a negative 
pregnancy test prior to initiating treatment and during 
treatment is included in SmPC section 4.4
 Women of childbearing potential must use two methods of 
recommended contraception during Erivedge therapy and 
after the final dose is included in SmPC section 4.4
 Contraception recommendation for men while taking 
Erivedge and after the final dose is included in SmPC 
section 4.4
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information:
Medicine’s legal status:
Erivedge is subject to restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Erivedge Pregnancy Prevention Programme :
I. For Health Care Providers
 Health Care Provider Card

Patient Counselling Guideline
II. For Patients

Patient Brochure
Additional
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
None
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.
SmPC  Summary of product characteristics
II.C
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
POST-AUTHORIZATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Not applicable.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Not Applicable.
