EMA/635913/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002602 
EPAR summary for the public 
Erivedge 
vismodegib  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Erivedge. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Erivedge. 
For practical information about using Erivedge, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Erivedge and what is it used for? 
Erivedge is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance vismodegib. It is used to treat adults 
with basal cell carcinoma (a slow-growing form of skin cancer) in advanced stages: when the cancer is 
metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body) and is causing symptoms, or when it is locally 
advanced (has started to spread to nearby areas) and is not suitable for surgery or radiotherapy 
(treatment with radiation).  
How is Erivedge used? 
Erivedge can only be obtained with a prescription. It should only be prescribed by or under the 
supervision of a specialist doctor experienced in managing basal cell carcinoma. It is available as 
capsules (150 mg). The recommended dose is one capsule once a day. The benefits of continuing 
treatment should be regularly assessed and the best duration of treatment will vary based on the 
benefit and side effects experienced by each patient. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Erivedge work? 
The active substance in Erivedge, vismodegib, disrupts the so-called ‘Hedgehog signalling pathway’, 
which is normally involved in regulating the early stages of cell development in unborn babies and 
certain cell processes in adults. In basal cell carcinoma, the Hedgehog signalling pathway becomes 
abnormally active and leads to the growth and spread of the cancerous cells. Vismodegib attaches to a 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
protein called ‘SMO’, which is involved in activating the Hedgehog signalling pathway. By attaching to 
SMO, vismodegib blocks this pathway, thereby slowing down the growth and spread of the cancer cells 
in basal cell carcinoma. 
What benefits of Erivedge have been shown in studies? 
Erivedge was studied in one main study involving 104 patients with either metastatic or locally 
advanced basal cell carcinoma. The patients were given Erivedge until their disease got worse or they 
could no longer tolerate treatment or withdrew from the study. Erivedge was not compared with 
another treatment. The main measure of effectiveness was the response to treatment, based on 
reduction by at least 30% in tumour size or disappearance of all signs of cancer (the objective 
response rate). Around 33% (11 out of 33) of patients with metastatic disease and 48% (30 out of 63) 
of patients with locally advanced disease responded to treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Erivedge? 
The most common side effects with Erivedge (seen in more than 3 in 10 people) are muscle spasms, 
hair loss, taste disturbances, weight loss, tiredness, nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea. For the full list 
of all side effects reported with Erivedge, see the package leaflet. 
Erivedge must not be used in women who are pregnant or breast-feeding, or who could potentially 
have children and do not comply with the special pregnancy prevention programme for Erivedge. It 
must not be used together with St John’s wort (a herbal medicine used to treat depression). For the 
full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Erivedge approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Erivedge’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The 
Committee considered that the benefits of Erivedge had been shown for patients with locally advanced 
and metastatic disease. It also considered that the side effects were manageable. Since Erivedge 
disrupts the mechanism involved in the early development stages of unborn babies, the CHMP 
concluded that appropriate measures were needed for both men and women treated with Erivedge to 
prevent pregnancy during and after stopping treatment.   
Erivedge was originally given ‘conditional approval’ because there was more evidence to come about 
the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the authorisation has 
been switched from conditional to full approval. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Erivedge? 
The company will implement a pregnancy prevention programme, by providing educational materials 
on the risks to the unborn baby, including a reminder card, to patients and healthcare professionals 
who prescribe and dispense Erivedge. The company will report any pregnancies that occur during 
treatment with Erivedge and will monitor their outcome. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Erivedge have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Erivedge  
EMA/635913/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Erivedge 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Erivedge on 12 July 2013.  
The full EPAR for Erivedge can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Erivedge, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2016. 
Erivedge  
EMA/635913/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
