ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg of apalutamide.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Slightly yellowish to greyish green, oblong-shaped, film-coated tablets (17 mm long x 9 mm wide), 
debossed with “AR 60” on one side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Erleada is indicated:

in adult men for the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) 
who are at high risk of developing metastatic disease (see section 5.1).
in adult men for the treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in 
combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (see section 5.1).

4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with apalutamide should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in 
the medical treatment of prostate cancer.
Posology
The recommended dose is 240 mg (four 60 mg tablets) as an oral single daily dose.
Medical castration with gonadotropin releasing hormone analogue (GnRHa) should be continued 
during treatment in patients not surgically castrated.
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day with a return to the normal 
schedule the following day. Extra tablets should not be taken to make up the missed dose.
If a ≥ Grade 3 toxicity or an intolerable adverse reaction is experienced by the patient, dosing should 
be held rather than permanently discontinuing treatment until symptoms improve to ≤ Grade 1 or 
original grade, then should be resumed at the same dose or a reduced dose (180 mg or 120 mg), if 
warranted. For the most common adverse reactions, (see section 4.8).
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
2
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. 
Caution is required in patients with severe renal impairment as apalutamide has not been studied in 
this patient population (see section 5.2). If treatment is started, patients should be monitored for the 
adverse reactions listed in section 4.8 and dose reduce as per section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration. 
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with baseline mild or moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh Class A and B, respectively). 
Erleada is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment as there are no data in this 
patient population and apalutamide is primarily hepatically eliminated (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
There is no relevant use of apalutamide in the paediatric population.
Method of administration
Oral use.
The tablets should be swallowed whole to ensure that the full intended dose is taken. The tablets 
should not be crushed or split. The tablets can be taken with or without food.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Women who are or may become pregnant (see section 4.6).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Seizure
Erleada is not recommended in patients with a history of seizures or other predisposing factors 
including, but not limited to, underlying brain injury, recent stroke (within one year), primary brain 
tumours or brain metastases. If a seizure develops during treatment with Erleada, treatment should be 
discontinued permanently. The risk of seizure may be increased in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that lower the seizure threshold. 
In two randomised studies (SPARTAN and TITAN), seizure occurred in 0.6% of patients receiving 
apalutamide and in 0.2% of patients treated with placebo. These studies excluded patients with a 
history of seizure or predisposing factors for seizure.
There is no clinical experience in re-administering Erleada to patients who experienced a seizure.
Falls and fractures
Falls and fractures occurred in patients receiving apalutamide (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
evaluated for fracture and fall risk before starting Erleada and should continue to be monitored and 
managed according to established treatment guidelines and use of bone-targeted agents should be 
considered.
3
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders, including events leading to death, 
occurred in patients treated with apalutamide (see section 4.8). The majority of patients had 
cardiac/cerebrovascular ischaemic disease risk factors. Patients should be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders. Management of risk 
factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, or dyslipidaemia should be optimised as per standard of care.
Concomitant use with other medicinal products
Apalutamide is a potent enzyme inducer and may lead to loss of efficacy of many commonly used 
medicinal products (see section 4.5). A review of concomitant medicinal products should therefore be 
conducted when apalutamide treatment is initiated. Concomitant use of apalutamide with medicinal 
products that are sensitive substrates of many metabolising enzymes or transporters (see section 4.5) 
should generally be avoided if their therapeutic effect is of large importance to the patient, and if dose
adjustments cannot easily be performed based on monitoring of efficacy or plasma concentrations. 
Co-administration of apalutamide with warfarin and coumarin-like anticoagulants should be avoided. 
If Erleada is co-administered with an anticoagulant metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin or 
acenocoumarol), additional International Normalised Ratio (INR) monitoring should be conducted 
(see section 4.5).
Recent cardiovascular disease
Patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease in the past 6 months including 
severe/unstable angina, myocardial infarction, symptomatic congestive heart failure, arterial or venous 
thromboembolic events (e.g., pulmonary embolism, cerebrovascular accident including transient 
ischaemic attacks), or clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias were excluded from the clinical 
studies. Therefore, the safety of apalutamide in these patients has not been established. If Erleada is 
prescribed, patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease should be monitored for risk 
factors such as hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, or other cardio-metabolic disorders (see 
section 4.8). Patients should be treated, if appropriate, after initiating Erleada for these conditions 
according to established treatment guidelines. 
Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval
In patients with a history of or risk factors for QT prolongation and in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that might prolong the QT interval (see section 4.5), physicians should assess the 
benefit-risk ratio including the potential for Torsade de pointes prior to initiating Erleada.
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs)
Postmarketing reports of SCARs including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN), which can be 
life-threatening or fatal, have been observed in association with Erleada treatment (see section 4.8).
Patients should be advised of signs and symptoms suggestive of DRESS or SJS/TEN. If these 
symptoms are observed, Erleada should be withdrawn immediately and patients should seek 
immediate medical consultation.
Erleada must not be restarted in patients who have experienced DRESS or SJS/TEN while taking 
Erleada at any time and an alternative treatment should be considered.
Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)
Cases of ILD have been observed in patients treated with apalutamide, including fatal cases. In case of 
acute onset and/or unexplained worsening of pulmonary symptoms, treatment with apalutamide should 
4
be interrupted pending further investigation of these symptoms. If ILD is diagnosed, apalutamide 
should be discontinued and appropriate treatment initiated as necessary (see section 4.8).
Excipients
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 240 mg dose (4 tablets), that is 
to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The elimination of apalutamide and formation of its active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, is 
mediated by both CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 to a similar extent at steady-state. No clinically meaningful 
changes in their overall exposure is expected as a result of drug interaction with inhibitors or inducers 
of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. Apalutamide is an inducer of enzymes and transporters and may lead to an 
increase in elimination of many commonly used medicinal products.
Potential for other medicinal products to affect apalutamide exposures
Medicinal products that inhibit CYP2C8
CYP2C8 plays a role in the elimination of apalutamide and in the formation of its active metabolite. In 
a drug-drug interaction study, the Cmax of apalutamide decreased by 21% while AUC increased by 
68% following co-administration of apalutamide 240 mg single dose with gemfibrozil (strong 
CYP2C8 inhibitor). For the active moieties (sum of apalutamide plus the potency adjusted active 
metabolite), Cmax decreased by 21% while AUC increased by 45%. No initial dose adjustment is 
necessary when Erleada is co-administered with a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil, 
clopidogrel) however, a reduction of the Erleada dose based on tolerability should be considered (see 
section 4.2). Mild or moderate inhibitors of CYP2C8 are not expected to affect the exposure of 
apalutamide.
Medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A4
CYP3A4 plays a role in the elimination of apalutamide and in the formation of its active metabolite. In 
a drug-drug interaction study, the Cmax of apalutamide decreased by 22% while AUC was similar 
following co-administration of Erleada as a 240 mg single dose with itraconazole (strong CYP3A4 
inhibitor). For the active moieties (sum of apalutamide plus the potency adjusted active metabolite), 
Cmax decreased by 22% while AUC was again similar. No initial dose adjustment is necessary when 
Erleada is co-administered with a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir, 
clarithromycin) however, a reduction of the Erleada dose based on tolerability should be considered 
(see section 4.2). Mild or moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 are not expected to affect the exposure of 
apalutamide.
Medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 or CYP2C8
The effects of CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inducers on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide have not been 
evaluated in vivo. Based on the drug-drug interaction study results with strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or 
strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inducers are not expected to have clinically relevant 
effects on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide and the active moieties therefore no dose adjustment is 
necessary when Erleada is co-administered with inducers of CYP3A4 or CYP2C8.
Potential for apalutamide to affect exposures to other medicinal products
Apalutamide is a potent enzyme inducer and increases the synthesis of many enzymes and 
transporters; therefore, interaction with many common medicinal products that are substrates of 
enzymes or transporters is expected. The reduction in plasma concentrations can be substantial, and 
lead to lost or reduced clinical effect. There is also a risk of increased formation of active metabolites.
5
Drug metabolising enzymes
In vitro studies showed that apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are moderate to strong 
CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducers, are moderate inhibitors of CYP2B6 and CYP2C8, and weak 
inhibitors of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide do not 
affect CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The effect of apalutamide on 
CYP2B6 substrates has not been evaluated in vivo and the net effect is presently unknown. When 
substrates of CYP2B6 (e.g., efavirenz) are administered with Erleada, monitoring for an adverse 
reaction and evaluation for loss of efficacy of the substrate should be performed and dose adjustment 
of the substrate may be required to maintain optimal plasma concentrations.
In humans, apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19, and a weak inducer of 
CYP2C9. In a drug-drug interaction study using a cocktail approach, co-administration of apalutamide 
with single oral doses of sensitive CYP substrates resulted in a 92% decrease in the AUC of 
midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate), 85% decrease in the AUC of omeprazole (CYP2C19 substrate), and 
46% decrease in the AUC of S-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate). Apalutamide did not cause clinically 
meaningful changes in exposure to the CYP2C8 substrate. Concomitant use of Erleada with medicinal 
products that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., darunavir, felodipine, midazolam, 
simvastatin), CYP2C19 (e.g., diazepam, omeprazole), or CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin, phenytoin) can 
result in lower exposure to these medicinal products. Substitution for these medicinal products is 
recommended when possible or evaluation for loss of efficacy should be performed if the medicinal 
product is continued. If given with warfarin, INR should be monitored during Erleada treatment.
Induction of CYP3A4 by apalutamide suggests that UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) may also be 
induced via activation of the nuclear pregnane X receptor (PXR). Concomitant administration of 
Erleada with medicinal products that are substrates of UGT (e.g., levothyroxine, valproic acid) can 
result in lower exposure to these medicinal products. When substrates of UGT are co-administered 
with Erleada, evaluation for loss of efficacy of the substrate should be performed and dose adjustment 
of the substrate may be required to maintain optimal plasma concentrations.
Drug transporters
Apalutamide was shown to be a weak inducer of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance 
protein (BCRP), and organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1) clinically. A drug-drug 
interaction study using a cocktail approach showed that co-administration of apalutamide with single 
oral doses of sensitive transporter substrates resulted in a 30% decrease in the AUC of fexofenadine 
(P-gp substrate) and 41% decrease in the AUC of rosuvastatin (BCRP/OATP1B1 substrate) but had no 
impact on Cmax. Concomitant use of Erleada with medicinal products that are substrates of P-gp (e.g., 
colchicine, dabigatran etexilate, digoxin), BCRP or OATP1B1 (e.g., lapatinib, methotrexate, 
rosuvastatin, repaglinide) can result in lower exposure of these medicinal products. When substrates of 
P-gp, BCRP or OATP1B1 are co-administered with Erleada, evaluation for loss of efficacy of the 
substrate should be performed and dose adjustment of the substrate may be required to maintain 
optimal plasma concentrations.
Based on in vitro data, inhibition of organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2), organic anion transporter 3 
(OAT3) and multidrug and toxin extrusions (MATEs) by apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite 
cannot be excluded. No in vitro inhibition of organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1) was observed.
GnRH Analog
In mHSPC subjects receiving leuprolide acetate (a GnRH analog), co-administration with apalutamide 
had no apparent effect on the steady-state exposure of leuprolide.
Medicinal products which prolong the QT interval
Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the concomitant use of Erleada 
with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce 
6
Torsade de pointes such as class IA (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g., amiodarone, 
sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, 
antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol), etc. should be carefully evaluated (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Contraception in males and females
It is not known whether apalutamide or its metabolites are present in semen. Erleada may be harmful 
to a developing foetus. For patients having sex with female partners of reproductive potential, a 
condom should be used along with another highly effective contraceptive method during treatment and 
for 3 months after the last dose of Erleada.
Pregnancy
Erleada is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant (see section 4.3). Based on an 
animal reproductive study and its mechanism of action, Erleada may cause foetal harm and loss of 
pregnancy when administered to a pregnant woman. There are no data available from the use of 
Erleada in pregnant women.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether apalutamide/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. Erleada should not be used during breast-feeding.
Fertility
Based on animal studies, Erleada may decrease fertility in males of reproductive potential (see 
section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Erleada has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, seizures 
have been reported in patients taking Erleada. Patients should be advised of this risk in regards to 
driving or operating machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most common adverse reactions are fatigue (26%), skin rash (26% of any grade and 6% Grade 3 
or 4), hypertension (22%), hot flush (18%), arthralgia (17%), diarrhoea (16%), fall (13%), and weight 
decreased (13%). Other important adverse reactions include fractures (11%) and hypothyroidism
(8%).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions observed during clinical studies and/or in post-marketing experience are listed 
below by frequency category. Frequency categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very 
rare (< 1/10 000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data).
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
7
Adverse reactions
Table 1:
System Organ Class
Endocrine disorders
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Nervous system disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders
General disorders and administration site 
conditions
Investigations
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications
a
Adverse reaction and frequency
common: hypothyroidisma
very common: decreased appetite
common: hypercholesterolaemia, 
hypertriglyceridaemia
common: dysgeusia, ischaemic cerebrovascular 
disordersb
uncommon: seizurec (see section 4.4), restless 
legs syndrome
common: ischaemic heart diseased
not known: QT prolongation (see sections 4.4 and 
4.5)
very common: hot flush, hypertension
not known: interstitial lung diseasef
very common: diarrhoea
very common: skin rashe
common: pruritus, alopecia
not known: drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)f, Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN)f
very common: fractureg, arthralgia
common: muscle spasm
very common: fatigue
very common: weight decreased
very common: fall
b
c
d
e
f
g
Includes hypothyroidism, blood thyroid stimulating hormone increased, thyroxine decreased, autoimmune thyroiditis, 
thyroxine free decreased, tri-iodothyronine decreased
Includes transient ischaemic attack, cerebrovascular accident, cerebrovascular disorder, ischaemic stroke, carotid 
arteriosclerosis, carotid artery stenosis, hemiparesis, lacunar infarction, lacunar stroke, thrombotic cerebral infarction, 
vascular encephalopathy, cerebellar infarction, cerebral infarction, and cerebral ischaemia
Includes tongue biting
Includes angina pectoris, angina unstable, myocardial infarction, acute myocardial infarction, coronary artery 
occlusion, coronary artery stenosis, acute coronary syndrome, arteriosclerosis coronary artery, cardiac stress test 
abnormal, troponin increased, myocardial ischaemia
See “Skin rash” under “Description of selected adverse reactions”
See section 4.4
Includes rib fracture, lumbar vertebral fracture, spinal compression fracture, spinal fracture, foot fracture, hip fracture, 
humerus fracture, thoracic vertebral fracture, upper limb fracture, fractured sacrum, hand fracture, pubis fracture, 
acetabulum fracture, ankle fracture, compression fracture, costal cartilage fracture, facial bones fracture, lower limb 
fracture, osteoporotic fracture, wrist fracture, avulsion fracture, fibula fracture, fractured coccyx, pelvic fracture, 
radius fracture, sternal fracture, stress fracture, traumatic fracture, cervical vertebral fracture, femoral neck fracture, 
tibia fracture. See below.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Skin rash
Skin rash associated with apalutamide was most commonly described as macular or maculo-papular. 
Skin rash included rash, rash maculo-papular, rash generalised, urticaria, rash pruritic, rash macular, 
conjunctivitis, erythema multiforme, rash papular, skin exfoliation, genital rash, rash erythematous, 
stomatitis, drug eruption, mouth ulceration, rash pustular, blister, papule, pemphigoid, skin erosion, 
dermatitis, and rash vesicular. Adverse reactions of skin rash were reported for 26% of patients treated 
8
with apalutamide. Grade 3 skin rashes (defined as covering > 30% body surface area [BSA]) were 
reported with apalutamide treatment in 6% of patients.
The median days to onset of skin rash was 83 days. Seventy-eight percent of patients had resolution of 
rash with a median of 78 days to resolution. Medicinal products utilised included topical 
corticosteroids, oral anti-histamines, and 19% of patients received systemic corticosteroids. Among 
patients with skin rash, dose interruption occurred in 28% and dose reduction occurred in 14% (see 
section 4.2). Skin rash recurred in 59% of patients who had dose interruption. Skin rash led to 
apalutamide treatment discontinuation in 7% of patients who experienced skin rash.
Falls and fractures
In Study ARN-509-003, fracture was reported for 11.7% of patients treated with apalutamide and 
6.5% of patients treated with placebo. Half of the patients experienced a fall within 7 days before the 
fracture event in both treatment groups. Falls were reported for 15.6% of patients treated with 
apalutamide versus 9.0% of patients treated with placebo (see section 4.4).
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders
In a randomised study (SPARTAN) of patients with nmCRPC, ischaemic heart disease occurred in 4% 
of patients treated with apalutamide and 3% of patients treated with placebo. In a randomised study 
(TITAN) in patients with mHSPC, ischaemic heart disease occurred in 4% of patients treated with 
apalutamide and 2% of patients treated with placebo. Across the SPARTAN and TITAN studies, 
6 patients (0.5%) treated with apalutamide and 2 patients (0.2%) treated with placebo died from 
ischaemic heart disease (see section 4.4).
In the SPARTAN study, with a median exposure of 32.9 months for apalutamide and 11.5 months for 
placebo, ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders occurred in 4% of patients treated with apalutamide and 
1% of patients treated with placebo (see above). In the TITAN study, ischaemic cerebrovascular 
disorders occurred in a similar proportion of patients in the apalutamide (1.5%) and placebo (1.5%) 
groups. Across the SPARTAN and TITAN studies, 2 patients (0.2%) treated with apalutamide and no 
patients treated with placebo died from an ischaemic cerebrovascular disorder (see section 4.4).
Hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism was reported for 8% of patients treated with apalutamide and 2% of patients treated 
with placebo based on assessments of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) every 4 months. There were 
no grade 3 or 4 adverse events. Hypothyroidism occurred in 30% of patients already receiving thyroid 
replacement therapy in the apalutamide arm and in 3% of patients in the placebo arm. In patients not 
receiving thyroid replacement therapy, hypothyroidism occurred in 7% of patients treated with 
apalutamide and in 2% of patients treated with placebo. Thyroid replacement therapy, when clinically 
indicated, should be initiated or dose-adjusted (see section 4.5).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
There is no known specific antidote for apalutamide overdose. In the event of an overdose, Erleada 
should be stopped and general supportive measures should be undertaken until clinical toxicity has 
been diminished or resolved. Adverse reactions in the event of an overdose has not yet been observed, 
it is expected that such reactions would resemble the adverse reactions listed in section 4.8.
9
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Endocrine therapy, anti-androgens, ATC code: L02BB05
Mechanism of action
Apalutamide is an orally administered, selective Androgen Receptor (AR) inhibitor that binds directly 
to the ligand-binding domain of the AR. Apalutamide prevents AR nuclear translocation, inhibits 
DNA binding, impedes AR-mediated transcription, and lacks androgen receptor agonist activity. 
Apalutamide treatment decreases tumour cell proliferation and increases apoptosis leading to potent 
antitumour activity. A major metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, exhibited one-third the in vitro
activity of apalutamide.
Cardiac electrophysiology
The effect of apalutamide 240 mg once daily on the QTc interval was assessed in an open-label, 
uncontrolled, multi-centre, single-arm dedicated QT study in 45 patients with CRPC. At steady-state, 
the maximum mean QTcF change from baseline was 12.4 ms (2-sided 90% upper CI: 16.0 ms). An 
exposure-QT analysis suggested a concentration-dependent increase in QTcF for apalutamide and its 
active metabolite.
Clinical efficacy and safety
The efficacy and safety of apalutamide has been established in two Phase 3 randomised, placebo-
controlled studies, Study ARN-509-003 (nmCRPC) and 56021927PCR3002 (mHSPC).
TITAN: Metastatic Hormone-sensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC)
TITAN was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational, multicentre clinical study
in which 1052 patients with mHSPC were randomised (1:1) to receive either apalutamide orally at a 
dose of 240 mg once daily (N = 525) or placebo once daily (N = 527). All patients were required to 
have at least one bone metastasis on Technetium 99m bone scan. Patients were excluded if the site of 
metastases was limited to either the lymph nodes or viscera (e.g., liver or lung). All patients in the 
TITAN study received concomitant GnRH analog or had prior bilateral orchiectomy. Around 11% of 
patients received prior treatment with docetaxel (maximum of 6 cycles, last dose ≤ 2 months prior to 
randomisation and maintained response prior to randomisation). The exclusion criteria included 
known brain metastases; prior treatment with other next generation anti-androgens (eg, enzalutamide), 
CYP17 inhibitors (eg, abiraterone acetate), immunotherapy (eg, sipuleucel-T), radiopharmaceutical 
agents or other treatments for prostate cancer; or history of seizure or condition that may predispose to 
seizure. Patients were stratified by Gleason score at diagnosis, prior docetaxel use, and region of the 
world. Patients with both high- and low-volume mHSPC were eligible for the study. High-volume 
disease was defined as either visceral metastases and at least 1 bone lesion or at least 4 bone lesions, 
with at least 1 bone lesion outside of the vertebral column or pelvis. Low-volume disease was defined 
as the presence of bone lesion(s) not meeting the definition of high-volume.
The following patient demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the 
treatment arms. The median age was 68 years (range 43-94) and 23% of patients were 75 years of age 
or older. The racial distribution was 68% Caucasian, 22% Asian, and 2% Black. Sixty-three percent 
(63%) of patients had high-volume disease and 37% had low-volume disease. Sixteen percent (16%) 
of patients had prior surgery, radiotherapy of the prostate or both. A majority of patients had a Gleason 
score of 7 or higher (92%). Sixty-eight percent (68%) of patients received prior treatment with a 
first-generation anti-androgen in the non-metastatic setting. Although criteria for castration resistance 
were not determined at baseline, 94% of patients demonstrated a decrease in prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) from initiation of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) to first dose of apalutamide or placebo. 
10
All patients except one in the placebo group, had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Performance Status (ECOG PS) score of 0 or 1 at study entry. Among the patients who discontinued 
study treatment (N = 271 for placebo and N = 170 for Erleada), the most common reason for 
discontinuation in both arms was disease progression. A greater proportion (73%) of patients treated 
with placebo received subsequent anti-cancer therapy compared to patients treated with Erleada 
(54%). 
The major efficacy outcome measures of the study were overall survival (OS) and radiographic 
progression-free survival (rPFS). Efficacy results of TITAN are summarised in Table 2 and Figures 1 
and 2.
Table 2:
Summary of efficacy results – Intent-to-treat mHSPC population (TITAN)
Endpoint
Erleada
N=525
83 (16%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.671 (0.507, 0.890)
0.0053
Primary overall survivala
Deaths (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec
Updated overall survivald
Deaths (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec,e
Radiographic progression-free survival 
Disease progression or death (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec
a
This is based on the pre-specified interim analysis with a median follow-up time of 22 months.
b Hazard ratio is from stratified proportional hazards model. Hazard ratio < 1 favours active treatment.
c
170 (32%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.651 (0.534, 0.793)
<0.0001
134 (26%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.484 (0.391, 0.600)
<0.0001
Placebo
N=527
117 (22%)
NE (NE, NE)
235 (45%)
52 (42, NE)
231 (44%)
22.08 (18.46, 32.92)
p-value is from the log-rank test stratified by Gleason score at diagnosis (≤ 7 vs. > 7), Region (NA/EU vs. Other Countries) 
and Prior docetaxel use (Yes vs. No).
d Median follow-up time of 44 months.
e
This p-value is nominal instead of being used for formal statistical testing.
NE=Not Estimable
A statistically significant improvement in OS and rPFS was demonstrated in patients randomised to 
receive Erleada compared with patients randomised to receive placebo in the primary analysis. An 
updated OS analysis was conducted at the time of final study analysis when 405 deaths were observed 
with a median follow-up of 44 months. Results from this updated analysis were consistent with those 
from the pre-specified interim analysis. The improvement in OS was demonstrated even though 39% 
of patients in the placebo arm crossed over to receive Erleada, with a median treatment of 15 months 
on Erleada crossover.
Consistent improvement in rPFS was observed across patient subgroups including high- or low-
volume disease, metastasis stage at diagnosis (M0 or M1), prior docetaxel use (yes or no), age (< 65, 
≥ 65, or ≥ 75 years old), baseline PSA above median (yes or no), and number of bone lesions (≤ 10 or 
> 10).
Consistent improvement in OS was observed across patient subgroups including high- or low-volume 
disease, metastasis stage at diagnosis (M0 or M1), and Gleason score at diagnosis (≤ 7 vs. > 7).
11
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier plot of updated overall survival (OS); Intent-to-treat mHSPC 
population (TITAN)
12
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier plot of radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS); Intent-to-treat 
mHSPC population (TITAN)
Treatment with Erleada statistically significantly delayed the initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy 
(HR = 0.391, CI = 0.274, 0.558; p < 0.0001), resulting in a 61% reduction of risk for subjects in the 
treatment arm compared to the placebo arm.
SPARTAN: Non-Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (nmCRPC)
A total of 1207 subjects with NM-CRPC were randomised 2:1 to receive either apalutamide orally at a 
dose of 240 mg once daily in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (medical 
castration or prior surgical castration) or placebo with ADT in a multicentre, double-blind, clinical 
study (Study ARN-509-003). Subjects enrolled had a Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Doubling Time 
(PSADT) ≤ 10 months, considered to be at high risk of imminent metastatic disease and prostate 
cancer-specific death. All subjects who were not surgically castrated received ADT continuously 
throughout the study. PSA results were blinded and were not used for treatment discontinuation. 
Subjects randomised to either arm were to continue treatment until disease progression defined by 
blinded central imaging review (BICR), initiation of new treatment, unacceptable toxicity or 
withdrawal. 
The following patient demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the 
treatment arms. The median age was 74 years (range 48-97) and 26% of subjects were 80 years of age 
or older. The racial distribution was 66% Caucasian, 5.6% Black, 12% Asian, and 0.2% Other. 
Seventy-seven percent (77%) of subjects in both treatment arms had prior surgery or radiotherapy of 
the prostate. A majority of subjects had a Gleason score of 7 or higher (81%). Fifteen percent (15%) of 
subjects had < 2 cm pelvic lymph nodes at study entry. Seventy-three percent (73%) of subjects 
received prior treatment with a first generation anti-androgen; 69% of subjects received bicalutamide 
13
and 10% of subjects received flutamide. All subjects enrolled were confirmed to be non-metastatic by 
blinded central imaging review and had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status 
(ECOG PS) performance status score of 0 or 1 at study entry.
Metastasis-free survival (MFS) was the primary endpoint, defined as the time from randomisation to 
the time of first evidence of BICR-confirmed bone or soft tissue distant metastasis or death due to any 
cause, whichever occurred first. Treatment with Erleada significantly improved MFS. Erleada 
decreased the relative risk of distant metastasis or death by 70% compared to placebo (HR = 0.30; 
95% CI: 0.24, 0.36; p < 0.0001). The median MFS for Erleada was 41 months and was 16 months for 
placebo (see Figure 3). Consistent improvement in MFS with Erleada was observed for all 
pre-specified subgroups, including age, race, region of the world, nodal status, prior number of 
hormonal therapies, baseline PSA, PSA doubling time, baseline ECOG status and use of bone-sparing 
agents.
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier metastasis-free survival (MFS) curve in Study ARN-509-003
Taking account of all data, subjects treated with Erleada and ADT showed significant improvement 
over those treated with ADT alone for the following secondary endpoints of time to metastasis 
(HR = 0.28; 95% CI: 0.23, 0.34; p < 0.0001), progression-free survival (PFS) (HR = 0.30; 95% CI: 
0.25, 0.36; p < 0.0001); time to symptomatic progression (HR = 0.57; 95% CI: 0.44, 0.73; p < 0.0001); 
overall survival (OS) (HR = 0.78; 95% CI: 0.64, 0.96; p = 0.0161) and time to initiation of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy (HR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.49, 0.81; p = 0.0002).
Time to symptomatic progression was defined as time from randomisation to development of a 
skeletal related event, pain/symptoms requiring initiation of a new systemic anti-cancer therapy, or 
loco-regional tumour progression requiring radiation/surgery. While the overall number of events was 
small, the difference between the two arms was sufficiently large to reach statistical significance. 
Treatment with Erleada decreased the risk of symptomatic progression by 43% compared with placebo 
(HR = 0.567; 95% CI: 0.443, 0.725; p < 0.0001). The median time to symptomatic progression was 
not reached in either treatment group.
14
With median follow-up time of 52.0 months, results showed that treatment with Erleada significantly 
decreased the risk of death by 22% compared with placebo (HR = 0.784; 95% CI: 0.643, 0.956; 
2-sided p = 0.0161). The median OS was 73.9 months for the Erleada arm and 59.9 months for the 
placebo arm. The pre-specified alpha boundary (p ≤ 0.046) was crossed and statistical significance 
was achieved. This improvement was demonstrated even though 19% of patients in the placebo arm 
received Erleada as subsequent therapy.
Figure 4: Kaplan-Meier overall survival (OS) curve in Study ARN-509-003 at final analysis
Treatment with Erleada significantly decreased the risk of initiating cytotoxic chemotherapy by 37% 
compared with placebo (HR = 0.629; 95% CI: 0.489, 0.808; p = 0.0002) demonstrating statistically 
significant improvement for Erleada versus placebo. The median time to the initiation of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy was not reached for either treatment arm.
PFS-2, defined as the time to death or disease progression by PSA, radiographic, or symptomatic 
progression on or after first subsequent therapy was longer for subjects treated with Erleada compared 
to those treated with placebo. Results demonstrated a 44% reduction in risk of PFS-2 with Erleada 
versus placebo (HR = 0.565, 95% CI: 0.471, 0.677; p < 0.0001).
There were no detrimental effects to overall health-related quality of life with the addition of Erleada 
to ADT and a small but not clinically meaningful difference in change from baseline in favour of 
Erleada observed in the analysis of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) 
total score and subscales.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Erleada in all subsets of the paediatric population in advanced prostate cancer. See section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Following repeat once-daily dosing, apalutamide exposure (Cmax and area under the concentration 
curve [AUC]) increased in a dose-proportional manner across the dose range of 30 to 480 mg. 
15
Following administration of 240 mg once daily, apalutamide steady state was achieved after 4 weeks 
and the mean accumulation ratio was approximately 5-fold relative to a single dose. At steady-state, 
mean (CV%) Cmax and AUC values for apalutamide were 6 µg/mL (28%) and 100 µg.h/mL (32%), 
respectively. Daily fluctuations in apalutamide plasma concentrations were low, with mean 
peak-to-trough ratio of 1.63. An increase in apparent clearance (CL/F) was observed with repeat 
dosing, likely due to induction of apalutamide’s own metabolism.
At steady-state, the mean (CV%) Cmax and AUC values for the major active metabolite, N-desmethyl 
apalutamide, were 5.9 µg/mL (18%) and 124 µg.h/mL (19%), respectively. N-desmethyl apalutamide 
is characterised by a flat concentration-time profile at steady-state with a mean peak-to-trough ratio of 
1.27. Mean (CV%) AUC metabolite/parent drug ratio for N-desmethyl apalutamide following 
repeat-dose administration was about 1.3 (21%). Based on systemic exposure, relative potency, and 
pharmacokinetic properties, N-desmethyl apalutamide likely contributed to the clinical activity of 
apalutamide.
Absorption
After oral administration, median time to achieve peak plasma concentration (tmax) was 2 hours (range: 
1 to 5 hours). Mean absolute oral bioavailability is approximately 100%, indicating that apalutamide is 
completely absorbed after oral administration.
Administration of apalutamide to healthy subjects under fasting conditions and with a high-fat meal 
resulted in no clinically relevant changes in Cmax and AUC. Median time to reach tmax was delayed 
about 2 hours with food (see section 4.2).
Apalutamide is not ionisable under relevant physiological pH condition, therefore acid lowering 
agents (e.g., proton pump inhibitor, H2-receptor antagonist, antacid) are not expected to affect the 
solubility and bioavailability of apalutamide.
In vitro, apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite are substrates for P-gp. Because apalutamide is 
completely absorbed after oral administration, P-gp does not limit the absorption of apalutamide and 
therefore, inhibition or induction of P-gp is not expected to affect the bioavailability of apalutamide.
Distribution
The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady-state of apalutamide is about 276 L. The volume 
of distribution of apalutamide is greater than the volume of total body water, indicative of extensive 
extravascular distribution.
Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are 96% and 95% bound to plasma proteins, respectively, 
and mainly bind to serum albumin with no concentration dependency.
Biotransformation
Following single oral administration of 14C-labelled apalutamide 240 mg, apalutamide, the active 
metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, and an inactive carboxylic acid metabolite accounted for the 
majority of the 14C-radioactivity in plasma, representing 45%, 44%, and 3%, respectively, of the total 
14C-AUC.
Metabolism is the main route of elimination of apalutamide. It is metabolised primarily by CYP2C8 
and CYP3A4 to form N-desmethyl apalutamide. Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are 
further metabolised to form the inactive carboxylic acid metabolite by carboxylesterase. The 
contribution of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of apalutamide is estimated to be 58% and 
13% following single dose but the level of contribution is expected to change at steady-state due to 
induction of CYP3A4 by apalutamide after repeat dose.
16
Elimination
Apalutamide, mainly in the form of metabolites, is eliminated primarily via urine. Following a single 
oral administration of radiolabelled apalutamide, 89% of the radioactivity was recovered up to 70 days 
post-dose: 65% was recovered in urine (1.2% of dose as unchanged apalutamide and 2.7% as 
N-desmethyl apalutamide) and 24% was recovered in faeces (1.5% of dose as unchanged apalutamide 
and 2% as N-desmethyl apalutamide).
The apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of apalutamide is 1.3 L/h after single dosing and increases to 
2.0 L/h at steady-state after once-daily dosing. The mean effective half-life for apalutamide in patients 
is about 3 days at steady-state.
In vitro data indicate that apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite are not substrates for BCRP, 
OATP1B1 or OATP1B3.
Special populations
The effects of renal impairment, hepatic impairment, age, race, and other extrinsic factors on the 
pharmacokinetics of apalutamide are summarised below.
Renal impairment
A dedicated renal impairment study for apalutamide has not been conducted. Based on the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis using data from clinical studies in subjects with castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (CRPC) and healthy subjects, no significant difference in systemic apalutamide exposure was 
observed in subjects with pre-existing mild to moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular 
filtration rate [eGFR] between 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2
normal renal function (eGFR ≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2
impairment or end stage renal disease (eGFR ≤ 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) have not been established due to 
insufficient data.
; N=372). The potential effect of severe renal 
; N=585) compared to subjects with baseline 
Hepatic impairment
A dedicated hepatic impairment study compared the systemic exposure of apalutamide and 
N- desmethyl apalutamide in subjects with baseline mild hepatic impairment (N=8, Child-Pugh Class 
A, mean score = 5.3) or moderate hepatic impairment (N=8, Child-Pugh Class B, mean score = 7.6) 
versus healthy controls with normal hepatic function (N=8). Following a single oral 240 mg dose of 
apalutamide, the geometric mean ratio (GMR) for AUC and Cmax for apalutamide in subjects with mild 
impairment was 95% and 102%, respectively, and the GMR for AUC and Cmax of apalutamide in 
subjects with moderate impairment was 113% and 104%, respectively, compared to healthy control 
subjects. Clinical and pharmacokinetic data for apalutamide are not available for patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).
Ethnicity and race
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, there were no clinically relevant differences in 
apalutamide pharmacokinetics between White (Caucasian or Hispanic or Latino; N=761), Black (of 
African heritage or African American; N=71), Asian (non-Japanese; N=58) and Japanese (N=58).
Age
Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed that age (range: 18 to 94 years) does not have a 
clinically meaningful influence on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Apalutamide was negative for genotoxicity in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests.
17
Apalutamide was not carcinogenic in a 6-month study in the male transgenic (Tg.rasH2) mouse at 
doses up to 30 mg/kg per day, which is 1.2 and 0.5 times for apalutamide and N-desmethyl 
apalutamide respectively, the clinical exposure (AUC) at the recommended clinical dose of 
240 mg/day.
In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in male Sprague-Dawley rats, apalutamide was administered by oral 
gavage at doses of 5, 15 and 50 mg/kg/day (0.2, 0.7, and 2.5 times the AUC in patients (human 
exposure at recommended dose of 240 mg), respectively). Neoplastic findings were noted including an 
increased incidence of testicular Leydig cell adenoma and carcinoma at doses greater than or equal to 
5 mg/kg/day, mammary adenocarcinoma and fibroadenoma at 15 mg/kg/day or 50 mg/kg/day, and 
thyroid follicular cell adenoma at 50 mg/kg/day. These findings were considered rat-specific and 
therefore of limited relevance to humans.
Male fertility is likely to be impaired by treatment with apalutamide based on findings in repeat-dose 
toxicology studies which were consistent with the pharmacological activity of apalutamide. In 
repeat-dose toxicity studies in male rats and dogs, atrophy, aspermia/hypospermia, degeneration 
and/or hyperplasia or hypertrophy in the reproductive system were observed at doses corresponding to 
exposures approximately equal to the human exposure based on AUC.
In a fertility study in male rats, a decrease in sperm concentration and motility, copulation and fertility 
rates (upon pairing with untreated females) along with reduced weights of the secondary sex glands 
and epididymis were observed following 4 weeks of dosing at doses corresponding to exposures 
approximately equal to the human exposure based on AUC. Effects on male rats were reversible after 
8 weeks from the last apalutamide administration.
In a preliminary embryofetal developmental toxicity study in rats, apalutamide caused developmental 
toxicity when administered at oral doses of 25, 50 or 100 mg/kg/day throughout the period of 
organogenesis (gestational days 6-20). These doses resulted in systemic exposures approximately 2, 4 
and 6 times, respectively, on an AUC basis, the exposure in humans at the dose of 240 mg/day. 
Findings included non-pregnant females at 100 mg/kg/day and embryofetal lethality (resorptions) at 
doses ≥ 50 mg/kg/day, decreased fetal anogenital distance and a misshapen pituitary gland (more 
rounded shape) at ≥ 25 mg/kg/day. Skeletal variations (unossified phalanges, supernumerary short 
thoracolumbar rib(s) and/or abnormalities of the hyoid) were also noted at doses ≥ 25 mg/kg/day, 
without resulting in an effect on mean fetal weight.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Croscarmellose sodium
Hypromellose acetate succinate
Magnesium stearate
Microcrystalline cellulose
Microcrystalline cellulose (silicified)
Film-coating
Iron oxide black (E172)
Iron oxide yellow (E172)
Macrogol
Polyvinyl alcohol (partially hydrolysed)
Talc
Titanium dioxide (E171)
18
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
White opaque high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a polypropylene (PP) child-resistant 
closure. Each bottle contains 120 film-coated tablets and a total of 6 g of silica gel desiccant.
PVC-PCTFE foil blister with an aluminium push-through foil sealed inside a child-resistant wallet 
pack.

Each 28-day carton contains 112 film coated tablets in 4 cardboard wallet packs of 
28 film-coated tablets each.
Each 30-day carton contains 120 film coated tablets in 5 cardboard wallet packs of 
24 film-coated tablets each.

Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/001
EU/1/18/1342/002
EU/1/18/1342/003
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 14 January 2019
Date of latest renewal: 22 September 2023
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
19
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
20
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg of apalutamide.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Bluish grey to grey, oval-shaped, film-coated tablets (21 mm long x 10 mm wide), debossed with 
“E240” on one side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Erleada is indicated:

in adult men for the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) 
who are at high risk of developing metastatic disease (see section 5.1).
in adult men for the treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in 
combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (see section 5.1).

4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with apalutamide should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in 
the medical treatment of prostate cancer.
Posology
The recommended dose is 240 mg (one 240 mg tablet) as an oral single daily dose.
Medical castration with gonadotropin releasing hormone analogue (GnRHa) should be continued 
during treatment in patients not surgically castrated.
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day with a return to the normal 
schedule the following day. Extra tablets should not be taken to make up the missed dose.
If a ≥ Grade 3 toxicity or an intolerable adverse reaction is experienced by the patient, dosing should 
be held rather than permanently discontinuing treatment until symptoms improve to ≤ Grade 1 or 
original grade, then should be resumed at the same dose or a reduced dose (180 mg or 120 mg), if 
warranted. For the most common adverse reactions, (see section 4.8).
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
21
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. 
Caution is required in patients with severe renal impairment as apalutamide has not been studied in 
this patient population (see section 5.2). If treatment is started, patients should be monitored for the
adverse reactions listed in section 4.8 and dose reduce as per section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration. 
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with baseline mild or moderate hepatic impairment
(Child-Pugh Class A and B, respectively). 
Erleada is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment as there are no data in this 
patient population and apalutamide is primarily hepatically eliminated (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
There is no relevant use of apalutamide in the paediatric population.
Method of administration
Oral use.
The tablet should be swallowed whole to ensure that the full intended dose is taken. The tablet should 
not be crushed or split. The tablet can be taken with or without food.
Taking Erleada with non-fizzy beverage or soft food
For patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole, Erleada can be dispersed in non-fizzy water and 
then mixed with one of the following non-fizzy beverages or soft foods; orange juice, green tea, 
applesauce, or drinkable yogurt as follows:
1.
2.
Place the whole Erleada 240 mg tablet in a cup. Do not crush or split the tablet.
Add about 10 mL (2 teaspoons) of non-fizzy water to make sure that the tablet is completely in 
water.
3. Wait 2 minutes until the tablet is broken up and spread out, then stir the mixture.
4.
Add in 30 mL (6 teaspoons or 2 tablespoons) of one of the following non-fizzy beverages or 
soft foods; orange juice, green tea, applesauce, or drinkable yogurt and stir the mixture.
Swallow the mixture immediately.
Rinse the cup with enough water to make sure the whole dose is taken and drink it immediately.
Do not save the medicinal product/food mixture for later use.
5.
6.
7.
Administration by nasogastric feeding tube
Erleada 240 mg tablet can also be administered through a nasogastric feeding tube (NG tube) 8 French 
or greater as follows:
1.
Place one 240 mg tablet in the barrel of a syringe (use at least a 20 mL syringe) and draw up 
10 mL of non-carbonated water into the syringe.
2. Wait 10 minutes and then shake vigorously to disperse the contents completely.
3.
4.
Administer immediately through the NG feeding tube.
Refill the syringe with non-carbonated water and administer. Repeat until no tablet residue is 
left in the syringe or feeding tube.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
22
Women who are or may become pregnant (see section 4.6).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Seizure
Erleada is not recommended in patients with a history of seizures or other predisposing factors 
including, but not limited to, underlying brain injury, recent stroke (within one year), primary brain 
tumours or brain metastases. If a seizure develops during treatment with Erleada, treatment should be 
discontinued permanently. The risk of seizure may be increased in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that lower the seizure threshold.
In two randomised studies (SPARTAN and TITAN), seizure occurred in 0.6% of patients receiving 
apalutamide and in 0.2% of patients treated with placebo. These studies excluded patients with a 
history of seizure or predisposing factors for seizure.
There is no clinical experience in re-administering Erleada to patients who experienced a seizure.
Falls and fractures
Falls and fractures occurred in patients receiving apalutamide (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
evaluated for fracture and fall risk before starting Erleada and should continue to be monitored and 
managed according to established treatment guidelines and use of bone-targeted agents should be 
considered.
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders, including events leading to death,
occurred in patients treated with apalutamide (see section 4.8). The majority of patients had 
cardiac/cerebrovascular ischaemic disease risk factors. Patients should be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders. Management of risk 
factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, or dyslipidaemia should be optimised as per standard of care.
Concomitant use with other medicinal products 
Apalutamide is a potent enzyme inducer and may lead to loss of efficacy of many commonly used 
medicinal products (see section 4.5). A review of concomitant medicinal products should therefore be 
conducted when apalutamide treatment is initiated. Concomitant use of apalutamide with medicinal 
products that are sensitive substrates of many metabolising enzymes or transporters (see section 4.5) 
should generally be avoided if their therapeutic effect is of large importance to the patient, and if dose 
adjustments cannot easily be performed based on monitoring of efficacy or plasma concentrations. 
Co-administration of apalutamide with warfarin and coumarin-like anticoagulants should be avoided. 
If Erleada is co-administered with an anticoagulant metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin or 
acenocoumarol), additional International Normalised Ratio (INR) monitoring should be conducted 
(see section 4.5).
Recent cardiovascular disease
Patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease in the past 6 months including 
severe/unstable angina, myocardial infarction, symptomatic congestive heart failure, arterial or venous 
thromboembolic events (e.g., pulmonary embolism, cerebrovascular accident including transient 
ischaemic attacks), or clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias were excluded from the clinical 
studies. Therefore, the safety of apalutamide in these patients has not been established. If Erleada is 
prescribed, patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease should be monitored for risk 
factors such as hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, or other cardio-metabolic disorders (see 
23
section 4.8). Patients should be treated, if appropriate, after initiating Erleada for these conditions 
according to established treatment guidelines. 
Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval
In patients with a history of or risk factors for QT prolongation and in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that might prolong the QT interval (see section 4.5), physicians should assess the 
benefit-risk ratio including the potential for Torsade de pointes prior to initiating Erleada.
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs)
Postmarketing reports of SCARs including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN), which can be 
life-threatening or fatal, have been observed in association with Erleada treatment (see section 4.8).
Patients should be advised of signs and symptoms suggestive of DRESS or SJS/TEN. If these 
symptoms are observed, Erleada should be withdrawn immediately and patients should seek
immediate medical consultation.
Erleada must not be restarted in patients who have experienced DRESS or SJS/TEN while taking 
Erleada at any time and an alternative treatment should be considered.
Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)
Cases of ILD have been observed in patients treated with apalutamide, including fatal cases. In case of 
acute onset and/or unexplained worsening of pulmonary symptoms, treatment with apalutamide should 
be interrupted pending further investigation of these symptoms. If ILD is diagnosed, apalutamide
should be discontinued and appropriate treatment initiated as necessary (see section 4.8).
Excipients
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 240 mg dose (1 tablet), that is 
to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The elimination of apalutamide and formation of its active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, is 
mediated by both CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 to a similar extent at steady-state. No clinically meaningful 
changes in their overall exposure is expected as a result of drug interaction with inhibitors or inducers 
of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. Apalutamide is an inducer of enzymes and transporters and may lead to an 
increase in elimination of many commonly used medicinal products.
Potential for other medicinal products to affect apalutamide exposures
Medicinal products that inhibit CYP2C8
CYP2C8 plays a role in the elimination of apalutamide and in the formation of its active metabolite. In 
a drug-drug interaction study, the Cmax of apalutamide decreased by 21% while AUC increased by 
68% following co-administration of apalutamide 240 mg single dose with gemfibrozil (strong 
CYP2C8 inhibitor). For the active moieties (sum of apalutamide plus the potency adjusted active 
metabolite), Cmax decreased by 21% while AUC increased by 45%. No initial dose adjustment is 
necessary when Erleada is co-administered with a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil, 
clopidogrel) however, a reduction of the Erleada dose based on tolerability should be considered (see 
section 4.2). Mild or moderate inhibitors of CYP2C8 are not expected to affect the exposure of 
apalutamide.
24
Medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A4
CYP3A4 plays a role in the elimination of apalutamide and in the formation of its active metabolite. In 
a drug-drug interaction study, the Cmax of apalutamide decreased by 22% while AUC was similar 
following co-administration of Erleada as a 240 mg single dose with itraconazole (strong CYP3A4 
inhibitor). For the active moieties (sum of apalutamide plus the potency adjusted active metabolite), 
Cmax decreased by 22% while AUC was again similar. No initial dose adjustment is necessary when 
Erleada is co-administered with a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir, 
clarithromycin) however, a reduction of the Erleada dose based on tolerability should be considered 
(see section 4.2). Mild or moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 are not expected to affect the exposure of 
apalutamide.
Medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 or CYP2C8
The effects of CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inducers on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide have not been 
evaluated in vivo. Based on the drug-drug interaction study results with strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or 
strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, CYP3A4 or CYP2C8 inducers are not expected to have clinically relevant 
effects on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide and the active moieties therefore no dose adjustment is 
necessary when Erleada is co-administered with inducers of CYP3A4 or CYP2C8.
Potential for apalutamide to affect exposures to other medicinal products
Apalutamide is a potent enzyme inducer and increases the synthesis of many enzymes and 
transporters; therefore, interaction with many common medicinal products that are substrates of 
enzymes or transporters is expected. The reduction in plasma concentrations can be substantial, and 
lead to lost or reduced clinical effect. There is also a risk of increased formation of active metabolites.
Drug metabolising enzymes
In vitro studies showed that apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are moderate to strong 
CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducers, are moderate inhibitors of CYP2B6 and CYP2C8, and weak 
inhibitors of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide do not 
affect CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The effect of apalutamide on 
CYP2B6 substrates has not been evaluated in vivo and the net effect is presently unknown. When 
substrates of CYP2B6 (e.g., efavirenz) are administered with Erleada, monitoring for an adverse 
reaction and evaluation for loss of efficacy of the substrate should be performed and dose adjustment 
of the substrate may be required to maintain optimal plasma concentrations.
In humans, apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19, and a weak inducer of 
CYP2C9. In a drug-drug interaction study using a cocktail approach, co-administration of apalutamide
with single oral doses of sensitive CYP substrates resulted in a 92% decrease in the AUC of 
midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate), 85% decrease in the AUC of omeprazole (CYP2C19 substrate), and 
46% decrease in the AUC of S-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate). Apalutamide did not cause clinically 
meaningful changes in exposure to the CYP2C8 substrate. Concomitant use of Erleada with medicinal 
products that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., darunavir, felodipine, midazolam, 
simvastatin), CYP2C19 (e.g., diazepam, omeprazole), or CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin, phenytoin) can 
result in lower exposure to these medicinal products. Substitution for these medicinal products is 
recommended when possible or evaluation for loss of efficacy should be performed if the medicinal 
product is continued. If given with warfarin, INR should be monitored during Erleada treatment.
Induction of CYP3A4 by apalutamide suggests that UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) may also be 
induced via activation of the nuclear pregnane X receptor (PXR). Concomitant administration of 
Erleada with medicinal products that are substrates of UGT (e.g., levothyroxine, valproic acid) can 
result in lower exposure to these medicinal products. When substrates of UGT are co-administered 
with Erleada, evaluation for loss of efficacy of the substrate should be performed and dose adjustment 
of the substrate may be required to maintain optimal plasma concentrations.
25
Drug transporters
Apalutamide was shown to be a weak inducer of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance 
protein (BCRP), and organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1) clinically. A drug-drug 
interaction study using a cocktail approach showed that co-administration of apalutamide with single 
oral doses of sensitive transporter substrates resulted in a 30% decrease in the AUC of fexofenadine 
(P-gp substrate) and 41% decrease in the AUC of rosuvastatin (BCRP/OATP1B1 substrate) but had no 
impact on Cmax. Concomitant use of Erleada with medicinal products that are substrates of P-gp (e.g., 
colchicine, dabigatran etexilate, digoxin), BCRP or OATP1B1 (e.g., lapatinib, methotrexate, 
rosuvastatin, repaglinide) can result in lower exposure of these medicinal products. When substrates of 
P-gp, BCRP or OATP1B1 are co-administered with Erleada, evaluation for loss of efficacy of the 
substrate should be performed and dose adjustment of the substrate may be required to maintain 
optimal plasma concentrations.
Based on in vitro data, inhibition of organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2), organic anion transporter 3 
(OAT3) and multidrug and toxin extrusions (MATEs) by apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite 
cannot be excluded. No in vitro inhibition of organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1) was observed.
GnRH Analog
In mHSPC subjects receiving leuprolide acetate (a GnRH analog), co-administration with apalutamide 
had no apparent effect on the steady-state exposure of leuprolide.
Medicinal products which prolong the QT interval
Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the concomitant use of Erleada
with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce 
Torsade de pointes such as class IA (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g., amiodarone, 
sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, 
antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol), etc. should be carefully evaluated (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Contraception in males and females
It is not known whether apalutamide or its metabolites are present in semen. Erleada may be harmful 
to a developing foetus. For patients having sex with female partners of reproductive potential, a
condom should be used along with another highly effective contraceptive method during treatment and 
for 3 months after the last dose of Erleada.
Pregnancy
Erleada is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant (see section 4.3). Based on an 
animal reproductive study and its mechanism of action, Erleada may cause foetal harm and loss of 
pregnancy when administered to a pregnant woman. There are no data available from the use of 
Erleada in pregnant women.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether apalutamide/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. Erleada should not be used during breast-feeding.
26
Fertility
Based on animal studies, Erleada may decrease fertility in males of reproductive potential (see 
section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Erleada has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, seizures 
have been reported in patients taking Erleada. Patients should be advised of this risk in regards to 
driving or operating machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most common adverse reactions are fatigue (26%), skin rash (26% of any grade and 6% Grade 3 
or 4), hypertension (22%), hot flush (18%), arthralgia (17%), diarrhoea (16%), fall (13%), and weight 
decreased (13%). Other important adverse reactions include fractures (11%) and hypothyroidism 
(8%).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions observed during clinical studies and/or in post-marketing experience are listed 
below by frequency category. Frequency categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very 
rare (< 1/10 000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data).
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
Adverse reactions
Table 1:
System Organ Class
Endocrine disorders
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Nervous system disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders
General disorders and administration site 
conditions
Investigations
Adverse reaction and frequency
common: hypothyroidisma
very common: decreased appetite
common: hypercholesterolaemia, 
hypertriglyceridaemia
common: dysgeusia, ischaemic cerebrovascular 
disordersb
uncommon: seizurec (see section 4.4), restless 
legs syndrome
common: ischaemic heart diseased
not known: QT prolongation (see sections 4.4 and 
4.5)
very common: hot flush, hypertension
not known: interstitial lung diseasef
very common: diarrhoea
very common: skin rashe
common: pruritus, alopecia
not known: drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)f, Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN)f
very common: fractureg, arthralgia
common: muscle spasm
very common: fatigue
very common: weight decreased
27
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications
a
very common: fall
b
c
d
e
f
g
Includes hypothyroidism, blood thyroid stimulating hormone increased, thyroxine decreased, autoimmune thyroiditis, 
thyroxine free decreased, tri-iodothyronine decreased
Includes transient ischaemic attack, cerebrovascular accident, cerebrovascular disorder, ischaemic stroke, carotid 
arteriosclerosis, carotid artery stenosis, hemiparesis, lacunar infarction, lacunar stroke, thrombotic cerebral infarction, 
vascular encephalopathy, cerebellar infarction, cerebral infarction, and cerebral ischaemia
Includes tongue biting
Includes angina pectoris, angina unstable, myocardial infarction, acute myocardial infarction, coronary artery 
occlusion, coronary artery stenosis, acute coronary syndrome, arteriosclerosis coronary artery, cardiac stress test 
abnormal, troponin increased, myocardial ischaemia
See “Skin rash” under “Description of selected adverse reactions”
See section 4.4
Includes rib fracture, lumbar vertebral fracture, spinal compression fracture, spinal fracture, foot fracture, hip fracture, 
humerus fracture, thoracic vertebral fracture, upper limb fracture, fractured sacrum, hand fracture, pubis fracture, 
acetabulum fracture, ankle fracture, compression fracture, costal cartilage fracture, facial bones fracture, lower limb 
fracture, osteoporotic fracture, wrist fracture, avulsion fracture, fibula fracture, fractured coccyx, pelvic fracture, 
radius fracture, sternal fracture, stress fracture, traumatic fracture, cervical vertebral fracture, femoral neck fracture, 
tibia fracture. See below.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Skin rash
Skin rash associated with apalutamide was most commonly described as macular or maculo-papular. 
Skin rash included rash, rash maculo-papular, rash generalised, urticaria, rash pruritic, rash macular, 
conjunctivitis, erythema multiforme, rash papular, skin exfoliation, genital rash, rash erythematous, 
stomatitis, drug eruption, mouth ulceration, rash pustular, blister, papule, pemphigoid, skin erosion, 
dermatitis, and rash vesicular. Adverse reactions of skin rash were reported for 26% of patients treated 
with apalutamide. Grade 3 skin rashes (defined as covering > 30% body surface area [BSA]) were 
reported with apalutamide treatment in 6% of patients.
The median days to onset of skin rash was 83 days. Seventy-eight percent of patients had resolution of 
rash with a median of 78 days to resolution. Medicinal products utilised included topical 
corticosteroids, oral anti-histamines, and 19% of patients received systemic corticosteroids. Among 
patients with skin rash, dose interruption occurred in 28% and dose reduction occurred in 14% (see 
section 4.2). Skin rash recurred in 59% of patients who had dose interruption. Skin rash led to 
apalutamide treatment discontinuation in 7% of patients who experienced skin rash.
Falls and fractures
In Study ARN-509-003, fracture was reported for 11.7% of patients treated with apalutamide and 
6.5% of patients treated with placebo. Half of the patients experienced a fall within 7 days before the 
fracture event in both treatment groups. Falls were reported for 15.6% of patients treated with 
apalutamide versus 9.0% of patients treated with placebo (see section 4.4).
Ischaemic heart disease and ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders
In a randomised study (SPARTAN) of patients with nmCRPC, ischaemic heart disease occurred in 4% 
of patients treated with apalutamide and 3% of patients treated with placebo. In a randomised study 
(TITAN) in patients with mHSPC, ischaemic heart disease occurred in 4% of patients treated with 
apalutamide and 2% of patients treated with placebo. Across the SPARTAN and TITAN studies, 
6 patients (0.5%) treated with apalutamide and 2 patients (0.2%) treated with placebo died from 
ischaemic heart disease (see section 4.4).
In the SPARTAN study, with a median exposure of 32.9 months for apalutamide and 11.5 months for 
placebo, ischaemic cerebrovascular disorders occurred in 4% of patients treated with apalutamide and 
1% of patients treated with placebo (see above). In the TITAN study, ischaemic cerebrovascular 
disorders occurred in a similar proportion of patients in the apalutamide (1.5%) and placebo (1.5%) 
28
groups. Across the SPARTAN and TITAN studies, 2 patients (0.2%) treated with apalutamide and no 
patients treated with placebo died from an ischaemic cerebrovascular disorder (see section 4.4).
Hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism was reported for 8% of patients treated with apalutamide and 2% of patients treated 
with placebo based on assessments of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) every 4 months. There were 
no grade 3 or 4 adverse events. Hypothyroidism occurred in 30% of patients already receiving thyroid 
replacement therapy in the apalutamide arm and in 3% of patients in the placebo arm. In patients not 
receiving thyroid replacement therapy, hypothyroidism occurred in 7% of patients treated with 
apalutamide and in 2% of patients treated with placebo. Thyroid replacement therapy, when clinically 
indicated, should be initiated or dose-adjusted (see section 4.5).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
There is no known specific antidote for apalutamide overdose. In the event of an overdose, Erleada
should be stopped and general supportive measures should be undertaken until clinical toxicity has 
been diminished or resolved. Adverse reactions in the event of an overdose has not yet been observed, 
it is expected that such reactions would resemble the adverse reactions listed in section 4.8.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Endocrine therapy, anti-androgens, ATC code: L02BB05
Mechanism of action
Apalutamide is an orally administered, selective Androgen Receptor (AR) inhibitor that binds directly 
to the ligand-binding domain of the AR. Apalutamide prevents AR nuclear translocation, inhibits 
DNA binding, impedes AR-mediated transcription, and lacks androgen receptor agonist activity.
Apalutamide treatment decreases tumour cell proliferation and increases apoptosis leading to potent 
antitumour activity. A major metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, exhibited one-third the in vitro
activity of apalutamide.
Cardiac electrophysiology
The effect of apalutamide 240 mg once daily on the QTc interval was assessed in an open-label, 
uncontrolled, multi-centre, single-arm dedicated QT study in 45 patients with CRPC. At steady-state, 
the maximum mean QTcF change from baseline was 12.4 ms (2-sided 90% upper CI: 16.0 ms). An 
exposure-QT analysis suggested a concentration-dependent increase in QTcF for apalutamide and its 
active metabolite.
Clinical efficacy and safety
The efficacy and safety of apalutamide has been established in two Phase 3 randomised, placebo-
controlled studies, Study ARN-509-003 (nmCRPC) and 56021927PCR3002 (mHSPC).
29
TITAN: Metastatic Hormone-sensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC)
TITAN was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational, multicentre clinical study
in which 1052 patients with mHSPC were randomised (1:1) to receive either apalutamide orally at a 
dose of 240 mg once daily (N = 525) or placebo once daily (N = 527). All patients were required to 
have at least one bone metastasis on Technetium 99m bone scan. Patients were excluded if the site of 
metastases was limited to either the lymph nodes or viscera (e.g., liver or lung). All patients in the 
TITAN study received concomitant GnRH analog or had prior bilateral orchiectomy. Around 11% of 
patients received prior treatment with docetaxel (maximum of 6 cycles, last dose ≤ 2 months prior to 
randomisation and maintained response prior to randomisation). The exclusion criteria included 
known brain metastases; prior treatment with other next generation anti-androgens (eg, enzalutamide), 
CYP17 inhibitors (eg, abiraterone acetate), immunotherapy (eg, sipuleucel-T), radiopharmaceutical 
agents or other treatments for prostate cancer; or history of seizure or condition that may predispose to 
seizure. Patients were stratified by Gleason score at diagnosis, prior docetaxel use, and region of the 
world. Patients with both high- and low-volume mHSPC were eligible for the study. High-volume 
disease was defined as either visceral metastases and at least 1 bone lesion or at least 4 bone lesions, 
with at least 1 bone lesion outside of the vertebral column or pelvis. Low-volume disease was defined 
as the presence of bone lesion(s) not meeting the definition of high-volume.
The following patient demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the 
treatment arms. The median age was 68 years (range 43-94) and 23% of patients were 75 years of age 
or older. The racial distribution was 68% Caucasian, 22% Asian, and 2% Black. Sixty-three percent 
(63%) of patients had high-volume disease and 37% had low-volume disease. Sixteen percent (16%) 
of patients had prior surgery, radiotherapy of the prostate or both. A majority of patients had a Gleason 
score of 7 or higher (92%). Sixty-eight percent (68%) of patients received prior treatment with a 
first-generation anti-androgen in the non-metastatic setting. Although criteria for castration resistance 
were not determined at baseline, 94% of patients demonstrated a decrease in prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) from initiation of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) to first dose of apalutamide or placebo. 
All patients except one in the placebo group, had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Performance Status (ECOG PS) score of 0 or 1 at study entry. Among the patients who discontinued 
study treatment (N = 271 for placebo and N = 170 for Erleada), the most common reason for 
discontinuation in both arms was disease progression. A greater proportion (73%) of patients treated 
with placebo received subsequent anti-cancer therapy compared to patients treated with Erleada 
(54%). 
The major efficacy outcome measures of the study were overall survival (OS) and radiographic 
progression-free survival (rPFS). Efficacy results of TITAN are summarised in Table 2 and Figures 1 
and 2.
30
Table 2:
Summary of efficacy results – Intent-to-treat mHSPC population (TITAN)
Endpoint
Primary overall survivala
Deaths (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec
Updated overall survivald
Deaths (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec,e
Radiographic progression-free survival 
Disease progression or death (%)
Median, months (95% CI)
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-valuec
a
Erleada
N=525
83 (16%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.671 (0.507, 0.890)
0.0053
170 (32%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.651 (0.534, 0.793)
<0.0001
134 (26%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.484 (0.391, 0.600)
<0.0001
Placebo
N=527
117 (22%)
NE (NE, NE)
235 (45%)
52 (42, NE)
231 (44%)
22.08 (18.46, 32.92)
This is based on the pre-specified interim analysis with a median follow-up time of 22 months.
b Hazard ratio is from stratified proportional hazards model. Hazard ratio < 1 favours active treatment.
c
p-value is from the log-rank test stratified by Gleason score at diagnosis (≤ 7 vs. > 7), Region (NA/EU vs. Other Countries) 
and Prior docetaxel use (Yes vs. No).
d Median follow-up time of 44 months.
e
This p-value is nominal instead of being used for formal statistical testing.
NE=Not Estimable
A statistically significant improvement in OS and rPFS was demonstrated in patients randomised to 
receive Erleada compared with patients randomised to receive placebo in the primary analysis. An 
updated OS analysis was conducted at the time of final study analysis when 405 deaths were observed 
with a median follow-up of 44 months. Results from this updated analysis were consistent with those 
from the pre-specified interim analysis. The improvement in OS was demonstrated even though 39% 
of patients in the placebo arm crossed over to receive Erleada, with a median treatment of 15 months 
on Erleada crossover.
Consistent improvement in rPFS was observed across patient subgroups including high- or low-
volume disease, metastasis stage at diagnosis (M0 or M1), prior docetaxel use (yes or no), age (< 65, 
≥ 65, or ≥ 75 years old), baseline PSA above median (yes or no), and number of bone lesions (≤ 10 or 
> 10).
Consistent improvement in OS was observed across patient subgroups including high- or low-volume 
disease, metastasis stage at diagnosis (M0 or M1), and Gleason score at diagnosis (≤ 7 vs. > 7).
31
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier plot of updated overall survival (OS); Intent-to-treat mHSPC 
population (TITAN)
32
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier plot of radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS); Intent-to-treat 
mHSPC population (TITAN)
Treatment with Erleada statistically significantly delayed the initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy 
(HR = 0.391, CI = 0.274, 0.558; p < 0.0001), resulting in a 61% reduction of risk for subjects in the 
treatment arm compared to the placebo arm.
SPARTAN: Non-Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (nmCRPC)
A total of 1207 subjects with NM-CRPC were randomised 2:1 to receive either apalutamide orally at a 
dose of 240 mg once daily in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (medical 
castration or prior surgical castration) or placebo with ADT in a multicentre, double-blind, clinical 
study (Study ARN-509-003). Subjects enrolled had a Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Doubling Time 
(PSADT) ≤ 10 months, considered to be at high risk of imminent metastatic disease and prostate 
cancer-specific death. All subjects who were not surgically castrated received ADT continuously 
throughout the study. PSA results were blinded and were not used for treatment discontinuation.
Subjects randomised to either arm were to continue treatment until disease progression defined by 
blinded central imaging review (BICR), initiation of new treatment, unacceptable toxicity or 
withdrawal. 
The following patient demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the 
treatment arms. The median age was 74 years (range 48-97) and 26% of subjects were 80 years of age 
or older. The racial distribution was 66% Caucasian, 5.6% Black, 12% Asian, and 0.2% Other. 
Seventy-seven percent (77%) of subjects in both treatment arms had prior surgery or radiotherapy of 
the prostate. A majority of subjects had a Gleason score of 7 or higher (81%). Fifteen percent (15%) of 
subjects had < 2 cm pelvic lymph nodes at study entry. Seventy-three percent (73%) of subjects 
received prior treatment with a first generation anti-androgen; 69% of subjects received bicalutamide 
33
and 10% of subjects received flutamide. All subjects enrolled were confirmed to be non-metastatic by 
blinded central imaging review and had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status 
(ECOG PS) performance status score of 0 or 1 at study entry.
Metastasis-free survival (MFS) was the primary endpoint, defined as the time from randomisation to 
the time of first evidence of BICR-confirmed bone or soft tissue distant metastasis or death due to any 
cause, whichever occurred first. Treatment with Erleada significantly improved MFS. Erleada
decreased the relative risk of distant metastasis or death by 70% compared to placebo (HR = 0.30; 
95% CI: 0.24, 0.36; p < 0.0001). The median MFS for Erleada was 41 months and was 16 months for 
placebo (see Figure 3). Consistent improvement in MFS with Erleada was observed for all 
pre-specified subgroups, including age, race, region of the world, nodal status, prior number of 
hormonal therapies, baseline PSA, PSA doubling time, baseline ECOG status and use of bone-sparing 
agents.
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier metastasis-free survival (MFS) curve in Study ARN-509-003
Taking account of all data, subjects treated with Erleada and ADT showed significant improvement 
over those treated with ADT alone for the following secondary endpoints of time to metastasis 
(HR = 0.28; 95% CI: 0.23, 0.34; p < 0.0001), progression-free survival (PFS) (HR = 0.30; 95% CI: 
0.25, 0.36; p < 0.0001); time to symptomatic progression (HR = 0.57; 95% CI: 0.44, 0.73; p < 0.0001); 
overall survival (OS) (HR = 0.78; 95% CI: 0.64, 0.96; p = 0.0161) and time to initiation of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy (HR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.49, 0.81; p = 0.0002).
Time to symptomatic progression was defined as time from randomisation to development of a 
skeletal related event, pain/symptoms requiring initiation of a new systemic anti-cancer therapy, or 
loco-regional tumour progression requiring radiation/surgery. While the overall number of events was 
small, the difference between the two arms was sufficiently large to reach statistical significance. 
Treatment with Erleada decreased the risk of symptomatic progression by 43% compared with placebo 
(HR = 0.567; 95% CI: 0.443, 0.725; p < 0.0001). The median time to symptomatic progression was 
not reached in either treatment group.
34
With median follow-up time of 52.0 months, results showed that treatment with Erleada significantly 
decreased the risk of death by 22% compared with placebo (HR = 0.784; 95% CI: 0.643, 0.956;
2-sided p = 0.0161). The median OS was 73.9 months for the Erleada arm and 59.9 months for the 
placebo arm. The pre-specified alpha boundary (p ≤ 0.046) was crossed and statistical significance 
was achieved. This improvement was demonstrated even though 19% of patients in the placebo arm 
received Erleada as subsequent therapy.
Figure 4: Kaplan-Meier overall survival (OS) curve in Study ARN-509-003 at final analysis
Treatment with Erleada significantly decreased the risk of initiating cytotoxic chemotherapy by 37% 
compared with placebo (HR = 0.629; 95% CI: 0.489, 0.808; p = 0.0002) demonstrating statistically 
significant improvement for Erleada versus placebo. The median time to the initiation of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy was not reached for either treatment arm.
PFS-2, defined as the time to death or disease progression by PSA, radiographic, or symptomatic 
progression on or after first subsequent therapy was longer for subjects treated with Erleada compared 
to those treated with placebo. Results demonstrated a 44% reduction in risk of PFS-2 with Erleada 
versus placebo (HR = 0.565, 95% CI: 0.471, 0.677; p < 0.0001).
There were no detrimental effects to overall health-related quality of life with the addition of Erleada 
to ADT and a small but not clinically meaningful difference in change from baseline in favour of 
Erleada observed in the analysis of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) 
total score and subscales.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Erleada in all subsets of the paediatric population in advanced prostate cancer. See section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Following repeat once-daily dosing, apalutamide exposure (Cmax and area under the concentration 
curve [AUC]) increased in a dose-proportional manner across the dose range of 30 to 480 mg. 
35
Following administration of 240 mg once daily, apalutamide steady state was achieved after 4 weeks 
and the mean accumulation ratio was approximately 5-fold relative to a single dose. At steady-state, 
mean (CV%) Cmax and AUC values for apalutamide were 6 µg/mL (28%) and 100 µg.h/mL (32%), 
respectively. Daily fluctuations in apalutamide plasma concentrations were low, with mean 
peak-to-trough ratio of 1.63. An increase in apparent clearance (CL/F) was observed with repeat 
dosing, likely due to induction of apalutamide’s own metabolism.
At steady-state, the mean (CV%) Cmax and AUC values for the major active metabolite, N-desmethyl 
apalutamide, were 5.9 µg/mL (18%) and 124 µg.h/mL (19%), respectively. N-desmethyl apalutamide 
is characterised by a flat concentration-time profile at steady-state with a mean peak-to-trough ratio of 
1.27. Mean (CV%) AUC metabolite/parent drug ratio for N-desmethyl apalutamide following 
repeat-dose administration was about 1.3 (21%). Based on systemic exposure, relative potency, and 
pharmacokinetic properties, N-desmethyl apalutamide likely contributed to the clinical activity of 
apalutamide.
Absorption
After oral administration, median time to achieve peak plasma concentration (tmax) was 2 hours (range: 
1 to 5 hours). Mean absolute oral bioavailability is approximately 100%, indicating that apalutamide is 
completely absorbed after oral administration.
Administration of apalutamide to healthy subjects under fasting conditions and with a high-fat meal 
resulted in no clinically relevant changes in Cmax and AUC. Median time to reach tmax was delayed 
about 2 hours with food (see section 4.2).
Apalutamide is not ionisable under relevant physiological pH condition, therefore acid lowering 
agents (e.g., proton pump inhibitor, H2-receptor antagonist, antacid) are not expected to affect the 
solubility and bioavailability of apalutamide.
In vitro, apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite are substrates for P-gp. Because apalutamide is 
completely absorbed after oral administration, P-gp does not limit the absorption of apalutamide and 
therefore, inhibition or induction of P-gp is not expected to affect the bioavailability of apalutamide.
Distribution
The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady-state of apalutamide is about 276 L. The volume 
of distribution of apalutamide is greater than the volume of total body water, indicative of extensive 
extravascular distribution.
Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are 96% and 95% bound to plasma proteins, respectively, 
and mainly bind to serum albumin with no concentration dependency.
Biotransformation
Following single oral administration of 14C-labelled apalutamide 240 mg, apalutamide, the active 
metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, and an inactive carboxylic acid metabolite accounted for the 
majority of the 14C-radioactivity in plasma, representing 45%, 44%, and 3%, respectively, of the total 
14C-AUC.
Metabolism is the main route of elimination of apalutamide. It is metabolised primarily by CYP2C8 
and CYP3A4 to form N-desmethyl apalutamide. Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are 
further metabolised to form the inactive carboxylic acid metabolite by carboxylesterase. The 
contribution of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of apalutamide is estimated to be 58% and 
13% following single dose but the level of contribution is expected to change at steady-state due to 
induction of CYP3A4 by apalutamide after repeat dose.
36
Elimination
Apalutamide, mainly in the form of metabolites, is eliminated primarily via urine. Following a single 
oral administration of radiolabelled apalutamide, 89% of the radioactivity was recovered up to 70 days 
post-dose: 65% was recovered in urine (1.2% of dose as unchanged apalutamide and 2.7% as 
N-desmethyl apalutamide) and 24% was recovered in faeces (1.5% of dose as unchanged apalutamide
and 2% as N-desmethyl apalutamide).
The apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of apalutamide is 1.3 L/h after single dosing and increases to 
2.0 L/h at steady-state after once-daily dosing. The mean effective half-life for apalutamide in patients 
is about 3 days at steady-state.
In vitro data indicate that apalutamide and its N-desmethyl metabolite are not substrates for BCRP, 
OATP1B1 or OATP1B3.
Special populations
The effects of renal impairment, hepatic impairment, age, race, and other extrinsic factors on the 
pharmacokinetics of apalutamide are summarised below.
Renal impairment
A dedicated renal impairment study for apalutamide has not been conducted. Based on the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis using data from clinical studies in subjects with castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (CRPC) and healthy subjects, no significant difference in systemic apalutamide exposure was 
observed in subjects with pre-existing mild to moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular 
filtration rate [eGFR] between 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2
normal renal function (eGFR ≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2
impairment or end stage renal disease (eGFR ≤ 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) have not been established due to
insufficient data.
; N=372). The potential effect of severe renal 
; N=585) compared to subjects with baseline 
Hepatic impairment
A dedicated hepatic impairment study compared the systemic exposure of apalutamide and 
N- desmethyl apalutamide in subjects with baseline mild hepatic impairment (N=8, Child-Pugh Class 
A, mean score = 5.3) or moderate hepatic impairment (N=8, Child-Pugh Class B, mean score = 7.6) 
versus healthy controls with normal hepatic function (N=8). Following a single oral 240 mg dose of 
apalutamide, the geometric mean ratio (GMR) for AUC and Cmax for apalutamide in subjects with mild 
impairment was 95% and 102%, respectively, and the GMR for AUC and Cmax of apalutamide in 
subjects with moderate impairment was 113% and 104%, respectively, compared to healthy control 
subjects. Clinical and pharmacokinetic data for apalutamide are not available for patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).
Ethnicity and race
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, there were no clinically relevant differences in 
apalutamide pharmacokinetics between White (Caucasian or Hispanic or Latino; N=761), Black (of 
African heritage or African American; N=71), Asian (non-Japanese; N=58) and Japanese (N=58).
Age
Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed that age (range: 18 to 94 years) does not have a 
clinically meaningful influence on the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Apalutamide was negative for genotoxicity in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests.
37
Apalutamide was not carcinogenic in a 6-month study in the male transgenic (Tg.rasH2) mouse at 
doses up to 30 mg/kg per day, which is 1.2 and 0.5 times for apalutamide and N-desmethyl 
apalutamide respectively, the clinical exposure (AUC) at the recommended clinical dose of 
240 mg/day.
In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in male Sprague-Dawley rats, apalutamide was administered by oral 
gavage at doses of 5, 15 and 50 mg/kg/day (0.2, 0.7, and 2.5 times the AUC in patients (human 
exposure at recommended dose of 240 mg), respectively). Neoplastic findings were noted including an 
increased incidence of testicular Leydig cell adenoma and carcinoma at doses greater than or equal to 
5 mg/kg/day, mammary adenocarcinoma and fibroadenoma at 15 mg/kg/day or 50 mg/kg/day, and 
thyroid follicular cell adenoma at 50 mg/kg/day. These findings were considered rat-specific and 
therefore of limited relevance to humans.
Male fertility is likely to be impaired by treatment with apalutamide based on findings in repeat-dose 
toxicology studies which were consistent with the pharmacological activity of apalutamide. In 
repeat-dose toxicity studies in male rats and dogs, atrophy, aspermia/hypospermia, degeneration 
and/or hyperplasia or hypertrophy in the reproductive system were observed at doses corresponding to 
exposures approximately equal to the human exposure based on AUC.
In a fertility study in male rats, a decrease in sperm concentration and motility, copulation and fertility 
rates (upon pairing with untreated females) along with reduced weights of the secondary sex glands 
and epididymis were observed following 4 weeks of dosing at doses corresponding to exposures 
approximately equal to the human exposure based on AUC. Effects on male rats were reversible after 
8 weeks from the last apalutamide administration.
In a preliminary embryofetal developmental toxicity study in rats, apalutamide caused developmental 
toxicity when administered at oral doses of 25, 50 or 100 mg/kg/day throughout the period of 
organogenesis (gestational days 6-20). These doses resulted in systemic exposures approximately 2, 4 
and 6 times, respectively, on an AUC basis, the exposure in humans at the dose of 240 mg/day. 
Findings included non-pregnant females at 100 mg/kg/day and embryofetal lethality (resorptions) at 
doses ≥ 50 mg/kg/day, decreased fetal anogenital distance and a misshapen pituitary gland (more 
rounded shape) at ≥ 25 mg/kg/day. Skeletal variations (unossified phalanges, supernumerary short 
thoracolumbar rib(s) and/or abnormalities of the hyoid) were also noted at doses ≥ 25 mg/kg/day, 
without resulting in an effect on mean fetal weight.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Croscarmellose sodium
Hypromellose acetate succinate
Magnesium stearate
Microcrystalline cellulose (silicified)
Film-coating
Glycerol monocaprylocaprate
Iron oxide black (E172)
Poly (vinyl alcohol)
Talc
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Macrogol poly (vinyl alcohol) grafted copolymer
38
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
White high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a polypropylene (PP) child-resistant closure. 
Each bottle contains 30 film-coated tablets and a total of 2 g of silica gel desiccant.
Transparent PVC-PCTFE film blister with an aluminium push-through foil sealed inside a 
child-resistant wallet pack.

Each 28-day carton contains 28 film coated tablets in 2 cardboard wallet packs of 
14 film-coated tablets each.
Each 30-day carton contains 30 film coated tablets in 3 cardboard wallet packs of 
10 film-coated tablets each.

Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/004
EU/1/18/1342/005
EU/1/18/1342/006
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 14 January 2019
Date of latest renewal: 22 September 2023
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
39
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
40
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
41
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Janssen Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
Borgo San Michele
Latina 04100, Italy
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
42
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
43
A. LABELLING
44
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 60 mg (BOTTLE)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
120 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Do not swallow or discard the desiccant.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
45
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 60 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
46
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL 60 mg
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
120 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
47
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
48
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 60 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
112 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
49
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 60 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
50
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 60 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
120 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
51
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 60 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
52
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
OUTER WALLET 60 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
28 film-coated tablets per wallet pack
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
(1) Press and hold 
(2) Pull out
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
53
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 60 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
54
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
55
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
OUTER WALLET 60 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
24 film-coated tablets per wallet pack
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Swallow the tablets whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
(1) Press and hold 
(2) Pull out
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
56
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 60 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
57
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
58
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
INNER WALLET 60 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Fold over to close 
Flip open
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
59
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
INNER WALLET 60 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Fold over to close
Flip open
Fill in your weekdays
Start date:
Day
60
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER 60 mg (12 count) (Blister sealed in inner wallet)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
61
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER 60 mg (16 count) (Blister sealed in inner wallet)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
62
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 240 mg (BOTTLE)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Do not swallow or discard the desiccant.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
63
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 240 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
64
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL 240 mg
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
30 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
65
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
66
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 240 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
28 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
67
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 240 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
68
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 240 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
69
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/005
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 240 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
70
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
OUTER WALLET 240 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 film-coated tablets per wallet pack
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
(1) Press and hold 
(2) Pull out
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
71
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 240 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
72
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
73
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
OUTER WALLET 240 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg apalutamide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
10 film-coated tablets per wallet pack
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
One tablet per day
Swallow the tablet whole.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
(1) Press and hold 
(2) Pull out
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
74
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Discard unused contents appropriately in accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1342/005
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Erleada 240 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
75
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
76
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
INNER WALLET 240 mg (28 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Start date: ____/_____/____
One tablet per day
77
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
INNER WALLET 240 mg (30 days)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Start date: ____/_____/____
One tablet per day
78
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER 240 mg (14 count) (Blister sealed in inner wallet)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
79
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER 240 mg (10 count) (Blister sealed in inner wallet)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
80
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
81
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Erleada 60 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet
1. What Erleada is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Erleada
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Erleada
Possible side effects
How to store Erleada
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Erleada is and what it is used for
What Erleada is
Erleada is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance ‘apalutamide’.
What Erleada is used for
It is used to treat adult men with prostate cancer that:

has metastasised to other parts of the body and still responds to medical or surgical treatments 
that lower testosterone (also called hormone-sensitive prostate cancer).
has not metastasised to other parts of the body and no longer responds to medical or surgical 
treatment that lowers testosterone (also called castration-resistant prostate cancer).
How Erleada works
Erleada works by blocking the activity of hormones called androgens (such as testosterone). 
Androgens can cause the cancer to grow. By blocking the effect of androgens, apalutamide stops 
prostate cancer cells from growing and dividing.
2. What you need to know before you take Erleada
Do not take Erleada 

if you are allergic to apalutamide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are a woman who is pregnant or may become pregnant (see the Pregnancy and 
contraception section below for more information).
Do not take this medicine if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking this medicine.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine if:


you have ever had fits or seizures.
you are taking any medicines to prevent blood clots (such as warfarin, acenocoumarol).
82




you have any heart or blood vessel conditions, including heart rhythm problems (arrhythmia).
you have ever had a widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS) or a severe skin rash or skin 
peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores (Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis or 
SJS/TEN) after taking Erleada or other related medicines.
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
this medicine.
Falls and broken bones
Falls have been observed in patients taking Erleada. Take extra care to reduce your risk of a fall. 
Broken bones have been observed in patients taking this medicine.
Heart disease, stroke, or mini-stroke
Blockage of the arteries in the heart or in part of the brain that can lead to death has happened in some 
people during treatment with Erleada.
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and symptoms of heart or brain problems during 
your treatment with this medicine.
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away if you get:




chest pain or discomfort at rest or with activity, or
shortness of breath, or
muscle weakness/paralysis in any part of the body, or
difficulty in speaking.
If you are taking any medicines, talk to your doctor or pharmacist to see if they are associated with an 
increased risk of seizure, bleeding or heart condition.
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs)
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs), including drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS) or Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN),
have been reported with the use of Erleada. DRESS can appear as widespread rash, high body 
temperature and enlarged lymph nodes. SJS/TEN can appear initially as reddish target-like spots or 
circular patches often with central blisters on the trunk. Also, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals 
and eyes (red and swollen eyes) can occur. These serious skin rashes are often preceded by fever 
and/or flu-like symptoms. The rashes may progress to widespread peeling of the skin and 
life-threatening complications or be fatal.
If you develop a serious rash or another of these skin symptoms, stop taking this medicine and contact 
your doctor or seek medical attention immediately.
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
this medicine. See section 4 ‘Serious side effects’ at the top of section 4 for more information.
Interstitial Lung Disease
Cases of interstitial lung disease (non-infectious inflammation within the lungs that may lead to 
permanent damage) have been observed in patients taking Erleada, including fatal cases. The 
symptoms of interstitial lung disease are cough and shortness of breath sometimes with fever which 
are not caused by physical activity. Seek immediate medical attention, if you experience symptoms 
that may be signs of interstitial lung disease.
Children and adolescents
This medicine is not for use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age.
If a child or young person accidentally takes this medicine:

go to the hospital straight away
83

take this package leaflet with you to show to the emergency doctor.
Other medicines and Erleada
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Erleada can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some other 
medicines can affect the way Erleada works.
In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking medicines that:
lower high fat levels in the blood (such as gemfibrozil)

treat bacterial infections (such as moxifloxacin, clarithromycin)

treat fungal infections (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole)

treat HIV infection (such as ritonavir, efavirenz, darunavir)

treat anxiety (such as midazolam, diazepam)

treat epilepsy (such as phenytoin, valproic acid)

treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (conditions where there is too much acid in the stomach) 

(such as omeprazole)
prevent blood clots (such as warfarin, clopidogrel, dabigatran etexilate)
treat hayfever and allergies (such as fexofenadine)
lower cholesterol levels (such as ‘statins’ such as rosuvastatin, simvastatin)
treat heart conditions or lower blood pressure (such as digoxin, felodipine)
treat heart rhythm problems (such as quinidine, disopyramide, amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, 
ibutilide)
treat thyroid conditions (such as levothyroxine)
treat gout (such as colchicine)
lower blood glucose (such as repaglinide)
treat cancer (such as lapatinib, methotrexate)
treat opioid addiction or pain (such as methadone)
treat serious mental illnesses (such as haloperidol)











You need to list the names of the medicines you take and show the list to your doctor or pharmacist 
when you start a new medicine. Mention to your doctor that you are taking Erleada if the doctor wants 
to start you on any new medicine. The dose of Erleada or any other medicines that you are taking may 
need to be changed.
Pregnancy and contraception information for men and women
Information for women

Erleada must not be taken by women who are pregnant, may become pregnant, or who are 
breast-feeding. This medicine may harm your unborn baby.
Information for men – follow this advice during treatment and for 3 months after stopping
If you are having sex with a pregnant woman – use a condom to protect the unborn baby.

If you are having sex with a woman who can become pregnant - use a condom and another 

highly effective method of contraception.
Use contraception during treatment and for 3 months after stopping. Talk to your doctor if you have 
any questions about contraception.
This medicine may reduce male fertility.
Driving and using machines
Erleada is not likely to affect you being able to drive and use any tools or machines.
The side effects for this medicine include seizures. If you are at higher risk of seizures (see section 2 
‘Warnings and precautions’), talk to your doctor.
84
Erleada contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 240 mg dose (4 tablets), that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take Erleada
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
Your doctor may also prescribe other medicines while you are taking Erleada.
How much to take
The recommended dose of this medicine is 240 mg (four 60 mg tablets) once a day.
Taking Erleada



Take this medicine by mouth.
You can take this medicine with food or between meals.
Swallow each tablet whole to make sure your full dose is taken. Do not crush or split the tablets.
If you take more Erleada than you should
If you take more than you should, stop taking this medicine and contact your doctor. You may have an 
increased risk of side effects.
If you forget to take Erleada

If you forget to take this medicine, take your usual dose as soon as you remember on the same 
day.
If you forget to take this medicine for the whole day - take your usual dose the following day.
If you forget to take this medicine for more than one day - talk to your doctor straight away.
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.



If you stop taking Erleada
Do not stop taking this medicine without checking with your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious side effects
Stop taking Erleada and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms:

widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS)
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis).

85
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects – your doctor 
may stop treatment:
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people

falls or fractures (broken bones). Your healthcare provider may monitor you more closely if you 
are at risk for fractures.
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people

heart disease, stroke, or mini-stroke. Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and 
symptoms of heart or brain problems during your treatment. Call your healthcare provider or go 
to the nearest emergency room right away if you get chest pain or discomfort at rest or with 
activity, or shortness of breath, or if you get muscle weakness/paralysis in any part of the body, 
or difficulty in speaking during your treatment with Erleada.
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people

fit or seizure. Your healthcare provider will stop this medicine if you have a seizure during 
treatment.
restless legs syndrome (urges to move the legs to stop painful or odd sensations, often occurring 
at night).

Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data

coughing and shortness of breath, possibly accompanied by fever, that is not brought on by 
physical activity (inflammation within the lungs, known as interstitial lung disease).
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you notice any of the serious side effects above.
Side effects include
Tell your healthcare provider if you notice any of the following side effects:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):










feeling very tired
joint pain
skin rash
decreased appetite
high blood pressure
hot flush
diarrhoea
broken bones
falls
weight loss.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):









muscle spasms
itching
hair loss
change in sense of taste
blood test showing high level of cholesterol in the blood
blood test showing high level of a type of fat called “triglycerides” in the blood
heart disease
stroke or mini-stroke caused by low blood flow to part of the brain
under-active thyroid which can make you feel more tired and have difficulty getting started in 
the morning, and blood tests may also show an under-active thyroid.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):

seizures/fits.
86
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
abnormal heart tracing on an ECG (electrocardiogram)

widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug reaction with 

eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS)
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be preceded by fever and 
flu-like symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life-threatening 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis).

Tell your healthcare provider if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Erleada
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the container (blister foils, inner 
wallet, outer wallet, bottle, and carton) after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. This medicine does not require any 
special temperature storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Erleada contains


The active substance is apalutamide. Each film-coated tablet contains 60 mg of apalutamide.
The other ingredients of the tablet core are colloidal anhydrous silica, croscarmellose sodium, 
hypromellose acetate succinate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and silicified 
microcrystalline cellulose. The film-coating contains iron oxide black (E172), iron oxide yellow 
(E172), macrogol, polyvinyl alcohol (partially hydrolysed), talc, and titanium dioxide (E171)
(see Section 2, Erleada contains sodium).
What Erleada looks like and contents of the pack
Erleada film-coated tablets are slightly yellowish to greyish green, oblong-shaped, film-coated tablets 
(17 mm long x 9 mm wide), with “AR 60” written on one side.
The tablets may be supplied either in a bottle or in a wallet pack. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Bottle
The tablets are supplied in a plastic bottle with a child-resistant closure. Each bottle contains 
120 tablets and a total of 6 g of desiccant. Each carton contains one bottle. Store in the original 
package. Do not swallow or discard desiccant.
28-day carton
Each 28-day carton contains 112 film-coated tablets in 4 cardboard wallet packs of 28 film-coated 
tablets each.
87
30-day carton
Each 30-day carton contains 120 film-coated tablets in 5 cardboard wallet packs of 24 film-coated 
tablets each.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
Borgo San Michele
Latina 04100, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
88
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
This leaflet was last revised in.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
89
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Erleada 240 mg film-coated tablets
apalutamide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet
1. What Erleada is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Erleada
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Erleada
Possible side effects
How to store Erleada
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Erleada is and what it is used for
What Erleada is
Erleada is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance ‘apalutamide’.
What Erleada is used for
It is used to treat adult men with prostate cancer that:

has metastasised to other parts of the body and still responds to medical or surgical treatments 
that lower testosterone (also called hormone-sensitive prostate cancer).
has not metastasised to other parts of the body and no longer responds to medical or surgical 
treatment that lowers testosterone (also called castration-resistant prostate cancer).
How Erleada works
Erleada works by blocking the activity of hormones called androgens (such as testosterone). 
Androgens can cause the cancer to grow. By blocking the effect of androgens, apalutamide stops 
prostate cancer cells from growing and dividing.
2. What you need to know before you take Erleada
Do not take Erleada

if you are allergic to apalutamide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are a woman who is pregnant or may become pregnant (see the Pregnancy and 
contraception section below for more information).
Do not take this medicine if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking this medicine.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine if:


you have ever had fits or seizures.
you are taking any medicines to prevent blood clots (such as warfarin, acenocoumarol).
90




you have any heart or blood vessel conditions, including heart rhythm problems (arrhythmia).
you have ever had a widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS) or a severe skin rash or skin 
peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores (Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis or 
SJS/TEN) after taking Erleada or other related medicines.
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
this medicine.
Falls and broken bones
Falls have been observed in patients taking Erleada. Take extra care to reduce your risk of a fall. 
Broken bones have been observed in patients taking this medicine.
Heart disease, stroke, or mini-stroke
Blockage of the arteries in the heart or in part of the brain that can lead to death has happened in some 
people during treatment with Erleada.
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and symptoms of heart or brain problems during 
your treatment with this medicine.
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away if you get:




chest pain or discomfort at rest or with activity, or
shortness of breath, or
muscle weakness/paralysis in any part of the body, or
difficulty in speaking.
If you are taking any medicines, talk to your doctor or pharmacist to see if they are associated with an 
increased risk of seizure, bleeding or heart condition.
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs)
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs), including drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS) or Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN),
have been reported with the use of Erleada. DRESS can appear as widespread rash, high body 
temperature and enlarged lymph nodes. SJS/TEN can appear initially as reddish target-like spots or 
circular patches often with central blisters on the trunk. Also, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals 
and eyes (red and swollen eyes) can occur. These serious skin rashes are often preceded by fever 
and/or flu-like symptoms. The rashes may progress to widespread peeling of the skin and 
life-threatening complications or be fatal.
If you develop a serious rash or another of these skin symptoms, stop taking this medicine and contact 
your doctor or seek medical attention immediately.
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
this medicine. See section 4 ‘Serious side effects’ at the top of section 4 for more information.
Interstitial Lung Disease
Cases of interstitial lung disease (non-infectious inflammation within the lungs that may lead to 
permanent damage) have been observed in patients taking Erleada, including fatal cases. The 
symptoms of interstitial lung disease are cough and shortness of breath sometimes with fever which 
are not caused by physical activity. Seek immediate medical attention, if you experience symptoms 
that may be signs of interstitial lung disease.
Children and adolescents
This medicine is not for use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age.
If a child or young person accidentally takes this medicine:

go to the hospital straight away
91

take this package leaflet with you to show to the emergency doctor.
Other medicines and Erleada
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Erleada can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some other 
medicines can affect the way Erleada works.
In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking medicines that:
lower high fat levels in the blood (such as gemfibrozil)

treat bacterial infections (such as moxifloxacin, clarithromycin)

treat fungal infections (such as itraconazole, ketoconazole)

treat HIV infection (such as ritonavir, efavirenz, darunavir)

treat anxiety (such as midazolam, diazepam)

treat epilepsy (such as phenytoin, valproic acid)

treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (conditions where there is too much acid in the stomach) 

(such as omeprazole)
prevent blood clots (such as warfarin, clopidogrel, dabigatran etexilate)
treat hayfever and allergies (such as fexofenadine)
lower cholesterol levels (such as ‘statins’ such as rosuvastatin, simvastatin)
treat heart conditions or lower blood pressure (such as digoxin, felodipine)
treat heart rhythm problems (such as quinidine, disopyramide, amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, 
ibutilide)
treat thyroid conditions (such as levothyroxine)
treat gout (such as colchicine)
lower blood glucose (such as repaglinide)
treat cancer (such as lapatinib, methotrexate)
treat opioid addiction or pain (such as methadone)
treat serious mental illnesses (such as haloperidol)











You need to list the names of the medicines you take and show the list to your doctor or pharmacist
when you start a new medicine. Mention to your doctor that you are taking Erleada if the doctor wants 
to start you on any new medicine. The dose of Erleada or any other medicines that you are taking may 
need to be changed.
Pregnancy and contraception information for men and women
Information for women

Erleada must not be taken by women who are pregnant, may become pregnant, or who are 
breast-feeding. This medicine may harm your unborn baby.
Information for men – follow this advice during treatment and for 3 months after stopping
If you are having sex with a pregnant woman – use a condom to protect the unborn baby.

If you are having sex with a woman who can become pregnant - use a condom and another 

highly effective method of contraception.
Use contraception during treatment and for 3 months after stopping. Talk to your doctor if you have 
any questions about contraception.
This medicine may reduce male fertility.
Driving and using machines
Erleada is not likely to affect you being able to drive and use any tools or machines.
The side effects for this medicine include seizures. If you are at higher risk of seizures (see Section 2 
‘Warnings and precautions’), talk to your doctor.
92
Erleada contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 240 mg dose (1 tablet), that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take Erleada
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
Your doctor may also prescribe other medicines while you are taking Erleada.
How much to take
The recommended dose of this medicine is 240 mg (one tablet) once a day.
Taking Erleada



Take this medicine by mouth.
You can take this medicine with food or between meals.
Swallow the tablet whole to make sure your full dose is taken. Do not crush or split the tablet.
If you cannot swallow the tablet whole

If you cannot swallow this medicine whole, you can:
o




Mix with one of the following non-fizzy beverages or soft foods; orange juice, green 
tea, applesauce, or drinkable yogurt as follows:


Place the whole tablet in a cup. Do not crush or split the tablet.
Add about 10 mL (2 teaspoons) of non-fizzy water to make sure that the tablet is 
completely in water.
Wait 2 minutes until the tablet is broken up and spread out, then stir the mixture.
Add in 30 mL (6 teaspoons or 2 tablespoons) of one of the following non-fizzy
beverages or soft foods: orange juice, green tea, applesauce, or drinkable yogurt 
and stir the mixture.
Swallow the mixture immediately.
Rinse the cup with enough water to make sure the whole dose is taken and drink it 
immediately.
Do not save the medicine/food mixture for later use.

Feeding tube: This medicine may also be given through certain feeding tubes. Ask your 
healthcare provider for specific instructions on how to properly take the tablet through a 
feeding tube.
o
If you take more Erleada than you should
If you take more than you should, stop taking this medicine and contact your doctor. You may have an 
increased risk of side effects.
If you forget to take Erleada

If you forget to take this medicine, take your usual dose as soon as you remember on the same 
day.
If you forget to take this medicine for the whole day - take your usual dose the following day.
If you forget to take this medicine for more than one day - talk to your doctor straight away.
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.



If you stop taking Erleada
Do not stop taking this medicine without checking with your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
93
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious side effects
Stop taking Erleada and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms:

widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS)
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis).

Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects – your doctor 
may stop treatment:
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people

falls or fractures (broken bones). Your healthcare provider may monitor you more closely if you 
are at risk for fractures.
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people

heart disease, stroke, or mini-stroke. Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and 
symptoms of heart or brain problems during your treatment. Call your healthcare provider or go 
to the nearest emergency room right away if you get chest pain or discomfort at rest or with 
activity, or shortness of breath, or if you get muscle weakness/paralysis in any part of the body, 
or difficulty in speaking during your treatment with Erleada.
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people

fit or seizure. Your healthcare provider will stop this medicine if you have a seizure during 
treatment.
restless legs syndrome (urges to move the legs to stop painful or odd sensations, often occurring 
at night).

Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data

coughing and shortness of breath, possibly accompanied by fever, that is not brought on by 
physical activity (inflammation within the lungs, known as interstitial lung disease).
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you notice any of the serious side effects above.
Side effects include
Tell your healthcare provider if you notice any of the following side effects:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):










feeling very tired
joint pain
skin rash
decreased appetite
high blood pressure
hot flush
diarrhoea
broken bones
falls
weight loss.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):

muscle spasms
94








itching
hair loss
change in sense of taste
blood test showing high level of cholesterol in the blood
blood test showing high level of a type of fat called “triglycerides” in the blood
heart disease
stroke or mini-stroke caused by low blood flow to part of the brain
under-active thyroid which can make you feel more tired and have difficulty getting started in 
the morning, and blood tests may also show an under-active thyroid.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):

seizures/fits.
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
abnormal heart tracing on an ECG (electrocardiogram)

widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (drug reaction with 

eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS)
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be preceded by fever and 
flu-like symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life-threatening 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis).

Tell your healthcare provider if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Erleada
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the container (blister foils, inner 
wallet, outer wallet, bottle, and carton) after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. This medicine does not require any 
special temperature storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Erleada contains


The active substance is apalutamide. Each film-coated tablet contains 240 mg of apalutamide.
The other ingredients of the tablet core are colloidal anhydrous silica, croscarmellose sodium, 
hypromellose acetate succinate, magnesium stearate, and silicified microcrystalline cellulose. 
The film-coating contains glycerol monocaprylocaprate, iron oxide black (E172), poly (vinyl 
alcohol), talc, titanium dioxide (E171), and macrogol poly (vinyl alcohol) grafted copolymer
(see section 2, Erleada contains sodium).
95
What Erleada looks like and contents of the pack
Erleada film-coated tablets are bluish grey to grey, oval-shaped, film-coated tablets 
(21 mm long x 10 mm wide), with “E240” written on one side.
The tablets may be supplied either in a bottle or in a wallet pack. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Bottle
The tablets are supplied in a plastic bottle with a child-resistant closure. Each bottle contains 30 tablets 
and a total of 2 g of desiccant. Each carton contains one bottle. Store in the original package. Do not 
swallow or discard desiccant.
28-day carton
Each 28-day carton contains 28 film-coated tablets in 2 cardboard wallet packs of 14 film-coated 
tablets each.
30-day carton
Each 30-day carton contains 30 film-coated tablets in 3 cardboard wallet packs of 10 film-coated 
tablets each.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
Borgo San Michele
Latina 04100, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
96
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
This leaflet was last revised in.
97
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
98
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S)
ANNEX IV
99
Scientific conclusions
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for apalutamide, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:
In view of available data on restless legs syndrome (RLS) from the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge and 
in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between 
apalutamide and RLS is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing apalutamide should be amended accordingly.
In view of available data on interstitial lung disease (ILD) from the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between apalutamide and ILD is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing apalutamide 
should be amended accordingly.
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions 
and grounds for recommendation.
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for apalutamide the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing apalutamide is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information.
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied.
100
