12 October 2023 
EMA/CHMP/10331/2024  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): apalutamide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010745/202302 
Period covered by the PSUR:  
14/02/2022 To: 13/02/2023 
` 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for apalutamide, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows: 
In view of available data on restless legs syndrome (RLS) from the literature, spontaneous reports including 
in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge and in view of a 
plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between apalutamide and RLS is at 
least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing 
apalutamide should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on interstitial lung disease (ILD) from the literature, spontaneous reports including 
in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge, the PRAC considers 
a causal relationship between apalutamide and ILD is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded 
that the product information of products containing apalutamide should be amended accordingly. 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for apalutamide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing apalutamide is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/10331/2024 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
