EMA/13337/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004452 
Erleada (apalutamide) 
An overview of Erleada and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Erleada and what is it used for? 
Erleada is a cancer medicine used to treat men with cancer of the prostate (a gland of the male 
reproductive system).  
It is used when the cancer is not responding to treatments that lower testosterone levels (castration 
resistant) and is at high risk of spreading to other parts of the body. It is also used when the cancer 
has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) but responds to treatment that lowers testosterone 
levels (hormone sensitive). Erleada is used in combination with a treatment called androgen 
deprivation therapy. 
Erleada contains the active substance apalutamide. 
How is Erleada used? 
Erleada is available as tablets (60 mg) to be taken by mouth. The recommended dose is 4 tablets 
(240 mg) a day. Treatment may have to be temporarily interrupted if the patient experiences 
intolerable side effects. 
Erleada can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the treatment of prostate cancer. For more information about using Erleada, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Erleada work? 
The active substance in Erleada, apalutamide, works by blocking the action of testosterone and other 
male hormones known as androgens. It does this by blocking the receptors (targets) to which these 
hormones attach. Because prostate cancer cells need testosterone and other male hormones to survive 
and grow, by blocking the effects of these hormones, apalutamide slows down the growth of the 
cancer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Erleada have been shown in studies? 
In a main study involving 1,207 patients with non-metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer, 
Erleada was shown to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at prolonging the time 
patients lived without the disease spreading to other parts of the body: patients on Erleada lived on 
average for 41 months without the disease spreading, compared with 16 months for patients taking 
placebo. Both Erleada and placebo were given with a treatment called androgen deprivation therapy. 
In another main study involving 1,052 patients with metastatic, hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, 
Erleada in combination with androgen deprivation therapy was effective at delaying worsening of the 
disease: after 2 years, the disease did not get worse in 68% of patients receiving Erleada and 
androgen deprivation therapy compared with 48% of those who received placebo with androgen 
deprivation therapy. After 2 years, 82% of patients given Erleada were alive compared with 74% of 
those in the placebo group. 
What are the risks associated with Erleada? 
The most common side effects with Erleada (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are tiredness, 
skin rash, hypertension (high blood pressure), hot flushes, , joint pain, diarrhoea, falls, fractures 
(broken bones) and weight loss. For the full list of side effects of Erleada, see the package leaflet. 
Erleada must not be used by women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Erleada authorised in the EU? 
Erleada is effective at delaying the spread of prostate cancer that is not responding to testosterone-
lowering treatments and is at high risk of spreading to other parts of the body. It is also effective at 
delaying the worsening of the disease in patients whose cancer has spread to other parts of the body 
and is sensitive to hormones. Although more data are needed on its effects on prolonging patients’ life, 
the benefits seen so far are considered important. 
Regarding its safety, the side effects with Erleada were considered manageable. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Erleada’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Erleada? 
In order to further evaluate the effectiveness of Erleada, the company that markets the medicine has 
to submit the final results of the main study, including data on the effects of the medicine on 
prolonging patients’ life. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Erleada have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Erleada are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Erleada are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Erleada 
Erleada received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 January 2019. 
Erleada (apalutamide)  
EMA/13337/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Erleada can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/erleada.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Erleada (apalutamide)  
EMA/13337/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
