EMA/373792/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005815 
Ertapenem SUN (ertapenem) 
An overview of Ertapenem SUN and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ertapenem SUN and what is it used for? 
Ertapenem SUN is an antibiotic. It is used in adults and children over 3 months of age to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
infections within the abdomen; 
community-acquired pneumonia (infection of the lungs caught away from hospital); 
gynaecological infections; 
foot infections in diabetes patients. 
Ertapenem SUN is also used in adults to prevent infection after colorectal surgery (surgery in the lower 
part of the bowel, including the rectum). 
Ertapenem SUN is used when the bacteria that cause the infection are likely to be killed by the 
antibiotic. Before using Ertapenem SUN, doctors should consider official guidance on the appropriate 
use of antibiotics. 
Ertapenem SUN is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Ertapenem SUN contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called 
Invanz. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Ertapenem SUN contains the active substance ertapenem. 
How is Ertapenem SUN used? 
Ertapenem SUN is available as a vial containing a powder which is dissolved before use to make up a 
solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. It is infused over 30 minutes. The medicine can only be obtained 
with a prescription. 
Ertapenem SUN is given at a dose of 1 g once a day in adults and adolescents. For younger patients (3 
months to 12 years), a dose of 15 mg per kilogram body weight is given twice a day, up to a total of 1 
g per day. Treatment with Ertapenem SUN lasts between 3 and 14 days, depending on the type and 
the severity of the infection. Once the infection has improved, treatment can be switched to an 
antibiotic that can be given by mouth. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For preventing infection after colorectal surgery in adults, a single dose of Ertapenem SUN is given 
within 1 hour before the operation. 
For more information about using Ertapenem SUN, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ertapenem SUN work? 
The active substance in Ertapenem SUN, ertapenem, belongs to the group of antibiotics known as 
‘carbapenems’. It attaches to certain proteins on the bacteria cells. This upsets the essential functions 
that keep these cells alive, and so kills the bacteria. Ertapenem SUN can work on a range of different 
bacteria. 
How has Ertapenem SUN been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Invanz, and do not need to be repeated for Ertapenem SUN.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Ertapenem SUN. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Ertapenem SUN is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Ertapenem SUN is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ertapenem SUN? 
Because Ertapenem SUN is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ertapenem SUN authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ertapenem SUN 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Invanz. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Invanz, the benefits of Ertapenem SUN outweigh the identified risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ertapenem SUN? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ertapenem SUN have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ertapenem SUN are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Ertapenem SUN are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Ertapenem SUN 
Ertapenem SUN received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 July 2022. 
Further information on Ertapenem SUN can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ertapenem-sun  
Ertapenem SUN (ertapenem)  
EMA/373792/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 07-2022. 
Ertapenem SUN (ertapenem)  
EMA/373792/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
