Summary of risk management plan for 
“Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“ 
(ertapenem) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion“. The RMP details important risks of “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion“, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
“Ertapenem  SUN  1  g  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion“risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
“Ertapenem  SUN  1  g  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion“summary  of  product  characteristics 
(SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
“Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“ should 
be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ertapenem SUN 1 g 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
“Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion” is indicated as  
  Treatment in pediatric patients (3 months to 17 years of age) and in adults for the treatment of the 
following infections when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be susceptible to ertapenem 
and when parenteral therapy is required (see sections 4.4 and 5.1): 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Acute gynaecological infections 
Diabetic foot infections of the skin and soft tissue (see section 4.4) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Prevention  indicated  in  adults  for  the  prophylaxis  of  surgical  site  infection  following  elective  colorectal 
surgery (see section 4.4) (see SmPC for the full indication) and it is given by intravenous infusion over a 
period of 30 minutes. 
Further information about the evaluation of “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion” ’s benefits can be found in  Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/summaries-opinion/ertapenem-sun.  
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  “Ertapenem  SUN  1  g  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion“,  together  with 
measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about “Ertapenem SUN 1  g 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“ ‘s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the medicine is 
used correctly;  
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or  without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“ are risks that need 
special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“. 
Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on 
available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Important missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product1. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of “Ertapenem 
SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for “Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion“.  
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
