ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 1 g ertapenem. 
After reconstitution, the vial contains concentrate of approximately 100 mg/ml. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each 1 g dose contains approximately 6.87 mEq of sodium (approximately 158 mg). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. Off-white to pale yellow powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment 
Ertapenem SUN is indicated in paediatric patients (3 months to 17 years of age) and in adults for the 
treatment of the following infections when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be susceptible 
to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required (see sections 4.4 and 5.1): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Acute gynaecological infections 
Diabetic foot infections of the skin and soft tissue (see section 4.4) 
Prevention 
Ertapenem SUN is indicated in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective 
colorectal surgery (see section 4.4). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Intravenous use. 
Treatment 
Adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age): The dose of Ertapenem SUN is 1 gram (g) given once 
a day, see section 6.6. 
Infants and children (3 months to 12 years of age): The dose of Ertapenem SUN is 15 mg/kg given 
twice daily (not to exceed 1 g/day), see section 6.6. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention  
Adults: To prevent surgical site infections following elective colorectal surgery, the recommended 
dose is 1 g administered as a single intravenous dose to be completed within 1 hour prior to the 
surgical incision. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Ertapenem SUN in children below 3 months of age have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
Renal impairment  
Ertapenem SUN may be used for the treatment of infections in adult patients with mild to moderate 
renal impairment. In patients whose creatinine clearance is > 30 mL/min/1.73 m2, no dose adjustment 
is necessary. There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients with severe 
renal impairment to support a dose recommendation. Therefore, ertapenem should not be used in these 
patients (see section 5.2.). There are no data in children and adolescents with renal impairment. 
Haemodialysis 
There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients on haemodialysis to 
support a dose recommendation. Therefore, ertapenem should not be used in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with impaired hepatic function (see section 5.2). 
Elderly 
The recommended dose of Ertapenem SUN should be administered, except in cases of severe renal 
impairment (see Renal impairment). 
Method of administration 
Intravenous use: Ertapenem SUN should be infused over a period of 30 minutes. 
The usual duration of therapy with Ertapenem SUN is 3 to 14 days but may vary depending on the 
type and severity of infection and causative pathogen(s). When clinically indicated, a switch to an 
appropriate oral antibacterial agent may be implemented if clinical improvement has been observed. 
For instructions on preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Hypersensitivity to any other carbapenem antibacterial agent 
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of 
beta-lactam antibacterial agent (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients 
receiving therapy with beta-lactams. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a 
history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Before initiating therapy with ertapenem, careful inquiry 
should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins, cephalosporins, other 
beta-lactams and other allergens (see section 4.3). If an allergic reaction to ertapenem occurs (see 
section 4.8), discontinue the therapy immediately. Serious anaphylactic reactions require 
immediate emergency treatment. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superinfection 
Prolonged use of ertapenem may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms. Repeated 
evaluation of the patient's condition is essential. If superinfection occurs during therapy, appropriate 
measures should be taken. 
Antibiotic-associated colitis 
Antibiotic-associated colitis and pseudomembranous colitis have been reported with ertapenem and 
may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this 
diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhoea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial 
agents. Discontinuation of therapy with Ertapenem SUN and the administration of specific treatment 
for Clostridioides difficile should be considered. Medicinal products that inhibit peristalsis should not 
be given. 
Seizures 
Seizures have been reported during clinical investigation in adult patients treated with ertapenem (1 g 
once a day) during therapy or in the 14-day follow-up period. Seizures occurred most commonly in 
elderly patients and those with pre-existing central nervous system (CNS) disorders (e.g. brain lesions 
or history of seizures) and/or compromised renal function. Similar observations have been made in the 
post-marketing environment. 
Encephalopathy 
Encephalopathy has been reported with the use of ertapenem (see section 4.8). If ertapenem-induced 
encephalopathy is suspected (e.g. myoclonus, seizures, altered mental status, depressed level of 
consciousness), discontinuation of ertapenem should be considered. Patients with renal impairment are 
at higher risk of ertapenem-induced encephalopathy and the resolution may be prolonged.  
Concomitant use with valproic acid  
The concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/sodium valproate is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Sub-optimal exposure 
Based on the data available it cannot be excluded that in the few cases of surgical interventions 
exceeding 4 hours, patients could be exposed to sub-optimal ertapenem concentrations and 
consequently to a risk of potential treatment failure. Therefore, caution should be exercised in such 
unusual cases. 
Considerations for use in particular populations 
Experience in the use of ertapenem in the treatment of severe infections is limited. In clinical studies 
for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia, in adults, 25 % of evaluable patients treated with 
ertapenem had severe disease (defined as pneumonia severity index > III). In a clinical study for the 
treatment of acute gynaecologic infections, in adults, 26 % of evaluable patients treated with 
ertapenem had severe disease (defined as temperature ≥ 39°C and/or bacteraemia); ten patients had 
bacteraemia. Of evaluable patients treated with ertapenem in a clinical study for the treatment of 
intra-abdominal infections, in adults, 30 % had generalised peritonitis and 39 % had infections 
involving sites other than the appendix including the stomach, duodenum, small bowel, colon, and 
gallbladder; there were limited numbers of evaluable patients who were enrolled with APACHE II 
scores ≥ 15 and efficacy in these patients has not been established. 
The efficacy of ertapenem in the treatment of community acquired pneumonia due to penicillin-
resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae has not been established.  
Efficacy of ertapenem in the treatment of diabetic foot infections with concurrent osteomyelitis has not 
been established. 
There is relatively little experience with ertapenem in children less than two years of age. In this age 
group, particular care should be taken to establish the susceptibility of the infecting organism(s) to 
ertapenem. No data are available in children under 3 months of age. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains approximately 158 mg sodium per 1 g dose, equivalent to 7.9 % of 
the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interactions caused by inhibition of P-glycoprotein-mediated clearance or CYP-mediated clearance of 
medicinal products are unlikely (see section 5.2). 
Decreases in valproic acid levels that may fall below the therapeutic range have been reported when 
valproic acid was co-administered with carbapenem agents. The lowered valproic acid levels can lead 
to inadequate seizure control; therefore, concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/sodium 
valproate is not recommended and alternative antibacterial or anti-convulsant therapies should be 
considered. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Adequate and well-controlled studies have not been performed in pregnant women. Animal studies do 
not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryo-foetal development, 
parturition or post-natal development. However, ertapenem should not be used during pregnancy 
unless the potential benefit outweighs the possible risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Ertapenem is excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for adverse reactions on the infant, 
mothers should not breast-feed their infants while receiving ertapenem. 
Fertility 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the effect of ertapenem use on fertility in 
men and women. Preclinical studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to 
fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Ertapenem SUN may influence patients' ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be informed 
that dizziness and somnolence have been reported with ertapenem (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adults 
The total number of patients treated with ertapenem in clinical studies was over 2,200 of which over 
2,150 received a 1 g dose of ertapenem. Adverse reactions (i.e., considered by the investigator to be 
possibly, probably, or definitely related to the medicinal product) were reported in approximately 
20 % of patients treated with ertapenem. Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in 1.3 % 
of patients. An additional 476 patients received ertapenem as a single 1 g dose prior to surgery in a 
clinical study for the prophylaxis of surgical site infections following colorectal surgery. 
For patients who received only ertapenem, the most common adverse reactions reported during 
therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped were: diarrhoea (4.8 %), infused vein 
complication (4.5 %) and nausea (2.8 %). 
For patients who received only ertapenem, the most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities and 
their respective incidence rates during therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped 
were: elevations in ALT (4.6 %), AST (4.6 %), alkaline phosphatase (3.8 %) and platelet count 
(3.0 %).  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population (3 months to 17 years of age): 
The total number of patients treated with ertapenem in clinical studies was 384. The overall safety 
profile is comparable to that in adult patients. Adverse reactions (i.e., considered by the investigator to 
be possibly, probably, or definitely related to the medicinal product) were reported in approximately 
20.8 % of patients treated with ertapenem. Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in 
0.5 % of patients. 
For patients who received only ertapenem, the most common adverse reactions reported during 
therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped were: diarrhoea (5.2 %) and infusion 
site pain (6.1 %). 
For patients who received only ertapenem, the most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities and 
their respective incidence rates during therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped 
were: decreases in neutrophil count (3.0 %), and elevations in ALT (2.9 %) and AST (2.8 %). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
For patients who received only ertapenem, the following adverse reactions were reported during 
therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped: 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); Rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); 
Very rare (< 1/10,000); Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Children and adolescents 
(3 months to 17 years of age) 
Not known: Altered mental 
status (including aggression) 
Uncommon: Headache 
Not known: Hallucinations 
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Uncommon: Oral candidiasis, 
candidiasis, fungal infection, 
pseudomembranous enterocolitis, 
vaginitis 
Rare: Pneumonia, 
dermatomycosis, postoperative 
wound infection, urinary tract 
infection 
Rare: Neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia 
Rare: Allergy 
Not known: Anaphylaxis 
including anaphylactoid reactions 
Uncommon: Anorexia 
Rare: Hypoglycaemia 
Uncommon: Insomnia, confusion 
Rare: Agitation, anxiety, 
depression 
Not known: Altered mental status 
(including aggression, delirium, 
disorientation, mental status 
changes) 
Common: Headache 
Uncommon: Dizziness, 
somnolence, taste perversion, 
seizure (see section 4.4) 
Rare: Tremor, syncope 
Not known: Hallucinations, 
depressed level of consciousness, 
dyskinesia, myoclonus, gait 
disturbance, encephalopathy (see 
section 4.4) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Pregnancy, puerperium and 
perinatal conditions 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Children and adolescents 
(3 months to 17 years of age) 
Uncommon: Hot flush, 
hypertension 
Common: Diarrhoea 
Uncommon: Faeces 
discoloured, melaena 
Common: Diaper dermatitis 
Uncommon: Erythema, rash, 
petechiae 
Rare: Scleral disorder 
Uncommon: Sinus bradycardia 
Rare: Arrhythmia, tachycardia 
Common: Infused vein 
complication, 
phlebitis/thrombophlebitis 
Uncommon: Hypotension 
Rare: Haemorrhage, increased 
blood pressure 
Uncommon: Dyspnoea, 
pharyngeal discomfort 
Rare: Nasal congestion, cough, 
epistaxis, rales/rhonchi, wheezing 
Common: Diarrhoea, nausea, 
vomiting 
Uncommon: Constipation, acid 
regurgitation, dry mouth, 
dyspepsia, abdominal pain 
Rare: Dysphagia, faecal 
incontinence, pelvic peritonitis 
Not known: teeth staining 
Rare: Cholecystitis, jaundice, liver 
disorder 
Common: Rash, pruritus 
Uncommon: Erythema, urticaria 
Rare: Dermatitis, desquamation, 
hypersensitivity vasculitis 
Not known: Acute Generalised 
Exanthematous Pustulosis 
(AGEP), Drug Rash with 
Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms (DRESS syndrome) 
Rare: Muscle cramp, shoulder 
pain 
Not known: Muscular weakness 
Rare: Renal insufficiency, acute 
renal insufficiency 
Rare: Abortion 
Rare: Genital bleeding 
Uncommon: Extravasation, 
asthenia/fatigue, fever, 
oedema/swelling, chest pain 
Rare: Injection-site induration, 
malaise  
Common: Infusion site pain 
Uncommon: Infusion site 
burning, infusion site pruritus, 
infusion site erythema, 
injection site erythema, 
infusion site warmth 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigations 
Chemistry 
Haematology 
Urinalysis 
Miscellaneous 
Children and adolescents 
(3 months to 17 years of age) 
Common: Elevations in ALT 
and AST 
Common: Decreases in 
neutrophil count 
Uncommon: Increases in 
platelet count, activated 
partial thromboplastin time, 
prothrombin time, decreases 
in haemoglobin 
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Common: Elevations in ALT, 
AST, alkaline phosphatase 
Uncommon: Increases in total 
serum bilirubin, direct serum 
bilirubin, indirect serum bilirubin, 
serum creatinine, serum urea, 
serum glucose 
Rare: Decreases in serum 
bicarbonate, serum creatinine, and 
serum potassium; increases in 
serum LDH, serum phosphorus, 
serum potassium 
Common: Elevation in platelet 
count 
Uncommon: Decreases in white 
blood cells, platelet count, 
segmented neutrophils, 
haemoglobin and haematocrit; 
increases in eosinophils, activated 
partial thromboplastin time, 
prothrombin time, segmented 
neutrophils, and white blood cells 
Rare: Decrease in lymphocytes; 
increases in band neutrophils, 
lymphocytes, metamyelocytes, 
monocytes, myelocytes; atypical 
lymphocytes 
Uncommon: Increases in urine 
bacteria, urine white blood cells, 
urine epithelial cells, and urine red 
blood cells; urine yeast present 
Rare: Increase in urobilinogen 
Uncommon: Positive 
Clostridioides difficile toxin 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with ertapenem. Overdosing of 
ertapenem is unlikely. Intravenous administration of ertapenem at a 3 g daily dose for 8 days to 
healthy adult volunteers did not result in significant toxicity. In clinical studies in adults inadvertent 
administration of up to 3 g in a day did not result in clinically important adverse reactions. In 
paediatric clinical studies, a single intravenous dose of 40 mg/kg up to a maximum of 2 g did not 
result in toxicity. 
However, in the event of an overdose, treatment with Ertapenem SUN should be discontinued and 
general supportive treatment given until renal elimination takes place. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ertapenem can be removed to some extent by haemodialysis (see section 5.2); however, no 
information is available on the use of haemodialysis to treat overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, carbapenems, ATC code: J01DH03 
Mechanism of action 
Ertapenem inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis following attachment to penicillin binding proteins 
(PBPs). In Escherichia coli, affinity is strongest to PBPs 2 and 3. 
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship 
Similar to other beta-lactam antimicrobial agents, the time that the plasma concentration of ertapenem 
exceeds the MIC of the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in 
pre-clinical PK/PD studies. 
Mechanism of resistance 
For species considered susceptible to ertapenem, resistance was uncommon in surveillance studies in 
Europe. In resistant isolates, resistance to other antibacterial agents of the carbapenem class was seen 
in some but not all isolates. Ertapenem is effectively stable to hydrolysis by most classes of beta-
lactamases, including penicillinases, cephalosporinases and extended spectrum beta-lactamases, but 
not metallo-beta-lactamases. 
Methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci are resistant to ertapenem, owing to PBP target 
insensitivity; P. aeruginosa and other non-fermentative bacteria are generally resistant, probably 
owing to limited penetration and to active efflux. 
Resistance is uncommon in Enterobacteriaceae and ertapenem is generally active against those with 
extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs). Resistance can however be observed when ESBLs or 
other potent beta-lactamases (e.g. AmpC types) are present in conjunction with reduced permeability, 
arising by the loss of one or more outer membrane porins, or with up-regulated efflux. Resistance can 
also arise via the acquisition of beta-lactamases with significant carbapenem-hydrolysing activity (e.g. 
IMP and VIM metallo-beta-lactamases or KPC types), though these are rare. 
The mechanism of action of ertapenem differs from that of other classes of antibiotics, such as 
quinolones, aminoglycosides, macrolides and tetracyclines. There is no target-based cross-resistance 
between ertapenem and these substances. However, micro-organisms may exhibit resistance to more 
than one class of antibacterial agents when the mechanism is, or includes, impermeability to some 
compounds and/or an efflux pump. 
Breakpoints 
The EUCAST MIC breakpoints are as follows: 
Enterobacterales: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Streptococcus pneumoniae: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Haemophilus influenzae: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
M. catarrhalis: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Gram negative anaerobes: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Gram positive anaerobes: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Viridans group streptococci: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
Non species related breakpoints: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
(NB: Susceptibility of staphylococci to ertapenem is inferred from methicillin susceptibility and 
susceptibility of group A, B, C,& G streptococci is inferred from benzylpenicillin susceptibility)  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The prescribers are informed that local MIC breakpoints, if available, should be consulted. 
Microbiological susceptibility 
The prevalence of acquired resistance may vary geographically and with time for selected species and 
local information on resistance is desirable, particularly when treating severe infections. Localised 
clusters of infections due to carbapenem-resistant organisms have been reported in the European 
Union. The information below gives only approximate guidance on the probability as to whether the 
micro-organism will be susceptible to ertapenem or not.  
Commonly susceptible species: 
Gram-positive aerobes: 
Methicillin-susceptible-staphylococci (including Staphylococcus aureus)* 
Streptococcus agalactiae* 
Streptococcus pneumoniae*† 
Streptococcus pyogenes 
Gram-negative aerobes: 
Citrobacter freundii 
Enterobacter aerogenes 
Enterobacter cloacae 
Escherichia coli* 
Haemophilus influenzae* 
Haemophilus parainfluenzae 
Klebsiella oxytoca 
Klebsiella pneumoniae* 
Moraxella catarrhalis* 
Morganella morganii 
Proteus mirabilis* 
Proteus vulgaris  
Serratia marcescens 
Anaerobes: 
Clostridium species (excluding C. difficile)* 
Eubacterium species* 
Fusobacterium species* 
Peptostreptococcus species* 
Porphyromonas asaccharolytica* 
Prevotella species* 
Species for which acquired resistance may be a problem: 
Gram-positive aerobes: 
Methicillin-resistant staphylococci +# 
Anaerobes: 
Bacteroides fragilis and species in the B. fragilis Group* 
Inherently resistant organisms: 
Gram-positive aerobes: 
Corynebacterium jeikeium 
Enterococci including Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium 
Gram-negative aerobes: 
Aeromonas species 
Acinetobacter species 
Burkholderia cepacia 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia 
Anaerobes: 
Lactobacillus species 
10 
 
 
 
Others: 
Chlamydia species 
Mycoplasma species 
Rickettsia species 
Legionella species 
* Activity has been satisfactorily demonstrated in clinical studies. 
† The efficacy of ertapenem in the treatment of community acquired pneumonia due to penicillin-resistant 
Streptococcus pneumoniae has not been established. 
+ frequency of acquired resistance > 50 % in some Member States. 
# Methicillin-resistant staphylococci (including MRSA) are always resistant to beta-lactams. 
Information from clinical studies 
Efficacy in paediatric studies 
Ertapenem was evaluated primarily for paediatric safety and secondarily for efficacy in randomised 
comparative, multicentre studies in patients 3 months to 17 years of age.  
The proportion of patients with a favourable clinical response assessment at post-treatment visit in the 
clinical MITT population is shown below: 
Disease Stratum† 
Community Acquired 
Pneumonia (CAP) 
Age Stratum 
3 to 23 months 
Ertapenem 
% 
88.6 
n/m 
31/35 
Ceftriaxone 
% 
100.0 
n/m 
13/13 
2 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
55/57 
3/3 
96.5 
100.0 
16/17 
3/3 
94.1 
100.0 
Disease Stratum 
Age Stratum 
Intraabdominal Infections (IAI)  2 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
13 to 17 years 
Ertapenem 
% 
82.4 
93.8 
100.0 
n/m 
28/34 
15/16 
25/25 
Ticarcillin/clavulanate 
n/m 
7/9 
4/6 
8/8 
% 
77.8 
66.7 
100.0 
Acute Pelvic Infections (API) 
†  This includes 9 patients in the ertapenem group (7 CAP and 2 IAI), 2 patients in the ceftriaxone group 
(2 CAP), and 1 patient with IAI in the ticarcillin/clavulanate group with secondary bacteraemia at entry into 
the study. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Plasma concentrations 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a 
1 g dose in healthy young adults (25 to 45 years of age) were 155 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour 
postdose (end of infusion), 9 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose, and 1 microgram/mL at 24 hour 
postdose.  
Area under the plasma concentration curve (AUC) of ertapenem in adults increases nearly dose-
proportionally over the 0.5 to 2 g dose range. 
There is no accumulation of ertapenem in adults following multiple intravenous doses ranging from 
0.5 to 2 g daily. 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a 
15 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 3 to 23 months of age were 
103.8 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 13.5 micrograms/mL at 6 hour 
postdose, and 2.5 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose.  
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a 
15 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 2 to 12 years of age were 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
113.2 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 12.8 micrograms/mL at 6 hour 
postdose, and 3.0 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose. 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a 
20 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 13 to 17 years of age were 
170.4 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 7.0 micrograms/mL at 12 hour 
postdose, and 1.1 microgram/mL at 24 hour postdose.  
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a 
1 g dose in three patients 13 to 17 years of age were 155.9 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose 
(end of infusion), and 6.2 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose. 
Distribution 
Ertapenem is highly bound to human plasma proteins. In healthy young adults (25 to 45 years of age), 
the protein binding of ertapenem decreases, as plasma concentrations increase, from approximately 
95 % bound at an approximate plasma concentration of < 50 micrograms/mL to approximately 92 % 
bound at an approximate plasma concentration of 155 micrograms/mL (average concentration 
achieved at the end of infusion following 1 g intravenously). 
The volume of distribution (Vdss) of ertapenem in adults is approximately 8 litres (0.11 litre/kg) and 
approximately 0.2 litre/kg in paediatric patients 3 months to 12 years of age and approximately 
0.16 litre/kg in paediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age. 
Concentrations of ertapenem achieved in adult skin blister fluid at each sampling point on the third 
day of 1 g once daily intravenous doses showed a ratio of AUC in skin blister fluid: AUC in plasma 
of 0.61. 
In vitro studies indicate that the effect of ertapenem on the plasma protein binding of highly protein 
bound medicinal products (warfarin, ethinyl estradiol, and norethindrone) was small. The change in 
binding was < 12 % at peak plasma ertapenem concentration following a 1 g dose. In vivo, probenecid 
(500 mg every 6 hours) decreased the bound fraction of ertapenem in plasma at the end of infusion in 
subjects administered a single 1 g intravenous dose from approximately 91 % to approximately 87 %. 
The effects of this change are anticipated to be transient. A clinically significant interaction due to 
ertapenem displacing another medicinal product or another medicinal product displacing ertapenem is 
unlikely. 
In vitro studies indicate that ertapenem does not inhibit P-glycoprotein-mediated transport of digoxin 
or vinblastine and that ertapenem is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein-mediated transport. 
Biotransformation 
In healthy young adults (23 to 49 years of age), after intravenous infusion of radiolabelled 1 g 
ertapenem, the plasma radioactivity consists predominantly (94 %) of ertapenem. The major 
metabolite of ertapenem is the ring-opened derivative formed by dehydropeptidase-I-mediated 
hydrolysis of the beta-lactam ring. 
In vitro studies in human liver microsomes indicate that ertapenem does not inhibit metabolism 
mediated by any of the six major CYP isoforms: 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. 
Elimination 
Following administration of a 1 g radiolabelled intravenous dose of ertapenem to healthy young adults 
(23 to 49 years of age), approximately 80 % is recovered in urine and 10 % in faeces. Of the 80 % 
recovered in urine, approximately 38 % is excreted as unchanged ertapenem and approximately 37 % 
as the ring-opened metabolite. 
In healthy young adults (18 to 49 years of age) and patients 13 to 17 years of age given a 1 g 
intravenous dose, the mean plasma half-life is approximately 4 hours. The mean plasma half-life in 
children 3 months to 12 years of age is approximately 2.5 hours. Average concentrations of ertapenem 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in urine exceed 984 micrograms/mL during the period 0 to 2 hours postdose and exceed 
52 micrograms/mL during the period 12 to 24 hours post-administration. 
Special populations 
Gender 
The plasma concentrations of ertapenem are comparable in men and women. 
Elderly 
Plasma concentrations following a 1 g and 2 g intravenous dose of ertapenem are slightly higher 
(approximately 39 % and 22 %, respectively) in healthy elderly adults (≥ 65 years) relative to young 
adults (< 65 years). In the absence of severe renal impairment, no dose adjustment is necessary in 
elderly patients. 
Paediatric population 
Plasma concentrations of ertapenem are comparable in paediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age and 
adults following a 1 g once daily intravenous dose. 
Following the 20 mg/kg dose (up to a maximum dose of 1 g), the pharmacokinetic parameter values in 
patients 13 to 17 years of age were generally comparable to those in healthy young adults. To provide 
an estimate of the pharmacokinetic data if all patients in this age group were to receive a 1 g dose, the 
pharmacokinetic data were calculated adjusting for a 1 g dose, assuming linearity. A comparison of 
results show that a 1 g once daily dose of ertapenem achieves a pharmacokinetic profile in patients 
13 to 17 years of age comparable to that of adults. The ratios (13 to 17 years/adults) for AUC, the end 
of infusion concentration and the concentration at the midpoint of the dosing interval were 0.99, 1.20, 
and 0.84, respectively. 
Plasma concentrations at the midpoint of the dosing interval following a single 15 mg/kg intravenous 
dose of ertapenem in patients 3 months to 12 years of age are comparable to plasma concentrations at 
the midpoint of the dosing interval following a 1 g once daily intravenous dose in adults (see Plasma 
concentrations). The plasma clearance (mL/min/kg) of ertapenem in patients 3 months to 12 years of 
age is approximately 2-fold higher as compared to that in adults. At the 15 mg/kg dose, the AUC value 
and plasma concentrations at the midpoint of the dosing interval in patients 3 months to 12 years of 
age were comparable to those in young healthy adults receiving a 1 g intravenous dose of ertapenem. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of ertapenem in patients with hepatic impairment have not been established. 
Due to the limited extent of hepatic metabolism of ertapenem, its pharmacokinetics are not expected to 
be affected by hepatic impairment. Therefore, no dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
Following a single 1 g intravenous dose of ertapenem in adults, AUCs of total ertapenem (bound and 
unbound) and of unbound ertapenem are similar in patients with mild renal impairment (Clcr 60 to 
90 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared with healthy subjects (ages 25 to 82 years). AUCs of total ertapenem 
and of unbound ertapenem are increased in patients with moderate renal impairment (Clcr 31 to 
59 mL/min/1.73 m2) approximately 1.5-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively, compared with healthy 
subjects. AUCs of total ertapenem and of unbound ertapenem are increased in patients with severe 
renal impairment (Clcr 5 to 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) approximately 2.6-fold and 3.4-fold, respectively, 
compared with healthy subjects. AUCs of total ertapenem and of unbound ertapenem are increased in 
patients who require haemodialysis approximately 2.9-fold and 6.0-fold, respectively, between dialysis 
sessions, compared with healthy subjects. Following a single 1 g intravenous dose given immediately 
prior to a haemodialysis session, approximately 30 % of the dose is recovered in the dialysate. There 
are no data in paediatric patients with renal impairment. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients with advanced renal 
impairment and patients who require haemodialysis to support a dose recommendation. Therefore, 
ertapenem should not be used in these patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety, 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and toxicity to reproduction and development. 
Decreased neutrophil counts, however, occurred in rats that received high doses of ertapenem, which 
was not considered a significant safety issue. 
Long-term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ertapenem have not been 
performed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium hydrogen carbonate (E500) 
Sodium hydroxide (E524) to adjust pH to 7.5 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Do not use solvents or infusion fluids containing glucose for reconstitution or administration of 
ertapenem. 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
After reconstitution: Diluted solutions should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in use 
storage times are the responsibility of the user. Diluted solutions (approximately 20 mg/mL 
ertapenem) are physically and chemically stable for 6 hours at room temperature (25°C) or for 
24 hours at 2 to 8°C (in a refrigerator). Solutions should be used within 4 hours of their removal from 
the refrigerator. Do not freeze solutions of Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
20 ml Type I clear glass vials with a chlorobutyl rubber stopper and a tear off seal with polypropylene 
disk. 
Ertapenem SUN is supplied in packs of 1 vial or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use: 
For single use only. 
Reconstituted solutions should be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection 
immediately after preparation. 
Preparation for intravenous administration: 
Ertapenem SUN must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration. 
Adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age) 
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of Ertapenem SUN with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 
100 mg/mL. Shake well to dissolve. (See section 6.4.) 
Dilution 
For a 50 mL bag of diluent: For a 1 g dose, immediately transfer contents of the reconstituted vial to a 
50 mL bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection; or  
For a 50 mL vial of diluent: For a 1 g dose, withdraw 10 mL from a 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection and discard. Transfer the contents of the reconstituted 1 g vial 
of Ertapenem SUN to the 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection.  
Infusion 
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes. 
Children (3 months to 12 years of age) 
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of Ertapenem SUN with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 
100 mg/mL. Shake well to dissolve. (See section 6.4.) 
Dilution 
For a bag of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a 
bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL 
or less; or  
For a vial of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a 
vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL 
or less.  
Infusion 
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes. 
Compatibility of Ertapenem SUN with intravenous solutions containing heparin sodium and potassium 
chloride has been demonstrated. 
The reconstituted solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior 
to administration, whenever the container permits. Solutions of Ertapenem SUN range from colourless 
to yellow. Variations of colour within this range do not affect potency. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1656/001 
EU/1/22/1656/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V.  
Polarisavenue 87 
2132JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Terapia S.A. 
Str. Fabricii nr. 124 
Cluj-Napoca, 400632 
Romania 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
ertapenem 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 1 g ertapenem 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium hydrogen carbonate (E500), sodium hydroxide (E524) 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
10 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution 
For single use only 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1656/001 1 vial 
EU/1/22/1656/002 10 vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate 
ertapenem  
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 g 
6. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Ertapenem SUN 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
ertapenem 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ertapenem SUN is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Ertapenem SUN 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Ertapenem SUN 
Possible side effects 
How to store Ertapenem SUN 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ertapenem SUN is and what it is used for 
Ertapenem SUN contains ertapenem which is an antibiotic of the beta-lactam group. It has the ability 
to kill a wide range of bacteria (germs) that cause infections in various parts of the body.  
Ertapenem SUN can be given to persons 3 months of age and older. 
Treatment: 
Your doctor has prescribed Ertapenem SUN because you or your child has one (or more) of the 
following types of infection:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Infection in the abdomen 
Infection affecting the lungs (pneumonia) 
Gynaecological infections 
Skin infections of the foot in diabetic patients.  
Prevention: 
• 
Prevention of surgical site infections in adults following surgery of the colon or rectum. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Ertapenem SUN 
Do not use Ertapenem SUN 
- 
if you are allergic to the active substance (ertapenem) or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you are allergic to antibiotics such as penicillins, cephalosporins or carbapenems (which are 
used to treat various infections). 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before taking Ertapenem SUN. 
During treatment, if you experience an allergic reaction (such as swelling of the face, tongue or throat, 
difficulty in breathing or swallowing, skin rash), tell your doctor straight away as you may need urgent 
medical treatment.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While antibiotics including Ertapenem SUN kill certain bacteria, other bacteria and fungi may 
continue to grow more than normal. This is called overgrowth. Your doctor will monitor you for 
overgrowth and treat you if necessary. 
It is important that you tell your doctor if you have diarrhoea before, during or after your treatment 
with Ertapenem SUN. This is because you may have a condition known as colitis (an inflammation of 
the bowel). Do not take any medicine to treat diarrhoea without first checking with your doctor. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines called valproic acid or sodium valproate (see Other 
medicines and Ertapenem SUN below). 
Tell your doctor about any medical condition you have or have had including: 
- 
Kidney disease. It is particularly important that your doctor knows if you have kidney disease 
and whether you undergo dialysis treatment. 
Allergies to any medicines, including antibiotics. 
Central nervous system disorders, such as localised tremors, or seizures. 
- 
- 
Children and adolescents (3 months to 17 years of age) 
Experience with Ertapenem SUN is limited in children less than two years of age. In this age group 
your doctor will decide on the potential benefit of its use. There is no experience in children under 
3 months of age. 
Other medicines and Ertapenem SUN 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking medicines called valproic acid or sodium 
valproate (used to treat epilepsy, bipolar disorder, migraines, or schizophrenia). This is because 
Ertapenem SUN can affect the way some other medicines work. Your doctor will decide whether you 
should use Ertapenem SUN in combination with these other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Ertapenem SUN has not been studied in pregnant women. Ertapenem SUN should not be used during 
pregnancy unless your doctor decides the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Women who are receiving Ertapenem SUN should not breast-feed, because it has been found in 
human milk and the breast-fed baby may therefore be affected. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines until you know how you react to the medicine. 
Certain side effects, such as dizziness and sleepiness, have been reported with Ertapenem SUN, which 
may affect some patients’ ability to drive or operate machinery. 
Ertapenem SUN contains sodium 
This medicine contains approximately 158 mg sodium (main component of cooking / table salt) in 
each 1 g dose. This is equivalent to 7.9 % of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of 
sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How to use Ertapenem SUN 
Ertapenem SUN will always be prepared and given to you intravenously (into a vein) by a doctor or 
another healthcare professional. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Ertapenem SUN for adults and adolescents 13 years of age and older is 
1 gram (g) given once a day. The recommended dose for children 3 months to 12 years of age is 
15 mg/kg given twice daily (not to exceed 1 g/day). Your doctor will decide how many 
days’ treatment you need. 
For prevention of surgical site infections following surgery of the colon or rectum, the recommended 
dose of Ertapenem SUN is 1 g administered as a single intravenous dose 1 hour before surgery. 
It is very important that you continue to receive Ertapenem SUN for as long as your doctor prescribes 
it. 
If you are given more Ertapenem SUN than you should 
If you are concerned that you may have been given too much Ertapenem SUN, contact your doctor or 
another healthcare professional immediately. 
If you miss a dose of Ertapenem SUN 
If you are concerned that you may have missed a dose, contact your doctor or another healthcare 
professional immediately. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Adults 18 years of age and older: 
Since the medicine has been marketed, severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis), hypersensitivity 
syndromes (allergic reactions including rash, fever, abnormal blood tests) have been reported. The first 
signs of a severe allergic reaction may include swelling of the face and/or throat. If these symptoms 
occur tell your doctor straight away as you may need urgent medical treatment. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Headache 
Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting 
Rash, itching 
Problems with the vein into which the medicine is given (including inflammation, formation of 
a lump, swelling at the injection site, or leaking of fluid into the tissue and skin around the 
injection site) 
Increase in platelet count 
Changes in liver function tests 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) side effects are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Dizziness, sleepiness, sleeplessness, confusion, seizure 
Low blood pressure, slow heart rate 
Shortness of breath, sore throat 
Constipation, yeast infection of the mouth, antibiotic-associated diarrhoea, acid regurgitation, 
dry mouth, indigestion, loss of appetite 
Skin redness 
Vaginal discharge and irritation 
Abdominal pain, fatigue, fungal infection, fever, oedema/swelling, chest pain, abnormal taste 
Changes in some laboratory blood and urine tests 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) side effects are: 
• 
• 
• 
Decrease in white blood cells, decrease in blood platelet count 
Low blood sugar 
Agitation, anxiety, depression, tremor 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Irregular heart rate, increased blood pressure, bleeding, fast heart rate 
Nasal congestion, cough, bleeding from the nose, pneumonia, abnormal breathing sounds, 
wheezing 
Inflammation of the gall bladder, difficulty in swallowing, faecal incontinence, jaundice, liver 
disorder 
Inflammation of the skin, fungal infection of the skin, skin peeling, infection of the wound after 
an operation  
Muscle cramp, shoulder pain 
Urinary tract infection, kidney impairment 
Miscarriage, genital bleeding 
Allergy, feeling unwell, pelvic peritonitis, changes to the white part of the eye, fainting 
The skin may become hard at the site of injection 
Swelling of the skin blood vessels 
Side effects reported with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available 
data) are:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hallucinations 
decreased consciousness 
altered mental status (including aggression, delirium, disorientation, mental status changes)  
abnormal movements  
muscle weakness 
unsteady walking 
teeth staining 
There have also been reports of changes in some laboratory blood tests. 
If you experience raised or fluid-filled skin spots over a large area of your body, tell your doctor or 
nurse straight away. 
Children and adolescents (3 months to 17 years of age): 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Diarrhoea 
Diaper rash 
Pain at the infusion site 
Changes in white blood cell count 
Changes in liver function tests 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) side effects are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Headache 
Hot flush, high blood pressure, red or purple, flat, pinhead spots under the skin 
Discoloured faeces, black tar-like faeces 
Skin redness, skin rash 
Burning, itching, redness and warmth at infusion site, redness at injection site 
Increase in platelet count  
Changes in some laboratory blood tests 
Side effects reported with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available 
data) are: 
• 
• 
Hallucinations 
Altered mental status (including aggression)  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ertapenem SUN 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
Do not store above 25°C. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ertapenem SUN contains 
The active substance of Ertapenem SUN is ertapenem 1 g. 
The other ingredients are sodium hydrogen carbonate (E500) and sodium hydroxide (E524). See 
section 2 “Ertapenem SUN contains sodium”. 
What Ertapenem SUN looks like and contents of the pack 
Ertapenem SUN is a off-white to pale yellow powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Solutions of Ertapenem SUN range from colourless to yellow coloured solutions. Variations of colour 
within this range do not affect potency. 
Ertapenem SUN is supplied in packs of 1 vial or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87, 2132JH Hoofddorp, 
The Netherlands  
Manufacturer 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87, 2132JH Hoofddorp,  
The Netherlands 
Terapia S.A. 
Str. Fabricii nr. 124, Cluj-Napoca, 400632,  
Romania 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien/България/Česká republika/ 
Danmark/Eesti/Ελλάδα/Hrvatska/Ireland/Ísland/ 
Κύπρος/Latvija/Lietuva/Luxembourg/Luxemburg/Magyarország/ 
Malta/Nederland/Norge/Österreich/Portugal/ 
Slovenija/Slovenská republika/Suomi/Finland/Sverige 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
Nederland/Pays-Bas/Niederlande/Нидерландия/Nizozemsko/ 
Nederlandene/Holland/Ολλανδία/Nizozemska/The Netherlands/Holland/ 
Ολλανδία/Nīderlande/Nyderlandai/Pays-Bas/Niederlande/Hollandia/ 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
L-Olanda/Nederland/Nederland/Niederlande/Países Baixos/ 
Nizozemska/Holandsko/Alankomaat/Nederländerna/Nederländerna 
Tel./тел./tlf./τηλ./Sími/τηλ./Tlf./Puh./ 
 +31 (0)23 568 5501 
Deutschland 
Sun Pharmaceuticals Germany GmbH 
Hemmelrather Weg 201 
51377 Leverkusen 
Deutschland 
Tel. +49 (0) 214 40399 0 
España 
Sun Pharma Laboratorios, S.L.  
Rambla de Catalunya 53-55 
08007 Barcelona 
España 
tel. +34 93 342 78 90 
France 
Sun Pharma France 
11-15, Quai de Dion Bouton 
92800 Puteaux 
France 
Tel. +33 1 41 44 44 50 
Italia 
Sun Pharma Italia Srl 
Viale Giulio Richard, 3 
20143 Milano 
Italia 
tel. +39 02 33 49 07 93 
Polska 
Ranbaxy (Poland) Sp. Z o. o. 
ul. Kubickiego 11  
02-954 Warszawa  
Polska 
Tel. +48 22 642 07 75 
România 
Terapia S.A. 
Str. Fabricii nr 124 
Cluj-Napoca, Judeţul Cluj 
România 
Tel. +40 (264) 501 500 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions of how to reconstitute and dilute Ertapenem SUN: 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For single use only. 
Preparation for intravenous administration: 
Ertapenem SUN must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration. 
Adult and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age) 
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of Ertapenem SUN with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 
100 mg/mL. Shake well to dissolve. 
Dilution 
For a 50 mL bag of diluent: For a 1 g dose, immediately transfer contents of the reconstituted vial to a 
50 mL bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection; or 
For a 50 mL vial of diluent: For a 1 g dose, withdraw 10 mL from a 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection and discard. Transfer the contents of the reconstituted 1 g vial 
of Ertapenem SUN to the 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection. 
Infusion 
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes. 
Children (3 months to 12 years of age) 
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of Ertapenem SUN with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 
100 mg/mL. Shake well to dissolve. 
Dilution 
For a bag of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a 
bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL 
or less; or  
For a vial of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a 
vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL 
or less. 
Infusion 
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes. 
The reconstituted solution should be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection 
immediately after preparation. Diluted solutions should be used immediately. If not used immediately, 
in use storage times are the responsibility of the user. Diluted solutions (approximately 20 mg/mL 
ertapenem) are physically and chemically stable for 6 hours at room temperature (25°C) or for 
24 hours at 2 to 8°C (in a refrigerator). Solutions should be used within 4 hours of their removal from 
the refrigerator. Do not freeze the reconstituted solutions. 
The reconstituted solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior 
to administration, whenever the container permits. Solutions of Ertapenem SUN range from colourless 
to yellow. Variations of colour within this range do not affect potency. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
