17 May 2018 
EMA/442745/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Invented name: Esmya 
INN/active substance: ulipristal acetate 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-20/1460/C/2041/0043 
Note: 
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Safety ................................................................................................................. 4 
2.2.1. Non clinical safety .............................................................................................. 5 
2.2.2. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 5 
2.3. Efficacy ............................................................................................................. 11 
3. Experts consultation .............................................................................. 13 
4. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 15 
5. Risk management .................................................................................. 17 
5.1. Pharmacovigilance activities ................................................................................ 18 
5.1.1. Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires ............................................... 18 
5.1.2. Non-clinical studies .......................................................................................... 18 
5.1.3. Non-interventional studies ................................................................................ 18 
5.2. Risk minimisation measures................................................................................. 19 
5.2.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 19 
5.2.2. Direct Healthcare Professional Communication/Communication plan ...................... 20 
5.2.3. Educational materials ....................................................................................... 20 
6. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 21 
Appendix 1. Divergent positions..................................................................22
Assessment report 
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 2/22 
1. Information on the procedure
Three cases of serious liver injury leading to a hepatic transplantation were reported between the 
marketing authorisation of Esmya (ulipristal acetate) and November 2017. In addition, other cases of 
hepatic injury were also reported post marketing for Esmya. Given the estimated exposure to Esmya of 
approximately 200,000 to 275,000 patient-years, the number of cases of serious liver injury leading to 
liver transplantation appears higher than expected, although background incidence on drug induced 
liver injury is uncertain. No information on hepatic events was at that time included in the Product 
Information of Esmya. Acknowledging the uncertainty regarding background incidence and the 
information in the reported cases, the seriousness of the reported cases raises concern. Since a 
possible causal relationship between Esmya and acute liver failure could not be ruled out, these cases 
prompted an in-depth investigation of this risk and its impact on the benefit risk balance of Esmya.  
On 30 November 2017, the European Commission triggered a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to assess the 
impact of the above concerns on the benefit-risk balance of Esmya and to issue a recommendation on 
whether the relevant marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
2. Scientific discussion
2.1.  Introduction 
Ulipristal acetate is an orally-active synthetic selective progesterone receptor modulator (SPRM), 
characterised by a tissue-specific partial progesterone antagonist effect in the target tissues (uterus, 
cervix, ovaries, hypothalamus). Esmya is a centrally authorised product available as tablets containing 
5 mg of ulipristal acetate. It is indicated for pre-operative treatment as well as intermittent treatment 
of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The treatment 
consists of one tablet to be taken once daily for treatment courses of up to 3 months each. Repeated 
intermittent treatment has been studied up to 4 intermittent courses, and in a limited number of 
women data from up to 8 courses are available. 
Uterine fibroids (uterine leiomyoma) are benign, monoclonal, hormone-sensitive, smooth muscle 
tumours of the uterus in premenopausal women. They are the most common tumour of the female 
reproductive tract in pre-menopausal women and have been reported to affect 20-40% of women 
during their reproductive years. Uterine fibroids are often asymptomatic; however, when they are 
symptomatic, the primary symptoms are heavy fibroid-related bleeding and subsequent anaemia, 
abdominal pressure and abdominal pain, increased urinary frequency and infertility related to the 
volume and location of the tumour. Uterine fibroids are commonly treated surgically through 
hysterectomy. Other, less invasive surgical treatment procedures include myomectomy, which may 
preserve fertility, uterine artery embolization and endometrial ablation, in case the dominant symptom 
is bleeding. However, surgery may not be a suitable option for all patients, due to its associated risks 
and potential impact on fertility. Alternative to surgery, medical treatment options currently approved 
for uterine fibroids are gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists and Esmya. GnRH agonists 
are effective in reducing fibroid-related bleeding, reducing abdominal symptoms and fibroid and uterine 
volume. Their use duration is however limited to 3 to 6 months due to side effects (hot flushes and 
increasing the risk of osteoporosis). Therefore, Esmya is the only long-term pharmacological treatment 
for moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids currently approved. 
Esmya was first authorised in the European Union on 23 February 2012. The post-marketing exposure 
to Esmya is estimated to be at around 765,000 patients (cut-off date: 28 February 2018). Assuming a 
Assessment report 
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 3/22 
mean duration of 3 months, this corresponds to an exposure of approximately 200,000 to 275,000 
patient-years.   
Esmya is marketed in all European Union (EU) Member States, in Norway and Iceland. The largest use 
until November 2017 was in France, Germany and Spain, followed closely by Italy.   
In December 2017, 12 studies were ongoing with Esmya 5 mg tablets. One (the PGL 14-001 
“PREMIUM” study) is a non-interventional study intended to assess safety of Esmya in clinical practice, 
which aims at recruiting 1,500 patients. All other studies are small, either interventional or non-
interventional, with up to 100 patients per study. Most of these studies are in patients with uterine 
fibroids, while some studies are in patients with adenomyosis, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, as well 
as a non-interventional study aimed at assessing changes in the mammary gland.  
From February 2012 to November 2017, 51 cases of hepatic impairment associated with the use of 
Esmya were reported, of which 17 were serious and 34 were non serious. These correspond to a total 
of 68 Adverse Event (AEs), of which 24 were serious. Among those cases, three cases of acute liver 
failure leading to liver transplantation were identified. In view of the fact that the involvement Esmya 
in the development of acute liver failure was possible, and considering the seriousness of the reported 
cases, a review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was initiated on 30 November 2017 
to assess the potential risk of liver injury and its impact on the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal 
product. At the end of January 2018, another case of hepatic liver failure leading to transplantation 
was reported.  
In light of this new case, and considering the cases reported before the initiation of the referral, a 
preliminary assessment of the available data was performed in February 2018. Based on this review, 
the PRAC considered that provisional measures were needed while the issue was being further 
reviewed 1. The PRAC concluded that as a precautionary measure, Esmya should not be initiated in new 
patients and in patients who have finalised a previous treatment course, while the review was ongoing. 
In addition, provisional risk minimisation measures were recommended. Liver function monitoring was 
recommended, to be performed at least monthly during treatment, up to four weeks after treatment 
discontinuation, as well as in case a patient shows signs or symptoms compatible with liver injury. In 
this context, patients who have transaminase levels above 2 times the upper level of normal (ULN) 
during Esmya treatment should stop treatment and be closely monitored. Furthermore, the PRAC 
recommended that a healthcare professional communication should be disseminated to inform 
healthcare professionals about the precautionary measures, awaiting the outcome of the full review of 
Esmya. The European Commission (EC) issued a decision on the provisional measures on 16 of 
February 2018. The recommendation on provisional measures was without prejudice to the conclusions 
for the present procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
Available data from non-clinical and clinical studies, as well as spontaneously reported post marketing 
data, together with relevant information from the literature have now been fully reviewed by the PRAC. 
2.2.  Safety  
The PRAC reviewed all available information regarding liver safety of Esmya, including submissions 
from the MAH, as well as data provided by National Competent Authorities on the reported cases of 
liver transplantation. A summary of the relevant information is included below.  
1 More information is available in the published assessment report on provisional measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 4/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
2.2.1.  Non clinical safety 
The non-clinical safety evaluation of ulipristal acetate included the performance of repeat dose toxicity 
studies in rodents. Administration of ulipristal acetate (1, 5 and 25 mg/kg/day) to rats in a 6-month 
toxicity study caused changes in haematological and biochemical parameters. Organ weight analysis 
showed increased liver and adrenal weights and decreased ovaries, uterus and thyroid weights at the 5 
and 25 mg/kg/day dose levels. On histological examination, these correlated with adrenal cortical and 
liver hepatocyte hypertrophy, ovarian follicular cysts and follicular atresia and uterine glandular 
dilation.  
There were no definitive or apparent correlative data indicating liver toxicity in animals, based on the 
evaluation of ulipristal acetate in several toxicity studies of different duration, including chronic or life-
time testing. The occasional findings of increased liver weight and hepatocellular hypertrophy observed 
in studies with rodents have been considered as adaptive changes with little relevance to human2. In 
addition, due to hormonal differences between rodents and humans, the toxicological liver safety 
findings obtained in rodents were assessed as less relevant for humans.  
Overall, it is concluded that there are no non-clinical data that indicate that ulipristal acetate would 
cause drug-induced liver injury (DILI) in humans. Of note, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
researchers and the Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network (DILIN) have listed chemical sub-groups/types 
of molecule associated with an increased risk of DILI, and ulipristal acetate does not share structural 
similarities with these compounds. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ulipristal acetate is well established, including the accumulation profile 
and the safety margins. Based on the safety profile of ulipristal acetate in the chronic toxicology 
studies in rat and monkey, the extent of accumulation of ulipristal acetate and its metabolites in the 
liver is unlikely to be of clinical significance. However, since the primary elimination route of Esmya is 
via bile/faeces, an increased local exposure in the liver might be possible in existing cholestatic disease 
states. The major human metabolite of ulipristal acetate is PGL4002 and accounts for 1/4 to 1/2 of 
ulipristal acetate exposure. Based on in vitro data, ulipristal acetate has the potential to inhibit 
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 and CYP3A4; however, its major metabolite PGL4002 does not inhibit 
these enzymes. In vitro, the similarity between human, rat, and monkey metabolic pathways was 
shown. As a general hypothesis for idiosyncratic liver toxicity mechanisms, it could be possible that a 
reactive metabolite of a drug may covalently bind to a protein and form a hapten-protein adduct, and 
thereby elicit an adaptive immune response in susceptible individuals. For ulipristal acetate, a minor 
reactive, partially characterized metabolite has been detected in human faeces, proposed to be a 
glutathione conjugate of mono-oxygenated ulipristal acetate. This proposed structure is consistent with 
the oxidation of the 4, 5 carbon atoms to a reactive epoxide, followed by deactivation through 
glutathione conjugation. There were no signs of formation of this metabolite in vivo in rat or monkey. 
This metabolite pathway has also been reported for other structurally similar, approved drugs which 
are not related with idiosyncratic liver toxicity, such as mifepristone. 
2.2.2.  Clinical safety  
2.2.2.1.  Clinical studies safety data 
The MAH submitted data regarding liver testing and adverse events reported within the hepatic 
disorders Standardised MedDRA Query (SMQ) throughout the clinical development program.  
2 Hall AP, Elcombe CR, Foster JR et al. Liver hypertrophy: A review of adaptive (adverse and non-adverse) changes—
conclusions from the 3rd International ESTP Expert Workshop. Toxicologic Pathology, October 2012; 40(7):971-94. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 5/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
In completed clinical trials, over 7,100 subjects have received at least one dose of ulipristal acetate, at 
all investigated dose levels (1, 2.5, 5, 10, 20 30, 50, 100, 200 mg oral or 600, 800, 1500, 2500 
µg/day or 1 mg/day vaginal ring formulation), in any indication (including emergency contraception, 
uterine fibroids or healthy volunteers) and for any treatment duration. Multiple doses of ulipristal 
acetate have been received by 1,975 subjects. 
Clinically significant abnormal liver tests were defined as laboratory values meeting Hy’s Law criteria3 
(alanine aminotransferases (ALT) ≥3xULN and simultaneous elevation of bilirubin > 2xULN), or post-
screening/baseline elevations of ALT or aspartate aminotransferases (AST) > 3xULN or total bilirubin 
>2xULN. 
Phase I 
In phase I clinical trials, with up to 10 days multiple daily oral doses, in total 176 subjects were 
exposed to 2.5, 5, 10, 20 or 50 mg daily. No alterations were observed in liver tests and no liver 
disorder related AEs were reported for these subjects.  
Phase II  
In Phase II clinical trials with multiple daily doses, 152 subjects were exposed to 2.5, 5, 10 or 20 mg 
daily doses. Exclusion criteria in relation to the liver were ALT/AST/ gamma-glutamyltransferase 
(GGT)/ Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) >2xULN (study CDB 2914/2-A), significant abnormalities in 
laboratory results (studies PGL-N-0287 and PGL-H-0090), hepatic disorder (study PGL-H-510) or 
alcohol abuse.  No liver disorder related Adverse Events (AEs) were reported, and no liver test results 
of ALT/AST >2xULN or total bilirubin >1.5xULN were noted in these studies, except study CDB 2914/2-
A. In this study, three subjects were reported with liver disorder related AEs, however, the level of 
ALT/AST was never above 3 times the ULN and bilirubin was never found to be above 2 times ULN at 
any visit. In one case, a hepatic function disorder was noted at week 8 visit, hepatic steatosis at 
follow-up 1 month visit and with cholelithiasis 2.5 month after end of treatment; the second case 
reported abnormal hepatic function at week 8 visit; in the third case, a slightly enhanced enzyme 
levels was reported at week 4 visit. 
Phase III 
About 1,500 patients have been included in the phase III program; they were exposed to 5 or 10 mg 
of ulipristal acetate for up to 8 intermittent 3 month treatment courses.  
Four cases of hepatic disorders were reported. The first case was an isolated increase of GGt to 3xULN 
at a single visit. No other hepatic laboratory values were abnormal during the 13 weeks of treatment 
and the 6 months of follow up. The second case had cholelithiasis symptoms before inclusion, which 
worsened during the treatment period. This patient underwent emergency surgery due to obstruction 
of the small intestine. The third patient had enhanced ALT, AST, and GGT after one month of 
treatment. The values were reduced at retests 1 and 2 weeks thereafter. Relevant history included 
ingestion of 500 ml of wine, 48 hours prior to elevated test results, however it is recognised that this is 
unlikely related to the abnormal level of liver enzymes. The fourth patient had a medical history of 
hepatic haemangioma and underwent hepatic haemangioma embolization during the study period.  
No case meeting the biochemical criteria of Hy’s Law was identified in the Phase III program. There 
were 7 subjects with ALT>3xULN and bilirubin ≤2xULN, 4 subjects with bilirubin >2xULN and 
ALT≤3xULN. For these 11 subjects, 9 had alternative explanations and for 2 subjects, the increased 
values occurred at the follow-up 3 or 6 months visits only.  
3 Temple R. Hy's law: predicting serious hepatotoxicity. Pharmacoepidemiol. Drug Saf. April 2006; 15(4):241-3.  
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 6/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
2.2.2.2.  Post marketing safety data 
Cumulative searches of safety databases were performed on post-marketing data of hepatic disorders 
reported up to 28 February 2018. In addition, follow-up information on 6 serious cases was received 
up to April 2018. The present review is based on the totality of those data. 
Cumulatively, 105 cases within the Standardized MedDRA Query (SMQ) ‘Hepatic disorders’ have been 
reported (34 serious and 71 non-serious). In 8 serious cases a possible role of Esmya as a contributing 
factor was identified, including 4 cases of acute liver failure leading to liver transplantation.  
2.2.2.2.1.  Cases of acute liver injury leading to liver transplantation 
The first case concerns a 55-year old female patient who was diagnosed with acute hepatitis 3 days 
after completion of the first treatment course with Esmya (treatment duration 109 days); liver 
transplantation was performed approximately 6 weeks later. Fatigue, asthenia, anorexia and post-
prandial fullness occurred 2 days after start of Esmya treatment. These early aspecific symptoms and 
the histopathological findings of the explanted liver suggest a pre-existing liver disease. Of note, there 
was no history of alcohol overconsumption or substance abuse and viral hepatitis (Hepatitis A virus 
(HAV), Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and Hepatitis E virus (HEV)) and autoimmune 
hepatitis was excluded as plausible aetiology. With regards to concomitant medications, cefuroxime 
1,500 mg for the treatment of urinary tract infection was taken for 2 days before the diagnosis of 
hepatitis. A dietary supplement containing lemon balm base, California poppy, hops and passiflora, was 
taken for 2 days approximately 3 weeks before onset of hepatitis. For this patient, the serology for 
cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) and herpes viruses was not detected; clinical data for 
the period of acute hepatitis was missing, as well as the reference ranges of liver parameters. The 
short treatment courses of cefuroxime and dietary supplement are not very plausible as explaining 
factors for the liver injury. Some data are missing and the lack of reference values makes the 
interpretation of this case difficult but Esmya remains as a possible (25-50%) contributing factor.  
The second case concerns a 58-year old female patient who was diagnosed with acute hepatitis with a 
time to onset of approximately 2 months. The patient did not use alcohol, had no substance abuse, no 
intake of herbal medicines or dietary supplements. Normal liver laboratory tests were performed 3 
years before the event. After approximately 2 months of treatment with Esmya, the patient suffered 
from fatigue and nausea, and the treatment was therefore stopped. A week later, fatigue and digestive 
symptoms became worse and abnormal liver test values were detected. About two weeks after the 
discontinuation of the treatment, the patient showed jaundice, and hepatic values were still abnormal. 
Progression from clinically apparent jaundice to encephalopathy occurred within 2 weeks, compatible 
with acute liver failure. Liver transplantation occurred 4 weeks after stopping Esmya. Viral aetiology 
was ruled out. Anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) were positive. The pathological examination of the 
explanted liver suggested an underlying chronic hepatic condition due to cirrhosis in explanted liver, 
and with signs of acute necrotising hepatitis. In the parenchyma the hepatocytes show degenerative 
alterations with cholestasis. The presence of rare plurinucleated regenerative hepatocytes associated 
with isolated necrosis bodies and Mallory bodies was noted. Although there were no indications of 
autoimmune disease in the medical history, and the finding of positive ANA is unspecific, an 
autoimmune cause for the chronic and acute lesions may be possible. A causal role for Esmya in 
development of acute-on-chronic liver failure is difficult to conclude on, but remains possible. Of note, 
pre-existing liver cirrhosis might lead to a higher risk for severe DILI4. In this case, a role for Esmya as 
a factor predisposing for an acute on chronic liver failure is possible. Nevertheless, there is remaining 
4 Chalasani N, Bonkovsky HL, Fontana R et al. Features and outcomes of 899 patients with drug-induced liver Injury: The 
DILIN Prospective Study. Gastroenterology, June 2015; 148(7):1340-52. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 7/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
uncertainty regarding potential confounding, including whether alcohol may be an alternative 
explanation, since Mallory bodies were reported. 
The third case concerns a 45-year old female patient reported with hepatocellular injury and DILI. 
Three days after the first dose of Esmya, the patient experienced asthenia, nausea, vomiting and dark 
urine. At day 26 after the first dose, the patient presented with jaundice and increased hepatic 
enzymes and Esmya was discontinued due to these events. The patient thereafter worsened, 
presenting with fulminant hepatitis resulting in liver transplantation about 4 weeks after Esmya 
discontinuation. The explanted liver was atrophic, weighing 817 g. This could be caused by the massive 
necrosis in left liver lobe leaving no hepatocytes. Before treatment with Esmya, the patient was 
reported to be in good health, apart from a previous EBV infection. The patient did not take 
concomitant medications and no alcohol abuse was reported. Viral hepatitis and autoimmune hepatitis 
were ruled out, with the exception of Human Herpesvirus 6 (HHV 6), that could not be ruled out. 
Although no obvious confounding factors are reported, the finding of an atrophic liver may not exclude 
an acute liver failure as a cause of loss of liver volume but the role of HHV6 is difficult to conclude on. 
The time to onset (26 days) is relatively short but may be compatible with a DILI causing acute liver 
failure. The role of Esmya in the development of acute liver failure in this case has been assessed as 
probable, however uncertainties remain as detailed above.  
The fourth case of liver transplantation concerns a 46-year old female patient who was treated with 
Esmya for approximately 6 months continuously. Even though there are no signs of excessive alcohol 
intake in the patient history, data on laboratory markers for alcohol induced hepatic damage is lacking. 
Liver tests were performed and were normal before treatment but no tests were performed during 
Esmya treatment.  Approximately 16 to 20 days after Esmya discontinuation, the patient experienced 
loss of appetite and nausea, followed by jaundice and rash. At hospitalization, hepatic laboratory 
values were enhanced, and biopsy showed damage of liver tissue with a pattern indicative of toxic 
damage. Investigations including hepatitis serology, markers for autoimmune liver disease and Wilsons 
disease were all negative. A few days later the patient began to develop hepatic encephalopathy, 
bilirubin 21.1 mg/dl, international normalized ratio (INR)>7 in line with progredient liver failure. The 
day after, a liver transplantation was performed. A few months later, the patient died, following long-
time in intensive care unit due to sepsis, which was out of control due to immunosuppressive therapy. 
Autoimmune hepatitis and viral hepatitis (i.e. HAV, HBV, HCV, EBV, CMV) were excluded. 
Approximately 20 days after Esmya discontinuation, hepatitis E IgM were positive and IgG were 
negative and HEV Ribonucleic acid (RNA) could not be detected in the faeces. In a research letter 
published in Lancet5, serial stool and serum samples were collected from 20 patients with acute 
hepatitis E. Faecal excretion and viremia in these patients were found to be short lived. In 19 patients, 
all samples obtained after biochemical resolution of hepatitis tested negative; in the remaining patient, 
HEV RNA was detected in the serum samples but not in stool after biochemical resolution. In line with 
this, the findings in this fourth case of liver transplantation are difficult to interpret. In addition, there 
is also some uncertainty regarding the statement about fibrosis in the report, and if that may indicate 
a longer lasting hepatic disorder. It should also be noted that in cases of DILI with hepatocellular 
damage, it is more common that ALT is more elevated than AST at least later in the clinical course 
which was not the case in the description above. Considering the serology data, the finding of hepatitis 
E, and the relatively long latency time, both being important potential confounding factors, this case is 
difficult to assess. A role of hepatitis E infection may still be possible although it appears that the 
finding of HEV IgM was considered unspecific in the clinic where the patient was treated. The temporal 
relationship for onset of liver injury is not typical. Esmya remains as possible or probable factor for 
causing liver injury in this case.  
5 Aggarwal R, Kini D, Sofat S et al. Duration of viraemia and faecal viral excretion in acute hepatitis E. Lancet, September 
2000;356(9235):1081-2.  
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 8/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
2.2.2.2.2.  Other cases of liver injury 
The first case was reported as a DILI, based on increased liver enzymes, which had a time to onset of 
approximately 3.5-4.5 months. When treatment with Esmya was stopped, weekly liver tests showed 
steady reduction of high levels of ALT, AST, bilirubin and GGT towards normal. The tests were repeated 
for 6 weeks. Ibuprofen was reported as a concomitant medication, which may be a confounding factor. 
There was no strong alternative explanation reported. There is therefore some support for a causal 
relationship between Esmya and liver injury but uncertainty remains due to missing information. 
Another case of a 48 years old woman was reported as necrotising hepatitis occurring at day 10 of the 
second Esmya treatment course. The patient reported nausea, abdominal pain, extreme fatigue and 
jaundice, transaminase about 2,500, increased INR and bilirubin. Ulipristal was discontinued. The 
patient recovered after discontinuation of the treatment. Of note, Sjögren’s syndrome was diagnosed 
at unspecified date. It is acknowledged that Sjögren’s syndrome may have liver manifestations, but 
there is uncertainty about this diagnosis including time relationship with hepatic necrosis and Esmya 
treatment. Despite possible confounding and missing information, this case reports a positive de-
challenge, and a causal role of Esmya is considered possible.  
An additional case was reported as cholestatic liver injury occurring on the 10th day of the third 
treatment course with Esmya. The patient was 39 years old and had a medical history of Hashimoto’s 
thyroiditis. There was limited information on this case. For this case, the causal role for Esmya is 
difficult to conclude on, taking into account uncertainty regarding potential confounding factors (i.e. 
concomitant medications) and missing information but remains possible.  
A case of 48 years-old women was reported with initial abdominal pain, nausea but normal liver 
values. An increase of GGT and transferases occurred after 2 months on the second Esmya treatment 
course. Following ulipristal discontinuation, these returned towards normal. Therefore, a causal 
relationship with Esmya is possible, but there are remaining uncertainties regarding viral and 
autoimmune tests. Computed tomography revealed Riedel lobe. The patient’s abnormal anatomy and 
celiac disease may be regarded as confounders although an accessory liver lobe goes mostly without 
symptoms. Of note, literature data show that Riedels lobe could cause an ischemic liver injury leading 
to transplantation6. However, the role of the accessory liver lobe in this case of serious liver injury is 
assessed as less plausible, due to the fact that in this patient normal liver values were reported 
initially, while abnormal liver values would have been expected in association with such abnormal liver 
lobe.   
2.2.2.3.  Literature data  
The MAH performed a literature review regarding hepatic safety for ulipristal, as well as regarding 
background occurrence of acute liver failure and DILI. Esmya is not described as a drug often causing 
liver toxicity in recent publications of DILI7,8). However, these data show limitations, as patients with 
elevated laboratory parameters were not included in these reviews. Overall, no publication was 
identified that point to additional concerns in relation to hepatic safety for ulipristal. 
2.2.2.4.  Discussion on safety  
Preclinical and Clinical trial data 
6 Ladurner R, Brandacher G, Mark W et al. Complete hepatic ischemia due to torsion of a large accessory liver lobe: first 
case to require transplantation. Transplant International. April 2005; 18(4):467-9. 
7 Björnsson ES. Hepatotoxicity by drugs: The most common implicated agents. International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 
February 2016; 17(2):224. 
8 Chen M, Suzuki A, Thakkar S et al. DILI rank: the largest reference drug list ranked by the risk for developing drug-
induced liver injury in humans. Drug Discovery Today. April 2016; 21(4):648-53. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 9/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
There is no signal of hepatic toxicity from the non-clinical studies, which have been undertaken in 
rodents and monkey, and which consist of chronic toxicity studies as well as of life time exposure 
within carcinogenicity studies. However, it is recognised that the non-clinical models used could not be 
predictive for liver toxicity in humans, due to differences between the species. 
The potential toxicity of the major metabolite of Esmya (PGL4002) has not been fully characterised. In 
vitro studies of ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 are therefore necessary to further investigate its 
mechanism of action on the liver. In addition, the possibility of perform a physiologically based 
pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling of ulipristal acetate under conditions of impaired bile secretion 
should also be investigated, in order to assess if an increased local exposure in the liver might be 
possible in existing cholestatic disease states. 
Cumulatively 7,100 subjects have been exposed to at least one dose of Esmya in clinical trials, with 
1,077 subjects exposed to ulipristal acetate 5 mg/day or higher for at least one 3-month treatment 
course. In both the short- and long-term clinical trials median values for liver enzymes (ALT, AST and 
ALP) and bilirubin remained within the normal range in the Esmya treatment groups. Some reports of 
elevated hepatic markers were seen, but no more serious events were identified. Of note, both in the 
phase II and III program, patients with abnormal hepatic laboratory parameters (in most studies 
ALT/AST/ALP/bilirubin ≥2xULN), or alcohol abusers, were excluded. Thus, there is no experience from 
clinical trials of repeated use of ulipristal in patients with pre-existing hepatic disorders. Therefore, the 
clinical trial data have limited value when assessing the potential risk for hepatic injury. 
Post marketing experience  
Cumulatively, 105 cases within the SMQ ‘Hepatic disorders’ have been reported (34 serious and 71 
non-serious). In 8 serious cases, some support for a causal role of Esmya as a contributing factor was 
identified, including 4 cases of acute liver failure leading to liver transplantation. For two of the liver 
transplantation cases, a contributing role of Esmya was assessed as at least probable, while for the two 
others, there is insufficient information to either conclude or disregard such relationship as 
uncertainties due to potential confounding factors remain. There were also 4 other serious cases of 
liver injury where a role of Esmya is possible although for some of these, data are weak and available 
information is insufficient to draw firm conclusions. The possible causal associations for these cases are 
mainly supported by positive de-challenge for some of them, as well as by the absence of other 
confounding factors, or explanations for the observed liver injury, for others. 
In order to have sufficient information to perform a thorough review of cases of liver injury reported 
with Esmya in the future, the collection of more data on each case is therefore necessary. The use of 
specific adverse reaction follow up questionnaires is therefore recommended. 
Considering the estimated post-marketing exposure to Esmya, the worst case estimation of the 
number of cases of subacute severe liver impairment leading to liver transplantation appears higher 
than expected (4 transplantation cases). Moreover, there are 4 other cases with serious liver injury 
with at least a reasonable possibility for a causal relationship with Esmya. These estimations are not 
entirely reassuring, although a number of uncertainties were identified.  
Time to onset for symptoms of liver injury in the eight cases of liver injury reported range from a few 
days after the initiation of the treatment to approximately 2 months. In a few cases, symptoms 
appeared within 2-3 weeks after the discontinuation of the treatment. In some of cases reported in 
post marketing settings, data are suggestive of an underlying chronic hepatic condition; however, this 
cannot be concluded for all cases, due to missing information and confounding factors, such as 
concomitant medications and comorbidities.  
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 10/22 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC also noted the experts’ view that although a causal relationship cannot be concluded with 
certainty, based on the safety findings and possible mechanisms, a causal association between Esmya 
and severe liver injury is plausible. The experts agreed on a possible to probable relationship between 
Esmya and some cases of severe liver injury. Considering the experts’ view, as well as the totality of 
data considered, including data provided by the MAH, the PRAC was of the view that Esmya may carry 
a risk for serious liver injury.  
The pathogenesis of idiosyncratic DILI is poorly understood. It is likely that DILI arises from several 
factors including genetic factors, concomitant diseases, age, sex, compound-specific risk factors (e.g. 
dosage and metabolism characteristics), non-genetic host susceptibility, and environmental factors. 
Alcohol consumption has also been proposed as a risk factor for DILI from medications, but there is 
insufficient evidence to support this9. With regards to concomitant pathologies, there is no evidence 
that the history of hepatitis A infection is a risk factor for developing DILI. Acute hepatitis E has been 
reported to be the cause of some cases of liver disease that were first suspected to be DILI10. The 
single carriage of hepatitis B or hepatitis C is not sufficient to be a risk factor of DILI except in patients 
with chronic hepatitis co-infected with HIV receiving anti-retroviral medication11 or anti-tuberculous 
treatment12. Among cases of liver injury reported with Esmya, no firm correlation could be concluded 
between the incidence of this adverse reaction and a pre-existing hepatitis. However, in order to 
exclude patients that would be potentially more vulnerable to hepatic insult from the treatment with 
Esmya, the PRAC considered appropriate to recommend amendments to the product information of 
Esmya. The indication for intermittent treatment should be restricted, and further amendments to the 
product information should also be implemented, in order to limit the use of the product to patients 
which may be more susceptible to liver injury and to monitor liver conditions in patients that are 
exposed to Esmya. 
In view of the remaining uncertainties, the PRAC considers appropriate that further investigations on 
the impact of Esmya on risk of liver injury are performed. Mechanistic in vitro studies should be carried 
out, as well as observational studies on patients exposed to Esmya should be performed. In addition, 
the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures implemented should also be verified. 
2.3.  Efficacy  
The MAH provided relevant efficacy data including that previously submitted for the initial marketing 
authorisation on preoperative treatment of uterine fibrosis, as well as the authorisation of the 
additional indication of intermittent treatment of uterine fibrosis in adult women of reproductive age.   
Data on efficacy in pre-operative treatment 
The clinical efficacy of ulipristal acetate in the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe 
symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age was evaluated in two phase 3 
randomised, double-blind, 13 week studies, study PGL07-021 (placebo control) and study PGL07-022 
(active control), recruiting patients with very heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine 
fibroids. Key results of these studies are presented in table 1 below.  
Table 1: Results of primary and selected secondary efficacy assessments in Phase III studies 
9 Chalasani N and Björnsson E. Risk factors for idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury. Gastroenterology. June 2010; 
138(7):2246-59. 
10 Davern TJ, Chalasani N, Fontana RJ et al. Acute hepatitis E infection accounts for some cases of suspected drug-induced 
liver injury. Gastroenterology. November 2011; 141(5):1665-72. 
11 Andrade RJ, Lopez-Ortega S, Lopez-Vega MC et al. Idiosyncratic drug hepatotoxicity: a 2008 update. Expert Rev. Clin. 
Pharmacol. March 2008; 1(2):261-76. 
12 Kim WS, Lee SS, Lee CM et al. Hepatitis C and not Hepatitis B virus is a risk factor for anti-tuberculosis drug induced liver 
injury. BMC Infectious Diseases. February 2016; 16-50. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 11/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
Placebo 
N=48 
PGL07-021  
Ulipristal 
acetate 
5 mg/day 
N=95 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
10 mg/day 
N=94 
Leuprorelin 
3.75 mg/ 
month 
N=93 
PGL07-022  
Ulipristal 
acetate 
5 mg/day 
N=93 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
10 mg/day 
N=95 
376 
386 
330 
297 
286 
271 
Parameter 
Menstrual 
bleeding 
Median PBAC at 
baseline 
-59 
-268 
-268 
-274 
-326 
-329 
3  
(6.3%) 
74  
(80.4%) 
76  
(81.7%)2 
69 
(73.4%)1 
70 (75.3%)  85 (89.5%) 
Median change at 
week 13  
Patients in 
amenorrhea at 
week 13  
Patients whose 
menstrual 
bleeding became 
normal (PBAC < 
75) at week 13 
Median change in 
myoma volume 
from baseline to 
week 13a 
a In Study 1, change from baseline in total myoma volume was measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In 
Study 2, change in the volume of the three largest myomas was measured by ultrasound. Bold values in shaded 
squares indicate that there was a significant difference in the comparisons between ulipristal acetate and the 
control. These were always in favour of ulipristal acetate. P values: 1 = <0.001, 2 = 0.037, 3= <0.002, 4 = <0.006. 
84 (90.3%)  93 (97.9%) 
86 
(91.5%)1 
86  
(92.5%)1 
82  
(89.1%) 
9 (18.8%) 
-21.2%3 
-12.3%4 
-42.1% 
-35.6% 
-53.5% 
+3.0% 
In study PGL07-021, a statistically significant difference was observed in reduction in menstrual blood 
loss in favour of the patients treated with ulipristal acetate compared to placebo, resulting in faster and 
more efficient correction of anaemia than iron supplement alone. Likewise, patients treated with 
ulipristal acetate had a greater reduction in myoma size, as assessed by MRI. In study PGL07-022, the 
reduction in menstrual blood loss was comparable for the patients treated with ulipristal acetate and 
the active comparator, leuprorelin 3.75 mg, a gonadotrophin releasing hormone-agonist. Most patients 
treated with ulipristal acetate stopped bleeding within the first week of treatment (amenorrhea). In 
addition, an evaluation of quality of life improvement in treatment groups was performed through 
measurement of discomfort due to symptoms of uterine fibroids; a significant improvement in the 
ulipristal acetate groups versus placebo was demonstrated. 
Data on efficacy in intermittent treatment 
The therapeutic indication for intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women of reproductive age was based on results from study PGL11-006 providing data 
for up to 4 intermittent treatment courses of 3 months each with ulipristal acetate along with data for 
repeated treatment courses from the previous studies, including the open-label study PGL09-027. 
Study PGL11-006 evaluated the efficacy and safety of ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg daily dose. 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria of study PGL11-006 were largely in line with those used in previous 
studies for short term treatment, except that the women included in study PGL11-006 were not 
required to be eligible for a surgical procedure for their uterine fibroids.  
A summary of results of primary and selected secondary efficacy assessment in long term phase III 
studies is presented in table 2 below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 12/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Results of primary and selected secondary efficacy assessments in long term Phase III studies 
Parameter 
After treatment course 2 
(two times 3 months of treatment) 
After treatment course 4 
(four times 3 months of treatment) 
PGL09-027a 
10 mg/day 
N=132 
PGL11-006 
PGL09-027 
PGL11-006 
5 mg/d
ay 
N=213 
10 mg/da
y 
N=207 
10 mg/day 
N=107 
5 mg/da
y 
N=178  
10 mg/day 
N=176 
N=131 
N=205 
N=197 
N=107 
N=227  
N=220  
Patients 
starting 
treatment 
course 2 or 4 
Patients in 
amenorrheab,c 
116  
(88.5%) 
152 
(74.1%) 
N=199 
175 
(87.9%) 
162 
(82.2%) 
N=191 
168 
(88.0%) 
96 
(89.7%) 
158 
(69.6%) 
N=202 
148 
(73.3%) 
164 (74.5%) 
N=192 
144 (75.0%) 
NA 
NA 
-63.2% 
Patients with 
controlled 
bleedingb,c, d 
Median change 
in myoma 
volume from 
baseline 
a Treatment course 2 assessment corresponds to Treatment course 2 plus one menstrual bleeding. 
b Patients with missing values were excluded from the analysis. 
c N and % include withdrawn patients  
d Controlled bleeding was defined as no episodes of heavy bleeding and a maximum of 8 days of bleeding (not 
including days of spotting) during the last 2 months of a treatment course. 
-71.8% 
-72.1% 
-54.1% 
-58.0% 
-72.7% 
Final results of study PGL11-006 showed that 73.3 % of the patients on the 5 mg dose had controlled 
bleeding (no episodes of heavy bleeding and a maximum of 8 days of bleeding over 56 days) after 
treatment course 4 which is considered to be of clinical relevance. In addition, the proportions of 
patients in amenorrhoea after each treatment course are of clear clinical relevance supporting repeated 
intermittent treatment with ulipristal acetate.  
Of note, during the off-treatment interval, with resumption of menstruation the quality of life was 
slightly reduced compared to the end of each treatment course, but was still improved in comparison 
to baseline.  
Discussion on efficacy 
The two short-term studies demonstrated the ability of the active substance to reduce fibroid-related 
bleeding, anaemia and fibroid size if administered in a daily dose of 5 mg for up to three months, in 
women who were to undergo surgery for their fibroids.  
Esmya was also shown to be effective at reducing bleeding and uterine fibroid size when used 
intermittently for longer periods (up to 4 treatment courses) and improved quality of life. Data for up 
to 8 treatment courses are available from a limited number of women. 
3.  Experts consultation  
The PRAC consulted an ad-hoc experts group, which provided advice on a number of issues. 
There was a consensus among physicians and patients that the symptomatic benefits associated with 
Esmya are important for at least some patients, based on the current knowledge of benefits. However, 
this does not mean that Esmya should be the preferred treatment for all patients. The experts’ views 
varied on the importance of the benefits associated with Esmya. According to some experts, the 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 13/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
benefits were marginal. Although the effects on bleeding are not disputed, the reduction in size of 
fibroid has been less convincing (+/-10%) in the study where observers were blinded to treatment 
allocation. There is likely misinformation about the claim that surgery can be avoided altogether. 
Definitive avoidance of surgery has not been established, and the benefits of delaying surgery are also 
not proven since delaying surgery might theoretically result in less effective or more invasive surgery 
due to larger fibroids. Similarly, long-term effects, effects on fertility, and Quality of Life data about the 
benefits of Esmya compared to other medical therapy, minimally invasive procedures (e.g. uterine 
artery embolisation), and surgery, are not known. Other experts focussed on the importance of having 
different medical treatment options, especially for long-term treatment, and the advantages compared 
to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists which are associated with adverse effects, such as 
hypo-oestrogenism and decreased bone mineral density, in the pre-operative setting.  
Unfortunately, long-term data comparing different modalities (including hysterectomy) are lacking. 
Based on the available evidence it is difficult to suggest a specific population that might benefit the 
most from Esmya, as much will depend on individual preferences. Although not based on robust data, 
it is likely that invasive options will be preferred for managing the disease in the long-term and 
avoiding risks associated with Esmya, while other patients may want to avoid more radical surgical 
options and preserve fertility. Size, number and location of fibroids may also inform the decision. In 
the short-term pre-operative setting (preoperative treatment for 3 months), GnRH agonists may be 
the preferred option to avoid the risks of severe liver injury associated with Esmya. Adequate 
information to physicians and patients on benefits, risks and uncertainties of available options are 
paramount for adequate medical decisions. There were concerns that currently the product might be 
prescribed off-label. For instance, the indication is restricted to women of reproductive age while many 
of the cases described with hepatic toxicity were older than 55. Although statistically possible, this may 
indicate off-label use in postmenopausal women. It should be stressed that the benefits and risks in 
post-menopausal women have not been established. 
From the available evidence and knowledge about pathophysiology of fibroids and mechanism of action 
of ulipristal acetate, a causal relationship cannot be concluded with certainty. However, based on the 
safety findings and possible mechanisms, there was consensus that a causal association between 
Esmya and severe liver injury is plausible. Concerning potential mechanisms, it is possible to speculate 
that exacerbation of autoimmunity or an indirect estrogenic effect due to modulation of progesterone 
activity could play a role. Concerning the clinical safety findings, in many cases the causality 
assessment by the company was negative (based for instance on confounding factors, lack of the 
exclusion of competing aetiologies; viral infection), but this was debateable (there was broad 
consensus among hepatologists that at least 2/7 cases were most likely related to the use of ulipristal). 
The experts agreed on a possible to probable relationship between Esmya and some cases of severe 
liver injury. As known, a potential mechanism for the occurrence of DILI is difficult to elucidate. 
Concerning other aspects, these could not be discussed in depth since they remain highly speculative 
and not evidence-based. No strong conclusions could be drawn about additional factors associated with 
DILI based on available data.  
Some experts argued that monthly liver function tests will not be effective or that compliance would be 
poor. Others emphasized that they would draw the attention of physicians on the risk of liver toxicity. 
Others still questioned if treatment initiation shouldn’t be restricted to gynaecologists. Nevertheless, 
the experts agreed that ALT testing at the start of treatment is a reasonable step, although there is no 
evidence that this will prevent ulipristal DILI. Follow up with regular ALT measurements will likely be 
inefficient but is the only safety net that can be recommended to detect cases (astute clinical vigilance 
would be a better solution but that requires awareness of the issue from the attending physician, which 
may not always be the case). Overall, the proposed measures (contraindication; warnings), although 
not based on data from cases with associated hepatotoxicity, appear reasonable and proportionate 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 14/22 
 
 
 
 
without the need of major additions or modifications (minor modification: bilirubin alone should not be 
a criterion for not initiating treatment). The emphasis on when to stop treatment was agreed. 
General symptoms (fatigue) shortly after start of treatment could also be an early signal (alert). 
In conclusion, the proposed measures were considered appropriate. However, there is no evidence that 
the measures proposed will be effective in avoiding further liver injuries, including severe events. This 
is due to the fact that the risk factors for liver injury have not been identified.  
A number of studies would be useful. A first objective is to confirm what appears to be a plausible 
causal relationship between Esmya and severe liver injury, and this could be done on the basis of non-
clinical as well as clinical studies (e.g. registry study with treated patients). Concerning non-clinical 
studies a number of approaches are possible and a comprehensive strategy should be proposed by the 
company. Concerning clinical studies, an observational safety study (registry) looking at liver tests 
before, during and after treatment, possible risk-factors and confounders, could be useful in the real-
life setting (also to clarify the patients and disease characteristics of patients). Together with 
mechanistic studies, investigating autoimmune and hormonal mechanisms, this should allow a better 
understanding of the risk and associated factors, and refining risk-minimisation measures, as 
appropriate. 
4.  Benefit-risk balance 
Esmya (ulipristal acetate, 5 mg) is a centrally authorised medicinal product indicated for pre-operative 
treatment, as well as intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in 
adult women of reproductive age.  
PRAC considered all the data submitted by the MAH, as well as data provided by the National 
Competent Authorities including follow-up information on cases of liver transplantation. The views 
expressed by ad-hoc experts consulted during the course of the procedure were also considered. 
Uterine fibroids are the most common female pelvic tumour. Although uterine fibroids are benign, 
moderate to severe forms are often associated with significant morbidity, such as heavy bleeding, 
anaemia, pain, discomfort and reduced quality of life. As assessed in the initial marketing authorisation 
of Esmya, the clinical efficacy of ulipristal acetate in the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe 
symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age was based on short-term studies 
demonstrating the ability of the active substance to reduce fibroid-related bleeding, anaemia and 
fibroid size if administered in a daily dose of 5 mg for up to three months. The marketing authorisation 
of Esmya was extended to include the therapeutic indication for intermittent treatment of moderate to 
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. This last indication was 
authorised based on results from another study providing data for up to 4 intermittent treatment 
courses of 3 months each with ulipristal acetate along with data for repeated treatment courses from 
the previous studies. Through a pronounced reduction of bleeding, reducing anaemia and related 
symptoms, Esmya has been demonstrated to rapidly contribute to the improvement of the quality of 
life in patients who did not undertake a surgical treatment. Of note, menopause constitutes a natural 
end to the need for treatment. 
It was noted that no signal of hepatic toxicity was identified from non-clinical or clinical studies on 
Esmya. However, due to exclusion criteria covering patients with elevated transaminases, or other 
signs of liver disease, as well as the limited size of the safety database in these studies, the absence of 
findings in clinical trials has to be interpreted with caution. Also, due to hormonal differences between 
rodents and humans, the toxicological liver safety findings obtained in rodents were assessed as less 
relevant for humans. In post marketing settings, all of the reported cases lack information hampering 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 15/22 
 
 
 
 
causality assessment, and causal relationship with Esmya and serious hepatic injury is therefore not 
firmly established. However, there is sufficient information from these cases to conclude that there is 
at least a reasonable possibility that Esmya may infrequently contribute to hepatic injury.  
Based on the safety findings and possible mechanism of action, the experts of the ad hoc experts 
group were of the view that a causal association between Esmya and severe liver injury is plausible. In 
particular, there was a consensus among hepatologists that in at least 2 cases reported, a relation with 
the use of Esmya could be observed.  
Although the general characteristics of Esmya do not support it to be a typical DILI causing agent, 
based on the current review, and taking experts views into consideration, the PRAC concluded that 
Esmya (ulipristal acetate) may carry a risk for serious liver injury. The available data raise serious 
concerns, and warrant risk minimisation measures to be taken.  
Uterine fibroids are the single most common indication for hysterectomy13. Hysterectomy is a very 
common curative surgical procedure within gynaecology associated with a low mortality (mortality 
figures quoted range from 0.02% to 0.17%) and a low risk of intra- or postoperative complications 
(quoted from 5% to 8%). Other surgical treatments such as myomectomy and uterine artery 
embolisation are also valid alternatives to hysterectomy, but they are not suitable for all cases and are 
also associated with a higher rate for complications than hysterectomy. However, it is recognised that 
a surgical treatment is not suitable for all women, due to their medical history, co-morbidities or 
willingness to preserve fertility.  
In view of the existing concerns on recently reported cases of serious liver injury and acknowledging 
that the magnitude of the benefit differs for different clinical situations, the PRAC considered that the 
use of Esmya should be limited. Taking into account the clinical utility of Esmya in the intermittent 
treatment indication, where no other long-term pharmacological alternative is authorised, this 
indication should be limited to adult women of reproductive age who are not eligible for surgery.  
The pre-operative treatment may be considered of least benefit as it reflects a situation when surgery 
is planned; however reductions in myoma size as well as reductions in blood loss and anaemia are 
considered of clinical significance. PRAC considered that it should be clarified in in the wording of the 
indication that in line with the current posology Esmya is to be used for a single treatment course in 
pre-operative setting. 
Taking into account the experts’ views on the topic, and after a thorough review of the available data, 
PRAC considered that the following risk minimisation measures should be recommended.  
In order to exclude patients that would be potentially more susceptible to hepatic insult from the 
treatment with Esmya, the product should be contraindicated in patients with underlying hepatic 
disorder. In addition, the PRAC considers that warnings regarding monitoring and stopping criteria 
should be implemented, in order to identify a hepatic injury of any origin before the patient 
experiences symptoms, which could reduce the risk of developing serious injury. 
Therefore, liver function tests should be performed before starting treatment with Esmya, monthly 
during the first two courses of treatment as well as two to four weeks after the discontinuation of the 
treatment. In line with the exclusion criteria in the clinical studies of Esmya, patients with ALT or AST> 
2 x ULN (isolated or in combination with bilirubin >2 x ULN) should not initiate treatment. In addition, 
patients who develop transaminase levels (ALT or AST) > 3 x ULN during treatment should stop 
treatment and be closely monitored. Usually, DILI events occur within the first 6 months after starting 
13 Stewards EA; Uterine Fibroids. Lancet, 27 January 2001; 357(9252):293-8. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 16/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
a new medication14. Based on the reported post-marketing cases of potential liver injury with Esmya, 
and assuming that all such cases are due to Esmya, regardless of causality, the peak time to onset of 
liver injury is around 140 days and the vast majority of the reported potential drug induced liver 
injuries occurring between 1 and 8 months (2 treatment cycles including 2 months pause). This is the 
rationale that justifies the mandatory liver monitoring within the first 2 treatment courses, while during 
later courses, monitoring is recommended as clinically indicated. Of note, the development of drug 
induced liver injury generally tends to be a gradual phenomenon, developing over 1-4 weeks. More 
frequent monitoring than monthly is not considered practically feasible.  The PRAC considers it 
appropriate to also monitor liver function 2 to 4 weeks after the treatment has stopped, since for some 
of the reported cases, liver injury was reported a few weeks after the discontinuation of the treatment. 
In order to ensure that decisions on the initiation and continuation of the treatment are made by 
physicians who are familiar with diagnosis of uterine fibrosis, the PRAC also recommends that the 
initiation and supervision of treatment with Esmya should be restricted to physicians experienced in 
the diagnosis and treatment of uterine fibroids. 
The existing educational material (physician’s guide) should also be updated with these 
recommendations, and the issuing of a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) is also 
considered appropriate, to inform healthcare professionals of the recommendations of the present 
review. In order to ensure that patients are adequately informed on the possible risks of liver injury 
and the implemented risk minimisation measures, a patient card should be issued. Patients should be 
informed of potential adverse reactions related to liver that could be caused by the use of Esmya, as 
well as on the need to warn their physicians on any liver problems they may have. Patients should 
inform physicians on any liver problems they may have, and be also aware of the liver function 
monitoring tests to be performed before the treatment, during the treatment and after its 
discontinuation. 
The PRAC was also of the view that the reported cases of liver injury should be closely monitored; to 
this effect a targeted follow up questionnaire has been included in a revised risk management plan 
(RMP). The MAH should implement these questionnaires and their results should be discussed in future 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
In the view of the remaining uncertainties, the PRAC is of the view that further data on Esmya and 
liver injury should be collected. The PRAC considers that in vitro studies should be performed by the 
MAH, in order to better characterize the mechanistic profile of DILI as associated with Esmya. In 
addition, in order to analyse data on risk of liver injury related with Esmya and on effectiveness of risk 
minimisation measures, observational studies should be performed.  
In conclusion, the PRAC considered that the benefit-risk balance of Esmya remained favourable subject 
to the amendments of the terms of the marketing authorisations. The temporary measure 
recommended by the PRAC in February 2018, to not treat any new patients is superseded by these 
new recommendations. 
5.  Risk management 
The MAH should operate a risk management system described in a RMP which has been endorsed as 
part of the current review procedure. The PRAC considered that DILI should be classified as an 
important identified risk in the RMP of Esmya.  
14 Chalasani NP, Hayashi PH, Bonkovsky HL et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: The diagnosis and management of idiosyncratic 
drug-induced liver injury. The American Journal of Gastroenterology. July 2014; 109(7):950-66. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 17/22 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
The following ongoing and planned activities are considered relevant to better characterise this risk 
and should be reflected in the RMP.  
5.1.  Pharmacovigilance activities 
5.1.1.  Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires 
The PRAC considered that targeted follow-up questionnaires are necessary in order collect more data 
and allow in depth review of cases of liver injury. The targeted questionnaire should include the 
following sections: medical history, symptoms of liver injury, laboratory testing, imaging (ultrasound, 
Computer Tomography, MRI), histopathology, and causality assessment. Only questions relevant for a 
particular case, depending on the already available information, should be sent to the reporter. 
Analyses of the data collected via the existing targeted follow-up forms for serious hepatic injury 
should be presented in future PSURs. 
5.1.2.  Non-clinical studies 
The MAH should perform in vitro mechanistic studies, to further explore possible mechanisms for DILI, 
as detailed below.   
Ulipristal acetate and its main metabolite (PGL4002) should be tested in vitro for their potential to 
inhibit multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) in membrane vesicles. In addition, an 
evaluation of the effect of ulipristal acetate on cell viability in vitro should be performed. This 
evaluation should be conducted in 3D spheroid micro tissues made from primary human hepatocytes 
co cultured with non-parenchymal cells for up to 14 days. Additional transcriptomics experiments will 
be performed to gain insight into the possible mechanisms. The effect of ulipristal acetate and 
PGL4002 on cell viability in sandwich cultured primary human hepatocytes should be also evaluated. 
The potential for ulipristal acetate and its metabolites to cause cholestatic effects will be assessed by 
comparing the cell viability between incubations with and without added bile salts. 
The MAH should also perform a feasibility assessment of PBPK modelling of ulipristal acetate under 
conditions of impaired bile secretion. If feasible, the study should be conducted and the concentrations 
of ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 in human blood and liver will be estimated in a PBPK model in which 
bile secretion is impaired. 
All the above described mechanistic studies should be included as category 3 of the RMP. The studies 
should start in June 2018 and the study report should be submitted by September 2018. 
5.1.3.  Non-interventional studies  
Observational studies on hepatic risk  
In order to define the impact of Esmya on hepatic risk, PRAC considers that several observational 
studies should be performed, some of which subject to feasibility assessment. These studies should be 
categorised as category 3 studies in the RMP.  
A retrospective cohort study should be performed, based on multinational database. The study 
objective should be to estimate the absolute and relative risk of liver injury with Esmya treatment and 
compare with patients with uterine fibroids not taking Esmya. The feasibility assessment of various EU 
national databases is ongoing. One of the databases is the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD), 
covering over 6 million active patients in the UK. Based on the feasibility assessment result, the study 
will be conducted or cancelled due to lack of statistical power. The MAH is required to submit the 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 18/22 
 
 
 
 
protocol of this category 3 study to the EMA for assessment by the PRAC, within 3 months of adoption 
of the European Commission decision. 
The MAH has also proposed a retrospective case control study utilizing medical records of 
transplantation centres in at least five EU member states. This study could be performed to estimate 
the overall population based absolute risk of acute liver failure leading to registration for 
transplantation in women exposed to Esmya. However, it is noted that the study would not provide 
additional information regarding the association between Esmya and DILI not leading to 
transplantation. The performance of this study is subject to feasibility; the feasibility report should be 
submitted to the PRAC within two months from the EC Decision of the present procedure. 
A feasibility assessment of an observational study using EU registries with biomarker data should be 
performed. Examples of these registries are THIN (United Kingdom), GePaRD (Germany), Pro-EURO 
DILI registry, Spanish registry and iDILIC registry.  The intent of the study is to describe trends in 
biomarkers for hepatic injury following exposure to Esmya and the proportion of patients developing 
clinically relevant increases in biomarkers for hepatic injury. It should also describe adherence to 
monitoring of biomarkers for hepatic injury, and identify risk factors for DILI. The feasibility report 
should be submitted to the PRAC within two months from the EC Decision of the present procedure. 
In addition to the above, a genetic analysis (HLA) study should be performed, through a retrospective 
and prospective analysis of blood samples provided voluntarily by the patients. Data used could be 
from EU registries with biomarker data in patients with severe DILI in registries such as, the 
International DILI Consortium (iDILIC), Spanish registry and the Pro-EURO DILI registry. Feasibility 
study will be performed prior to initiation of this study, for which the feasibility report should be 
submitted to the PRAC within two months from the EC Decision of the present procedure. 
Observational studies on effectiveness of risk minimization  
A retrospective drug utilisation study should be performed, through a chart review across not less of 
four major EU countries. The study should measure effectiveness of monitoring of liver parameters in 
patients treated with Esmya, adherence to the modified indication and to the contraindication of 
underlying hepatic disorder. Protocol submission for this study to the PRAC should be within three 
months from EC decision on the present procedure.  
In order to measure effectiveness of the recommended risk minimisation measures in patients treated 
with Esmya, EU registries should be used, e.g. THIN, GePaRD, Pro-EURO DILI registry and the DILI 
registry databases. This study is subject to feasibility; feasibility report should be submitted to the 
PRAC within two months after EC decision of the present procedure. 
5.2.  Risk minimisation measures  
5.2.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information would be necessary in order to minimise the risk of hepatic injury associated with the use 
of Esmya. These changes include amendments to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2 of the SmPC. 
The intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids with Esmya should be 
restricted to adult women of reproductive age who are not eligible for surgery. It is also clarified that 
Esmya should be used as one treatment course only of pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe 
symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The PRAC also recommended that 
the initiation and supervision of treatment with Esmya should be restricted to physicians experienced 
in the diagnosis and treatment of uterine fibroids. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 19/22 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC further concluded that Esmya should be contraindicated in patients with underlying hepatic 
disorder. As a warning, PRAC recommends that liver function tests must be performed before starting 
the treatment with Esmya, during treatment as well after its discontinuation. The levels of hepatic 
enzymes above which the product should not be used or should be discontinued are specified in the 
SmPC. In addition, patients who show signs or symptoms compatible with liver injury during treatment 
should discontinue it and be investigated immediately. 
Furthermore, hepatic failure has been added in the list of adverse reactions, with a frequency not 
known.  
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
The Annex II of the marketing authorisation was also updated to reflect the key elements to be 
included in the existing educational materials and in the newly introduced patient card in relation to 
the risk of liver injury. 
5.2.2.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communication/Communication plan 
A Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) was disseminated in February 2018 based on 
the preliminary data available to inform HCPs of the provisional measures to restrict the use of Esmya 
to patients currently under treatment, and to introduce liver monitoring.  
The PRAC considered that another DHPC should be disseminated to inform healthcare professionals of 
the conclusions of the present review. The wording of a DHPC was adopted to communicate the agreed 
amendments to the product information, including the restriction of the indication to patients who are 
not eligible for surgery, the introduction of the contraindication for patients with underlying liver 
disorders and the necessity of liver tests to be performed before, during and after the treatment. The 
relevant hepatic enzyme levels are specified, for which the treatment should not be initiated or should 
be discontinued if detected during treatment. The DHPC should also specify the need for healthcare 
professionals to inform patients of signs and symptoms of liver injury, and to stop the treatment 
should these symptoms appear.  
The PRAC also agreed on a communication plan. 
5.2.3.  Educational materials 
The Physician’s guide to prescribing that is in Annex II of the Marketing Authorisation of Esmya should 
be amended with the addition of the following key elements:  
• 
Patients with underlying hepatic disorder are contraindicated. 
•  Baseline liver function tests are required before treatment initiation, and before each new 
treatment course. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Patients with alanine transaminase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) > 2 x ULN 
(isolated or in combination with bilirubin >2 x ULN) must not be treated. 
Liver function must be monitored monthly during the first 2 treatment courses, and thereafter 
when clinically indicated. 
Treatment must be stopped if the patient develops ALT or AST > 3 x ULN. 
If a patient during treatment shows signs or symptoms compatible with liver injury, treatment 
should be stopped, and the patient should be investigated immediately, and liver function tests 
performed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 20/22 
 
 
 
 
•
In addition, liver testing should be performed within 2-4 weeks after treatment has stopped.
In addition to the above, an educational material for patients in the form of a patient card should be 
added to Annex II of the Marketing Authorisation of the product, and is fully described in Annex III of 
the marketing authorisation. Key elements are the following:  
•
•
•
•
Inform the patients about potential adverse reactions related to liver that could be caused by
the use of Esmya.
Inform the patients on the need to warn their physicians on any liver problems they may have.
Inform the patients not to take Esmya in case of liver problems.
Inform the patients about the need for monitoring of liver function before starting each
treatment course, monthly during treatment and within a few weeks after the treatment has
stopped.
The patient card should be included in the secondary packaging of the medicinal product. With regards 
to medicinal products that are already on the market, patient cards will be provided to pharmacists to 
be inserted in the packages containing Esmya. 
6. Grounds for Recommendation
Whereas, 
•
•
•
•
•
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting
from pharmacovigilance data for Esmya (ulipristal acetate).
The PRAC reviewed the totality of the data regarding the risk for liver injury with Esmya
provided by the marketing authorisation holder and National Competent Authorities on cases of
liver injury and liver transplantation reported since the initial marketing authorisation of the
product. Data from clinical trials, non-clinical studies including in vitro testing were also
reviewed. The PRAC also considered the views expressed by experts at an ad hoc expert group
meeting.
The PRAC concluded that Esmya (ulipristal acetate) may carry a risk for serious liver injury.
While uncertainties around causality remain, PRAC recognised the very serious outcome of the
reported cases of liver injury. Balancing this to the benefits of Esmya treatment of moderate to
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids, the PRAC concluded that the indicated population should
be restricted for safety reasons. Furthermore, measures to minimise a risk for liver injury
should be implemented.
The PRAC recommended that intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of
uterine fibroids with Esmya should be restricted to adult women of reproductive age who are
not eligible for surgery. It is also clarified that Esmya can be used as one treatment course of
pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of
reproductive age. The PRAC also recommended that the initiation and supervision of treatment
with Esmya should be restricted to physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of
uterine fibroids.
The PRAC further concluded that Esmya should be contraindicated in patients with underlying
hepatic disorder. In addition, the PRAC recommended the performance of liver function tests
before starting each treatment course with Esmya, during treatment as well as two to four
weeks after the discontinuation of treatment. Guidance on treatment initiation and
Assessment report 
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 21/22 
discontinuation based on the results of these tests is included in the product information. 
Treatment should be stopped in patients showing signs or symptoms compatible with liver 
injury and the patient should be investigated immediately. 
•
•
The PRAC also found it necessary to introduce a patient card to be provided in each package of
Esmya, to ensure that patients are adequately informed on the possible risks of liver injury and
the implemented risk minimisation measures. In addition, the existing physician’s guide to
prescribing should be updated accordingly.
The PRAC was also of the opinion that mechanistic studies should be conducted, to further
investigate a possible mechanism for hepatic toxicity. In addition, observational studies should
be performed to further characterise the hepatic risk and to evaluate the effectiveness of
implemented risk minimisation measures.
In view of the above, the Committee considers that the benefit-risk balance of Esmya (ulipristal 
acetate) remains favourable subject to the agreed amendments to the product information and the 
additional risk minimisation measures. The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation 
to the terms of the marketing authorisations for Esmya (ulipristal acetate). 
Assessment report 
EMA/442745/2018 
Page 22/22 
Appendix 1 
Divergent positions 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-20/1460/C/2041/0043 
Esmya (INN: ulipristal acetate) 
Divergent statement: 
The following PRAC Members consider that even if the agreed PI changes and RMP update are 
implemented, the benefit risk ratio of Esmya is not favourable based on the following grounds: 
Rare but very severe hepatic failures occurred in patients treated with Esmya. A causal relationship is 
far from excluded and is even likely in some cases. There are no elements to define a toxic mechanism 
or risk factors that could have predicted these events and that could be a basis for an efficient 
prevention strategy.  
Esmya demonstrated a benefit in controlling symptoms (bleeding) in uterine fibroma. There is no 
convincing evidence that treatment with Esmya will avoid surgery or show a favourable Benefit/Risk 
balance in the long term. Regarding short term treatment (<3 months) in a pre-operative context, 
according to the experts from ad hoc expert group conclusions, available medical alternatives (such as 
GnRH agonists) demonstrated similar benefits without any relevant risk of hepatic failure and would be 
a preferable option for short term treatment for a pre-operative purpose. 
The benefits established with Esmya in the broad modified indications accepted by the PRAC majority 
are limited as efficacy and safety have not been established with certainty in the proposed population. 
In pre-operative treatment, alternatives exist and Esmya is no longer considered as a suitable 
medicinal option. For intermittent treatment of fibroids, only a last line indication, to control severe 
symptoms of the disease when surgery is impossible and when other medical treatments are not an 
option, would have been acceptable in light of the severe risks observed. 
The amendments adopted by the PRAC majority to the product information and RMP will unfortunately 
not prevent the hepatic risk and not limit these concerns. 
Therefore, we consider that in the PRAC’s proposed indications for Esmya, the risk (especially hepatic) 
continue to outweigh benefit leading to a negative B/R balance.  
PRAC Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
•  Ghania Chamouni 
•  Stephen J.W. Evans 
• 
Thierry Trenque 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-20/1460/C/2041/0043 
Esmya (INN: ulipristal acetate) 
Divergent statement: 
The following PRAC Members consider that even if the agreed PI changes and RMP update are 
implemented, the benefit risk ratio of Esmya is not favourable based on the following grounds: 
Rare but very severe hepatic failures occurred in patients treated with Esmya. A causal relationship is 
far from excluded and is even likely in some cases. There are no elements to define a toxic mechanism 
or risk factors that could have predicted these events and that could be a basis for an efficient 
prevention strategy.  
Esmya demonstrated a benefit in controlling symptoms (bleeding) in uterine fibroma. There is no 
convincing evidence that treatment with Esmya will avoid surgery or show a favourable Benefit/Risk 
balance in the long term. Regarding short term treatment (<3 months) in a pre-operative context, 
according to the experts from ad hoc expert group conclusions, available medical alternatives (such as 
GnRH agonists) demonstrated similar benefits without any relevant risk of hepatic failure and would be 
a preferable option for short term treatment for a pre-operative purpose. 
The benefits established with Esmya in the broad modified indications accepted by the PRAC majority 
are limited as efficacy and safety have not been established with certainty in the proposed population. 
In pre-operative treatment, alternatives exist and Esmya is no longer considered as a suitable 
medicinal option. For intermittent treatment of fibroids, only a last line indication, to control severe 
symptoms of the disease when surgery is impossible and when other medical treatments are not an 
option, would have been acceptable in light of the severe risks observed. 
The amendments adopted by the PRAC majority to the product information and RMP will unfortunately 
not prevent the hepatic risk and not limit these concerns. 
Therefore, we consider that in the PRAC’s proposed indications for Esmya, the risk (especially hepatic) 
continue to outweigh benefit leading to a negative B/R balance.  
PRAC Member expressing a divergent opinion: 
•  David Olsen 
 
 
 
 
 
 
