15 December 2011 
EMA/486902/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Esmya 
ulipristal   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/002041//0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Product information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Esmya 
Applicant: 
PregLem France SAS. 
32, route de l’Eglise 
F-74140 Massongy 
France 
Active substance: 
ulipristal acetate  
International Non-proprietary Name: 
ulipristal 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Uterine myoma 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Ulipristal acetate is indicated for pre-operative 
treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of 
uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. 
The duration of treatment is limited to 3 months 
(see section 4.4) 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Strength: 
Tablet 
5 mg 
Route of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
PVC/PE/PVDC/Alu blisters  
Package size: 
28 tablets  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 2/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 7 
Information on Paediatric requirements ......................................................................... 7 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity ........................................................... 7 
Applicant’s request for consideration ............................................................................. 7 
Scientific Advice.......................................................................................................... 7 
Licensing status .......................................................................................................... 7 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 8 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 10 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 27 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 37 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 72 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 96 
2.8. Significance of paediatric studies ........................................................................ 100 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................. 101 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................... 101 
Benefits ................................................................................................................. 101 
Risks ..................................................................................................................... 101 
Benefit-risk balance ................................................................................................ 103 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................. 103 
Outcome ................................................................................................................ 103 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use ..................................................... 103 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation ........................................ 104 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 3/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone 
Adverse drug reaction 
Adverse event 
Adverse Event of Special Interest 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Alkaline phosphatase 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a DMF 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Annual Safety Report 
Asparate Transaminase 
Aqueous suspending vehicle 
Area under the curve 
Body mass index 
British Pharmacopoeia 
Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia 
Colony Forming Units 
AAS 
ACTH 
ADME   Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and Elimination 
ADR 
AE 
AESI  
ALAT 
ALP 
AP 
API 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
ASR  
AST  
ASV 
AUC 
BMI 
BP 
CEP  
CFU 
CHMP   Committee for Medicinal Product for Human Use 
Cmax 
CMS 
CoA 
CPK 
CRS 
CT  
DCM  
DB  
D&C  
DDI  
DILI  
DMF 
DP 
DSC 
E2 
ECG 
EDQM 
EEA  
EMA 
EU-RMP  European Risk Management Plan 
FDA 
FSH 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
GnRH  Gonadotropin releasing hormone 
GPRD   General Practice Research Database 
Hb 
Hct 
HDPE 
HERG 
ICH 
IND 
INN  
IR 
ITT 
IU 
Maximum concentration 
Concerned Member State 
Certificate of Analysis 
Creatine phosphokinase 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Computed Tomography 
Dichloromethane 
Double Blind 
Dilation and Curettage 
Drug-Drug Interaction 
Drug Induced Liver Injury 
Drug Master File = Active Substance Master File 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Estradiol 
Electrocardiogram 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
European Economic Area 
European Medicines Agency 
Hemoglobin 
Hematocrit 
High Density Polyethylene IPC In-process control 
Human ether-a-go-go gene 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Investigational new drug 
International Non proprietary Name 
Infrared 
Intent-to-treat 
International Units 
Food and Drug Administration  
Follicle-stimulating hormone 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good laboratory practice 
Good manufacturing practice 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 4/106 
 
 
 
Intrauterine Device 
Japanese Pharmacopoeia 
Lower confidence limit 
National Institutes of Health 
Not less than 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
No observed effect level 
Out of Specifications 
Progesterone 
Progesterone Receptor Modulator Associated Endometrial Changes 
Population Based 
Pictorial Bleeding Assessment Chart 
Pharmacodynamic 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Polyethylene 
Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry 
Lactate dehydrogenase 
Low Density Polyethylene 
Luteinising Hormone 
Lower Level Term 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
(1) Limit of Quantification, (2) List of Questions 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Multiple Dose 
Medicines Evaluation Board  
IUD  
JP 
LCL 
LC-MS 
/MS 
LDH 
LDPE 
LH  
LLT  
LOA 
LOD 
LOQ 
MA 
MAH 
MD  
MEB 
MedDRA  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Magnetic resonance imaging 
MRI 
Mass Spectrometry 
MS 
Not detected 
ND 
NICE  
National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence 
NICHD  National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
NIH 
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
NOEL 
OOS 
P4 
PAEC 
PB  
PBAC 
PD  
PDE 
PE 
Ph.Eur.  European Pharmacopoeia 
PIL 
Patient Information Leaflet 
PIP 
Paediatric investigational plan 
PK  
Pharmacokinetic 
PL  
Patient Leaflet 
p.o. 
per os (oral) 
PP 
Per-protocol 
PR 
Progesterone receptor 
PR-A 
Progesterone receptor isoform A 
PR-B 
Progesterone receptor isoform B 
PRM 
Progesterone Receptor Modulator 
PSUR  
Periodic Safety Update Report 
PT  
Prothrombin Time 
PVC 
Poly vinyl chloride 
QD  
Quality Development 
QoL 
Quality of Life 
QOS 
Quality Overall Summary 
RBA 
Relative binding affinity 
RIA 
Radioimmunoassay 
RH 
Relative Humidity 
RMP 
Risk Management Plan 
RMS 
Reference Member State 
RP 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of a DMF 
RRT 
Relative retention time 
RSD 
Relative standard deviation 
Research Triangle Institute 
RTI 
RVG #  Marketing Authorisation number in NL 
SAE 
Serious adverse event 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 5/106 
 
 
 
 
subcutaneous 
Standard deviation 
System organ class 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standardised MedDRA Query 
System organ class 
Selective Progesterone Receptor Modulator 
half-life 
Treatment emergent adverse event 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Time of maximum concentration 
Thyroid-stimulating hormone 
Uterine Artery Embolisation 
s.c. 
SD 
SF-MPQ  Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire 
SOC 
SmPC 
SMQ  
SOC 
SPRM 
t ½ 
TEAE 
TGA 
Tmax 
TSH 
UAE  
UFS-QoL Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire 
ULN  
UV 
USP/NF  United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
VAS 
VEGF 
WHO  World Health Organization  
X-Ray Diffraction 
XRD 
Visual analog scale 
Vascular endothelial growth factor 
Upper Limit of Normal Range 
Ultraviolet 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 6/106 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  PregLem  France  S.A.S.  submitted  on  19  November  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Esmya,  through  the  centralised  procedure 
under Article 3(2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 29 September 2009.  
The  applicant  initially  applied  for  the  following  indication:  treatment  of  symptoms  (heavy  uterine 
bleeding and/or pain) in patients with uterine fibroids who are eligible for surgery, or when surgery is 
not appropriate. Esmya is indicated in pre-menopausal adult women.  Subsequently, the indication was 
revised  as  follows:  Ulipristal  acetate  is  indicated  for  pre-operative  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The duration of treatment is limited 
to 3 months (see section 4.4) 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/215/2009 on the agreement of the granting of a product-specific waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
Additional data/market exclusivity 
The applicant requested consideration of one year data/market exclusivity in regards of its application 
for a new indication in accordance with Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) 726/2004. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product Esmya was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 7/106 
 
 
 
Another  product  containing  the  same  active  substance,  Ellaone  (ulipristal  acetate)  was  authorised  in 
the  EU  on  15  May  2009  in  the  indication  of  emergency  contraception  within  120  hours  (5  days)  of 
unprotected sexual intercourse or contraceptive failure. The marketing authorisation holder for Ellaone 
is Laboratoire HRA Pharma.  
HRA Pharma and PregLem France S.A.S are distinct companies but have entered licensing agreements 
for ulipristal acetate therefore the concept of Global Marketing Authorisation applies. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Tomas Salmonson 
Co-Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 19 November 2010. 
The procedure started on 15 December 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 7 March 2011. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 4 March 
2011. 
•  During the meeting on 11-14 April 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 14 
April 2011. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 May 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 5 July 2011. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 21 July 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 22 August 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 September 2011. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 22 September 2011, the CHMP agreed on a second list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 
October 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 1 November 2011. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 17 November 2011, the CHMP agreed on a third list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the third CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 
November 2011 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the third 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 28 November 2011. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 8/106 
 
 
 
 
•  During the meeting on 12-15 December 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Esmya on 15 December 2011.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 9/106 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Uterine fibroids 
Uterine  fibroids  (uterine  leiomyoma)  are  benign,  monoclonal,  hormone-sensitive,  smooth  muscle 
tumours  of  the  uterus.  They  are  the  most  common  tumour  of  the  female  reproductive  tract  in  pre-
menopausal  women  and  have  been  reported  to  affect  20-40%  of  women  during  their  reproductive 
years. 
Uterine  fibroids  are  often  asymptomatic,  but  when  symptomatic,  the  primary  symptoms  are  heavy 
uterine  bleeding,  anaemia,  abdominal  pressure,  abdominal  pain,  increased  urinary  frequency  and 
infertility. In particular, heavy menstrual blood loss is one of the most frequently disabling symptoms 
of uterine fibroids.  
Treatment 
Currently,  the  treatment  for  symptomatic  fibroids  is  surgery.  Symptomatic  uterine  fibroids  are  the 
leading  reason  for  hysterectomy.  Other,  less  invasive  treatment  procedures  include  myomectomy 
(which may preserve fertility), uterine artery embolization and, if the dominant symptom is bleeding, 
endometrial ablation.  
Because  uterine  fibroids  are  hormone  dependent  and  often  regress  after  menopause,  suppression  of 
circulating  oestrogen  has  been  applied  as  a  medical  approach  for  treating  fibroids.  Gonadotropin 
releasing  hormone  (GnRH)-agonists  are  therefore  licensed  for  the  pre-operative  treatment  of 
symptomatic  uterine  fibroids.  GnRH-agonists  are  effective  in  reducing  fibroid-related  bleeding, 
correcting  anaemia  when  given  concomitantly  with  iron  therapy,  reducing  abdominal  symptoms  and 
reducing  fibroid  and  uterine  volume.  Their  use  is  limited  to  3-6  months  duration  as  suppression  of 
oestrogen to castration levels results in menopausal symptoms including hot flushes, mood swings and 
loss of libido and can also lead to loss of bone mineral density. 
About the product 
Esmya (Ulipristal acetate) is a progesterone receptor antagonist. It acts by depriving uterine fibroids of 
growth  stimulation  due  to  progesterone.  Ulipristal  acetate  is  indicated  for  pre-operative  treatment  of 
moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The duration of 
treatment is limited to 3 months. 
The treatment consists of one tablet of 5 mg to be taken orally once daily for up to 3 months, and it 
should be started during the first week of a menstrual cycle. There are no data available on treatment 
with a duration longer than 3 months or on repeat courses of treatment. Therefore, treatment duration 
should not exceed 3 months. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Esmya  contains  the  active  substance  ulipristal  acetate.  For  other  ingredients  see  the  SmPC.  The 
product is formulated as immediate-release, white to off-white round biconvex 5 mg tablets, which are 
embossed by “ES5” on one side.    
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 10/106 
 
 
 
The product is packaged in orange PVC/PE/PVDC/Alu transparent triplex blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  the  active  substance  is  17α-Acetoxy-11β-(4-N,N-dimethylaminophenyl)-19-
norpregna-4,9-diene-3,20-dione.                            
The corresponding molecular formula is C30H37NO4, molecular weight is 475.619 g/mol.  
The absolute configuration of the chiral centers is as follows: 8S, 11R, 13S, 14S, 17R.  
Ulipristal  acetate  is  a  white  to  yellow  crystalline  powder.  It  is  freely  soluble  in  methylene  chloride, 
soluble in methanol, acetone and ethanol and insoluble in water. The desired particle size is achieved 
by micronisation The substance does not show polymorphism, which has been confirmed by a number 
of studies.  
An ASMF procedure is used to provide information on the active substance.  
Manufacture 
The  structure  elucidation  of  ulipristal  acetate  was  performed  with  Elemental  Analysis,  Infra-Red  (IR) 
spectroscopy,  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  (NMR)  (1H-NMR  and  13C-NMR,  HMBC,  HMQC  and  COSY), 
UV  spectroscopy  and  mass  spectroscopy.  The  polymorphic  form  of  ulipristal  acetate  is  also 
characterized  by  differential  scanning  calorimetry  (DSC),  IR  and  X-ray  diffraction.  The  validation-
production batches of ulipristal acetate have been analysed by IR, DSC and X-ray diffraction in order to 
confirm that the active substance ulipristal acetate presents a homogenous crystalline structure, when 
obtained  following  the  proposed  synthetic  process.  In  conclusion,  the  drug  substance  exists  in  one 
polymorphic form. 
Analyses of chromatographic purity by HPLC, assay and optical rotation in the final product confirm the 
exact chiral structure of the active.   
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 11/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
Control  tests  for  the  active  substance  include  description,  identification  by  IR  spectrum  and  HPLC, 
related  substances  and  assay  by  HPLC,  optical  rotation,  melting  point,  water  content,  heavy  metals, 
residual solvents and particle size.  
The  acceptance  criteria  for  impurities,  including  limits  for  organic  impurities,  inorganic  impurities  and 
residual  solvents,  are  defined.  Origin  of  the  impurities  and  amounts  found  in  clinical  trials  are 
described. As confirmed by numerous studies, none of the impurities are genotoxic. Impurity limits in 
the specification are justified and found safe.  
The limits for residual solvents are those of the Ph.Eur. monograph or tighter.  
The  limits  set  for  specification  parameters  are  acceptable  and  in  line  with  batch  results,  stability 
studies and CHMP guidelines. Analytical methods used are sufficiently described and fully validated in 
line with the CHMP requirements.   
Results  of  analysis  of  six  production  batches  of  the  active  substance  were  provided.  Compliance  with 
the specification was demonstrated.   
Stability 
Stability  studies  have  started  for  6  validation  batches  at  both  accelerated  (40˚C/75%  RH)  and  long-
term  (25˚C/60%  RH)  conditions.  Testing  frequencies  are  according  to  valid  guidelines  and  the 
following  parameters  are  monitored:  description,  identification  by  IR,  water  content,  related 
substances and assay by HPLC and optical rotation. The same limits as those proposed for release are 
used.  
Accelerated studies have been completed for all batches. Long-term results are available from 9 to 60 
months, depending on the individual batch manufacturing date.  
Forced  degradation  studies  have  been  carried  out  to  study  degradation  patterns  of  the  active 
substance and to confirm that the HPLC method is stability indicating. The degradation was low in most 
conditions  but  almost  total  in  hard  oxidizing  conditions  and  at  pH  14.  Specified  impurities  were 
detected in heat, acid and basic conditions, respectively. Unknown impurities were detected in strong 
heat and strong basic conditions. 
A photostability study was also performed according to ICH Q1B conditions. Degradation was found in 
both solid drug substance and in drug substance in solution. It can be concluded that ulipristal acetate 
is light sensitive. 
A  suitably  validated  re-test  period  is  approved,  supported  by  the  available  stability  data.  The  active 
substance should be stored protected from light; no other storage precautions are needed.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
The product is formulated as immediate-release, white to off-white round biconvex 5 mg tablets, which 
are embossed by “ES5” on one side. 
The excipients used in the tablets are all standard pharmaceutical grade excipients that correspond to 
the  appropriate  Ph.Eur.  monographs.  Microcrystalline  cellulose  and  mannitol  are  included  as  diluents, 
croscarmellose  sodium  as  a  disintegrant,  talc  as  a  glidant  and  lubricant  that  prevents  sticking  upon 
compression and magnesium stearate also as a lubricant.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 12/106 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
All excipients are either of synthetic or vegetable origin. The magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin 
and a statement confirming this is provided from the supplier. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process of the finished product was sufficiently described. Process validation studies 
were  performed  on  two  pilot  batches  and  three  validation  batches.  The  data  demonstrate  that  the 
process is well controlled and the finished product complies with the  specification. In addition, process 
validation scheme for commercial scale batches, which addresses all requirements from the validation 
guideline (CPMP/QWP/848/96), was presented. Therefore, process validation was found to be adequate 
in  combination  with  the  process  validation  scheme  for  larger  batch  sizes.  Process  validation  for  the 
commercial size batches will be carried out before release on the market.   
Product specification 
The specification of the finished products includes standard testing parameters for this kind of dosage 
form. The finished product is tested for appearance, identity by TLC and HPLC, related substances and 
assay by HPLC, disintegration, dissolution, average mass, content uniformity and microbial purity. The 
shelf-life  limits  for  assay  and  impurities  were  tightened  during  the  procedure.  Impurities/degradation 
products were evaluated and found to be acceptable from the safety perspective.  
All  the  analytical  tests  used  for  the  finished  product  control  were  sufficiently  described  and 
appropriately validated.  
Batch  analysis  results  of  seven  batches  (clinical,  development,  stability  and  validation  batches)  were 
presented. All batches comply with the finished product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability studies were started for the product packaged in the proposed commercial packaging, orange 
PVC/PE/PVDC/Alu  transparent  triplex  blisters  on  commercial  scale  batches.  Full  commercial  scale 
batches will be also placed on stability once available.  
The parameters tested are appearance, related substances, assay, dissolution, disintegration, average 
mass and microbial purity. Testing frequency corresponds with the current guideline requirements.  
Results  of  accelerated  studies  at  40°C/75%  RH  up  to  6  months  and  results  of  long-term  studies  at 
25°C/60%  RH  up  to  24  months  are  available.  Only  very  little  degradation  is  observed  and  no  new 
degradation products are seen. Changes in assay, average mass and dissolution are not significant. All 
results comply with the acceptance criteria at the end of shelf-life.  
In general, the results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC.    
GMO 
N/A 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 13/106 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
No  quality-related  major  objections  were  raised  during  the  assessment  time.  All  other  concerns  were 
addressed  satisfactorily  by  the  applicant  in  the  response  package.  The  information  presented  in  the 
quality dossier is considered satisfactory and adequate to support the marketing authorisation.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical development program, except in a limited number of specific cases, was conducted in 
female  animals.  Safety  pharmacology,  general  toxicology,  genotoxicity  and  reproduction  toxicology 
studies with ulipristal acetate were performed in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP). 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Progesterone  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  reproduction.  It  is  involved  in  the  control  of  ovulation, 
implantation,  and  maintenance  of  pregnancy,  and  withdrawal  of  progesterone  at  the  end  of  a  non-
fertile  cycle  results  in  menstruation  in  humans  and  nonhuman  primates.  In  the  uterus,  progesterone 
controls  the  growth  and  differentiation  of  endometrial  and  myometrial  cells  and  directly  regulates  a 
variety of cell functions; it also acts indirectly by functionally opposing various estrogen effects. In the 
non-pregnant uterus, progesterone exerts both inhibitory and stimulatory effects on cell proliferation in 
a cell- and tissue-specific manner.  
Progesterone  mediates  its  physiological  effects  through  interaction  with  the  progesterone  receptor,  a 
member of the superfamily of nuclear receptors. The recognition of the important role of progesterone 
in  reproduction  led  to  the  development  of  synthetic  progesterone  receptor  ligands,  also  known  as 
Selective Progesterone Receptor Modulators (SPRMs). The synthesis of mifepristone (RU486), the first 
progesterone  and  glucocorticoid  receptor  antagonist,  was  a  starting  point  of  drug  discovery  for 
progesterone  receptor  modulators  throughout  the  world,  with  much  attention  focused  on  finding 
compounds  with  increased  progesterone  antagonistic  potency  and  reduced  antiglucocorticoid  activity 
compared with mifepristone. Ulipristal acetate, which binds strongly to the progesterone receptor and 
stabilizes it in an antagonist conformation and inhibits progesterone induced transcription, is a result of 
this search.  
SPRMs have been shown to work through several mechanisms of action in uterine fibroids. Firstly they 
interact  with  the  progesterone  receptors  in  the  fibroid  cells  triggering  apoptosis  and  inhibiting 
proliferation  of  these  cells.  Secondly,  SPRMs  display  a  direct  and  specific  effect  on  the  endometrium, 
stopping bleeding within a few days. Thirdly, they reduce gonadotrophin secretion and inhibit ovulation 
while  maintaining  serum  estrogen  levels  at  moderate  concentration  corresponding  to  mid  follicular 
phase levels. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 14/106 
 
 
 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The binding of ulipristal acetate to hormonal steroid receptors has been studied in a number of reports 
with the data being expressed either as an IC50 or as Relative Binding Affinity (RBA) as compared to a 
value  of  100%  for  reference  agent  (progesterone  for  the  progesterone  receptor,  dexamethasone  for 
the  glucocorticoid 
receptor,  estradiol 
for 
the  estrogen 
receptor,  dihydrotestosterone  or 
methyltrienolone for the androgen receptor).  
In vitro studies 
A summary of studies performed in vitro with can be found in the table below. 
Table 1. Summary of primary pharmacodynamic studies performed in vitro with ulipristal acetate. 
Type of Study, 
report 
Steroid receptor 
binding, in vitro 
PGL-H-401 
Steroid receptor 
binding and in 
vitro 
antiprogesteron
e activity 
PGL-H-402 
Characterization 
of in vitro 
glucocorticoid 
receptor 
binding 
PGL-H-403 
Leiomyoma cell 
proliferation, 
PGL-H-410 
Leiomyoma cell 
protein 
expression, 
PGL-H-411 
TEST SYSTEM 
Test conditions  
Conclusion 
Extracts from rat 
uterus, prostate 
and thymus 
extracts, rabbit 
uterus, human IM9 
cells 
Extracts from 
rabbit uterus and 
thymus, 
recombinant rat 
and human 
receptors. T47D-C) 
and HepG2 cells 
T47D and HeLa 
cells 
Comparison of 
binding of ulipristal 
acetate  
and mifepristone to 
various steroid 
receptors. 
Comparison of 
binding of ulipristal 
acetate 
and mifepristone to 
various steroid 
receptors. 
Receptor binding to 
progesterone and 
glucocorticoid 
receptors. 
Progesterone agonist 
and antagonist 
activity was assessed 
through stimulation 
of alkaline 
phosphatase activity 
in T47D. 
Glucocorticoid 
antagonistic activity 
was assessed in HeLa 
cells. 
Human leiomyoma 
cells 
In vitro 
1, 10, 100, 1000 nM 
Ulipristal acetate is a progesterone receptor antagonist 
and also a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist with little 
or no activity at the estrogen receptor. The 
pharmacodynamic profile is similar to that of 
mifepristone. 
Ulipristal acetate is an antiprogestine with similar 
potency as mifepristone. 
Receptor binding studies showed K d values of 0.58±0.03 
and 0.31±0.04 nM for mifepristone and ulipristal 
acetate, respectively, on the progesterone receptor with 
corresponding values on the glucocorticoid receptor of 
0.68±0.06 and 1.68±0.18 nM – reference values were 
3.95±0.25 nM for progesterone and 9.5±1.5 nM for 
dexamethasone on the respective receptors. 
In T47D cells, ulipristal acetate and mifepristone 
functioned as pure antagonists at the progesterone 
receptor. 
At the glucocorticoid receptors, mifepristone functioned 
as a full antagonist while ulipristal acetate functioned as 
a competitive antagonist. 
see above 
Ulipristal acetate inhibits the proliferation of cultured 
leiomyoma cells by down-regulating PCNA expression 
and induces apoptosis by up-regulating cleaved 
caspase-3 and PARP expression and down-regulating 
Bcl-2 expression. 
Human leiomyoma 
and normal 
myometrial cells 
In vitro 
10, 100, 1000 nM 
Ulipristal acetate down-regulates VEGF, ADM and their 
receptor contents and moderates PR isoform contents in 
cultured leiomyoma cells in a cell-type specific manner. 
Steroid receptor  Extracts from 
Comparison of 
The monodemethylated metabolite of ulipristal acetate 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 15/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
binding and in 
vitro 
antiprogesteron
e activity 
PGL-H-449 
rabbit uterus and 
thymus, 
recombinant rat 
and human 
receptors. T47D-C) 
and HepG2 cells 
binding of ulipristal 
acetate 
and mifepristone 
and their putative 
metabolites to 
various steroid 
receptors. 
Endometrial cell 
proliferation, 
PGL-H 460 
YHES cells 
In vitro 
0.1-100μM 
has similar pharmacodynamic activity compared to that 
of ulipristal acetate both at recombinant human 
progesterone-A and progesterone –B receptors and at 
rabbit progesterone and glucocorticoid receptors. 
Treatment of cell cultures with 100 μM ulipristal acetate 
significantly inhibited proliferation but lower 
concentrations were without effect; similar results were 
observed with mifepristone. 
Pharmacodynamic activity of metabolites to ulipristal acetate 
The  pharmacological  activity  of  the  principal  metabolites  of  ulipristal  acetate,  the  mono-N-
demethylated  (PGL4002)  and  di-N-demethylated  (PGL-4004)  derivatives  has  been  investigated 
through  receptor  binding  in  limited  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  programmes.  In  vitro,  both  PGL4002  and 
PGL4004 bound to progesterone receptors, with PGL4002 having the greater affinity. In vivo, PGL4002 
showed  activity  in  the  anti-Clauberg  test  after  oral  administration,  but  this  was  less  than  that  of 
ulipristal acetate (doses up to 1.6 mg/rat/day) while PGL4004 was only weakly active after intraluminal 
administration  in  the  anti-McGinty  test  (dose  of  1.0  μg,  in  a  comparative  study  where  1.0  μg  of 
ulipristal acetate gave 79.4% inhibition of endometrial proliferation) (PGL-H-450). 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
The  antiovulatory  and  antifertility  (post-coital)  activity  of  ulipristal  acetate  has  been  investigated  in 
rats  in  several  studies.  Ulipristal  acetate  has  a  dose-dependent  antiovulatory  effect  and  completely 
blocked ovulation at and above doses of 2 mg/kg. A partial blockade of ovulation was noted already at 
the lowest dose 0.5 mg/kg. Mifepristone was partially active at 4 mg/kg and did not completely block 
ovulation even at the highest dose investigated, 8 mg/kg following oral administration. The antifertility 
or post-coital effect was investigated in female rats that were mated with  fertile males and dosed on 
day  4  to  6  of  gestation.  The  animals  were  euthanized  on  day  10  of  gestation  and  the  number  of 
concepti  was  recorded.  Ulipristal  acetate  at  doses  of  2.0  mg/rat/day,  either  p.o.  or  s.c.,  prevented 
pregnancy  in  all  animals  in  the  respective  groups  while  1  mg/kg  had  a  partial  post-coital  effect.  In 
another dosing regimen with single 2 mg doses of ulipristal acetate to rats on different days of mating, 
no post-coital effect was observed on days 0, 1, 2 or 3 post-mating, but prevented 100% of gestations 
on  day  4  but  with  less  effect  on  day  5.  Administration  of  progesterone  to  ulipristal  acetate  treated 
pregnant rats reversed the post-coital antifertility effect and maintained pregnancy. A dose-dependent 
post-coital  effect  of  ulipristal  acetate  was  observed  in  rabbits  when  the  animals  were  dosed  on 
gestation days 0-3. A compete block of gestation was seen at 10 mg/kg and a partial block of gestation 
at  4  and  8  mg/kg.  On  days  4,  5  or  6,  32  mg/kg,  had  no  or  slight  post-coital  effect  while  64  mg/kg 
totally blocked gestation in the rabbit. 
The  ability  of  ulipristal  acetate  to  terminate  pregnancies  was  investigated  in  the  guinea-pig  and 
monkey.  Ulipristal  acetate,  mifepristone  and  lilopristone  were  approximately  equipotent  at  the  dose 
levels of 10 and 30 mg/day in terminating pregnancies in guinea-pigs when the animals were treated 
on days 43 and 44 of gestation. Pregnant long-tailed macaques (5/group) were administered ulipristal 
acetate  or  mifepristone  0.5  or  5  mg/kg/day  p.o.  or  0.5  mg/kg/day  i.m.  on  days  23-26  of  gestation. 
Pregnant  animals  were  assessed  by  ultrasound  pre-treatment  (day  23)  and  then  monitored  on  days 
26-28, 30, 32, 35, 55, 80, 100, 130 and 145. At 0.5 mg/kg of ulipristal acetate there was no loss of 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 16/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
foetuses,  while  at  5  mg/kg  2/5  foetuses  were  lost.  The  corresponding  figures  for  mifepristone  is  2/5 
foetuses lost at 0.5 mg/kg while 4/5 foetuses were lost at 5 mg/kg following oral administration. When 
using  intramuscular  administration  of  0.5  mg/kg  4/5  foetuses  were  lost  in  ulipristal  acetate  treated 
animals and 3/5 in mifepristone treated animals. In monkeys in which pregnancy continued and which 
were allowed to deliver normally, there was no evidence of structural or physiological abnormalities in 
foetuses. 
In  vivo,  the  main  metabolite  of  ulipristal  acetate,  the  mono-N-demethylated  (PGL4002)  inhibited 
endometrial  proliferation  after  oral  administration  with  lower  magnitude  of  efficacy  than  ulipristal 
acetate while di-N-demethylated (PGL4004) was only weakly active. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  conducted  on  the  central  nervous,  cardiovascular  and 
respiratory  systems.  Ulipristal  acetate  did  not  produce  any  unexpected  or  toxic  effects  in  the  safety 
pharmacology studies. The only effect of relevance is an increased arterial blood pressure observed in 
conscious  female  beagle  dogs  at  25  and  125  mg/kg,  resulting  in  exposure  margins  of  36  and  337, 
respectively.  
The studies are summarised in the table below. 
Table 2.  Summary of safety pharmacology studies performed with ulipristal acetate.  
Organ System 
Evaluated 
Study Number 
Species/ 
Strain 
Gender/ 
 Number/ 
Group 
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM 
Functional observation 
battery (Irwin test),  
Rat/SD 
6F/group 
PGL-H-415 
Method of 
Administration 
Doses 
Duration 
Conclusions 
po 
5, 25, 125 mg/kg  Ulipristal acetate has no effect on 
behaviour or physiological changes. 
CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM  
Action potential duration 
Dog/Beagle 
In vitro 
in Purkinje fibres, 
PGL-H-412 
Ulipristal acetate is unlikely to have an 
effect on cardiac sodium channels.  
1, 3, 10 µM 
(0.475, 
1.425, 4.75 
µg/mL) 
HERG tail current, 
PGL-H-413 
Transfected 
HEK293 cells 
In vitro 
10 µM (4.75 
µg/mL) 
Ulipristal acetate had no effect on HERG 
tail current. 
Cardiovascular effects 
(arterial blood pressure, 
heart rate and ECG)  
Dog, Beagle 
4 F/group  
in conscious, 
telemetered female 
beagle dogs 
PGL-H-416 
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
The animals were 
orally dosed 
sequentially with 7 
days between doses 
of ulipristal acetate. 
Recordings were 
made for up to 24 
hours after dosing. 
5, 25, 125 
mg/kg  
Ulipristal acetate significantly increased 
blood pressure. The NOAEL was 5 mg/kg. 
The exposure margin at NOAEL is slightly 
below clinical exposure (348 ng*h/ml 
divided by 548 ng*h/ml). The exposure 
margin at 25 mg/kg is 14 times the 
clinical exposure.  
Page 17/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory parameters 
(respiratory rate and  
Rat/SD 
8F/group 
Plethysmography 
chambers 
5, 25, 125 
mg/kg po 
Ulipristal acetate had no effect on the 
respiratory parameters investigated. 
tidal volume) 
PGL-H-414 
Table 3.  Safety margins of animal exposure in safety pharmacology studies performed with ulipristal 
acetate.  
Species 
Dose a 
Rat 
Dog 
hERG assay 
Purkinje fibres 
5 mg 
25 mg 
125 mg 
5 mg 
25 mg 
125 mg 
10 μM / 
4.64 μg/mL 
C max 
μg/mL 
Therapeutic 
ratio d 
AUC0-24 
h.μg/mL 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
0.681 
3.418 
8.908 
0.130 
2.153 
7.360 
PGL 
4002 
1.375 
1.562 
3.684 
0.185 
1.426 
2.790 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
11 
53 
139 
2 
34 
115 
PGL 
4002 
63 
71 
167 
8 
65 
127 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
3.645 
29.779 
72.407 
0.348 
7.727 
73.200 
PGL 
4002 
3.876 
11.064 
25.443 
0.438 
7.961 
42.440 
Therapeutic ratio 
d 
Ulipristal 
acetate 
17 
137 
334 
2 
36 
337 
PGL 
4002 
46 
130 
299 
5 
94 
499 
4.750 
74 c 
- 
- 
a Human dose (10mg/day) and animal dose (mg/kg); b Steady state exposures after 10 days of daily administration 
(PGL09-023); c Ratio calculated based on the total fraction in human plasma; d Therapeutic ratios were based on a 
clinical steady state exposure of 10 mg/day, since steady state data at 5 mg/day (the proposed clinical dose) was 
not readily available. Thus therapeutic ratios at a clinical dose of 5 mg/day are likely to be higher. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
A receptor binding study was submitted in order to investigate the affinity of ulipristal acetate to other 
than hormonal receptors. This study is summarised in the table below. 
Table 4.  Summary of a receptor screen performed in vitro with ulipristal acetate. 
TEST SYSTEM 
78 receptors, ion 
channels and 
transporter systems 
Test 
conditions  
In vitro 
10-5M range 
Comment 
Significant binding of ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 at 
the glucocorticoid receptor. Ulipristal acetate also partially 
prevented binding of the cognate reference compounds to 
PPARγ and to a Cl- channel, whilst PGL4002 exhibited 
residual binding affinity for the cannabinoid receptor 1.  
Type of 
Study, report 
Receptor 
binding assay 
of ulipristal 
acetate and its 
metabolite 
PGL4002, 
PGL-H-470 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  ulipristal  acetate  were  determined  in  mice  (CD-1),  rats  (Sprague  Dawley), 
rabbits  (New  Zealand  White),  dogs  (Beagle)  and  monkeys  (Cynomolgus).  Absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism  and  excretion  of  ulipristal  acetate  were  studied  in  rats  and  monkeys  using  oral  and 
intravenous dosing. The pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate are summarized in the table below. 
Table 5. Summary of pharmacokinetics for ulipristal acetate 
Absorption 
Rapidly and well absorbed after oral administration to mice, rats, rabbits, 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 18/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioavailability 
Dose proportionality 
dogs and monkeys.  
Cmax = 1 h in rats, 1-2 hours in dogs and 4 h in monkeys following oral 
administration. 
Rats approximately 80%.  
Monkeys approximately 112%. 
Human: No data 
The exposure appeared to be less than proportional over the dose range 
5 to 125 mg/kg for both ulipristal acetate and the metabolite PGL4002 in 
rats but the converse was seen in dogs. When analysed by RIA, exposure 
of rats and rabbits increased less than proportionally over the dose range 
50-1250 mg/kg. 
Non-linear kinetics in humans, with less than dose proportional increase 
in exposure. 
Terminal plasma half-
life 
Rat: 6 hrs following oral administration 
Monkey: 87 hrs following oral administration 
Human: 32 hours after oral administration 
Distribution 
Metabolism 
Excretion 
Highly protein bound (96.7-99.5%) to plasma proteins of mouse, rat, 
rabbit, dog, monkey and human. 
14C-ulipristal acetate was widely distributed in rats and monkeys. Higher 
concentrations of radioactivity were seen in pigmented tissues (uveal 
tract, pigmented skin and meninges).  
No human data on excretion into milk. 
No information on distribution over placenta. 
Rapid and extensive metabolism possibly via cytochrome P450 (CYP3A4). 
A large number of metabolites are produced, up to 28 in rat and 20 in 
monkeys. In vivo metabolism data in humans are very limited. 
Rats and monkey: main route via faeces (83.3-44.7%).  
Biliary excretion was observed in the rats.  
Method of Analysis 
Assays  for  ulipristal  acetate  have  been  developed  based  on  radioimmunoassay  (RIA)  and  LC-MS/MS 
techniques. 
The  RIA  assay  was  used  to  support  the  initial  pharmacokinetic  studies  and  also  the  toxicokinetic 
analyses.  The  average  limit  of  detection  was  1±0.1  pg/tube.  LC-MS/MS  methods  were  developed  to 
support  the  safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rat  and  dog  and  were  shown  to  be  specific  for  both 
ulipristal acetate and PGL4002, with a limit of quantification of 1 ng/mL for both analytes. 
In  addition  to  this,  an  LC-MS/MS  assay  for  the  ulipristal  acetate  and  its  metabolite  PGL4002,  in 
cynomolgus  monkey  plasma  has  been  performed.  The  method  is  accurate  and  precise  for  the 
determination  of  PGL4001  and  PGL4002  in  the  validated  calibration  range  from  1.00  to  500  ng/mL 
(Study pgl09-003). 
Absorption 
The absorption of ulipristal acetate is rapid and complete with bioavailability of approximately 80% in 
the  rat  and  112%  in  the  monkey.  Cmax  was  obtained  after  1  h  in  rats,  after  1-2  hours  in  dogs  and 
after 4 hours in monkeys. In the rat and rabbit, the exposure to ulipristal acetate increased less than 
proportional, while the opposite was observed for the dog.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 19/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The distribution of radiolabeled (14C) ulipristal acetate to tissues has been investigated in the albino rat 
and  in  the  pigmented  rats.  Ulipristal  acetate  related  radioactivity  was  widely  distributed  in  the  body, 
peak  concentrations  of  radioactivity  generally  occurred  1  hour  after  dosing.  Quantifiable  radioactivity 
was still present in all tissues at the final sampling time of 3 days, indicating a fairly slow turnover of 
radioactivity/active  substance.  In  support  of  the  present  application,  a  tissue  distribution  study 
with 14C-ulipristal acetate in female pigmented rats has been performed. Following oral administration, 
radioactivity was absorbed and widely distributed, with peak concentrations occurring in most tissues 3 
days  after  dosing  which  had  declined  by  7  days.  Radioactivity  was  still  visible  after  28  days  in  most 
tissues. Levels of radioactivity in the uveal tract/retina (melanin containing tissue) were higher than in 
most  other  tissues,  suggesting  that  ulipristal  acetate-related  material  did  bind  to  melanin.  Since 
concentrations  at  28  days  were  similar  to  those  measured  at  7  days,  the  binding  was  likely  not 
reversible, and elimination from the uveal tract/retina is related to the turnover of melanin within the 
tissue. These findings could have been a concern. However, the earlier performed phototoxicity study 
was negative up to the limit of solubility for ulipristal acetate and therefore no concern remains. 
In addition, a distribution study was also performed in the monkey with results only available from the 
final blood sampling 14 days after dosing. At this time, only liver and gall bladder had concentrations 
greater than 1 μg equiv/g, with lesser quantities in thyroid, kidney cortex, adrenal and spleen: at this 
time,  mean  levels  in  blood  were  0.064  μg.equiv/g  whilst  the  total  radioactivity  remaining  in  the 
animals  accounted  for  1.1-1.6%  of  the  administered  dose.  Since,  quantifiable  radioactivity  was  still 
present  in  some  tissues  at  the  sampling  time  of  14  days;  a  slow  turnover  of  radioactivity/active 
substance in monkey is indicated. 
Ulipristal  acetate  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  in  all  animal  species  investigated  including 
humans.  
Metabolism 
Ulipristal acetate is rapidly and extensively metabolised in rats and monkeys. The in vitro metabolism 
data  in  humans  are  quite  limited,  only  CYP  isoenzymes  were  tested,  while  in vivo  data  indicate 
presence of other pathways, e.g. acetylation. The in vitro studies showed formation of two metabolites, 
PGL4002 and PGL4004. 
In vitro metabolism was studied in liver microsomes from female mouse, rat, rabbit, dog, monkey and 
human liver for 10 or 60 minutes and resulted in a metabolic turnover of 32-79% of ulipristal acetate 
after  60  minutes  incubation  in  the  presence  of  β-NADPH.  In  all  species,  the  same  two  principal 
metabolites were produced, however, the identity of those were not reported in the study. Additionally, 
some  minor  metabolites  were  detected  in  the  animal  species  which  were  not  detected  with  human 
microsomes.  In  vitro,  no  metabolites  were  detected  that  were  unique  to  humans.  No  significant 
metabolism  was  observed  in  the  absence  of  β-NADPH,  suggesting  a  role  for  cytochrome  P450  in  the 
metabolism of ulipristal acetate. 
To  conclude,  the  in vivo  metabolism  data  in  humans  are  limited  and  further  information  will  be 
requested  from the  Applicant  (see  clinical  Pharmacokinetic  AR).  Based  on  the  limited  amount  of  data 
available in animals, both rats and monkeys can be considered relevant animal species. 
Excretion 
Ulipristal acetate is mainly excreted via faeces in the rat and cynomolgus monkey  following both oral 
and intravenous administration. Biliary excretion was identified as a major contributor in the rat. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 20/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
In vitro metabolism studies with human liver microsomes in the absence and presence of NADPH (PGL-
H-429)  implicated  cytochrome  P450  enzymes  in  the  metabolism of  ulipristal  acetate  and  studies  with 
supersomes showed cytochrome P450 to be the major isoenzyme involved (PGL-H-430).  
Ulipristal acetate has the potential to inhibit CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, based on in vitro data (PGL-H-430). 
However, the metabolite PGL4002 (PGL09-010) was not shown to interact with the major CYP enzymes 
at clinically relevant concentrations. 
Ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 did not demonstrate an induction effect on CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 activity 
at  any  of  the  tested  concentrations  for  each  donor  in  the  induction  study  (PGL09-008). 
Ulipristal acetate  appears  to  be  a  potent  P-gp  inhibitor  in vitro  in  Caco-2  cells  (PGL09-007)  with  an 
IC50  value  of  0.73 µM  (0.34  µg/ml).  The  inhibitory  effect  was  in  a  similar  range  as  for  ketoconazole 
and cyclosporine at high concentrations.   
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Ulipristal acetate has been evaluated for its toxicity in rats and monkeys dosed daily for up to 6 and 9 
months, respectively. In addition, reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rats and rabbits, 
in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity assays as well as a phototoxicity study was carried out.  
Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  with  ulipristal  acetate  have  been  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits  using  the 
oral  route  of  administration.  The  table  below  provides  an  overview  of  the  single  dose  toxicity  studies 
submitted for Ulipristal acetate. 
Table 6.  Overview of the single dose toxicity studies performed with ulipristal acetate. 
Study ID/ 
Species/ 
Dose/Route 
GLP 
Sex/Number/ 
mg/kg 
Group 
Major findings 
Approx. 
lethal 
dose / 
observed 
max 
non-
lethal 
dose 
PGL-H-
431 
Rat/SD/10F/group 
0, 1250/po 
<1250 
PGL-H-
432 
Rabbit/NZW/10F/group 
0, 1250/po 
>1250 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Mortality: One treated rat was found moribund 
on day 2 and euthanized (clinical signs see 
below + apnea, ptosis, lethargy, tremors and 
convulsions on day 1). 
Clinical signs: No effect on body weight. 
Decreased faecal output on day 1 and in some 
animals also on days 2-3, discharge from the 
eyes or nose (6/10), piloerection (2/10) and 
decreased motor activity (1/10). 
Liver and kidney weights were increased, ovary 
weight decreased. 
Mortality: Two animals died, the deaths were 
by the assessor  not considered related to 
treatment. 
Page 21/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical signs: Food intake and faecal output 
were reduced for 4 to 6 days after dosing.  
No effect on organ weights and no 
histopathological changes.  
F = female/s, M = male/s 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Pivotal repeated-dose toxicity studies were conducted for 6-month  in rats and cynomolgus monkeys, 
supported  by  14-day  preliminary  studies.  Furthermore,  a  9-month  toxicity  study  was  conducted  in 
cynomolgus monkeys followed by a recovery period of 2 months.  
Administration  of  ulipristal  acetate  (1,  5  and  25  mg/kg/day)  to  rats  in  the  6-month  toxicity  study 
caused  changes  in  haematological  (increased  white  cell,  lymphocyte  and  neutrophils;  reduced 
erythrocyte  numbers,  haematocrit  and  haemoglobin)  and  biochemical  (reduced  sodium,  chloride; 
increased globulin, total protein and cholesterol) parameters. Organ weight analysis showed increased 
liver  and  adrenal  weights  and  decreased  ovaries,  uterus  and  thyroid  weights  at  the  5  and  25 
mg/kg/day  dose  levels.  On  histological  examination,  these  correlated  with  adrenal  cortical  and  liver 
hepatocyte  hypertrophy,  ovarian  follicular  cysts  and  follicular  atresia  and  uterine  glandular  dilation: 
pituitary  hyperplasia  and  mammary  galactoceles  were  also  noted.  These  histological  changes  were 
most  notable  in  animals  treated  with  5  or  25  mg/kg/day  but  the  changes  in  mammary  glands  and 
ovaries were also seen at 1 mg/kg/day. There was a significant positive correlation between pituitary 
weights  and  serum  prolactin  levels  and  between  adrenal  weights  and  serum  corticosterone  levels. 
Treatment-related changes were seen at all dose levels and it was not possible to determine a NOEL in 
this study.  
The 6-month study in cynomolgus monkeys was conducted at dose levels of 1, 5 and 25 mg/kg/day. 
Administration  of  ulipristal  acetate  disrupted  the  hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal  axis  with  increased 
cortisol and prolactin levels. Although hormone levels were altered at all dose levels, the consequences 
were most apparent at the 5 and 25 mg/kg/day dose levels. The menstrual cycle was disrupted in mid- 
and  high-dose  animals  with  some  high-dose  animals  being  acyclic  throughout  the  study.  Lymphocyte 
numbers  were reduced and neutrophil numbers increased at these dose levels. Adrenal weights were 
increased in high-dose animals (there was a significant correlation between adrenal weights and serum 
cortisol levels), consistent with the hypertrophy observed at histology; although thymus weights were 
decreased  at  this  dose  level,  there  were  no  histological  correlates.  Histology  also  showed  cystic 
dilatation  of  uterine  endometrial  glands  in  mid-  and  high-dose  animals,  with  one  high-dose  animal 
showing mild squamous metaplasia. 
The  14-day  study  in  rats  showed  several  changes  in  terms  of  laboratory  parameters,  organ  weights 
and  histopathology.  These  changes  were  mainly  confined  to  the  mid-  and  high-dose  levels  of  20  and 
100  mg/kg/day  with  effects  on  ovaries  and  uterus  in  only  a  few  animals  at  the  low  dose  (4 
mg/kg/day), which was the NOEL in this study. 
The 14-day study in rhesus monkeys had only two dose levels, 20 and 100 mg/kg/day. Two animals in 
the high-dose group were particularly affected by treatment with one animal euthanized on day 8. No 
treatment-related changes in haematology parameters were observed while high-dose animals showed 
changes  in  some  biochemistry  parameters  which  are  considered  of  low  clinical  relevance.  Serum 
cortisol levels showed a general trend of increasing values in the high-dose group. Organ weights were 
increased in the high-dose group for liver, thyroid and heart and, for animals in both treated groups, in 
the spleen, adrenals, ovaries and kidneys. A dose related increase in mucous cells in the cervix in low- 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 22/106 
 
 
 
 
and  high-dose  groups  and  a  decreased  bone  marrow  cellularity  in  two  high-dose  animals  were 
observed at histopathology.  
The 9-month toxicity study in female cynomolgus monkeys was performed with identical dose-levels as 
in the previous 6-month study, 1, 5 and 25 mg/kg/day. Two female in the control group and two in the 
25 mg/kg/day group were allowed to recover for 2 months. In general, similar signs as observed in the 
previous  6-month  study  were  noted;  interruptions  of  the  menstrual  cycle,  increased  levels  of  total 
leukocytes  and  neutrophils,  increased  prolactin  and  serum  cortisol  levels  all  observed  at  5  and  25 
mg/kg/day.  Dose-dependent  histopathological  findings  consisted  of  cystic  endometrial  hyperplasia 
and/or  squamous  metaplasia  of  the  uterine  endometrial  epithelium  and  oviduct  findings.  Cystic 
endometrial hyperplasia was characterized by cystic dilatation of the endometrial glands and increased 
number  of  the  glands,  accompanied  by  thickening  and  proliferation  of  the  endometrial  mucosa.  This 
finding  was  seen  in  conjunction  with  squamous  metaplasia  of  the  epithelium.  At  recovery,  findings 
were limited to few localized cystic dilations of the endometrial glands and some hyperplastic piling of 
the  localized  uterine  mucosa.  Furthermore,  changes  in  the  oviducs  were  observed;  dilation  of  the 
central  oviduct  lumen  and  discrete  cyst  formation  in  the  mucosal  epithelium  of  the  oviduct  wall.  One 
animal had a finding of squamous metaplasia of the oviduct mucosa, similar to that seen in the uterus. 
At  recovery,  no  macroscopic  findings  were  noted  in  one  animal  and  in  the  other  animal  microscopic 
findings of minimal or mild severity were observed.  
Genotoxicity 
The  genotoxicity  of  ulipristal  acetate  has  been  studied  with  respect  to  gene  mutations  in  bacteria, 
chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro  in  human  lymphocytes,  mutations  in  TK  locus  in  vitro  in  Mouse 
Lymphoma  L5178Y  cells  and  in  vivo  in  the  mouse  micronucleus  test  in  bone  marrow.    No  genotoxic 
potential  was  evident  in  any  of  the  test  systems  when  tested  up  to  appropriate  concentrations  and 
dose levels according to guidelines.  
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies with ulipristal acetate have been submitted.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
A  standard  package  of  reproductive toxicity  studies  have  been  conducted  with  focus  on  embryofoetal 
development  and  possible  effects  on  pups  from  dams  which  were  dosed  during  the  early  days  of 
pregnancy, of relevance for the proposed indication. Doses in these studies were low so as to provide 
data at levels which did not impair pregnancy.  
An embryofetal developmental study was conducted in the rat with ulipristal acetate 0, 0.1 0.3 and 1 
mg/kg.  At  1  mg/kg  the  pregnancy  rate  was  reduced  to  84%  and  a  significant  increase  in  post-
implantation  loss  was  observed.  9  out  of  21  pregnant  females  had  uterine  implantations  comprised 
entirely of resorption sites. Of dams that had viable foetuses, a decrease in the number of live fetuses 
per  female  was  noted.  No  adverse  effects  were  noted  in  a  male  rat  fertility  study  when  the  animals 
were  dosed  p.o.  with  ulipristal  acetate  10  mg/kg.  There  was  no  evidence  of  a  teratogenic  effect  of 
ulipristal acetate in this rat study.  
Female rabbits were dosed with ulipristal acetate 0, 0.1 0.3 and 1 mg/kg and the pregnancy rate was 
reduced at the high dose level. Further, similar results as seen in rats were noted also in rabbits and a 
NOEL for developmental toxicity was established at 0.3 mg/kg both in the rat and rabbit.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 23/106 
 
 
 
Pregnant rats were treated with ulipristal acetate 0.5 and 1 mg/kg during gestation day 0 to 3 in order 
to mimic an potential exposure of a human embryo shortly after the unprotected intercourse. At both 
dose levels the gestational length was increased and at 1 mg/kg the number of pregnant animals was 
reduced.  No  adverse  effects  were  seen  on  development  of  the  F1  generation  including  reproductive 
capacity. In the in vivo primary pharmacodynamic study performed in cynomolgus monkeys referred to 
in  section  II.1,  no  evidence  of  structural  or  physiological  abnormalities  in  fetuses  or  infants  that 
survived exposure to ulipristal acetate (0.5 and 5 mg/kg po) at gestation days 23-26 were seen. The 
data comprised 4 and 2 live births from dams dosed orally with 0.5 and 5.0 mg/kg/day, respectively, 
and one live birth from a dam treated intramuscularly with 0.5 mg/kg/day.  
Pregnant rats were treated with high doses of ulipristal acetate 2, 4 or 8 mg/kg during late (Day 17-
19)  gestational  phase.  Ulipristal  acetate  induced  premature  parturition  in  all  animals  irrespective  of 
dose and all pups delivered were found dead in their placental membrane.  
Toxicokinetic data 
The  toxicokinetics  of  ulipristal  acetate  were  characterized  in  rats  and  monkeys.  Only  female  animals 
were used in the toxicological investigation. 
In  rats,  the  increase  in  exposure  to  ulipristal  acetate  and  PGL4002  using  LC-MS/MS  was  sub-
proportional in the dose range of 5 to 125 mg/kg/day together with an increase of the metabolic ratio 
ulipristal  acetate/PGL4002  suggesting  that  the  metabolism  of  ulipristal  acetate  was  saturated  with 
increasing doses (PGL-H-421). Similar changes in exposure were obtained by RIA measurement after 6 
months of repeated oral dosing (PGL-H-435). In pregnant rats, the increase in systemic exposure for 
ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 using LC-MS/MS was slightly less than dose- proportional between 0.1 
and  0.3  mg/kg/day  for  C max,  and  dose-  or  supra-proportional  for  AUC0-6h,  with,  in  all  cases,  the 
systemic exposure of ulipristal acetate being higher than that of PGL4002 (PGL-H-471). 
In  monkeys,  toxicokinetic  data  showed  a  general  pattern  of  dose-  or  supra-proportional  increase  in 
ulipristal acetate and PGL4002 exposure (C4h and AUC1-270 days) using LC-MS/MS with increasing dose 
level (1 to 25 mg/kg/day) following oral administration over 9 months; similar findings were seen from 
6 month dosing using RIA measurement (PGL-H-436; PGL09-001). Multiple sampling time points in the 
9 month monkey study showed low exposure at 1 mg/kg/day throughout the study. However, steady 
state was quickly established at higher dose levels with consistent values seen throughout the dosing 
period  for  both  parent  drug  and  PGL4002  (PGL09-001).  Furthermore,  concentrations  of  ulipristal 
acetate were less than those of PGL4002 at 1 and 5 mg/kg/day, and approximately equal to those of 
PGL4002 at 25 mg/kg/day. 
Local Tolerance  
No local tolerance studies were submitted. 
Other toxicity studies 
Photosafety 
An evaluation of the in vitro phototoxicity of ulipristal acetate (2.5-30 µg/mL) on Balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts 
using the neutral red uptake assay has been performed (study PGL-H-448). The highest concentration 
of  ulipristal  acetate  used  was  limited  by  solubility.  When  tested  up  to  the  limit  of  solubility,  ulipristal 
acetate was not phototoxic. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 24/106 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Based on the CHMP Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal products for Human 
Use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00,  01  June  2006),  an  action  limit  is  in  principle  not  applicable  for 
ulipristal  acetate,  as  it  is  a  selective  progesterone  receptor  modulator  and  a  potential  endocrine 
disruptor.  Based  on  the  extensive  metabolism  and  very  limited  excretion  of  unchanged  ulipristal,  its 
therapeutic use is unlikely to represent a risk to the environment. However, a Phase II environmental 
risk  assessment  is  recommended,  and  underway,  to  further  characterize  the  potential  endocrine 
modulating properties of ulipristal acetate in the environment. 
Table 7 Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): ulipristal 
CAS-number (if available):  
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , refined  
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Test protocol 
OECD 106  
OECD 301 
Value 
<0.01 
Study type  
Test protocol 
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Test/Species  
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Test  
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Fish Bioaccumulation 
OECD 201 
OECD 211 
OECD 210 
NOEC 
NOEC 
OECD 209 
EC 
Unit 
µg/L 
Results 
Conclusion 
Not applicable 
Remarks 
To be provided 
To be provided 
Endpoint  value  Unit 
NOEC 
Remarks 
µg/L  To be provided 
µg/L  To be provided 
µg/L  Full fish life cycle 
to be provided. 
µg/L  To be provided 
OECD 305 
BCF 
L/kg  To be provided 
In the context of the obligation of the MAH to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points to be addressed: 
- a phase II ERA for ulipristal acetate. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical data submitted reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of 
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. Most findings in general toxicity studies 
were  related  to  its  action  on  progesterone  receptors  (and  at  higher  concentrations  on  glucocorticoid 
receptors), with antiprogesterone activity observed at exposures similar to therapeutic levels.  
Based on the CHMP Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal products for Human 
Use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00,  01  June  2006),  an  action  limit  is  in  principle  not  applicable  for 
ulipristal  acetate,  as  it  is  a  selective  progesterone  receptor  modulator  and  a  potential  endocrine 
disruptor.Based  on  the  extensive  metabolism  and  very  limited  excretion  of  unchanged  ulipristal 
acetate,  its  therapeutic  use  is  considered  unlikely  to  represent  a  risk  to  the  environment.  A  phase  II 
ERA  has  been  recommended  post  approval  and  is  currently  ongoing  to  gather  further  information 
about  the  fate  and  effects  of  the  drug  substance  as  a  potential  endocrine  modulator  in  the 
environment.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 25/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due  to  its  mechanism  of  action,  ulipristal  acetate  has  an  embryolethal  effect  in  rats,  rabbits  (at 
repeated  doses  above  1 mg/kg),  guinea  pigs  and  in  monkeys.  The  safety  for  a  human  embryo  is 
unknown. At doses which were low enough to maintain gestation in the animal species, no teratogenic 
potential was observed. Reproduction studies performed in rats at doses giving exposure in the same 
range  as  the  human  dose  have  revealed  no  evidence  of  impaired  fertility  due  to  ulipristal  acetate  in 
treated  animals  or  the  offspring  of  treated  females.  As  ulipristal  acetate  is  administered  orally,  no 
specific local tolerance studies were conducted. No signs of irritation of the gastrointestinal tract were 
observed in toxicology studies. 
Based  on  the  non-clinical  dossier,  the  following  amendments  have  been  made  to  the  Product 
Information: 
Section 4.3 of the SmPC has been amended to include the following contraindications: hypersensitivity 
to  the  active  substance  or  to  any  of  the  excipients,  pregnancy,  breastfeeding,  genital  bleeding  of 
unknown aetiology or for reasons other than uterine fibroids, uterine, cervical, ovarian or breast cancer 
and treatment beyond 3 months. 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  includes  warnings  and  precautions  on  contraception.  Esmya  should  only  be 
prescribed after careful diagnosis. Pregnancy should be precluded prior to treatment. Concomitant use 
of  progestagen-only  pills,  a  progestagen-releasing  intrauterine  device  or  combined  oral  contraceptive 
pills  is  not  recommended.  Although  a  majority  of  women  taking  a  therapeutic  dose  of  Esmya  have 
anovulation, a non hormonal contraceptive method is recommended during treatment. 
This  section  also  includes  a  precaution  for  use  with  concomitant  treatments.  Ulipristal  acetate  is  not 
recommended  for  patients  receiving  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp)  substrates  (e.g.  dabigatran  etexilate, 
digoxin).  Co-administration  of  moderate  or  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitors  and  ulipristal  acetate  is  not 
recommended. When prescribing ulipristal acetate to patients receiving CYP3A4 inducers, plasma levels 
of ulipristal acetate may be reduced. Concomitant use of ulipristal acetate and potent CYP3A4 inducers 
(e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St John´s wort) is not recommended. 
Section 4.5 of the SmPC identifies potential interactions between Ulipristal acetate and other medicinal 
products. Medicinal products which could affect ulipristal acetate are hormonal contraceptives, CYP3A4 
inhibitors,  and  CYP3A4  inducers.  Ulipristal  acetate  could  interfere  with  the  action  of  hormonal 
contraceptives and P-gp substrates. 
The basis for the assessment of long term safety of ulipristal acetate has been a 9-month toxicity study 
in cynomolgus monkeys with a 2 month recovery period. In this study, histological changes resembling 
progesterone  receptor  modulator  associated  endometrial  changes  were  noted  at  doses  from  1 
mg/kg/day.  This  has  been  a  concern  but  is  considered  acceptable  given  that  the  proposed  indication 
for Esmya with maximum duration of treatment set to 3 months. 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  with  ulipristal  acetate  have  been  performed  given  the  short  treatment 
duration  (a  maximum  of  3  months).  However,  cystic  hyperplasia  of  the  uterine  endometrium  was 
observed  at  low  exposure  during  the  9  month  repeat  dose  toxicity  study  in  monkeys,  which  is  of 
concern.  
To address the absence of carcinogenicity studies, the applicant has initiated as part of the RMP a 104-
week carcinogenicity study in rats and a 26-week carcinogenicity study in transgenic TgRasH2 mice. It 
is  considered  acceptable  for  these  studies  to  be  performed  post-approval,  as  no  signs  of  malignant 
changes were noted in the endometrial data collected up to 38 weeks after three month treatment with 
ulipristal in the clinical studies. 
Two non-clinical carcinogenicity studies are also ongoing to determine the potential of ulipristal acetate 
for  neoplasia  (PGL09-005  and  -PGL10-005).  In  addition  to  this,  the  findings  in  cynomolgus  monkeys 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/106 
Rev06.11 
 
 
 
observed  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  study  have  been  adequately  described  in  the  section  5.3  of  the 
SmPC. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  data  for  Esmya  are  adequate  to  support  the  market  authorisation.  The  applicant  has 
initiated  and  will  submit  the  results  of  a  104-week  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats  and  a  26-week 
carcinogenicity  study  in  transgenic  TgRasH2  mice  as  a  post-authorisation  measure  to  determine  the 
potential of ulipristal acetate for neoplasia. These post-authorisation measures are adequately covered 
in the RMP. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant,  
The clinical studies were performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH Harmonized 
Tripartite  Guideline  for  GCP,  the  European  Union  Clinical  Trial  Directive  and  all  applicable  local 
regulatory  requirements.The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials 
conducted  outside  the  community  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  ethical  standards  of 
Directive 2001/20/EC . 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
The following table summarizes all the clinical studies submitted. 
Table 8. Summary of ulipristal acetate clinical study programme 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 27/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of ulipristal acetate clinical development (safety populations) 
Phase 
Study 
Double-
blind 
Ulipristal acetate doses (mg) 
N 
1   2.5  5 
10 
20 
30 
50  100  200 
Pivotal Phase III studies in target population 
III 
III 
PGL07-021  Yes 
PGL07-022  Yes 
95 
98 
97  103 
PGL-N-0287  Yes 
PGL-N-0090  Yes 
PGL09-026  No 
 Repeated-dose studies in target population 
II 
II 
III 
 Repeated-dose studies in healthy subjects 
PGL-H-510  Yes 
II 
I 
PGL09-023  Yes 
Single-dose studies in healthy subjects 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
PGL-H-503  No 
PGL09-004  No 
PGL-H-501  No 
PGL-H-505  Yes 
PGL-H-506 
No 
PGL09-022  No 
6 
12  12 
33 
I 
I 
I 
I 
II 
PGL09-015  No 
PGL-H-504  No 
PGL-H-512  No 
PGL-H-516  No 
PGL-H-511  Yes 
6 
16c 
8 
16c 
124g 
11 
8 
6 
33 
10 
11 
13d 
8 
18 
5 
20 
19 
53 
35 
PGL11-002  No 
I 
Single-dose studies in subjects requiring emergency contraception 
II 
III 
III 
PGL-H-508  Yes 
PGL-H-509  No 
PGL-H-513 
613 
18 
1533 
1104 
Single-
blindf 
II 
PGL-H-507  Yes 
8 
6 
7 
6 
11  10 
14d  14d 
413 
832 
Control 
(n) 
Planned 
Treatment 
Duration 
Placebo (48) 
GnRH-
agonistb (101) 
12 Weeksa 
12 Weeksa 
Placebo (8) 
Placebo (13) 
NA 
12 Weeks 
12 Weeksc 
12 Weeksg 
Placebo (11) 
Placebo (8) 
3 months 
10 days 
Placebo (5) 
- 
- 
Placebo (12) 
Placebo (15d) 
Erythromycin 
interaction 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Placebo  
(35e) 
NA 
- 
- 
Levonorgestrel 
1.5 mg (1117) 
Levonorgestrel 
0.75 mg (840) 
Single-dose 
Single-dose 
Shaded studies are those included in the HRA Pharma application for ulipristal acetate use as an emergency contraceptive 
(Ellaone®, EPAR. EMEA/261787/2009)  
As studies were carried out by various sponsors, all studies have been given a new number according to PregLem’s classification 
system (see Section 2.2 for original study numbers). 
a 
 Extension periods consisting of safety follow-up visits at Weeks 26 and 38 were also carried out; see PGL07-021 and 
PGL07-022 Part B CSRs included in Module 5. 
Leuprorelin 3.75 mg once monthly injections. 
At the end of the first 12 weeks, all subjects were given the option to take ulipristal acetate (unblinded) for the following 
12 weeks. Each group included 2 subjects randomized to placebo for the first 3 months who received ulipristal acetate in 
the 3 month extension period. Three subjects in the ulipristal acetate 5 mg/day group and 6 subjects in the ulipristal 
acetate 10 mg/day group continued into the 3 month extension period.  
Data comes from a published article (18). In total 61 subjects received study treatment in this study but in the publication, 
group numbers are only given for 56 subjects included in analyses. 
The same 35 subjects received ulipristal acetate and placebo in this crossover design study. 
Sponsor and Subjects were blinded, Investigator unblinded. 
Interim data available (cut-off date 15 March 2011) 
b  
c  
d 
e 
f 
g 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 28/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
The active substance ulipristal acetate is a weak base with pH dependent and poor aqueous solubility 
(Study PGL10-12). Micronization increases the bioavailability and micronized drug substance is used in 
the  5mg  tabled  formulation.  The  absolute  oral  bioavailability  of  ulipristal  acetate  has  not  been 
determined. 
The  bidirectional  permeability  of  ulipristal  acetate  and  the  metabolite  PGL4002  was  assessed  using 
human  Caco-2  cell  monolayers  (PGL09-007).  Some  problems  with  non-specific  binding  of  the  test 
compounds to the experimental devices were encountered in this study, which makes the results from 
this experiment inconclusive. It can therefore not be immediately concluded that ulipristal acetate is a 
high-permeability  substance.  Ulipristal acetate  and  PGL4002  do  not  appear  to  be  P-gp  substrates.  It 
was  not  investigated  whether  ulipristal acetate  is  a substrate  (or inhibitor)  of other  transporters,  e.g. 
uptake or efflux (biliary) transporters in the liver. 
Bioequivalence  
The ulipristal acetate formulation used in the pivotal phase III studies is a tablet formulation containing 
5 mg  ulipristal  acetate.  Thus,  the  BE  studies  submitted  (PGL09-004,  PGL-H-504,  PGL-H-501,  PGL-H-
516)  provide  information  on  the  impact  of  the  formulation  on  bioavailability  but  are  not  crucial  to 
bridge data between formulations. 
In the bioequivalence study (PGL09-004) comparing 2 different ulipristal acetate tablet formulations, a 
small deviation from strict bioequivalence was shown for C max for the parent drug ulipristal acetate for 
both the 5 and 10 mg strengths. The deviation was small and not likely relevant and furthermore, the 
phase III studies were conducted with the final formulation to be marketed.  
Study  PGL-H-504  was  a  single  dose,  non-comparative  study  of  a  30  mg  ulipristal  acetate  tablet 
formulation. The study was submitted as part of the PK profile characterization.  
Study  PGL-H-516  was  a  two-treatment,  single-dose,  crossover  study  in  healthy  female  volunteers 
comparing  the  bioavailability  of  ulipristal  acetate  for  a  30  mg  tablet  manufactured  at  two  different 
sites. Bioequivalence was demonstrated between the tablets studied.  
No issues related to bioequivalence between different formulations have been identified. 
Food interaction  
The food interaction study (PGL-H-512) was conducted with a ulipristal acetate 30 mg tablet and had 
an  adequate  design.  No  dramatic  effect  of  food  on  the  exposure  of  ulipristal  acetate  and  its  active 
metabolite was found, although the PK profile was  changed to some extent. AUC  was increased 26% 
on average, median tmax increased from 0.75 hours to 3.0 hours and Cmax showed a mean decrease 
of 44%. No study has been conducted with the 5 mg Esmya tablet in the dossier.  
Interaction with medicinal products affecting gastric pH 
An in vivo interaction study (PGL11-002) was submitted in which the effect of repeated dosing of 
esomeprazole on the pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate (5mg) was studied. Administration of 
ulipristal acetate (10 mg tablet) together with the proton pump inhibitor esomeprazole (20 mg daily for 
6 days) resulted in approximately 65% lower mean Cmax, a delayed tmax (from a median of 
0.75 hours to 1.0 hours) and 13% higher mean AUC. This effect of medicinal products that increase 
gastric pH is not expected to be of clinical relevance for daily administration of ulipristal acetate 
tablets. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 29/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Ulipristal acetate has a high degree of binding to plasma proteins (98%) and to blood cells, resulting in 
a  free  fraction  of  about  1%  (PGL-H-427,  PGL-H-428,  PGL09-011).  The  protein  binding  of  the  active 
metabolite PGL4002 was somewhat lower compared with that of ulipristal acetate (96-97%). There is 
no  information  about  the  volume  of  distribution  of  ulipristal  acetate  due  to  the  lack  of  intravenous 
pharmacokinetic data. Ulipristal acetate may be distributed in milk. 
Metabolism 
The in vitro metabolism data are limited and only microsome studies has been submitted (PGL-H-429, 
PGL-H-430) but not studies using  hepatocytes. Furthermore, only CYP isoenzymes were tested, while 
in vivo  data  indicate  presence  of  other  pathways,  e.g.  acetylation.  The  in vitro  studies  showed 
formation of two metabolites, PGL4002 and PGL4004. CYP3A4 seemed to be involved in the formation 
of these metabolites. An in vivo interaction study with the CYP3A4 inhibitor erythromycin, showed an 
approximately  3-fold  increase  in  the  exposure  to  ulipristal acetate,  thus,  providing  support  for 
involvement of CYP3A4 in the in vivo metabolism.  
In vivo  metabolism  data  are  available  from  a  mass  balance  study  (PGL09-015).  In  plasma,  complete 
identification of the radioactivity in plasma in the 1 hour-sample was achieved. However, a later time 
points no metabolite profiling seems to have been performed. Throughout the dossier, the applicant is 
mainly  focused  on  PGL4002  as  being  the  major  metabolite,  however,  considering  the  overall 
metabolism pattern and mass balance data this may be a relatively small pathway. PGL4002 probably 
contributes to some extent to the activity of ulipristal acetate, with plasma levels that are about 30% 
of  those  of  the  parent  drug,  a  somewhat  lower  protein  binding  and  a  potency  similar  to 
ulipristal acetate.    
Incomplete information is also available on the metabolite pattern in faeces and urine.  
An  in vitro  study  has  been  conducted  to  assess  the  involvement  of  P-gp  in  the  absorption  of 
ulipristal acetate.  However,  no  studies  have  been  conducted  to  investigate  in  vitro  whether  other 
transporter  proteins  (efflux/uptake)  are  involved  in  the  absorption,  distribution  or  elimination  of 
ulipristal acetate.  
The  consequences  of  genetic  polymorphism  have  not  been  studied.  Known  polymorphic  cytochrome 
P450  isoenzymes,  e.g.  CYP2D6  or  CYP2C19  do  not  seem  to  be  involved  in  the  ulipristal  metabolism, 
based  on  in vitro  data.  Acetylation  seems  to  be  one  metabolic  pathway  for  ulipristal acetate  and  N-
acetyl transferase is known to be polymorphic. The importance of this pathway is, however, unknown. 
Elimination 
A  mass  balance  study  with  radio-labelled  ulipristal acetate  has  been  submitted  (PGL09-015).  An  oral 
solution containing 14C-ulipristal acetate was administered to 5 women at a dose of 20 mg. In plasma, 
the  mean  half-life  of  total  radioactivity  was  much  longer  compared  with  the  mean  half-life  of 
unchanged ulipristal acetate (120 vs. 51 hours). Based on AUC0-∞, ulipristal acetate and the metabolite 
considered to be the primary metabolite (PGL4002) together only constitute approximately 8% of the 
AUC0-∞ of total radioactivity.  
Despite  a  prolonged  sampling  period  (up  to  264  hours  post-dose),  the  overall  mean  recovery  of 
radioactivity  in  excreta  did  not  sum  up  to  more  than  approximately 79%.  The  excretion  was  mainly 
faecal, with a mean of 72%. Some individuals showed a very late excretion of radioactivity in faeces. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 30/106 
 
 
 
 
Given  that  most  subjects  had  a  low  faecal  excretion  during  the  first  48  hours  after  dosing  and  given 
the  relatively  fast  absorption,  the  radioactivity  in  faeces  indicates  excretion  of  unchanged  drug  or 
metabolites, not of unabsorbed drug. In metabolite profiling attempts of faecal samples, no unchanged 
ulipristal acetate  has  been  detected.  The  urinary  excretion  of  radioactive  material  was  low,  with  a 
mean of 6%. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Data on dose proportionality for ulipristal acetate has been submitted for doses across the range of 1 
mg to 200 mg. Study PGL-H-503 covered a dose range of 1-200 mg in healthy pre-menopausal women 
in  fasted  state,  with  ulipristal  acetate.  In  study  PGL09-004,  5mg  and  10mg  doses  were  studied,  and 
were  shown  to  be  proportional.  In  study  PGL09-023,  where  the  10mg,  20mg  and  50mg  doses  were 
studied, the exposure to ulipristal acetate increased somewhat more than dose proportional both after 
single and multiple dosing, however, the deviation from dose proportionality was not very large.  
Study PGL09-023 provides the main source to multiple dose PK data for ulipristal acetate, although the 
therapeutic  dose  5  mg/day  was  not  studied.  This  study  showed  that  with  once  daily  administration, 
steady  state  is  reached  after  8-10  days,  or  possibly  somewhat  earlier.  A comparison  of  single  and 
multiple  dose  exposure  data  indicated  no  unexpected  findings  over  time,  neither  unexpected 
accumulation nor signs of decreased exposure with time.  
The  inter-individual  variability  in  exposure  to  ulipristal acetate  is  moderate  to  high  (approximately 
50%). There was no information about intra-individual variability.  
Special populations 
No  studies  in  special  populations  have  been  submitted.    The  effect  of  renal  impairment  or  hepatic 
impairment  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ulipristal  acetate  has  not  been  investigated.  No  population 
pharmacokinetic analysis has been performed as an alternative to specific pharmacokinetic studies. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
One  in vivo  interaction  study  (PGL09-022)  was  submitted  in  which  the  effect  of  repeated  dosing  of 
erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate was studied. A small increase in Cmax (18%) 
of ulipristal acetate was observed upon co-administration with erythromycin while the AUC values were 
approximately 3-fold higher with erythromycin. The mean half-life was not affected. The data suggests 
an  effect  on  the  gut  CYP3A4  metabolism  of  ulipristal acetate,  although  a  larger  effect  on  Cmax  might 
have  been  expected  if  the  inhibition  was  mainly  pre-systemic.  For  the  metabolite  PGL4002,  Cmax  was 
reduced by erythromycin co-administration to about 50% of the value without erythromycin. The AUC 
values were increased by approximately 50% and the mean half-life was doubled.  
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No pharmacokinetic studies using human biomaterials were submitted. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Effects on progesterone action in target tissues  
Progesterone receptor action of ulipristal acetate was demonstrated in vitro (Study PGL-H-410; Study 
PGL-H-411) evaluating the effects of ulipristal acetate on proliferative activity and apoptosis in cultured 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/106 
Rev06.11 
 
 
 
human uterine leiomyoma cells. The results suggest that ulipristal acetate inhibits the proliferation of 
cultured leiomyoma cells by down-regulating proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression, and 
induces  apoptosis  by  up-regulating  cleaved  caspase-3  and  poly  ADP  ribose  polymerase  (PARP) 
expression and down regulating B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) expression  (see non-clinical section). 
Effects on ovarian function after single doses of ulipristal acetate 
Studies  in  regularly  menstruating  healthy  women  using  single  doses  from  1mg  to  200mg  were 
submitted in order to demonstrate effects on ovarian function.  
In  Study  PGL-H-505,  patients  were  randomized  to  a  single  dose  of  10,  50  or  100  mg  of  ulipristal  or 
placebo in the mid-follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. The treatment cycle had been preceded by 
and  was  followed  by  a  control  cycle.    Mid-follicular  phase  administration  appeared  to  stun  the  follicle 
and  delay  ovulation  in  all  active  dose  groups.  All  women  on  50  or  100mg  ovulated  >1  week  after 
treatment,  whereas  most  of  those  receiving  placebo  or  the  10mg  dose  ovulated  within  1  week  of 
treatment.  Endometrial  biopsies  were  obtained  5-7  days  after  ovulation  and,  compared  with  placebo, 
there was a delay in endometrial maturation at all doses of ulipristal. 
In order to study effects of early luteal phase administration of Ulipristal (Study PGL-H-506), regularly 
menstruating women were randomized to receive a single dose of ulipristal: 10mg, 50mg or 100 mg or 
placebo given after ovulation and within two days of the LH surge. Four to six days after treatment, a 
transvaginal ultrasound was done to measure endometrial thickness and any ovarian cysts, if present, 
and an endometrial biopsy was obtained. The women were studied during a control, a treatment, and a 
post-treatment cycle. There was no significant difference among the treatment groups in the length of 
the follicular or luteal phase, or overall cycle length during the baseline, treatment or post-treatment 
menstrual  cycles.  Early  luteal  administration  of  50  or  100  mg  appeared  to  delay  endometrial 
maturation  and  to  decrease  endometrial  thickness  without  affecting  luteolysis  or  menstrual  cycle 
length. 
The effect of ulipristal acetate on the length of the menstrual cycle was studied in PGL-H-504. Healthy 
women  with  normal  menstrual  cycle  lengths  were  studied  during  a  control,  a  treatment,  and  a  post-
treatment cycle. The women received a single dose of ulipristal: 1mg, 10mg, 50mg, 100 mg, 200 mg  
or placebo administered in the mid-luteal phase. When Ulipristal acetate was administered in the mid-
luteal  phase,  no  significant  effect  on  menstrual  cycle  length  was  observed  at  doses  up  to  100  mg. 
However, subjects receiving a single 200 mg dose all had a shortened luteal phase and early menses. 
In  order  to  study  the  effect  of  a  single  oral  dose  of  30mg  ulipristal  acetate  on  the  outcome  of  the 
leading  follicle  and  more  specifically  to  assess  inhibition  of  follicular  rupture,  healthy  regularly 
menstruating women were randomized in a cross-over design to a single oral dose of 30 mg ulipristal 
acetate or to placebo to be administered in cycles 1 and 4 when the lead follicle diameter had reached 
≥18mm  (Study  PGL-H-511).  Ulipristal  acetate  delayed  or  inhibited  follicular  rupture  significantly 
compared  to  placebo  even  when  administered  immediately  before  ovulation  (when  LH  surge  has 
already begun).  
Effects  on  ovarian  function  and  endometrium  during  continuous  daily  administration  of 
ulipristal acetate 
The pharmacodynamic properties with regard to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and the effects on the 
endometrium  of  continuous  administration  of  ulipristal  acetate  were  studied  in  healthy,  regularly 
menstruating volunteers (Study PGL-H-510). After a control cycle, women were randomized to receive 
2.5 mg/day, 5 mg/day, 10 mg/day or placebo throughout 3 months after which a post-treatment cycle 
followed. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 32/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inhibition  of  ovulation,  as  defined  by  progesterone  levels  <3  ng/ml  throughout  the  third  treatment 
cycle, was seen in the majority of volunteers on 5mg and 10mg. No statistically significant impairment 
of  follicular  growth  vs  placebo  was  observed.  Estradiol  levels  remained  in  the  physiological  range 
during the follicular phase in all groups, with FSH levels in the range of low normal values for the 5 and 
10 mg/dose group as well as for anovulatory subjects in the 2.5 mg group. The LH surge was blunted 
but not down-regulated and remained in a range compatible with folliculogenesis. 
The  endometrial  histology  produced  results  indicating  predominantly  secretory  endometrium  in  the 
treatment groups, despite suppressed circulating endogenous progesterone levels, which suggested a 
progesterone  agonist  effect  of  the  compound.  Bleeding  days  decreased  with  successive  months  of 
treatment,  with  amenorrhea  achieved  in  9/11  and  9/10  in  the  5  and  10  mg  groups,  respectively,  at 
month 3.   
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Four  pharmacodynamic  dose-response  studies  with  30mg  ulipristal  acetate  formulation  were 
submitted.  However,  no  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  submitted  in  relation  to  the 
proposed indication “treatment of uterine fibroids”. 
Three studies involved a single-dose administration (PGL-H-503, PGL-H-505 and PGL-H-506). Only one 
study (PGL-H-510) is a repeated-dose study in which subjects received daily a single dose of ulipristal 
acetate  (2.5  mg,  5  mg  or  10  mg)  over  12  weeks  to  study  the  minimal  effective  dose  in  ovulation 
inhibition. This pharmacodynamic study is consequently the most relevant. 
Primary pharmacology 
In  the  Phase  II  study  (PGL-H-510)  in  healthy  subjects,  a  dose-dependent  effect  was  seen  on 
amenorrhea and the anovulation rate. The majority of the subjects in the 5 and 10 mg/day group had 
amenorrhea  and  anovulation,  whereas  this  was  not  the  case  for  the  2.5  mg/day  and  placebo  group. 
The  percentage  of  amenorrhea  and  anovulation  rate  was  comparable  between  the  5  and  10  mg/day 
group. Comparison of mean hormone levels for all treatment groups versus placebo did not show any 
statistically significant differences (FSH, LH, estradiol, cortisol, prolactin and testosterone), except for 
progesterone levels, which were in the majority of the subjects in the 5 and 10 mg/day group below 3 
ng/ml throughout treatment cycle 3. Further, LH surge was blunted in 18.2%, 54.5% and 80% in the 
2.5, 5 and 10 mg/day group, respectively. 
There was no significant difference between treatment groups in terms of endometrial thickness. The 
histological patterns of normal cyclic endometrium were only displayed by a minority of subjects in the 
5  (18%)  and  10  (0%)  mg/day  group  compared  to  placebo  (55%)  and  the  2.5  (27%)  mg/day  group. 
Most  subjects  (64%)  exhibited  cystic  dilated  glands  in  the  5  mg  group,  whereas  this  was  0%  in 
placebo, 9.1% (1 out of 11 subjects) in the 2.5 mg group and 10.0% (1 out of 10 subjects) in the 10 
mg  group.  No  specific  patterns  such  as  disordered  architecture  or  abnormal  vessels  were  present. 
There were no signs of endometrial hyperplasia or cellular atypia in any of the patients studied. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Ulipristal  acetate  reduces  oestrogen  concentrations  by  inhibiting  ovulation  via  effects  on  follicle-
stimulating  hormone  (FSH)  and  luteinising  hormone  (LH).  Pre-clinical  studies  indicate  that  ulipristal 
acetate  binds  to  the  glucocorticoid  and  androgen  receptors.  The  in  vivo  anti-glucocorticoid  and  anti-
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 33/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
androgen  activity  was  demonstrated  at  doses  approximately  50-fold  greater  than  those  needed  for 
anti-progesterone effect.  
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Trough  levels  of  ulipristal acetate  and  PGL4002  were  determined  at  weeks  5,  9  and  13  (PGL07-021, 
PGL07-022).  No  correlation  was  observed  between  ulipristal acetate  and/or  PGL4002  mean  trough 
concentrations  and  other  end-points,  such  as  endometrium  thickness,  total  myoma  volume,  uterine 
volume 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances 
No specific pharmacodynamic interaction studies have been submitted. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Esmya is intended for use in fertile women and the population included in the pharmacokinetic studies 
(healthy  female  volunteers  between  18  to  50  years)  is  therefore  deemed  adequate.  No  population 
pharmacokinetic  analyses  or  studies  in  special  populations  have  been  performed.  Two  in vivo 
interaction studies are available.  
No  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  has  been  performed  as  an  alternative  to  specific 
pharmacokinetic  studies.  Esmya  is  only  intended  for  use  in  females  of  fertile  age,  for  which  PK  and 
clinical studies have been performed. Hence, data on age and gender are considered sufficient. No data 
with respect to the effects of weight or race on the pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate are available. 
The  applicant  analysed  the  influence  of  weight  and  Body  Mass  Index  on  the  trough  concentrations  in 
two pivotal clinical studies with two different doses. There was a high variability and, despite the fact 
that a trend to a higher exposure with higher weight was seen, a clear and relevant relationship was 
difficult  to  detect.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this  marginally  higher  exposure  is  therefore  considered 
small.  
In patients with renal impairment, no dose adjustment in mild or moderate impairment are suggested 
while Esmya is not recommended in severe renal impairment unless the patient is closely monitored. 
The  recommendation  not  to  use  Esmya  in  severe  renal  impairment  unless  the  patient  is  closely 
monitored is therefore endorsed, in the absence of data. A strict contraindication is not proposed and is 
not considered warranted.  
As no study in subjects with hepatic impairment has been submitted, the applicant will conduct a study 
of the PK of ulipristal acetate in volunteers with mild, moderate and severe hepatic impairment (PGL-
W-001) (included in the RMP). According to the CHMP guideline on the evaluation of pharmacokinetics 
of  medicinal  products  in  patients  with  impaired  hepatic  function  (CPMP/EWP/2339/02),  a  study  in 
hepatic  impairment  should  be  conducted  for  a  substance  like  ulipristal acetate  since  hepatic 
impairment  is  likely  to  significantly  alter  the  pharmacokinetics  (especially  metabolism  and  biliary 
excretion) of the drug and/or its active metabolites, and since a posology adjustment would be likely.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 34/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment,  no  dose  adjustment  is  recommended,  while  the  use  in 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment is not recommended,  unless the patient is closely monitored. 
The recommendation not to use Esmya in moderate and severe hepatic impairment unless the patient 
is  closely  monitored  is  justified,  since  metabolism  appears  to  be  a  major  elimination  route  for 
ulipristal acetate  and  since  the  absolute  bioavailability  is  unknown.  A  strict  contraindication  in  severe 
hepatic  impairment  is  not  considered  warranted,  since  ulipristal acetate  is  not  a  substance  with  a 
narrow  therapeutic  window  and  since  10-fold  higher  doses  (50  mg/day  for  10  days)  have  been 
administered without serious safety concerns.  
The effective dose of ulipristal acetate as emergency contraception product (early pregnancy; within 5 
days  post-intercourse)  is  6  times  the  dose  recommended  in  uterine  fibroids.  Use  of  non-hormonal 
contraceptive methods is recommended during treatment with Esmya,  with a statement of the SmPC 
that  concomitant  use  of  Esmya  is  likely  to  reduce  progestagen  efficacy.  No  cases  of  unintended 
pregnancy during ulipristal acetate treatment were reported in Phase II/III studies of ulipristal acetate 
for treatment of symptomatic fibroids in patients eligible for surgery.  
The study also highlights the need for more understanding of the endometrial effects during long-term 
treatment  with  ulipristal,  beyond  3  months.  Histopathological  evaluation  of  endometrial  biopsies  in 
women treated with ulipristal is very difficult as the patterns found apparently do not follow that seen 
during  other  hormonal treatment.  The  6  months  post-treatment  follow  data  from  the  Phase  III  study 
and  its  extension  (PGL09-026  and  PGL09-027  respectively)  and  the  follow-up  of  the  proposed  non-
interventional study (PGL10-014) will supply more long term data on the endometrial safety of Esmya 
administration  up  to  12-month  post  treatment,  as  detailed  in  the  RMP  (see  section  2.7. 
Pharmacovigilance). 
Based  on  the  clinical  pharmacology  data submitted  in  this  dossier,  the  Product  Information  has  been 
revised as follows: 
Section 5.2 of the SmPC includes information on the following pharmacokinetic properties of ulipristal 
acetate: 
Following oral administration of a single dose of 5 or 10 mg, ulipristal acetate is rapidly absorbed, with 
a C max of 23.5 ± 14.2 ng/ml and 50.0 ± 34.4 ng/ml occurring approximately 1 h after ingestion, and 
with  an  AUC0-∞  of  61.3  ±  31.7 ng/ml  134.0±  83.8 ng.h/ml,  respectively.  Ulipristal  acetate  is  rapidly 
transformed  into  a  pharmacologically  active  metabolite  with  a  Cmax  of  9.0  ±  4.4 ng/ml  and  20.6  ± 
10.9 ng/ml also occurring approximately 1 h after ingestion, and with an AUC0-∞ of 26.0 ± 12.0 ng/ml 
and 63.6 ± 30.1 ng.h/ml respectively. 
Administration  of  ulipristal  acetate  (30 mg  tablet)  together  with  a  high-fat  breakfast  resulted  in 
approximately  45%  lower  mean  Cmax,  a  delayed  t max  (from  a  median  of  0.75 hours  to  3 hours)  and 
25%  higher  mean  AUC0-∞  compared  with  administration  in  the  fasted  state.  Similar  results  were 
obtained for the active mono-N-demethylated metabolite. This kinetic effect of food is not expected to 
be of clinical relevance for daily administration of ulipristal acetatetablets. 
Ulipristal  acetate  is  highly  bound  (>98%)  to  plasma  proteins,  including  albumin,  alpha-l-acid 
glycoprotein, high density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 35/106 
 
 
 
Ulipristal  acetate  is  readily  converted  to  its  mono-N-demethylated  and  subsequently  to  its  di-N-
demethylated  metabolites.  In  vitro  data  indicate  that  this  is  predominantly  mediated  by  the 
cytochrome  P450  3A4  isoform  (CYP3A4).    The  main  route  of  elimination  is  through  faeces  and  less 
than  10%  is  excreted  in  the  urine.  The  terminal  half-life  of  ulipristal  acetate  in  plasma  following  a 
single  dose  of  5 or  10 mg  is  estimated  to  be  about  38 hours,  with  a  mean  oral  clearance  (CL/F)  of 
about 100 l/h.  
In vitro data indicate that ulipristal acetate and its active metabolite do not inhibit CYP1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4, or induce CYP1A2 at clinically relevant concentrations. Thus administration 
of  ulipristal  acetate  is  unlikely  to  alter  the  clearance  of  medicinal  products  that  are  metabolised  by 
these  enzymes.  In  vitro  data  indicate  that  ulipristal  acetate  and  its  active  metabolite  are  not  P-gp 
(ABCB1) substrates. The applicant will conduct a Phase I drug-drug interaction study with a sensitive 
P-gp substrate to look further into the pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate (included in the RMP). 
No pharmacokinetic studies with ulipristal acetate have been performed in women with impaired renal 
or hepatic function. Due to the CYP-mediated metabolism, hepatic impairment is expected to alter the 
elimination  of  ulipristal acetate,  resulting  in  increased  exposure.  The  applicant  will  perform  a  phase  I 
study  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ulipristal  acetate  in  volunteers  with  mild,  moderate  and  severe 
hepatic impairment, (PGL-W-001) (included in the RMP). 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  note  that  the  use  of  non-hormonal  contraceptive  methods  is  recommended 
during treatment with Esmya. 
Section  4.6  of  the  SmPC  notes  the  effects  of  ulipristal  acetate  on  fertility,  pregnancy  and  lactation. 
Ulipristal  acetate  is  likely  to  adversely  interact  with  progestagen-only  pills,  progestagen-releasing 
devices or combined oral contraceptive pills, therefore, concomitant use is not recommended. Although 
a  majority  of  women  taking  a  therapeutic  dose  of  Esmya  have  anovulation,  a  non  hormonal 
contraceptive method is recommended during treatment. Esmya is  contraindicated during pregnancy. 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of ulipristal acetate in pregnant women. Although 
no teratogenic potential was observed, animal data are insufficient with regard to reproduction toxicity. 
Available toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of ulipristal acetate in milk. It is unknown 
whether  ulipristal  acetate  is  excreted  in  human  milk  and  a  risk  to  the  newborns/infants  cannot  be 
excluded.  Esmya  is  contraindicated  during  breast-feeding.  A  majority  of  women  taking  a  therapeutic 
dose  of  Esmya  have  anovulation,  however,  the  level  of  fertility  while  taking  multiple  doses  of  Esmya 
has not been studied. 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC includes recommendations on special populations such as patients with renal 
impairment,  hepatic  impairment  and  children.  No  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients  with 
mild or moderate renal impairment. In the absence of specific studies, Esmya is not recommended in 
patients with severe renal impairment unless the patient is closely monitored. No dose adjustment is 
recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment. In the absence of specific studies, Esmya is 
not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment unless the patient is closely 
monitored. There is no relevant use of Esmya in the paediatric population. The safety and efficacy of 
Esmya was only established in women of 18 years and older.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 36/106 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The  clinical  pharmacology  data  package  submitted was  considered  adequate.  As  no  study  in  subjects 
with hepatic impairment has been submitted, the applicant will conduct a study of the PK of ulipristal 
acetate  in  volunteers  with  mild,  moderate  and  severe  hepatic  impairment  (PGL-W-001)  (included  in 
the RMP). The applicant will also conduct a Phase  I  drug-drug interaction study with a sensitive P-gp 
substrate to look further into the pharmacokinetics of ulipristal acetate. 
The  ongoing  Phase  III  study  (PGL09-026),    its  extension  (PGL09-027)  and  the  follow-up  of  the 
proposed  non-interventional  study  (PGL10-014)  will  provide  more  long  term  data  on  the  endometrial 
safety of Esmya administration up to 12-month post treatment.  
The aforementioned post-authorisation measures have been adequately covered in the RMP. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  ulipristal  acetate  as  a  treatment  of  uterine  fibroids  was  assessed  in  four  studies:  two 
pivotal  Phase  III  studies  (Study  PGL07-021  and  Study  PGL07-022),  and  two  smaller  Phase  II  studies 
(Study  PGL-N-0287  and  Study  PGL-N-0090).  The  table  below  summarizes  the  key  design 
characteristics of the efficacy studies.  
Table 9. Efficacy study design characteristics 
Phase 
Study 
Design 
Treatment 
Duration 
Treatment groups 
Dose 
PGL07-021 
Double-blind, placebo 
controlled 
12 weeks 
PGL07-022 
Double-blind, double-
dummy, active 
comparator controlled 
12 weeks 
PGL-N-0287 
Double-blind, placebo 
controlled 
12 weeks 
III 
II 
PGL-N-0090 
Double-blind, placebo 
controlled 
12-24 weeksc 
Ulipristal acetatea 
Placeboa 
Ulipristal acetate 
Leuprorelin 
Ulipristal acetate 
Placebo 
Ulipristal acetate 
Placebo 
5 mg/day 
10 mg/day 
- 
5 mg/day 
10 mg/day 
3.75 mg once a monthb 
10 mg/day 
20 mg/day 
- 
10 mg/day 
20 mg/day 
- 
a 
b 
80 mg Fe2+ (Tardyferon®, containing 256.3mg of ferrous sulfate, equivalent to 80mg of Fe2+) was administered daily, 
concomitantly in all treatment groups 
Administered as an intramuscular injection 
N 
96 
98 
48 
102 
103 
102 
8 
6 
8 
13 
14 
14 
c 
4 subjects from the placebo group (2 each received ulipristal acetate 10 and 20 mg/day), 3 subjects 
Week 12 to Week 24 was an optional, unblinded extension period of ulipristal acetate treatment, which was undertaken by 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
PGL-N-0287 
PGL-N-0287  was  a  randomized,  double-blind  placebo-controlled  Phase  II  study  of  the  effect  of  daily 
administration  of  10mg  or  20mg  ulipristal  acetate  to  reduce  fibroid  size  in  otherwise  healthy  women 
with  symptomatic  uterine  fibroids  requesting  a  hysterectomy.  The  first  cycle  was  at  baseline  after 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 37/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which treatment continued over three menstrual cycles (or 90-102 days). Subjects were admitted for 
hysterectomy  after  the  LH  surge  in  the  third  treatment  cycle,  or  in  the  follicular  phase  of  the  fourth 
cycle or, if anovulatory, between 90 and 102 days of treatment. Subjects were randomized to one of 
the following treatments: ulipristal acetate at a dose of 10 mg; ulipristal acetate at a dose of 20 mg; 
placebo.  The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  compare  the  effect  of  daily  administration  of 
ulipristal acetate over a period of 10-14 weeks to that of placebo. The number of patients included was 
considered  too  small  and  the  variability  in  fibroid  volume  is  too  large  to  allow  conclusions  of  efficacy 
and of a dose-response association. However, the data appear to support an effect of ulipristal acetate 
in reducing fibroid volume. 
PGL-N-0090 
Study PGL-N-0090 was a randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind, parallel group Phase II study in 
regularly  menstruating,  otherwise  healthy  women  with  symptomatic  uterine  leiomyoma.  The  study 
consisted of a baseline cycle and 2 treatment phases, both of a duration of 3 menstrual cycles. During 
phase  1,  subjects  received  randomized,  double-blind  treatment  including  placebo.  At  the  end  of  this 
phase, subjects could choose to continue treatment (with the same dose or – if previously placebo – 
randomize  to  10  or  20mg  dose)  in  phase  2  for  an  additional  3  months  or  to  elect  surgery 
(myomectomy or hysterectomy). The primary objective of this study was to compare the effect of daily 
administration of ulipristal acetate in cycling women with leiomyomata to reduce leiomyoma size.  
Endometrial biopsy results 
The  endometrial  biopsies  were  taken  after  3  -  6  months.  No  endometrial  biopsies  were  performed 
during screening. Thirty-four subjects underwent at least one endometrial biopsy during the 2 phases 
of  treatment.  Of  those,  9  biopsies  did  not  allow  for  a  clear  diagnosis.  In  4  biopsies  hyperplasia  were 
diagnosed.  As  the  scoring  system  for  endometrial  biopsies  in  the  Phase  II  trials  did  not  allow  for 
description  of  Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator-Associated  Endometrial  Changes  (PAEC)  findings,  the 
Applicant was asked to re-evaluate the 4 cases of endometrial hyperplasia according to the rating scale 
that includes standard descriptors for PAEC, as was used in the Phase III studies. 
These  four  biopsies  were  re-evaluated  by  three  expert  pathologists  blinded  for  each  other´s 
assessment. No diagnosis of endometrial hyperplasia was made by any of the expert pathologists 
The  ongoing  Phase  III  study  and  its  extension  (PGL09-026  and  PGL09-027)  and  the  follow-up  of  the 
proposed non-interventional study (PGL10-014) will generate more long term data on the endometrial 
safety of Esmya administration up to 12-month post treatment.  
2.5.2.  Main studies 
PGL07-021  
A Phase III, randomized, parallel group, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center study to assess 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  PGL4001  (ulipristal)  versus  placebo  for  pre-operative  treatment  of 
symptomatic uterine myomas. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 38/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Eligible  participants  in  this  study  were  pre-menopausal  women  with  symptomatic  uterine  myoma(s), 
excessive  uterine  bleeding  and  anemia  for  whom  a  surgical  procedure  was  indicated  to  treat  the 
myomas (i.e. hysterectomy, myomectomy, uterine artery embolization or endometrium ablation). 
Inclusion criteria 
In order to be included, subjects fulfilled the following criteria: 
• 
provided written informed consent prior to any study related procedures. 
•  were a pre-menopausal woman between 18 and 50 years inclusive. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
had a PBAC score >100 during Day 1 to Day 8 of menstruation preceding the baseline visit. 
had  myoma-related  anemia  defined  as  hemoglobin  (Hb)  ≤10.2  g/dL.  Absence  of  macrocytic 
anemia was to be proven by a mean corpuscular volume (MCV) ≤104 fL. 
had a myomatous uterus volume ≤16 weeks. 
had at least one uterine myoma of ≥3 cm diameter in size and no myoma larger than 10 cm 
diameter in size confirmed by ultrasound. 
•  were  eligible  for  one  of  these  surgical  procedures:  i.e.  hysterectomy,  myomectomy,  uterine 
artery 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
embolization or endometrial ablation within 13 weeks and up to 14 weeks from baseline study 
visit. 
had a clinical breast examination without significant findings at the screening visit. 
had  no  clinically  significant  findings  at  Papanicolaou  test  (PAP)  smear,  performed  within  the 
past 12 months or at the screening visit. 
if  of  childbearing  potential  the  subject  had  to  be  practicing  a  non-hormonal  method  of 
contraception as listed below: 
- 
- 
- 
sexual abstinence 
diaphragms 
condom or partner with a vasectomy performed at least 6 months prior to the study and 
confirmed azoospermia. 
if  of  non  childbearing  potential,  the  subject  had  to  have  had  a  tubal  ligation  sterilization  at 
least two months before study start. 
had a Body Mass Index (BMI) ≥18 and ≤40. 
Exclusion criteria 
Subjects who fulfilled any of the following criteria were excluded from participation: 
• 
• 
had a history of uterus surgery (except caesarean section or cervical conization), endometrial 
ablation or uterine artery embolization. 
had a history of or current uterine, cervical, ovarian or breast cancer. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 39/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
had  a  history  of  atypical  hyperplasia  or  a  current  endometrium  hyperplasia  (atypical  or  non-
atypical) or adenocarcinoma or similar lesions in the screening biopsy or in a biopsy performed 
within the past 6 months. 
had a condition requiring immediate blood transfusion or a level of Hb ≤6 g/dL. 
had a known hemoglobinopathy (i.e. Sickle Cell anemia and Thalassemia). 
had a known severe coagulation disorder 
had a large uterine polyp (>2cm). 
had one or more ovarian cysts ≥4cm in diameter diagnosed by ultrasound (US). 
presented  with  any  metallic,  ferro-magnetic  or  electronic  implant  and/or  device  which  may 
interfere  with  the  MRI  examination  or  potentially  pose  a  risk  (e.g.  internal  (implanted) 
defibrillator, implanted spinal cord stimulator, IVC filters, cochlear (ear) implant, clips used on 
brain aneurysms, artificial heart valves, implanted drug infusion ports, infusion catheter, IUD, 
implanted  electronic  device,  including  a  cardiac  pacemaker,  artificial  limbs  or  metallic  joint 
prostheses, implanted nerve stimulators, metal pins, screws, plates or surgical staples, metallic 
foreign  body  fragments  (metal  splinter)  in  orbit,  congestive  heart  failure,  claustrophobia, 
pedicle screws / anterior interbody cages in spine). 
had  a  history  of  or  current  treatment  for  myoma  with  a  Selective  Progesterone  Receptor 
Modulator (SPRM) or a Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone agonist (GnRH-agonist). 
had been taking: 
- 
- 
treatments with progestins (systemic or progestin releasing intra-uterine system) or an 
oralcontraceptive: within the month before the screening visit, 
acetylsalicylic  acid,  mefenamic  acid,  anticoagulants  such  as  coumarins  and/or 
antifibrinolytic  drugs  such  as  tranexamic  acid:  within  one  week  before  the  screening 
visit, 
- 
systemic  glucocorticoid  treatments  and/or  systemic  depot  glucocorticoid  treatments 
within one week or two months before the screening visit, respectively. 
•  was likely to require treatment during the study with drugs that were not permitted by the 
study protocol: progestins (systemic or progestin releasing intra-uterine system), oral 
contraceptives, systemic glucocorticoids (oral and injectable), acetylsalicylic acid, and/or 
mefenamic acid, anticoagulants such as coumarins and/or antifibrinolytic drugs such as 
tranexamic acid. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
had abnormal hepatic function at study entry (defined as aspartate transaminase (AST), 
alanine transaminase (ALT), gamma glutamyl transferase (γGT), alkaline phosphatase or total 
bilirubin above 2 Upper Limit of Normal range (ULN)). 
had a positive pregnancy test at baseline or was nursing or planning a pregnancy during the 
course of the study. 
had a current (within twelve months) problem with alcohol or drug abuse. 
had a mental condition rendering the subject unable to understand the nature, scope and 
possible consequences of the study, and/or evidence of an uncooperative attitude. 
had abnormal baseline findings, any other medical condition(s) or psychiatric condition(s) or 
laboratory findings that, in the opinion of the investigator, might jeopardize the subject’s 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 40/106 
 
 
 
 
safety or interfere with study evaluations. This included the use of agents known to induce or 
inhibit the hepatic cytochrome CYP3A4. 
• 
had an allergy to SPRMs or progestins or any of the ingredients of the study drug tablet 
(referred to in the Investigator’s Brochure) 
•  was currently enrolled in an investigational drug or device study or had participated in such a 
study within the last 30 days 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups in a 2:2:1 ratio to receive either PGL4001 
5 mg, PGL4001 10 mg, or PGL4001 matching placebo. 
Part A: 
Subjects  were  treated  for  up  to  13  weeks,  and  after  end-of-treatment  assessments  at  Week  13 
subjects still qualifying for surgery underwent hysterectomy, myomectomy, uterine artery embolization 
or  endometrial  ablation  as  determined  by  the  investigator.  All  subjects  underwent  a  closing  Week 17 
visit, which concluded Part A of the study. 
Part B: 
Part B of the study  was the follow-up study period without treatment; all subjects were to be seen 3 
months and 6 months after the end-of-treatment (Week 13), at Week 26 and Week 38.  
Objectives 
Efficacy Objectives 
Primary objectives 
To demonstrate superior efficacy of PGL4001 with concomitant iron administration versus placebo with 
concomitant iron administration: 
- 
- 
- 
To reduce excessive uterine bleeding prior to surgery 
To reduce total myoma volume prior to surgery. 
To  demonstrate  superior  efficacy  of  PGL4001  with  concomitant  iron  administration  versus 
placebo with concomitant iron administration in correcting anemia caused by uterine myomas. 
Secondary objectives 
- 
- 
To demonstrate improvement in myoma-related symptoms, such as pain. 
To assess PGL4001 capacity to decrease uterine volume. 
Exploratory objectives 
- 
the  proportion  of  subjects  switched  to  less  invasive  surgery  or  for  whom  surgery  is  cancelled 
due to improved condition at treatment completion,  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 41/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
the  proportion  of  subjects  undergoing  blood  transfusion,  the  number  of  transfusions  and 
volume transfused per subject. 
Safety Objectives 
-  Assess overall safety of ulipristal acetate (PGL4001) in subjects with uterine myomas. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Co-Primary efficacy endpoints: 
- 
Percentage of subjects with reduction in uterine bleeding defined as a PBAC score <75 at end-
of treatment visit (Week 13 visit)  
-  Change in total myoma volume assessed by Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) from screening 
to end of treatment visit (Week 13 visit). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
change from baseline to Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits in bleeding pattern recorded by 
subjects using the PBAC. 
change  from  baseline  to  Week  5,  Week  9  and  Week  13  visits  in  Hb,  hematocrit  (Hct)  and 
ferritine. 
percentage  of  subjects  with  Hb  >12  g/dL  and  Hct  >36%  at  Week  5,  Week  9  and  Week  13 
visits. 
percentage of subjects in amenorrhea at Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits. 
percentage of subjects with a volume reduction of ≥25% of the total myoma volume assessed 
by MRI at Week 13 visit. 
percentage of subjects with a reduction of ≥25% of uterine volume assessed by MRI at Week 
13 visit. 
change from screening to Week 13 visit in uterine volume assessed by MRI. 
change from baseline to Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits in global pain score (Short-form 
McGill Pain questionnaire). 
change from baseline to Week 13 visit in symptoms related to uterine myomas (Measurement 
of discomfort due to uterine fibroids questionnaire). 
-  measurement of pain (McGill Pain Questionniare).  
- 
quality of life (Uterine Fibroids Questionnaire) 
Sample size 
The  sample  size  calculation  was  based  on  both  primary  efficacy  endpoints,  and  to  ensure  that  there 
was  adequate  patient  exposure  to  PGL4001  in  order  to  assess  patient  safety.  The  calculation  was 
based  on  demonstrating  superiority  of  PGL4001  versus  placebo  with  at  least  90%  power  for  each  of 
the primary endpoints, using two sided tests with type I error rates of 5%, and a Bonferroni correction 
for the two dose comparisons. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 42/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to achieve a power of 90%, the analysis of the total myoma volume required more subjects 
than  the  analysis  of  percentage  of  subjects  with  PBAC  <75  at  end-of-treatment  visit,  so  the  sample 
size calculation was based on this endpoint. 
With  an  estimated 10% on-treatment  drop-out  rate,  240  patients  were  required  to  be  randomized to 
ensure  adequate  power  (96  subjects  for  each  treatment  group  and  48  subjects  in  placebo).  242 
subjects were actually recruited in 35 sites, in six countries. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups in a 2:2: 1 ratio: placebo, PGL4001 
5 mg and PGL4001 10 mg.  
Prior  to  the  start  of  the  study,  a  randomization  list  was  generated  to  be  transmitted  to  the  assigned 
clinical  packaging  organization  for  labeling  and  to  a  fully  web-integrated  interactive  voice/web 
response system.  
The randomization list and/or the electronic file were secured in a locked cabinet and/or an electronic 
file  with  restricted  access  to  only  the  designated  personnel  directly  responsible  for  labeling  and 
handling the study medication, until the study database was locked and ready to be un-blinded. 
Kit numbers indicated on the list started from 3001, 3002, 3003 etc. (4-digit) and corresponded to the 
kit number indicated on the label of the study drug. Complete blocks of treatment materials were sent 
to the investigational centers. Subjects were randomized following a stratification by hematocrit (Hct) 
value  (measured  at  Screening)  and  ethnicity  in  order  to  avoid  any  unbalance  between  treatment 
groups as follows 
● Hct ≤28%, and Hct >28% 
● Black African women or other ethnicities 
Blinding (masking) 
The designed study was considered to be double blind. The randomization list was secured in a locked 
cabinet  and/or  a  computer  file  with  restricted  access  to  only  the  designated  personnel  directly 
responsible for labelling and handling the study medication. 
All evaluations conducted as part of the study were performed by individuals who were blinded to the 
treatment allocation. The  study blind could be broken for an individual subject only in the case of an 
emergency when knowledge of the IMP was essential for the clinical management of the subject. 
After the last subject had completed Part A of the protocol, the treatment groups were un-blinded, and 
the results up to Week 17 were analyzed. Once the last subject has completed Part B of the protocol, 
results of study Weeks 26 and 38 will be analyzed. 
Statistical methods 
All statistical hypothesis tests and confidence intervals performed were two sided, using a 5% level of 
statistical  significance.  As  comparisons  involve  two  dose  levels,  a  Bonferroni  correction  for  the 
hypothesis  tests  and  confidence  intervals  was  used.  The  Intent-to-Treat  (ITT)  population  was  the 
population  of  primary  interest  for  the  efficacy  analyses.  When  the  assumptions  of  any  of  the 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 43/106 
 
 
 
 
 
parametric analysis such as normality or variance heterogeneity were deemed invalid, then appropriate 
non-parametric methods were used instead. 
The  primary  objective  of  demonstrating  superior  efficacy  of  PGL4001  versus  placebo  to  reduce 
excessive  uterine  bleeding  was  assessed  by  testing  the  null  hypothesis  that  there  is  no  difference  in 
the  percentage  of  subjects  with  PBAC  <75  at  end-of-treatment  visit  (Week  13  visit)  for  PGL4001 
compared with placebo. The hypothesis was tested via a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. 
The  primary  objective  of  demonstrating  superior  efficacy  of  PGL4001  versus  placebo  to  reduce  total 
myoma volume prior to surgery was assessed by testing the null hypothesis that there is no difference 
in  the  average  change  in  total  myoma  volume  assessed  by  MRI  from  screening  to  end  of  treatment 
visit  (Week  13  visit)  for  PGL4001  compared  with  placebo.  The  hypothesis  was  tested  via  analysis  of 
covariance, after log transforming the data. 
A successful outcome was deemed to occur if at least one of the 5 mg or 10 mg PGL4001 treatments 
results in a statistically significant improvement over placebo with regards to both endpoints 
Results 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
The study period was from 31 October 2008 to 17 Aug 2010. This was a multinational study planned to 
be  conducted  in  30  sites.  Thirty  nine  sites  were  initiated  in  6  countries  but  only  38  sites  actively 
recruited. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 44/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Individual major protocol deviations were reviewed in order to identify subjects who would need to be  
excluded from the PP population. If the reason a subject did not meet protocol compliance >80% was 
due  to  early  withdrawal  from  the  study  then  the  subjects  would be  excluded from  the  PP  population, 
but that this was not to be considered as a major protocol violation. 
Due  to  the  unexplained  repeated  receipt  of  clotted  blood  samples,  two  subjects  (141/1050  and 
144/1087) were included based on local laboratory analyses for hematology parameters at screening. 
A summary of the major  protocol deviations is listed in the table below. A total of 2 (0.8%) subjects 
had a major protocol deviation, both of whom were in the PGL4001 5 mg group. 
Table 10. Summary of Major Protocol Deviations (Treated Subjects) 
Placebo 
(N=48) 
Treatment Group 
PGL4001 5mg 
(N=95) 
PGL4001 10mg 
(N=98) 
Total 
(N=241) 
Deviation Type 
At Least One Major Deviation 
Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria 
Received Incorrect Treatment Kit 
Treatment Compliance 
Last non-missing on-treatment PBAC data is recorded on less than 
or equal to day 56 
Screening PBAC data was completed retrospectively using different 
towels/tampons than those provided specifically for the study 
Prohibited Concomitant Medication 
Other 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 ( 2.1%) 
1 ( 1.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 ( 1.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 ( 0.8%) 
1 ( 0.4%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 ( 0.4%) 
Baseline data 
The demographic characteristics of all randomized subjects for the safety population are presented by 
treatment  group  in  the  table  below.  The  characteristics  were  similar  between  treatment  groups,  and 
also  between  analysis  populations.  The  majority  of subjects  in  the  study  were  of  white  origin  (88%), 
and  of  childbearing  potential  (92.1%),  where  non-childbearing  potential  was  defined  as  having 
undergone a tubal ligation prior to study start. 
Table 11. Summary of demographic characteristics at Baseline Safety Population 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 45/106 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
A  total of  242  patients  were  randomized. One  subject  from  the  PGL4001  5  mg  group  did  not  receive 
any treatment as she had entered menopause.  
All subjects who were randomized into the study and who used the trial medication at least once were 
considered evaluable for the safety population. In the event that a subject received study medication 
other than that to which she was randomized, the analysis was performed using the treatment actually 
received. Any subject who received trial medication from more than one treatment group was excluded 
from  the  safety  population.  A  total  of  241  subjects  were  included  in  the  safety  population:  placebo 
(N=48), PGL4001 5 mg (N=95) and PGL4001 10 mg (N=98).   
The ITT population was defined as all randomized subjects who used the trial medication at least once, 
and  who  had  post-baseline,  that  is,  on-treatment,  efficacy  data  for  at  least  one  efficacy  endpoint.  In 
the event that a subject received study medication other than that to which she was randomized, the 
analysis was to be performed using the treatment group to which she was randomized, rather than by 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 46/106 
 
 
 
 
the actual treatment she was administered. The ITT population was a subset of the Safety population 
and consisted of 237 subjects: placebo (N=48), PGL4001 5 mg (N=95) and PGL4001 10 mg (N=94).  
The PP population was a subset of the ITT population. Subjects who withdrew early from the study and 
as a consequence had a protocol compliance <80% were excluded from the PP population. In addition, 
subjects  with  one  or  more  major  protocol  deviations  were  excluded  from  the  PP  population.  Protocol 
deviations including poor compliance occurring during Part A were determined before database lock at 
the end of Part A and  un-blinding of the study. The PP population used for the additional analyses at 
the end of Part B will be the same as that used for Part A, in order to keep the analyses consistent, and 
to  prevent  any  bias  in  selecting  the  population  after  un-blinding.  The  PP  population  consisted  of  216 
subjects: placebo (N=45), PGL4001 5 mg (N=85) and PGL4001 10 mg (N=86). 
Eighteen  subjects  discontinued  the  study  prior  to  Week  17  due  to,  lack  of  efficacy  (N=2),  subject 
request (N=9), protocol deviation (N=2), lost to follow-up (N=4) and other reason (N=1). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoints 
Analysis of Uterine Bleeding: ITT population 
The primary goal of treatment in this study was to reduce the PBAC score to <75 over the period of an 
entire month, which is considered to be within the normal range of menstrual blood loss, i.e. to reduce 
excessive  uterine  bleeding  caused  by  uterine  myomas,  and  thereby  also  reduce  myoma-related 
symptoms and consequent need for surgery.  
The  PBAC  was  completed  from  Day  1  of  menstruation  to  Day  28  (inclusive)  during  the  screening 
period,  and  continuously  from  Day  1  of  menstruation  on,  or  just  before  treatment,  to  the last  day  of 
treatment  (inclusive).  It  was  reported  at  baseline,  Week  5,  Week  9  and  Week  13  visits.  The  PBAC 
score for a specific four week period was calculated by multiplying the number of occurrences of each 
item  in  the  chart  by  the  items’  score,  and  summing  up  the  results  for  28  days.  Days  where  ‘no 
bleeding’ had been recorded have a score of zero for that day. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  reduction  of  uterine  bleeding  defined  as  PBAC  score  <75  at  end-of-
treatment visit (Week 13 visit) are given in table below. 
Table 12. Mean baseline PBAC scores and numbers and percentage of subjects with PBAC 
score <75 at week 13 (Study PGL07-021, ITT population, LOCF) 
PBAC 
Placebo 
Baseline (n)  
Mean PBAC score (SD)  
Median PBAC score (min, 
max)  
Week 13 (n)  
Number (%) of Subjects 
with PBAC Score < 75  
Difference vs. control  
95% CI  
p-value  
48 
460 (293) 
Ulipristal acetate 
Ulipristal acetate 10 
5mg/day 
95 
487 (320) 
mg/day 
94 
411 (250) 
376 (119, 1284) 
386 (118, 1645) 
330 (102, 1570) 
48 
9 (18.8%) 
- 
- 
94 
86 (91.5%) 
72.7% 
55.1, 83.2 
p <0.001 
93 
86 (92.5%) 
73.7% 
56.2, 84.0 
p <0.001 
Analysis of Uterine Bleeding: Pre-operative population  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 47/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  a  sub-analysis  of  the  pre-operative  population  (subjects  who  underwent  surgery  after  treatment 
with  ulipristal  acetate),  the  evidence  of  superiority  towards  placebo  and  non-inferiority  towards 
leuprorelin  is  maintained.  In  the  placebo  controlled  study  PGL07-021  at  Week  13,  the  percentage  of 
pre-surgical subjects with PBAC score < 75 was far greater with ulipristal acetate 5 and 10 mg (85.4% 
and 89.8% respectively) than with placebo (21.1%) (p < 0.001). This represented a difference (95% 
CI) compared with placebo of 64.3% (34.0, 80.3) for ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 68.7% (39.7, 83.7) 
for ulipristal acetate 10 mg. 
Analysis of Total Myoma Volume: ITT population 
In  this  study  the  co-primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  evaluation  of  decrease  in  uterine  myoma 
volume as measured by centralized MRI. The technique of MRI to measure uterine volume was chosen 
rather than ultrasound, as ultrasound can be associated with high variability between evaluators. 
Table 13. Mean volumes and percentage change in total fibroid volume from screening to 
Week 13 (Study PGL07-021, ITT population) assessed by MRI  
Analysis of Total Myoma Volume: Pre-operative population  
When restricting to the pre-operative population (109 subjects), the total fibroid volume increased in a 
comparable order of magnitude from Screening to Week 13 with placebo (mean [median] percentage 
increase of -1.9% [8.3%]), and decreased with ulipristal acetate 5 mg (-13.0% [-19.0%]) and 10 mg 
(-17.8% [-20.6%]). Although ulipristal acetate was equally effective in reducing myoma volume in the 
pre-operative patient population, there were only 18 subjects in the placebo group contributing data at 
week 13, and the reduction of sample size resulted in a loss of statistical significance for 5 mg ulipristal 
acetate  (Median  difference  of  -  21.9%,  95%  CI:  -39.3%,  7.5%,  p  =  0.157)  and  10  mg  (Median 
difference of -18.9%, 95% CI: -43.6%, 3.5%, p = 0.079). These results  are illustrated in the Figure 1 
below.  
Figure 1. Median Change from Baseline for Total Myoma Volume, PGL07-021 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 48/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
Key results of secondary efficacy endpoints in Study PGL07-021 in table below.  
The  mean  and  median  Hb,  Hct  and  ferritine  values  were  similar  for  all  three  treatment  groups  at 
screening  as  well  as  at  baseline.  The  eligibility  criterion  of  Hb  ≤10.2  g/dL  was  evaluated  at  the 
screening visit. A quarter of the subjects exceeded this criterion at the baseline visit. The prescription 
of iron supplements during the screening period was allowed, being standard clinical practice. 
Table 14. Key results of secondary efficacy endpoints in Study PGL07-021, ITT population 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 49/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bold  values  indicate  that  there  was  a  significant  difference  between  ulipristal  acetate  vs.  Placebo.  In 
study PGL07-021 it was always in favour of ulipristal acetate. 
Pain 
At baseline, the different pain scores in all three groups, showed values in the lower half of the rating 
scales.  There  was  a  slightly  higher  pain  score  at  baseline  in  the  placebo  group  compared  to  the 
ulipristal acetate groups. All treatment groups experienced a decrease in levels of pain as assessed by 
the SF-MPQ at week 13. In the SF-MPQ analyses a statistically significant effect on pain score was only 
seen for ulipristal acetate 10 mg vs placebo (p=0.037) at week 13. 
Table 15: Summary of SF-MPQ (ITT population) Study PGL07-021 
Pain 
score 
Placebo 
Ulipristal acetate 
Ulipristal acetate 
Mean (Median) 
5mg Mean (Median) 
10 mg Mean (Median) 
SF-MPQ (Part A) 
Baseline 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
10.83 (8.50) 
9.64 (6.50) 
10.17 (8.00) 
Page 50/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pain 
score 
Placebo 
Ulipristal acetate 
Ulipristal acetate 
Mean (Median) 
5mg Mean (Median) 
10 mg Mean (Median) 
SF-MPQ (Part A) 
Week 13 
6.74 (4.17) 
3.01 (1.0) 
3.26(1.0) 
VAS (Part B) Baseline 
46.69 (49.50) 
42.33 (39.00) 
41.34 (39.00) 
VAS (Part B) Week 13 
27.48(20.50) 
11.35(2.50) 
11.95(5.50) 
PPI  (Part C) Baseline 
1.48 (1.0) 
1.16(1.0) 
PPI (PartC) Week13 
0.52(0.00) 
0.31(0.00) 
1.10(1.0) 
0.41(0.00) 
Improvement of Quality of Life  
A discomfort questionnaire derived from the validated UFS-QoL was used  as  there are no  versions of 
the  validated  fibroid  specific  UFS-QoL  in  countries  participating  to  the  study.  Women  were  asked  to 
rate  the  discomfort  experienced  due  to  seven  different  symptoms  of  uterine  fibroids  during  the 
previous 3 months.  
For  the  pre-operative  population,  mean  (median)  Baseline  scores  were  comparable  to  the  total  study 
population  with  a  score  of  16.5  (17)  for  the  placebo  group,  15.8  (16)  for  the  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg 
group and a score of 15.2 (16) for the ulipristal acetate 10 mg group.  
Comparably  to  the  total  study  population,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  greater  improvement 
(decrease)  in  median  total  score  on  the  Measurement  of  Discomfort  due  to  Uterine  Fibroid 
questionnaire from Baseline to Week 13 with ulipristal acetate 5 mg (-10.0, p = 0.021) and 10 mg (-
11.0, p < 0.042) compared with placebo (-4). These results are illustrated in the Figure 2 below.  
Figure 2. Median Change from Baseline in Measurement of Discomfort, PGL07-021 
Improvement of Anaemia 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 51/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were to be anaemic for being eligible (Hb < 10.2 g/dl at screening). Haemoglobin (Hb) levels 
were  compared  in  the  overall  and  the  pre-operative  population.  The  mean  (median)  Hb  values  were 
similar for all three treatment groups of the overall population at baseline (Range from 9.3 to 9.6 (8.9 
to 9.2 g/dl). As all subjects received concomitantly iron due to the study inclusion criterion of anaemia, 
there was an LS mean increase from Baseline for the Hb in all three treatment groups. The increase in 
Hb  from  Baseline  was  statistically  significantly  larger  with  both  doses  of  ulipristal  acetate  compared 
with placebo at all timepoints from Week 5 onwards (range of p values 0.002 to < 0.001).  
The  pre-operative  population  was  comparable  to  the  overall  population  with  regards  to  Baseline  Hb 
mean (median) values (Range from 9.0 to 9.6 g/dl (9.1 to 9.7 g/dl)). Similarly, the LS mean increase 
in  Hb  from  Baseline  was  consistently  statistically  significant  for  both  ulipristal  acetate  groups  from 
Week  5  onwards  (range  of  p-values  0.010  to  <  0.001).  No  difference  between  the  overall  study 
population and the pre-operative population was observed. These results are illustrated in the Figure X  
Figure 3. Change from Baseline in Mean Haemoglobin, PGL07-021 
Ancillary analyses 
Exploratory efficacy endpoints 
Blood transfusions 
No blood transfusions occurred during the treatment period up to week 13. 
One subject received a blood transfusion during Part A of the study. The subject, in the PGL4001 5 mg 
group,  received  1050  mL  of  red  blood  cells on  the  day  after  her  last  intake  of  study  medication.  The 
transfusion occurred on the same day that the woman had a laparoscopic hysterectomy. 
Proportion  of  subjects  for  whom  surgery  is  cancelled  because  of  improvement  of  symptoms,  and 
proportion of subjects switched to less invasive surgery 
There was no significant difference between the treatment groups concerning cancelled surgery or less 
invasive surgery. However, the greatest proportion of cancelled surgery (73% vs 66-62%) as well as 
less invasive surgery (77% vs 69-70%) was found in the placebo group after completion of Part A of 
the study, i.e. up to 4 week following the end of study treatment (week 17). This difference between 
placebo and the treatment groups in cancellation of surgery was smaller by the end of Part B (i.e. up 
to 6 months following the end of treatment): 58% vs 46-56%. 
Table 16. Analysis of Surgery part A (ITT Population) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 52/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study PGL07-022 
A  Phase  III,  randomized,  parallel  group,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  active  comparator-controlled, 
multi-center  study  to  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  PGL4001  (ulipristal)  versus  GnRH-agonist 
(leuprorelin 3.75mg) for pre-operative treatment of symptomatic uterine myomas. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Eligible  patients  in  this  study  were  pre-menopausal  women  with  symptomatic  uterine  myoma(s)  and 
excessive  uterine  bleeding  (PBAC  score  >100)  for  whom  a  surgical  procedure  was  indicated  to  treat 
the myomas (i.e. hysterectomy, myomectomy, uterine artery embolization or endometrium ablation). 
Inclusion criteria 
In order to be included, subjects fulfilled the following criteria: 
• 
provided written informed consent prior to any study related procedures. 
•  were a pre-menopausal woman between 18 and 50 years inclusive. 
• 
• 
• 
had a PBAC score >100 during day 1 to day 8 of menstruation preceding the baseline visit. 
had a myomatous uterus volume ≤ 16 weeks. 
had at least one uterine myoma of ≥ 3 cm diameter in size and no myoma larger than 10 cm 
diameter in size diagnosed by ultrasound. 
•  were  eligible  for  one  of  these  surgical  procedures:  i.e.  hysterectomy,  myomectomy,  uterine 
artery  embolization  or  endometrium  ablation  within  13  weeks  and  up  to  14  weeks  from 
baseline study visit. 
• 
had a clinical breast examination without significant findings at the screening visit. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 53/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
had  no  clinically  significant  findings  at  Papanicolaou  test  (PAP)  smear,  performed  within  the 
past 12 months or at the screening visit. 
if  of  childbearing  potential  the  subject  had  to  be  practising  a  non-hormonal  method  of 
contraception  as listed below: 
o 
sexual abstinence 
o  diaphragms 
o 
condom or partner with a vasectomy performed at least 6 months prior to the study and 
confirmed azoospermia. 
if  of  non  childbearing  potential,  the  subject  had  to  have  had  a  tubal  ligation  sterilization  at 
least two months before study start. 
had a Body Mass Index (BMI) ≥ 18 and ≤ 40. 
Exclusion criteria 
Subjects who fulfilled any of the following criteria were excluded from participation: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
had a history of uterus surgery (except caesarean section or cervical conisation), endometrial 
ablation or uterine artery embolization. 
had a history of or current uterine, cervical, ovarian or breast cancer. 
had a history of atypical hyperplasia or a current endometrium hyperplasia (atypical or no 
atypical) or similar lesions in the screening biopsy or in a biopsy performed within the past 6 
months. 
had a condition requiring immediate blood transfusion or a level of hemoglobin (Hb) ≤ 6 g/dL. 
had a known hemoglobinopathy (i.e. Sickle Cell anemia and Thalassemia). 
had a known severe coagulation disorder. 
had a large uterine polyp (> 2cm). 
had one or more ovarian cysts ≥ 4cm in diameter diagnosed by ultrasound (US). 
had a history of or current treatment for myoma with a Selective Progesterone Receptor 
Modulator (SPRM) or a GnRH-agonist. 
- 
had been taking: 
o 
treatments with progestins (systemic or progestin releasing intra-uterine system) or an 
oral contraceptive: within the month before the screening visit, 
o  acetylsalicylic acid, mefenamic acid, anticoagulants such as coumarins and/or 
antifibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid: within one week before the screening visit, 
o 
systemic glucocorticoid treatments and/or systemic depot glucocorticoid treatments 
within one week or two months before the screening visit, respectively. 
-  was likely to require treatment during the study with drugs that were not permitted by the 
study protocol: progestins (systemic or progestin releasing intra-uterine system), oral 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 54/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contraceptives, systemic glucocorticoids (oral and injectable), acetylsalicylic acid, mefenamic 
acid, anticoagulants such as coumarins and/or antifibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid. 
had a history of or known current osteoporosis. 
had abnormal hepatic function at study entry (defined as aspartate transaminase (AST), 
alanine transaminase (ALT), gamma glutamine transferase (γGT), alkaline phosphatase or total 
bilirubin above 2 Upper Limit of Normal range (ULN)). 
had a positive pregnancy test at baseline or was nursing or planning a pregnancy during the 
course of the study. 
had a current (within twelve months) problem with alcohol or drug abuse. 
had a mental condition rendering the subject unable to understand the nature, scope and 
possible consequences of the study, and/or evidence of an uncooperative attitude. 
had abnormal baseline findings, any other medical condition(s) or psychiatric condition(s) or 
laboratory findings that, in the opinion of the investigator, might jeopardize the subject’s 
safety or interfere with study evaluations. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
had an allergy to GnRH-agonist, SPRMs or progestins or any of the ingredients of the study 
drug tablet (referred to in the Investigator’s Brochure) 
-  was currently enrolled in an investigational drug or device study or had participated in such a 
study within the last 30 days 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive: 
• either oral PGL4001 5mg + intramuscular injection of saline solution 
• either oral PGL4001 10mg + intramuscular injection of saline solution 
• either oral PGL4001 matching placebo + intramuscular injection of leuprorelin 3.75mg 
Part A: 
Subjects  were  treated  for  up  to  13  weeks,  and  after  end-of-treatment  assessments  at  Week  13 
subjects still qualifying for surgery underwent hysterectomy, myomectomy, uterine artery embolization 
or endometrium ablation as determined by the investigator. All subjects underwent a closing Week 17 
visit, which concluded Part A of the study. 
Part B: 
Part B of the study  was the follow-up study period without treatment; all subjects were to be seen 3 
months and 6 months after the end-of-treatment (Week 13), at Week 26 and Week 38.  
Objectives 
Efficacy Objectives 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 55/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary objective:  
• 
To  demonstrate  non  inferior  efficacy  of  PGL4001  versus  Gonadotropin  Releasing  Hormone 
(GnRH)-agonist  to  reduce,  prior  to  surgery,  excessive  uterine  bleeding  caused  by  uterine 
myomas. 
Secondary objectives:  
• 
To  demonstrate  improvement  over  baseline  in  myoma-related  symptoms  such  as  impaired 
Quality of Life (QOL) and  pain, and to assess PGL4001 capacity to decrease uterine volume as 
well as volume of the three largest myomas. 
Exploratory objectives:  
• 
• 
To assess the proportion of subjects switched to less invasive surgery or for whom surgery was 
cancelled due to improved condition at treatment completion,  
To  assess  the  proportion  of  subjects  undergoing  blood  transfusion,  the  number  of  transfusions 
and volume transfused per subject. 
Safety Objectives 
Primary objective:  
• 
To  demonstrate  superior  safety  and  tolerance  of  PGL4001  versus  GnRH-agonist  regarding 
castration-related  symptoms  and  their  consequences  of  which  the  principal  parameters  are 
serum estradiol levels and hot flushes. 
Secondary objective:  
• 
To assess overall safety of PGL4001 in subjects with uterine myomas. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint  
- 
the percentage of subjects with reduction of uterine bleeding defined as a PBAC score < 75 at 
end-of-treatment visit (Week 13 visit). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
- 
- 
- 
- 
change from baseline to Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits in bleeding pattern recorded by 
subjects using the PBAC. 
change  from baseline to Week 5, Week 9 and Week 13  visits in hemoglobin (Hb),  hematocrit 
(Hct) and ferritine. 
percentage of subjects in amenorrhea at Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits. 
change  from  screening  to  Week  13  visit  in  the  total  volume  of  the  three  largest  myomas 
assessed by ultrasound (US). 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 56/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
change from screening to Week 13 visit in uterine volume assessed by US. 
change from baseline to Week 5, Week 9, and Week 13 visits in global pain score (Short-form 
Mc Gill Pain questionnaire [SF-MPQ]). 
change from baseline to Week 13 visit in Uterine Fibroid Symptom and health-related Quality 
of Life (UFS-QOL) score. 
Sample size 
The sample size calculation was based on the primary efficacy endpoint, the primary safety endpoints, 
and to ensure that there was adequate subject exposure to PGL4001 in order to assess overall subject 
safety.  The  efficacy  calculation  was  based  on  demonstrating  non-inferior  efficacy  of  PGL4001  versus 
GnRH-agonist with at least 90% power, using a one-sided confidence interval with type I error rate of 
2.5%,  and  a  Bonferroni  correction  for  the  two  dose  comparisons,  with  a  pre-specified  non-inferiority 
margin of 20%.  
The  safety  calculation  was  based  on  demonstrating  superior  safety  of  PGL4001  versus  GnRH-agonist 
with  at  least  90%  power,  using  two-sided  tests  with  type  I  error  rate  of  5%,  and  a  Bonferroni 
correction for the two dose comparisons. 
For  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  assuming  that  the  PGL4001  and  GnRH-agonist  response  rates  are 
both  85%  produces  a  required  sample  size  of  82  subjects  in  each  treatment  group  (246  subjects  in 
total).  
For the primary safety endpoint serum E2 levels, the analysis was conducted after taking logarithms of 
the data, which produced a required sample size of 27 subjects in each treatment group.  
For  the  primary  safety  endpoint  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  moderate  or  severe  hot  flushes  as 
adverse  events,  assuming  a  percentage  of  subjects  of  20%  for  PGL4001,  and  65%  for  GnRH-agonist 
produced  a  required  sample  size  of  32  subjects  in  each  treatment  group.  A  larger  sample  size  was 
needed to satisfy the efficacy objective compared with the safety objective. In order to be conservative 
and  ensure  sufficient  subject  exposure  for  an  overall  safety  assessment  as  well,  300  subjects  were 
randomized (100 per treatment group). 
Randomisation 
Prior  to  the  start  of  the  study,  a  randomization  list  was  generated  to  be  transmitted  to  the  assigned 
clinical  packaging  organization  for  labelling  and  to  a  fully  web-integrated  interactive  voice  web 
response  system.    The  randomization  list  and/or  the  electronic  file  were  secured  in  a  locked  cabinet 
and/or an electronic file with restricted access to only the designated personnel directly responsible for 
labelling  and  handling  the  study  medication,  until  the  study  database  was  locked  and  ready  to  be 
unblinded. 
Kit numbers indicated on the list started from 7001, 7002, 7003 etc. (4-digit) and corresponded to the 
kit number indicated on the label of the study drug. Complete blocks of treatment materials were sent 
to the investigational centers. 
Subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio, following a stratification 
process for avoiding any ethnic imbalance between treatment groups for Black African women or other 
ethnicities. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 57/106 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
The designed study was considered to be double blind, double-dummy. Prior to initiation of the study, 
study materials were determined to be different in appearance and route of administration. In order to 
preserve  the  blind,  subjects  participating  in  the  study  were  randomized  to  receive  either  PGL4001  5 
mg, PGL4001 10 mg, or matching placebo to be administered orally, once daily for up to 13 weeks and 
received  a  concomitant  intramuscular  injection  of  3.75  mg  leuprorelin  or  saline  solution  at  each 
scheduled visit up to Week 13  visit. Leuprorelin or saline solution injections were administered by an 
independent study nurse. An independent study monitor at each clinical site checked all investigational 
medicinal  products  dispensed  and  returns  (both  unused  and  used  tablets)  during  the  entire  study 
period. 
The randomization list was secured in a locked cabinet and/or a computer file with restricted access to 
only the designated personnel directly responsible for labelling and handling the study medication. 
All evaluations conducted as part of the study were performed by individuals who were blinded to the 
treatment allocation. The  study blind could be broken for an individual subject only in the case of an 
emergency when knowledge of the IMP was essential for the clinical management of the subject.  
As soon as the last subject had completed Part A of the protocol, the treatment groups were unblinded, 
and the results up to Week 17 were analyzed. As soon as the last subject has completed Part B of the 
protocol, results of study Weeks 26 and 38 will be analyzed. 
Statistical methods 
All statistical analyses performed for efficacy endpoints (non-inferiority) were based on the use of one-
sided  confidence  intervals,  using  a  2.5%  level  of  statistical  significance.  The  per-protocol  (PP) 
population  was  the  population  of  primary  interest  for  the  efficacy  analyses.  All  statistical  hypothesis 
tests and confidence intervals performed for safety endpoints (superiority) were two sided, using a 5% 
level of statistical significance, using the safety population. As comparisons involve two dose levels, a 
Bonferroni correction for the hypothesis tests and confidence intervals was used. If the assumptions of 
any of the parametric analysis such as normality or variance heterogeneity were deemed invalid, then 
appropriate non-parametric methods were used instead. 
The primary efficacy objective of demonstrating non inferior efficacy of PGL4001 versus GnRH-agonist 
to reduce excessive uterine bleeding was assessed by testing the null hypothesis that the difference in 
the  percentage  of  subjects  with  PBAC  <  75  at  end-of-treatment  visit  (Week  13  visit)  for  PGL4001 
minus  GnRH  agonist  is  equal  to  the  non-inferiority  margin  of  -20,  versus  the  alternative  hypothesis 
that the difference was greater than -20. Each PGL4001 treatment group was tested separately, with 
the  confidence  intervals  produced  using  the  Newcombe-Wilson  score  method  (uncorrected).  A 
successful  outcome  was  deemed  to  occur  if  at  least  one  of  the  5mg  or  10mg  PGL4001  treatments 
resulted in a rejection of the null hypothesis. 
The  primary  safety  objective  of  demonstrating  superior  safety  of  PGL4001  versus  GnRH-agonist  with 
respect  to  serum  E2  levels  was  assessed  by  testing  the  null  hypothesis  that  there  is  no  difference  in 
the mean serum E2 levels at end of treatment visit (Week 13 visit) for PGL4001 compared with GnRH-
agonist.  The  hypothesis  was  tested  via  a  repeated  measures  analysis  of  covariance,  after  log 
transforming the data. 
The  primary  safety  objective  of  demonstrating  superior  safety  of  PGL4001  versus  GnRH-agonist  with 
respect  to  incidence  of  hot  flushes  was  assessed  by  testing  the  null  hypothesis  that  there  is  no 
difference  in  the  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  moderate  or  severe  hot  flushes  as  adverse  events 
throughout the treatment period for PGL4001 compared with GnRH-agonist. The hypothesis was tested 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 58/106 
Rev06.11 
 
 
 
via a Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel test. A successful outcome was only deemed to occur if at least one of 
the  5mg  or  10mg  PGL4001  treatments  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant  improvement  over  GnRH-
agonist with regards to both safety endpoints. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 4. Disposition of Subjects in Study PGL07-022 to week 17 (Part A)  
Recruitment 
The study period was from 18 August 2008 to 21 June 2010. This was a multinational study planned to 
be conducted in 30 sites. Thirty two sites actively recruited in 7 countries. 
Conduct of the study 
Individual major protocol deviations were reviewed in order to identify subjects who would need to be 
excluded from the PP population. If the reason a subject did not meet protocol compliance >80% was 
because of early withdrawal from the study then they would be excluded from the PP population, but 
that this was not a major protocol deviation. Subjects who stopped completing the PBAC before Week 
8, or completed the PBAC retrospectively or for whom there was evidence that the subjects did not use 
the towels/tampons supplied for the study, would be excluded from the PP analysis. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 59/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 14 subjects had at least one major protocol deviation, 6 (5.9%) subjects from the PGL4001 5 
mg group, 4 (3.9%) subjects from the PGL4001 10 mg group and 4 (3.9%) subjects from the GnRH-
agonist  group.  The  table  below  provides  a  summary  of  the  major  protocol  deviations  in  the  subjects 
treated. 
Table 17. Summary of Major Protocol Deviations (treated subjects) 
Deviation Type 
At Least One Major Deviation 
Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria 
Received Incorrect Treatment Kit 
Treatment Compliance 
Last non-missing on-treatment PBAC data is recorded on less 
than or equal to day 56 
Screening PBAC data was completed retrospectively using 
different towels/tampons than those provided specifically for 
the study 
Prohibited Concomitant Medication 
Other 
Treatment Group 
PGL4001 
5mg 
(N=101) 
PGL4001 
10mg 
(N=102) 
GnRH-
agonist 
(N=102) 
Total 
(N=305) 
6 ( 5.9%) 
0 
2 ( 2.0%) 
0 
0 
4 ( 3.9%) 
0 
0 
1 ( 1.0%) 
1 ( 1.0%) 
4 ( 3.9%) 
1 ( 1.0%) 
1 ( 1.0%) 
0 
0 
14 (4.6%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
3 ( 1.0%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
0 
1 ( 1.0%) 
3 ( 2.9%) 
4 ( 1.3%) 
1 ( 1.0%) 
4 ( 4.0%) 
0 
1 ( 1.0%) 
0 
1 ( 1.0%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
6 ( 2.0%) 
Note: some subjects had more than one major protocol deviation 
Source data: Table 14.1.6, Listing 16.2.2 
Baseline data 
The  demographic  characteristics  of  all  randomized  subjects  for  the  Safety  population  by  treatment 
received are presented in the table below. The characteristics were similar between treatment groups, 
and  also  between  analysis  populations.  The  majority  of  subjects  in  the  study  were  of  White  origin 
(85.0%),  and  of  childbearing  potential  (96.3%),  where  non-childbearing  potential  was  defined  as 
having undergone a tubal ligation prior to study start. 
Table 18. Summary of demographic characteristics at baseline, safety population 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 60/106 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Efficacy analysis was conducted on both an intention-to-treat (ITT) population and a per protocol (PP) 
population  although  the  PP  population  is  the  population  of  primary  interest.  307  subjects  were 
randomly assigned to one of 3 treatment groups: PGL4001 5 mg (N=102), PGL4001 10 mg (N=103) 
and  GnRH-agonist  (N=102).  Two  subjects  were  not  treated  due  to  inclusion  error  (N=1),  subject 
request (N=1) and 4 were excluded from the analyses for GCP non compliance of the site. 
The ITT population was defined as all randomized subjects who used the trial medication at least once, 
and  who  had  post-baseline,  that  is,  on-treatment,  efficacy  data  for  at  least  one  efficacy  endpoint.  In 
the event that a subject received study medication other than that to which she was randomized, the 
analysis was to be performed using the treatment group to which she was randomized, rather than by 
the actual treatment she was administered. The ITT population was a subset of the Safety population 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 61/106 
 
 
 
 
 
and  consisted  of  298  subjects:  PGL4001  5  mg  group  (N=98),  PGL4001  10  mg  group(N=101)  and 
GnRH-agonist group (N=99). 
The PP population was a subset of the ITT population. Subjects who withdrew early from the study and 
as a consequence had a protocol compliance < 80% for either tablets or injections were excluded from 
the  PP  population.  In  addition,  subjects  with  one  or  more  major  protocol  deviations  were  excluded 
from  the  PP  population.  Protocol  deviations  including  poor  compliance  occurring  during  Part  A  was 
determined before database lock at the end of Part A and un-blinding of the study. The PP population 
consisted  of  281  subjects:  PGL4001  5  mg  group  (N=93),  PGL4001  10  mg  group  (N=95)  andGnRH-
agonist group (N=93). 
All subjects who were randomized into the study and who used the trial medication at least once were 
considered evaluable for the safety population. In the event that a subject received study medication 
other than that to which she was randomized, the analysis was performed using the treatment actually 
received. A total of 301 subjects were included in the safety population: PGL4001 5 mg (N=97), 
PGL4001 10 mg (N=103) and GnRH-agonist (N=101). 
Fifteen subjects discontinued the study prior to Week 17: 2 subjects were not treated and the 
remaining subjects discontinued due to study medication related AEs (N=5), unrelated AEs (N=3), 
subject request (N=2), lost to follow-up (N=1), non-compliance (N=1), and previous surgery (N=1). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoints 
Analysis of Uterine Bleeding: per protocol population 
The analysis of the primary endpoint was the percentage of subjects with reduction of uterine bleeding 
at Week 13 visit defined as PBAC score <75 at end-of-treatment visit (Week 13 visit). The results are 
shown in the table below. 
Table 19. Mean baseline PBAC scores and numbers of subjects with PBAC score < 75 at 
week 13 (Study PGL07-022, PP population, LOCF) 
At  baseline,  a  slightly  higher  mean  and  median  PBAC  score  was  observed  in  the  leuprorelin  group 
compared to the ulipristal treated, above all in the 10 mg group. The proportion of subjects with PBAC 
scores < 75 at week 13 was similar in both ulipristal acetate groups and in the leuprorelin group. Both 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 62/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ulipristal treatment groups showed that the lower limit of the confidence interval was greater than the 
pre-specified non-inferiority margin of – 20% versus leuprorelin. 
Analysis of Uterine Bleeding: pre-operative population 
At  Week  13,  the  proportion  of  pre-surgical  subjects  with  PBAC  <  75  was  comparable  between 
leuprorelin (89.6%), ulipristal acetate 5 mg (91.7%) and ulipristal acetate 10 mg (96.0%). The non-
inferiority of both doses of ulipristal acetate to leuprorelin was demonstrated, with a 2.5% LCL (lower 
confidence  limit)  for  the  comparison  between  leuprorelin  and  ulipristal  acetate  of  -12.7%  and  -6.7% 
for 5 mg and 10 mg respectively (pre-specified non-inferiority margin of -20%). 
Secondary endpoints 
The  table  below  summarizes  the  key  results  of  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  in  the  per-protocol 
population. 
Table 20. Key results of secondary efficacy endpoints in Study PGL07-022, PP population 
Bold values indicate that there was a significant difference between ulipristal acetate and leuprorelin. 
In study PGL07-022, the effects on the secondary endpoints were similar between the three treatment 
regimens  except  for  a  significantly  larger  reduction  in  the  log  10  uterine  volume  from  screening  to 
Week 13 in leuprorelin treated women than subjects treated with either of the ulipristal doses.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 63/106 
Rev06.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fibroid Size 
The  total  volume  of  the  three  largest  fibroids  varied  widely  in  all  groups  at  both  Screening  (4.0  to 
790.3 cm3 overall) and at Week 13 (0.7 to 735.4 cm3). The total volume of the three largest fibroids 
decreased  in  all  groups  from  Screening  to  Week  13,  and  there  were  no  statistically  significant 
differences between groups (median percentage change of -53.5% with leuprorelin, and -35.6% and -
42.1% with ulipristal acetate 5 and 10 mg respectively). 
When analysing the pre-operative population (n= 142 subjects), the total volume of the three largest 
fibroids  decreased  by  a  similar  amount  across  all  groups  from  Screening  to  Week  13.  The  non-
inferiority to leuprorelin was observed for the 5 mg group (median percentage change of -46.6% with 
leuprorelin, and -25.6% and -31.0% with ulipristal acetate 5 and 10 mg respectively, 2.5% LCL (lower 
confidence limit) for the comparison between leuprorelin and ulipristal acetate of -0.003% and 0.025% 
for 5 mg and 10 mg respectively. These results are illustrated in the Figure X below. 
Figure 5. Median Change from Baseline for Total Volume of 3 biggest Myomas, PGL07-022 
Improvement of Quality of Life  
The UFS-QoL was used in all countries except Poland. Baseline mean (median) scores for the Symptom 
severity  Score  and  the  Health  Related  Quality  of  Life  Score  (HRQL  Total  Score)  were  comparable 
between  treatment  groups  and  between  the  overall  study  population  and  the  pre-operative  study 
population.  All  three  treatment  groups  showed  a  marked  mean  (median)  improvement  compared  to 
baseline in the UFS-QoL symptom severity score (decrease) and the HRQL total score (increase) which 
were in line with mean scores published for the UFS-QoL for patients with confirmed myoma (Baseline) 
and  for  healthy  subjects  (Week  13).  For  the  symptom  severity  score,  the  median  decrease  ranged 
from -28.2 to -34.4 and for the HRQL total score the increase ranged from 20.7 to 26.7 between the 
three treatment groups. Comparing the overall population of Study PGL07-022 with the pre-operative 
population,  no  significant  difference  was  observed.  For  the  symptom  severity  score,  the  median 
decrease was very comparable to the overall population with a range from -28.1 to -34.4 between the 
three treatment groups. For the HRQL total score the increase ranged from 11.2 to 29.7 between the 
three treatment groups. This is illustrated in the Figures below.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 64/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Median Change from Baseline in Symptom Severity, PGL07-022 
Figure 7. Median Change from Baseline in HRQL Total Score, PGL07-022 
Improvement of Anaemia  
Subjects were not required to have anaemia. However the mean (median) Hb values were similar for 
all  three  treatment  groups  at  baseline  (Range  from  12.1  to  12.4  g/dl  (12.5  to  12.6  g/dl).  This  was 
comparable to the pre-operative population (Range from 11.9 to 12.2 g/dl (12.1 to 12.4 g/dl)). In all 
three  treatment  groups  Hb  values  increased  over  time  without  any  important  difference  between  the 
two study populations.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 65/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Blood Transfusions 
In the PP population, only 3 subjects had blood transfusions, and all occurred after the Week 13 visit 
due to surgery; 1 subject (PGL4001 5 mg group) received 450 mL of red blood cells, 1 subject (GnRH-
agonist group) received 577 mL of concentrate and 1 subject (GnRHagonist group) received 500 mL of 
concentrate. 
In  the  ITT  population,  a  total  of  5  subjects  received  transfusions.  In  addition  to  those  for  the    PP 
population, 1 subject (PGL4001 5 mg group) received 547 mL concentrate after the Week 5 visit, and 
1 subject (PGL4001 10 mg group) received 2 x 600 mL concentrate after the baseline visit due to SAE 
of worsening of uterine bleeding. 
Proportion  of  subjects  for  whom  surgery  is  cancelled  because  of  improvement  of  symptoms,  and 
proportion of subjects switched to less invasive surgery. 
The  distribution  of  planned  surgeries  was  similar  between  the  three  treatment  groups.  Surgery  was 
cancelled  for  about  every  second  woman.  Of  those  who  underwent  surgery,  around  60%  had  a  less 
invasive surgery than had been initially planned in all three treatment groups. After completion of Part 
B of the study, i.e.  up to  6 months  following the end of treatment, the cancellations of surgery  were 
similar between all three treatment groups, i.e. 47%. 
Table 21. Analysis of Surgery to week 17 (PP Population) 
(1) Denominator for percentage is number of subjects with non-missing surgery information. 
(2) Denominator for percentage is number of subjects with planned and completed surgery information non-missing 
and not 'Other'. 
(3) LCL = Lower confidence limit, UCL = Upper confidence limit; calculated using the Newcombe-Wilson score 
method (uncorrected); Bonferroni adjusted for multiplicity (two comparisons). 
There was no relevant difference in the distribution of planned surgeries between the three treatment 
groups.  
Fibroid size in patients who had not gone hysterectomy of myomectomy 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 66/106 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
An  analysis  was  carried  out  on  the  subgroups  of  subjects  who  had  not  undergone  hysterectomy  or 
myomectomy during Week 13, to assess the change in fibroid size after the end of treatment, and at 
Weeks 17, 26 and 38 (using available data from Part B of the study).  
A total of 135 subjects were included in the PP population for this analysis: 45 in the ulipristal acetate 
5 mg/day group 46 in the ulipristal acetate 10 mg/day group and 44 in the leuprorelin group.  
In the leuprorelin group, after Week 13 the mean total volume of the three largest fibroids increased 
rapidly.  By  Week  38  there  was  very  little  percentage  change  from  Screening  in  total  volume  of  the 
three largest fibroids (-3.1%). 
With both doses of ulipristal acetate the increases in fibroid size after the end of treatment were small, 
and the reduction in total volume of the three largest fibroids seen on-treatment was well maintained 
up to 6 months after the end of treatment. With ulipristal acetate 5 mg/day, the mean % decrease in 
total  volume  of  the  three  largest  fibroids  was  very  similar  at  Weeks  13  and  38  (-37.3%  and  -38.8% 
respectively).  The  higher  dose  of  ulipristal  acetate  showed  a  greater  decrease  in  fibroid  volume  on-
treatment (Week 13: -54.2%), but by Week 38 the % change from Screening with ulipristal acetate 10 
mg/day (-30.0%) was similar to that of ulipristal acetate 5 mg/day. 
Return of menstruation 
In  the  placebo  82%  had  return  to  menstruation  at  week  17.  The  corresponding  figures  for  ulipristal 
acetate 5 mg and 10 mg was 72% and 66%, respectively. In the ulipristal groups the median time for 
menstruation return was about one week later than with the placebo, and within on month after end of 
treatment. In the GnRH-agonist group 29% had return to menstruation at week 17. The corresponding 
figures for ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg was 64% and 65% respectively. In  ulipristal acetate as 
well as GnRH-agonist the mean and median time for menstruation return was about three weeks.  
Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 22: Summary of Efficacy for trial PGL07-021 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intent to treat population at Week 13 
Treatment group 
PGL4001 5mg 
PGL4001 10mg  
Placebo  
Number of 
subject 
PBAC Score <75 
Variability 
statistic  
96 
98 
48 
 91.5% 
92.5%  
18.8%  
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 67/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-21.2 
Percentage 
change in Total 
myoma volume:  
Median 
Variability 
statistic (min, 
max) 
Analysis of PBAC   Comparison groups 
-100.0, 223.4 
-12.3 
3.00 
-100.0, 146.6 
-100.0, 134.8 
PGL4001 5mg vs. Placebo 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
% Difference  
72.7% 
95% CI  
P-value 
(55.1%, 83.2%) 
<0.001 
Analysis of PBAC 
Comparison groups 
PGL4001 10mg vs. Placebo 
Total Myoma 
volume 
Total Myoma 
volume 
% Difference 
73.7% 
95% CI 
P-value 
(56.2%, 84.0%) 
<0.001 
Comparison groups 
Placebo vs. PGL4001 5mg  
Median difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
-22.6 
(-36.1, -8.20) 
0.002 
Comparison groups 
Placebo vs. PGL4001 10mg 
Median difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
-18.2 
(-33.0, -5.2) 
0.006 
Notes 
Analysis description  Total Myoma Volume  
Hodges-Lehmann  point  estimator  used  for  the  difference  between  groups, 
with  the  corresponding  Moses  confidence  interval  (Bonferroni  adjusted  for 
multiplicity (two comparisons)) 
Table 23: Summary of Efficacy for trial PGL07-022 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Per protocol population at Week 13 
Treatment group 
PGL4001 5mg 
PGL4001 10mg  
GnRH-agonist  
Leuprorelin 
102 
Number of 
subject 
PBAC Score <75 
Variability 
statistic>  
102 
103 
 90.3% 
97.9%  
89.1%  
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 68/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% change from 
screening to week 
13 in the three 
largest myomas 
by ultrasound 
Mean myoma 
volume 
Standard 
Deviation 
% change from 
screening to week 
13 in the three 
largest myomas 
by ultrasound 
Median myoma 
volume 
(min, max) 
-27.4 
-36.7 
-42.0 
51.2 
43.1 
70.2 
-35.5 
-42.1 
-53.5 
-98.0, 230.8 
-95.5.0, 120.0 
-91.0.0, 527.7 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Analysis of PBAC   Comparison groups 
PGL4001 5mg vs. GnRH-
agonist 
% Difference  
2% Lower Confidence 
Limit 
P-value 
1.2% 
-9.3% 
n/a 
Analysis of PBAC 
Comparison groups 
% Difference 
2% Lower Confidence 
Limit 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
PGL4001 10mg vs. GnRH-
agonist 
8.8% 
0.4% 
n/a 
PGL4001 5mg vs. 
Leuprorelin 
Log 10 change from 
screening 
Mean difference 
2.5% LCL 
2.5% UCL 
Comparison groups 
0.09 
-0.003 
0.181 
PGL4001 10mg vs. 
Leuprorelin 
Log 10 change from 
screening 
Median difference 
2.5% LCL 
2.5% UCL 
0.05 
-0.043 
0.140 
Page 69/106 
Total Myoma 
volume of the 
three largest  
fibroids assessed 
by ultrasound 
Total Myoma 
volume of the 
three largest  
fibroids assessed  
by ultrasound 
Notes 
Analysis description 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  statistical  analyses  performed  for  efficacy  endpoints  (non-inferiority) 
were based on the use of one-sided confidence intervals using a 2.5% level 
of statistical significance. The Per-protocol population was the population of 
primary interest for the efficacy analyses. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analyses performed across trials were submitted. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical studies in special populations were submitted. 
Supportive study(ies) 
No supportive studies were submitted. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The  primary  goal  of  the  ulipristal  treatment  in  the  pivotal  studies  was  to  reduce  heavy  menstrual 
bleeding  and  anaemia,  decrease  myoma  related  symptoms  prior  to  surgery..  The  inclusion  and 
exclusion criteria for the pivotal studies are considered acceptable. The primary and secondary as well 
as  exploratory  objectives  in  study  PGL07-021  and  PGL07-022  are  considered  adequate.  The  study 
populations were considered acceptable.  
Patients  could  discriminate  between  menorraghia  and  normal  menstrual  blood  loss  using  PBAC. 
Ultrasound or MRI was used for measurement of fibroid and uterus volumes.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
For  treatment  of  fibroid  related  bleeding  and  anaemia,  ulipristal  acetate  was  superior  compared  to 
placebo  after  3  months  of  treatment  (PGL07-021)  and  non-inferior  to  a  GnRH-agonist  (PGL07-022). 
Sensitivity  analyses  have  been  performed  supporting  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of 
ulipristal  acetate  vs  placebo  regarding  both  co-primary  endpoints  PBAC  score  and  percent  change  in 
total myoma volume in study. 
There  was  a  significantly  greater  decrease  in  discomfort  in  the  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  groups 
compared  to  placebo.  However,  all  three  treatment  groups  showed  an  improvement  for  the  ITT 
population. With regard to pain, a greater reduction but no statistically significant difference was seen 
between ulipristal acetate 5 mg and placebo. 
With regards to fibroid volume reduction, a statistically significant higher  efficacy compared to placebo 
was  found.  In  comparison  to  GnRH-agonist  treatment,  ulipristal  acetate,  although  not  statistically 
significant, showed  statistically non-inferior efficacy on fibroid volume.  
A  responder  analysis  regarding  the  reduction  of  the  three  largest  myomas  and  reduction  of  uterine 
volume  for  Study  PGL07-022  was  submitted.  In  the  analysis,  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg  was  inferior  to 
leuprorelin  with  regards  to  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  a  ≥25%  decrease  in  total  volume  of  the 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 70/106 
 
 
 
 
 
three largest myomas (at week 13: 76% for ulipristal acetate 5 mg, 87% for ulipristal acetate 10 mg 
and 86% for leuprorelin). 
Regarding uterine volume reduction, both the ulipristal doses were inferior compared to leuprorelin (at 
week 13: 57% for ulipristal acetate 5 mg, 50% for ulipristal acetate 10 mg and 91% for leuprorelin). 
The difference in pharmacological effect of ulipristal acetate and leuprorelin, regarding reduction of the 
myoma  and  uterine  volume  may  be  of  importance  for  choice  of  preoperative  treatment.  However,  a 
positive  effect  on  surgical  performance  has  still  to  be  proven  as  it  was  not  demonstrated  in  the 
submitted studies (studies not powered to that effect).  
Another  aspect  is  whether  the  treatment  could  be  used  in  order  to  postpone  or  even  avoid  surgery. 
Such  an  effect  would  be  beneficial  for  perimenopausal  women  suffering  from  heavy  uterine  bleeding 
and other fibroid related symptoms. Not all women were obliged to have surgery in the pivotal phase 
III  trials  and  it  is  therefore  not  unexpected  that  the  cancellation  rate  for  surgery  was  high  in  all 
treatment groups.  
In clinical practice, the interaction between the treating physician and the patient has major impact on 
whether  the  patient  decides  to  have  surgery.  Data  indicate  for  Study  PGL07-021  that  the  site 
(investigator  and  his/her  team)  appears  an  important  factor  in  determining  whether  the  patient 
eventually progresses with the previously discussed surgery as in some centers practically all patients 
underwent surgery and in other almost none. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  data  for  the  pivotal  trials  corresponding  to  1-6  months  after 
discontinuation  of  treatments,  which  includes  all  surgeries  up  to  6  months  post-treatment.  In  the 
active-comparator  study  versus  GnRH-agonist,  the  proportion  of  patients  not  proceeding  to  surgery 
was the same for all treatment groups, i.e. 47%.  
For  the  placebo-controlled  study,  the  data  from  the  double-blind  3  month  treatment  and  1  month 
follow-up  initially  raised  concern,  as  the  highest  cancellation  of  surgery  was  present  in  the  placebo 
group  (73%).  It  is  reassuring  that  when  the  data  from  the  discontinuation  phase  are  also  taken  into 
account  for  the  placebo-controlled  study,  the  cancellation  of  surgery  for  the placebo  group  and the  5 
mg ulipristal acetate group is very similar, i.e. 58% and 56%, respectively.  
Further, in the 10 mg ulipristal acetate group the proportion of women not proceeding to surgery was 
slightly lower (46%), though comparable with all treatment groups in the active comparator controlled 
trial (47%). 
Sub-analyses  showed  that  the  women  who  had  surgery  and  those  who  did  not  have  surgery  were 
comparable  at  baseline  for  severity  of  menstrual  bleeding  and  pain.  Only  the  total  myoma  volume 
tended to be greater in women who progressed to surgery, but the myoma volume was very wide in all 
treatment groups, and could not be retrospectively used for prediction if a woman would have  surgery 
or not. 
The effects of a 3-month course of ulipristal acetate will not only last the 3 months of treatment, but 
also continue to have benefits for the patients after stopping with Esmya. The reduction in bleeding or 
amenorrhoea  achieved  during  treatment  is  sustained  to  up  to  1  month  after  discontinuation.  In  the 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 71/106 
 
 
 
subgroup  of  patients  where  surgery  was  cancelled,  the  decrease  in  fibroid  size  seems  better 
maintained with ulipristal acetate than after GnRH-agonist treatment in the comparator-controlled trial. 
To gather additional information on the impact of ulipristal acetate treatment on surgery, the applicant 
will  follow-up  subjects  with  uterine  fibroids  in  the  practice  of  targeted  prescribers,  as  part  of  a  non-
interventional  study  (PGL10-014)  and  as  part  of  a  prescription  patters/drug  utilization  study  (PGL11-
020) (included in the RMP). 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  clinical  efficacy  of  Esmya  in  the  current  indication  has  been  adequately  justified.  To  gather 
additional  information  on  the  impact  of  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  on  surgery,  the  applicant  will 
follow-up  subjects  with  uterine  fibroids  in  the  practice  of  targeted  prescribers,  as  part  of  a  non-
interventional  study  (PGL10-014)  and  as  part  of  a  prescription  patters/drug  utilization  study  (PGL11-
020). These post-authorisation measures are adequately covered in the RMP. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Clinical safety data has been submitted for 4 randomized, double-blind, repeated-dose studies carried 
out  in  the  target  population,  and  from  17  studies  in  healthy  female  subjects/subjects  requiring 
emergency contraception (2 repeated-dose and 15 single-dose studies).  
Patient exposure 
Of  the  5323  subjects  who  have  been  exposed  to  ulipristal  acetate  during  its  clinical  development,  a 
total  of  498  subjects  received  repeated  doses  of  ulipristal  acetate.  Four  hundred  eighty  six  subjects 
received repeated doses of 5 mg/day or higher (419 were exposed for ≥12 weeks). In addition, 4825 
subjects have received a single dose of ulipristal acetate, of whom 4819 received 5 mg/day or higher. 
The  safety  database  includes  439  women  with  symptomatic  uterine  fibroids  from  Studies  PGL-0287, 
PGL-N-0090, PGL07-021 and PGL07-022. 
In addition, Phase III ongoing Study PGL09-026 interim safety analysis provides data on 124 patients 
treated for symptomatic uterine fibroids of which 110 were treated for at least 12 weeks with ulipristal 
acetate 10 mg is available (cut-off date 15 March 2011).  
In total, 529 subjects or patients were exposed to 3 months treatment ulipristal acetate to the target 
dose of 5 mg or above. 
Adverse events  
Based on pooled data from two phase III studies in patients with uterine fibroids treated for 3 months, 
the following adverse reactions have been reported (see table below). 
Table 24. Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 72/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse reactions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Emotional disorder  
Anxiety  
Headache 
Dizziness  
Vertigo  
Epistaxis  
Dyspepsia  
Dry mouth  
Flatulence  
Constipation  
Skin lesion  
Abdominal pain  
Nausea  
Acne  
Hyperhidrosis  
Musculoskeletal pain   Back pain  
Urinary incontinence  
Amenorrhea  
Endometrial 
thickening 
Hot flush 
Uterine haemorrhage 
Ovarian cyst 
Breast 
tenderness/pain Pelvi
c pain  
Metrorrhagia  
Ovarian cyst ruptured 
Genital discharge  
Breast swelling  
Breast discomfort  
Oedema  
Fatigue  
Asthenia  
Blood cholesterol 
increased  
Blood triglycerides 
increased 
Weight increased 
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders  
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions  
Investigations 
Study PGL07-021 
The safety objectives of Study PGL07-021 were to assess overall safety of ulipristal acetate (PGL4001) 
in subjects with uterine myomas. A general summary of the adverse events recorded in Part A of the 
study, in the safety population, is provided in the table below. 
Table 25. General Summary of Adverse Events Part A (Safety Population) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 73/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n = No. of Events, N = No. of Subjects with Event, % = 100*(No. of Subjects with Event/No. of Subjects). 
TEAE: Treatment emergent adverse events (Part A) are defined as events whose start date is on or after the first dose of study 
drug and on or before the last assessment date of visit 6 (Week 17). 
The frequency of AEs was similar across the treatment groups. The proportion of subjects reporting at 
least one study medication related treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was about 22.4-18.9% 
in the ulipristal acetate groups compared to 8.3% in the placebo group in Study PGL07-021. 
Table  26.  Summary  of  Treatment  Emergent  Adverse  Events  Occurring  in  ≥3%  of  the 
Subjects in any Treatment Group Presented by System Organ Class and Preferred Term Part 
A (Safety Population) in Study PGL07-021 
n = No. of Events, N = No. of subjects with Event, % = 100*(No. of Subjects with Event/No. of Subjects) 
 TEAE: Treatment emergent adverse events (Part A) are defined as events whose start date is on or after the first dose of study 
drug and on or before the last assessment date of visit 6 (week 17) (all causality, i.e. assessed as related and not related by 
investigators). 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 74/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headache was reported by 4.2% of subjects in the placebo group, 4.2% of subjects in the PGL4001 5 
mg group and 10.2% of subjects in the PGL4001 10 mg group. None of the events of headache were 
reported  as  severe.    Three  3  cases  of  weight  increase  or  obesity  were  reported  among  the  193 
ulipristal acetate (PGL4001) treated subjects. A comparison of on-treatment AEs with those observed 
up to Week 17 revealed a similar distribution of AEs.  
In  this  study,  the  majority  of  TEAEs  were  assessed  as  mild  or  moderate  for  all  treatment  groups.  A 
total  of  8  TEAEs  were  assessed  as  severe;  no  pattern  in  occurrence  could  be  identified.  No  subjects 
withdrew from the study due to TEAEs. There were no deaths during the study. 
ECG 
Three  subjects  in  Study  PGL07-021  had  cardiac  disorders  reported  as  TEAEs  during  the  study;  all  of 
them were reported as being of mild severity. No action was taken and no treatment was given and all 
three events resolved spontaneously. 
One  subject,  in  the  PGL4001  5  mg  group,  had  a  single  episode  of  sinus  bradycardia  reported  on  her 
last  day  of  study  medication;  at  this  time  point  her  pulse  rate  was  60  beats/min,  a  change  from 
baseline of -22 beats/min. The investigator considered this event to be related to study medication.  
One subject, in the PGL4001 10 mg group, had a single episode of sinus arrhythmia reported 4 days 
after  receiving  her  last  dose  of  study  medication.  The  investigator  considered  this  event  to  be 
unrelated to study medication.  
Another  subject  in  the  PGL4001  10  mg  group,  had  a  recurrent  episode  of  angina  pectoris  reported 
whilst she was on the second month of treatment. Her ECG and physical examination were normal at 
baseline; there was no history of cardiovascular disease. The investigator considered this event to be 
unrelated to study medication. 
Endometrium Thickness (assessed by MRI and week 13 of all subjects) 
The  distribution  of  endometrium  thickness  at  the  screening  visit  was  comparable  between  each 
treatment group, with a median of 7.0 mm for all groups, and an overall range between 2.0 mm and 
19.4 mm. At Week 13 the median endometrium thickness was 8.10 mm, 6.30 mm and 7.05 mm in the 
placebo, 5 mg and 10 mg ulipristal acetate groups, respectively 
Table X: Analysis of endometrium thickness at screening and week 13 (safety population) 
In Study PGL07-021, the MRI measurement at week 13 revealed more subjects in the ulipristal acetate 
groups with endometrium thickness >16 mm at week 13 (end of treatment). 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 75/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endometrium Thickness Assessed by MRI at screening and up to week 38 follow up (subjects without 
hysterectomy or endometrial ablation) 
The distribution of endometrium thickness at screening, end of treatment at week 13, and the week 26 
and  38  follow  up  visits  are  given  in  the  table  below  for  patients  who  did  not  have  hysterectomy  or 
endometrial ablation. 
Table 27. Summary of Endometrium Thickness (subjects without hysterectomy or 
endometrial ablation) 
At Week 38, the median endometrium thicknesses for all groups were slightly lower than at screening: 
6.8 mm, 5.9 mm and 6.3 mm for the Placebo, PGL4001 5 mg and 10 mg groups, respectively. The 
proportion of subjects with endometrium thickness > 16 mm was similar across treatment groups, 1 
(3.3%) subject, 2 (3.3%) subjects and 1 (1.8%) subject from the three groups, respectively. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 76/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endometrium Biopsy (Diagnosis) from screening up to Week 13 for all subjects, using pre-defined 
histological classification. 
Endometrium  samples  were  collected  and  assessed  by  three  independent  pathologists  who  were 
blinded  to  treatment  allocation,  visit  sequence  in  the  study  and  to  each  other’s  assessment.  A 
summary of endometrium biopsy consensus between the three pathologists at screening and Week 13 
is  presented  in  the  table  below  for  all  subjects.  The  results  of  the  histological  examination  of  the 
endometrium showed no  hyperplasia or cancer at  Week 13. One hyperplastic polyp was diagnosed in 
the 10 mg ulipristal acetate group at Week 13. 
Table 28. Summary of Endometrium Biopsy Consensus at screening and week 13 (Study 
PGL07-021 Safety Population) 
Note: Table shows consensus results from the three independent pathologists. (1) Yes = At least one assessor 
deemed specimen adequate, 
No = Otherwise. (2) Of those who deem specimen adequate, at least two assessors have the same opinion; 
otherwise the most severe is used. 
Denominator of percentage is the number of subjects in the treatment group. 
Endometrium Biopsy (Diagnosis) from screening up to week 38 follow up visit (subjects without 
hysterectomy or endometrial ablation), using pre-defined histological classification. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 77/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  presented  below  for  all  time  points  are  only  for  those  subjects  who  did  not  undergo 
hysterectomy  or  endometrial  ablation.  All  subjects  were  diagnosed  with  benign  endometrium  at  all 
time points, except one subject in the 5 mg ulipristal acetate group who was diagnosed with complex, 
atypical  hyperplasia  at  screening,  and  one  subject  in  the  placebo  group  who  was  diagnosed  with 
complex, atypical hyperplasia at Week 38. Polyps were not diagnosed in any subjects at screening, in 
one  subject  at  Week  13  (PGL4001  5  mg  group)  and  in  another  subject  at  Week  38  (PGL4001  5  mg 
group). There was no diagnosis of malignant neoplasms at any time point. 
Table 29. Summary of Endometrium Biopsy Consensus at screening, week 13 and week 38 
follow up visit 
Endometrium Biopsy Non-Physiological Descriptions (PAEC) 
In the safety population at Week 13, the numbers of subjects with endometrium biopsies for which all 
three pathologists reported “non-physiological” changes in the endometrium was no case (0.0%) in the 
placebo group, and 32 (41.6%) cases and 29 (37.2%) cases in the PGL4001 5 mg and 10 mg groups, 
respectively.  The  transformation  was  associated  with  a  significant  reduction  in  proliferative 
endometrium. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 78/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  subjects  treated  with  ulipristal  acetate  had  findings  of  non-physiological  endometrium  with  a 
similar  incidence  between  the  two  treatment  groups  at  week  13.  Above  all  were  epithelial  changes 
present in the ulipristal groups.  
Of  the  193  subjects  who  did  not  have  hysterectomy  or  endometrial  ablation,  a  large  proportion  gave 
adequate specimens at screening 186 (96%) subjects, at Week 13, 162 (84%) subjects and at Week 
38, 149 (80%) subjects. The non-physiological changes seen on treatment were generally reversible. 
At Week 38 only 1 (1.3%) subject from the 5 mg ulipristal acetate group and 3 (3.8%) subjects from 
the 10 mg ulipristal acetate group had the diagnosis of non-physiological changes by all 3 pathologists. 
When  reviewing  concurrent  assessment  of  2  or  3  pathologists,  non-physiological  changes  were 
observed for 1 (2.6%) subject, 6 (7.8%) subjects and 4 (5.1%) subjects from the Placebo, 5 mg and 
10 mg ulipristal acetate groups, respectively. The incidence of non-physiological Progesterone Receptor 
Modulator associated endometrial changes (PAEC) at week 38 (6 months after end of treatment) was 
similar to that observed at screening.  
There was a wide variation in the histopathologic evaluation of the endometrial specimens. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 79/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30. Summary of Endometrium Biopsy Non-Physiological Descriptions (PAEC) from 
screening up to Week 38 follow up visit.  
Presence of Ovarian Cyst with a Diameter ≥4 cm assessed by MRI at Week 13 Visit 
The  presence  of  ovarian  cysts  ≥  4  cm  was  determined  by  MRI  at  screening  and  at  treatment 
completion (Week 13). In addition, transvaginal ultrasound of the ovaries was performed at screening 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 80/106 
 
 
 
 
 
for  assessment  of  the  inclusion  criterion  and  at  Week  17  if  abnormalities  had  been  detected  at  the 
Week  13  MRI.  Subjects  with  ovarian  cysts  ≥  4  cm  at  the  screening  ultrasound  were  to  be  excluded 
from the study. Two subjects in the ulipristal 5 mg and 10 mg respectively had persistent cysts from 
screening  to  week  13.  Most  of  the  subjects  with  temporary  cysts  (13  cases)  were  treated  with 
ulipristal. Only one case of ovarian cyst was reported at week 13 in placebo. 
Ultrasound of Ovary (Normal/Abnormal) at Screening and Week 17 Visits 
Ultrasound of the ovaries  was systematically performed at screening, in order to assess the inclusion 
criterion,  and  at  Week  17  if  abnormalities  were  detected  at  Week  13  MRI.  A  number  of  cysts  were 
observed  at  various  stages  of  the  study  for  all  treatment  groups.  The  background  incidence  of  cysts 
and the persistence of some of these cysts for periods of a few weeks or more in line with other cross 
sectional  surveys  of  the  incidence  of  cysts  in  women  of  reproductive  age  who  are  not  taking  oral 
contraceptives.  Two  subjects  in  the  ulipristal  acetate5  mg  and  one  in  the  10  mg  respectively  had 
persistent  cysts  from  screening  to  week  17.  No  subjects  with  cysts  were  observed  in  the  placebo 
group. 
Return to Menstruation after end of Treatment, Week 38 
Of subjects who did not undergo hysterectomy or endometrium ablation, 98% of subjects In the 
placebo group had return to menstruation at week 38. The corresponding figures for ulipristal acetate 
5 mg and 10 mg were 99% % and 95% % respectively. Subjects who received ulipristal acetate 
returned to menstruation after a mean duration of 27 to 33 days. The majority of subjects who 
received placebo continued to menstruate throughout the study, so mean time to first menstruation 
after the end of treatment was only 22 days.  
Study PGL07-022 
In Study PGL07-022, the primary safety objective was to demonstrate superior safety and tolerance of 
ulipristal  acetate  (PGL4001)  versus  GnRH-agonist  regarding  castration-related  symptoms  and  their 
consequences of which the principal parameters are serum estradiol levels and hot flushes. A general 
summary of the adverse events recorded in Part A of the study, for the safety population, is described 
in the table below. 
Table 31. General Summary of Adverse Events Part A (Safety Population) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 81/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n: No of events. 
N: Number of subjects with events 
%: 100% x (No of subjects with event / No of subjects) 
The frequency of TEAEs reported by subjects in the GnRH- agonist group appeared to be slightly higher 
due  to  the  increased  incidence  of  hot  flushes  and  psychiatric  disorders  (e.g.  insomnia)  reported.  At 
least  one  treatment  emergent  adverse  events  (TEAE)  were  reported  by  84  %  of  the  GnRH-agonist 
group  compared  to  77  %  in  the  ulipristal  groups.  The  most  common  TEAE  was  hot  flush,  which  was 
reported more frequently by subjects from the GnRH-agonist group. 
Table 32. Summary of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in ≥3% of the 
Subjects in any Treatment Group Presented by System Organ Class and Preferred Term Part 
A (Safety Population) in Study PGL07-022 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 82/106 
 
 
 
 
n: No of events. 
N: Number of subjects with events 
%: 100% x (No of subjects with event / No of subjects) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 83/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headache was the second most frequently reported TEAE, experienced by 25.8% of subjects from the 
PGL4001 5 mg group, 18.4% of subjects from the PGL4001 10 mg group and 28.7% of subjects from 
the GnRH-agonist group. 
The majority of TEAEs were assessed as mild or moderate for all treatment groups. Severe TEAEs were 
reported  in  15%  in  the  GnRH  –  agonist  compared  to  5-8%  in  the  ulipristal  acetate  groups.  Eight 
subjects  withdrew  from  the  study  due  to  TEAEs;  for  5  of  these  the  AEs  were  considered  related  to 
study  drug  and  these  included:  insomnia,  hand  tremor  and  anxiety  (PGL4001  10  mg),  worsening  of 
uterine  bleeding  (PGL4001  10  mg),  migraine  (GnRH-agonist),  headaches,  pruritus  and  breast  pain 
(GnRH-agonist) and hot flushes, sweating and insomnia (GnRH-agonist). Three subjects withdrew from 
the  study  due  to  the  unrelated  SAEs  of  sarcoma  (PGL4001  5  mg  group),  lymphocytic  cerebrospinal 
meningitis  (GnRH-agonist)  and  worsening  of  uterine  bleeding  (GnRH-agonist).  a  majority  of  TEAEs  > 
3% were related to the reproductive system and the breast.  
Mean serum estradiol (E2) levels at end of treatment visit (Week 13 visit) for PGL4001 compared with 
GnRH-agonist 
The mean E2 levels were significantly higher in the ulipristal acetate groups compared to GnRH-agonist 
treated women at week 13. 
Percentage  of  subjects  reporting  moderate  or  severe  hot  flushes  as  adverse  events  throughout  the 
treatment period for PGL4001 compared with GnRHagonist. 
More than 60% of the GnRH-agonist treated women complained of hot flushes compared to about one 
fourth of the ulipristal acetate treated women (p< 0.001). 
Analysis of other Castration-related symptoms 
Women  in  all  three  treatment  groups  experienced  other  castration-related  symptoms.  Most  of  them 
were mild. Moderate symptoms were only reported in the GnRH-agonist group. 
Bone  turnover  assessed  by  blood  and  urinary  dosage  of  biochemical  markers  of  bone-resorption  and 
bone-formation at Week 9 and Week 13 visits 
The limited duration of treatment showed no impact on bone turnover in women treated with ulipristal 
acetate. For GnRH-agonist a significant effect was observed only in one out of four markers (CTX) used 
at week 13. 
Endometrium thickness assessed by ultrasound at Week 13 and Week 17 visits 
The  distribution  of  endometrial  thickness  was  similar  at  screening  for  the  three  treatment  groups. 
Around 5% of the women had a thickness > 16 mm. At the end of treatment the corresponding figures 
for  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg  and  10  mg  respectively  was  11.3%  and  14.6 %,  with  only  one  case  >  16 
mm  reported  in  the  GnRH-agonist  group  (p<  0.001).  Among  women  who  did  not  undergo 
hysterectomy or endometrial ablation, there were no significant difference in endometrium thickness at 
screening or at week 17 visit between the treatments assessed by ultrasound. 
Ultrasound of ovary (normal/abnormal) at Week 13 visit, and Week 17 visits if abnormal ovaries were 
detected at ultrasound at Week 13 visit and no ovariectomy was performed 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 84/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ultrasound of ovaries showed that one subject in the ulipristal acetate 5 mg, 10 mg and GnRH-agonist 
group  respectively  had  persistent  cysts  from  screening  to  week  17.  At  week  13  all  subjects  with 
temporary cysts were treated with ulipristal acetate. 
Endometrium biopsy (diagnosis) using pre-defined histological classification 
Evaluation of endometrial biopsies showed that 90-97 % of the biopsies were adequate at screening. 
Three benign lesions were diagnosed in the ulipristal acetate 5 mg group and one in the GnRH-agonist 
group.  At  week  13,  87-92  %  of  the  biopsies  were  adequate,  and  two  cases  of  benign  lesions  were 
diagnosed  in  the  ulipristal  acetate  5mg  group  and  one  from  each  of  the  10  mg  and  GnRH-agonist 
groups.  It  was  a  different  subject  in  the  ulipristal  5  mg  group  who  had  a  simple,  non-atypical 
hyperplasia at week 13 than at screening. 
At  screening,  the  proportion  without  non-physiological  endometrium  biopsies  was  about  80  %  in  all 
treatment  groups.  When  the  endometrium  biopsies  were  reviewed  by  the  three  independent  expert 
pathologists,  there  was  a  consensus  diagnosis  of  only  one  non-physiological  endometrium  in  the 
ulipristal  acetate  10  mg  group  at  screening.  At  week  13  the  subjects  treated  with  ulipristal  acetate 
(PGL4001)  had  findings  without  non-physiological  endometrium  in  20-23 %  compared  to  64%  in  the 
GnRH group. Epithelial changes were present in 35.0 – 37.1 % in the ulipristal groups vs 1 % in the 
GnRH-agonist  group.  There  was  also  a  very  wide  variation  between  the  pathologists  in  the 
histopathologic evaluation. 
In  the  subset  of  patients  who  did  not  undergo  surgery  after  the  end  of  treatment,  results  of  the 
evaluation  of  endometrium  biopsies  at  week  38  suggest  that  while  ulipristal  acetate  treatments 
increased  findings  of  non-physiological  changes  at  week  13,  maintenance  of  this  effect  stopped  after 
treatment discontinuation. The proportion with information on biopsies was 81% in the GnRH-agonist 
group and 82 and 84% in ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg groups respectively. 
In addition, at week 38, the number of biopsies with non-physiological changes present was low in all 
treatment groups. The absolute number of non-physiological changes (8) was however greatest in the 
ulipristal acetate 5 mg group, and higher than the numbers at screening (4).  
Return to Menstruation after end of Treatment, Week 38 
In the GnRH-agonist group 96.2% had return to menstruation at week 38. The corresponding figures 
for  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg  and  10  mg  were  100  %  and  97  %  respectively.  Subjects  who  received 
ulipristal  acetate  returned  to  menstruation  after  a  mean  duration  of  31  to  34  days.  The  return  to 
menstruation following treatment with leuprorelin was longer than that seen with ulipristal acetate (43 
days).  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths were reported during treatment with ulipristal acetate in any ongoing or completed studies 
Study PGL07-021 
Table 33. Summary of Serious Adverse Events from screening to week 17 Study PGL07-021 
(Safety Population) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 85/106 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 34. Serious Adverse Events during the Screening Period 
The eight serious Adverse Events in study PGL07-021 were considered not related to the treatment. 
PGL07-022 
Table 35. Summary of Serious Adverse Events to week 17 Study PGL07-022 (Safety 
Population) 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 86/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 87/106 
 
 
 
Of 13 serious adverse events in study PGL07-022 were two cases considered related to the treatment 
with ulipristal acetate. 
Laboratory findings 
Study PGL07-021 
Summary of hormone tests at baseline, week 13 and week 17 
• Estradiol (E2) 
Subjects  under  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  were  mainly  anovulatory.  E2  values  observed  under 
PGL4001 treatment correspond to mid-follicular phase levels for pre-menopausal women. The increase 
in  estradiol  levels  after  treatment  cessation  demonstrates  that  ovarian  function  and  follicular 
development resume promptly within a few weeks after treatment end. 
• Progesterone (P4) 
Progesterone  levels  are  reported  in  the  table  below  as  a  parameter  indicating  whether  a  subject 
ovulated  within  approximately  2  weeks  preceeding  the  sampling  time.  A  progesterone  level  above  5 
ng/mL is usually considered as evidence of ovulation.  
Table 36. Progesterone values from baseline to week 17 Study PGL07-021 
Visit 
Parameter 
Value 
Placebo 
Ulipristal 
Ulipristal 
acetate 5 mg 
acetate 10 mg 
Baseline 
P4 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
46 
0.48 
0.64 
0.30 
88 
0.71 
1.33 
0.30 
96 
0.79 
1.41 
0.40 
Page 88/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 13 
Week 17 
Min, Max 
0.1, 3.8 
0.1, 9.1 
0.1, 11.5 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
47 
3.08 
4.59 
0.70 
89 
0.58 
1.28 
0.30 
90 
0.42 
1.35 
0.25 
Min, Max 
0.1, 19.7 
0.1, 7.6 
0.1, 13.0 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
44 
2.83 
3.91 
0.65 
88 
2.94 
4.55 
0.50 
88 
2.75 
4.53 
0.50 
Min, Max 
0.1, 14.4 
0.1, 27.8 
0.1, 22.6 
The mean progesteron values in the ulipristal acetate group were lower than in the placebo at week 13 
indicating  anovulation  in  a  majority  of  patients.  However,  maximal  values  above  5.0  ng/mL  indicate 
persistence of ovulation in a minority of women treated with ulipristal acetate compared to placebo. 
• Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) 
ACTH  values  were  monitored  as  a  marker  of  anti-glucocorticoid  effect  of  ulipristal  acetate.  Median 
ACTH values showed little change throughout the treatment period for all treatment groups. Based on 
the  confidence  intervals,  there  was  no  evidence  of  a  difference  in  the  ACTH  levels  between  the 
ulipristal acetate treatment groups and the placebo group. 
• Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH) 
There  was  no  evidence  of  a  difference  in  TSH  profile  for  the  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  groups 
compared to the placebo group during the treatment period. There was no evidence of a difference in 
TSH  profile  for  the  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  groups  compared  to  the  placebo  group  during  the 
treatment period. In addition, a review of AEs in relation to thyroid function did not reveal a treatment 
related effect.  
• Prolactin 
During the treatment period the prolactin values across the three groups showed some variation with 
no obvious finding related to the ulipristal acetate treatment. 
• FSH 
The  median  values  for  FSH  at  baseline  were  9.25,  8.50  and  8.70  mIU/mL  for  the  placebo,  ulipristal 
acetate 5 mg and 10 mg groups, respectively. The values were lower at Week 13, being 7.40 mIU/mL, 
5.70 mIU/mL and 5.00 mIU/mL, respectively. There was some evidence of a difference in FSH between 
the  ulipristal  acetate  treatment  groups  and  placebo  at  Week  13.  There  was  no  impact  of  ulipristal 
acetate treatment on glucose.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 89/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  increases  in  mean  triglycerides,  cholesterol,  and  LDL  cholesterol  from  baseline  to  end  of 
treatment  for  all  three  treatment  groups.  The  increases  from  baseline  in  mean  cholesterol  and  LDL 
cholesterol levels were greater for the ulipristal acetate treatment groups than for the placebo group. 
The  baseline  values  were  higher  for  the  placebo  group  compared  to  the  ulipristal  acetate  treated 
groups.  
Mildly  elevated  transaminase  levels,  most  frequently  ALT  and  AST,  were  reported  for  approximately 
5%  of  subjects  in  all  3  treatment  groups;  the  distribution  of  subjects  with  high  values  was  similar 
across the three treatment groups. In general the elevations were less than 2 x ULN, transient and not 
combined with any change in other biochemical parameters including bilirubin levels. 
Study PGL-0722 
Summary of hormone tests at baseline, Week 5, Week 9, Week 13 and Week 17  
• 
Progesterone 
During  treatment,  the  mean  and  median  P4  values  were  very  low  in  all  treatment  groups  suggesting 
the  absence  of  ovulation  in  most  subjects.  Maximal  values  close  to  or  above  5.0  ng/mL  in  all  groups 
indicate persistence of ovulation in a minority of subjects (< 10%). 
•  ACTH 
All three treatment groups had similar values for ACTH though the mean values were slightly higher for 
subjects from the GnRH-agonist group at Weeks 5, 9 and 13. There is no evidence of a difference for 
GnRH-agonist  treatment  compared  to  the  ulipristal  acetate  treatments  based  on  the  p-values  and 
confidence intervals. 
• 
TSH 
TSH values at baseline were higher in the ulipristal acetate 10 mg group (7 subjects, 6.8%) compared 
to  the  GnRH-agonist  group  (3  subjects,  3.0%).  There  is  no  evidence  for  a  difference  at  Week  13  or 
Week 17, or for ulipristal acetate 5 mg compared to GnRH-agonist values. 
• 
Prolactin 
The mean and median prolactin values remained unchanged during treatment in the ulipristal acetate 
groups.  At  Week  5  the  mean  prolactin  levels  were  lower  for  subjects  from  the  GnRH-agonist  group 
compared to subjects from the ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg groups (p < 0.001). 
There  was  a  difference  between  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg  and  GnRH-agonist  values  at  Week  9  (p-
value=0.013). There is no evidence of a difference at Week 13 or Week 17. The reduction observed in 
the GnRH-agonist group most likely is the consequence of the reduction of E2 in this group. 
• 
FSH 
The  median  values  for  FSH  at  baseline  were  7.95  mIU/mL,  8.80  mIU/mL  and  9.20  mIU/mL  for  the 
ulipristal acetate 5 mg, 10 mg and GnRH-agonist groups respectively. The values were lower at Week 
13:  4.80  mIU/mL,  4.90  mIU/mL  and  5.80  mIU/mL  respectively.  There  is  evidence  of  a  difference  in 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 90/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FSH  between  the    ulipristal  acetatetreatments  and  GnRH-agonist  at  Week  13  (p-value=0.021  for 
ulipristal acetate  5 mg and p-value=0.031 for PGL4001 10 mg). 
•  Serum estradiol (E2) levels at baseline, Week 5, Week 9 and Week 17 visits.  
At Week 13 the median E2 values were 64.0 pg/mL, 60.5 pg/mL and 25.0 pg/mL for women from the 
ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg group and GnRH-agonist group, respectively. The summaries of the 
E2 levels at Weeks 5 and 9 also showed comparable differences between ulipristal acetate groups and 
GnRH-agonist.  Within  a  few  weeks  after  all  treatment  discontinuation,  the  increase  in  E2  levels 
demonstrated that ovarian function, and follicular development had resumed. 
•  Hematology, coagulation, biochemistry, lipids, and glucose assessments at screening, baseline, 
Week 5, Week 9, Week 13, Week 17 visits 
There  was  no  impact  on  glucose  levels  during  treatment.  Ulipristal  treatment  was  associated  with  a 
slight  rise  in  mean  total  cholesterol  and  mean  LDL  cholesterol  during  treatment,  but  these  increases 
were lower than those observed in women treated with GnRH-agonist.  
Overall  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  Hb  >  12  g/dL  and  Hct  >  36%  increased  during  the  study. 
Parameters  of  coagulation  did  not  identify  any  trends  towards  modification,  with  only  3  clinically 
significant values reported, 2 for prothrombin time and one for APTT, which were slightly greater than 
the ULN. 
There were no signals of any treatment related changes in liver function tests. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 91/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
No safety studies in special populations were submitted. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
See Pharmacokinetic section. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No  subject  withdrew  from  the  Study  PGL07-021  due  to  TEAEs.  In  Study  PGL07-022  eight  subjects 
withdrew from the study due to TEAEs; for 5 of these the AEs were considered related to study drug 
and  these  included:  insomnia,  hand  tremor  and  anxiety  (PGL4001  10  mg),  worsening  of  uterine 
bleeding  (PGL4001  10  mg),  migraine  (GnRH-agonist),  headaches,  pruritus  and  breast  pain  (GnRH-
agonist)  and  hot  flushes,  sweating  and  insomnia  (GnRH-agonist).  Three  subjects  withdrew  from  the 
study  due  to  the  unrelated  SAEs  of  sarcoma  (PGL4001  5  mg  group),  lymphocytic  cerebrospinal 
meningitis (GnRH-agonist) and worsening of uterine bleeding (GnRH-agonist). 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing studies have been submitted. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In  the  present  submission,  the  majority  of  the  clinical  safety  data  have  been  drawn  from  4 
randomized, double-blind, repeated-dose studies carried out in the target population. In addition to the 
safety database included in the initial submission, the applicant has provided additional safety data.  
Complete  6-month,  post-treatment  clinical  study  reports  of  the  pivotal  phase  III  studies  (PGL07-021 
and PGL07-022 Part B CSRs) and interim safety analysis from the ongoing Phase IIIb Study PGL09-026 
provides data on a further 124 subjects of which 110 received ulipristal acetate 10 mg daily for at least 
12 weeks. The inclusion of the subjects from study PGL09-026 increases the number of patients having 
been exposed to at least 3 months of ulipristal acetate to the target dose of 5 mg or above to a total of 
529 subjects. 
Safety  assessments  included  reporting  of  adverse  events  in  all  studies.  Other  safety  assessments 
varied,  but  included  physical  examinations,  vital  signs,  12-lead  electrocardiogram  (ECG)  recording, 
biological  laboratory  assessments,  ovarian  scans,  measurement  of  endometrium  thickness,  and 
endometrial biopsies.  
In the pivotal studies the safety endpoint was to assess overall safety of ulipristal acetate (PGL4001) in 
subjects  with  uterine  myomas,  and  to  demonstrate  superior  safety  and  tolerance  of  PGL4001  versus 
GnRH-agonist regarding castration-related symptoms and their consequences.  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 92/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Study  PGL07-021,  the  proportion  of  subjects  reporting  at  least  one  study  medication  related 
treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was in the ulipristal acetate groups 22.4-18.9% compared 
to  8.3%  placebo.  Corresponding  values  in  PGL07-022  were  reported  by  84  %  of  the  GnRH-agonist 
group  compared  to  77 %  in  the  ulipristal  acetate  groups.  Hot  flush  was  reported  more  frequently  by 
subjects from the GnRH-agonist group.  
Amongst  the  adverse  reactions  documented  with  ulipristal  acetate  treatment,  hot  flush,  headache, 
ovarian  cysts,  uterine  haemorrhage  and  endometrial  thickening  were  noteworthy.  Hot  flush  was 
reported  more  frequently  by  subjects  treated  with  the  GnRH-agonist  compared  to  ulipristal  acetate 
treated.  Therefore  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  states  that  hot  flushes  were  reported  by  12.7%  patients 
but  the  rates  varied  across  trials.  In  the  active  comparator  controlled  study  the  rates  were  24% 
(10.5%  moderate  or  severe)  for  ulipristal  acetate  and  60.4%  (39.6%  moderate  or  severe)  for 
leuprorelin-treated  patients.  In  the  placebo-controlled  study,  the  rate  of  hot  flushes  was  1.0%  for 
ulipristal acetate  and 0% for placebo.  
Mild  or  moderate  severity  headache  was  reported  in  6.4%  of  patients.  Functional  ovarian  cysts  were 
observed  during  and  after  treatment  in  1.5%  of  patients  and  in  most  of  the  cases  spontaneously 
disappeared within a few weeks. Patients with heavy menstrual bleeding due to uterine fybroids are at 
risk  of  excessive  bleeding,  which  may  require  surgical  intervention.  A  few  cases  have  been  reported 
during Esmya treatment or within 2-3 months after ulipristal acetate treatment was stopped. 
Assessments  of  the  ovaries  during  the  studies  were  performed  with  transvaginal  ultrasound  or  MRI. 
Most  of  the  subjects  with  temporary  cysts  were  treated  with  ulipristal  acetate.  The  background 
incidence of cysts and the persistence of some of these cysts for periods of a few weeks or more were 
in line with other cross sectional surveys of the incidence of cysts in women of reproductive age who 
are not taking oral contraceptives.  
The median time for menstruation return was for the ulipristal acetate treated group about one week 
later  than  with  the  placebo,  and  within  one  month  after  end  of  treatment.  In  GnRH-agonist  treated 
women, the median time for menstruation return was about 43 days. 
Bone  turnover  was  assessed  by  blood  and  urinary  dosage  of  four  biochemical  markers  of  bone-
resorption and bone-formation at Week 9 and Week 13 visits. For GnRH-agonist a significant increase 
was  observed  only  in  one  out  four  markers  (CTX,  a  marker  of  bone  resorption)  used  at  week  13, 
whereas no effect was recorded with ulipristal acetate. 
Subjects under ulipristal acetate treatment were mainly anovulatory. During the treatment period, the 
laboratory values across the treatment groups showed some variation with no obvious finding related 
to the ulipristal acetate treatment.  
Assessments  with  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  or  ultra-sound    (US)  showed  at  week  13  more 
subjects  in  the  ulipristal  acetate  treated  groups  with  endometrium  thickness  >  16  mm  compared  to 
placebo or GnRH-agonist treated groups. The increase appears to be reversible. Therefore, information 
in  the  SmPC  includes  the  occurrence  of  increased  thickening  of  the  endometrium,  a  documented 
incidence of up to 15% of patients who may experience a thickening exceeding 16mm, and the need to 
investigate such thickening if persisting more than 3 months following the end of treatment and return 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 93/106 
 
 
 
 
of menstruation. Additionally, an educational program has been agreed to enforce this information (see 
Section 2.7 Pharmacovigilance) 
Treatment of progesterone receptor modulators (PRMs) results in new endometrial findings, described 
under  the  name  of  Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator  Associated  Endometrial  Changes  (PAEC).  The 
rating scale used to evaluate the endometrium biopsies in the pivotal Phase III trials incorporated the 
description  of  these  non-physiological  findings  that  are  the  result  of  PRM  treatment,  and  followed 
generally  accepted  recommendations  for  endometrial  biopsy  assessment.  The  rating  scale  to  assess 
the endometrial biopsies is therefore considered adequate.  
At  Week  13  (PGL07-021),  the  numbers  of  subjects  with  endometrium  biopsies  for  which  all  three 
pathologists reported “non-physiological” changes in the endometrium (PAEC) was  no case (0.0%) in 
the  placebo  group,  and  43  (45.3%)  cases  and  37  (37.8%)  cases  in  the  PGL4001  5  mg  and  10  mg 
groups,  respectively.  Corresponding  figures  for  PGL07-022  was  in  the  GnRH-agonist  group  2  (2.0%), 
vs.  38  (39.2%)  and  40  (38.8%)  for  ulipristal  acetate  5  mg  and  10  mg  groups  respectively.  The 
transformation was associated with a significant reduction in proliferative endometrium. 
Observed  non-clinical  endometrial  changes  in  the  9-month  monkey  toxicity  study  with  a  2-month 
recovery  period  in  selected  control  and  high  dose  animals  (25  mg/kg/day),  ulipristal  acetate-related 
microscopic  changes  occurred  in  a  dose  dependent  pattern  in  the  uterus  and  oviducts.  Two  clinical 
pathologists  were  evaluating  the  biopsies.  It  was  concluded  that  since  the  observed  effects  are  less 
frequent in the recovery animals of the high dose group, the effects are at least partly reversible.  
Dose-related pharmacologically mediated effects were noted which to a considerable extent resemble 
those  observed  in  human  endometrium  exposed  to  PRMs  referred  to  as  PAEC,  rather  than  an 
unopposed  oestrogen  effect,  as  the  glandular  epithelium  was  less  active  with  little  evidence  of 
proliferative activity.  
Endometrial  data  at  week  38  in  Study  PGL07-021  and  Study  PGL07-022  is  reassuring  regarding 
diagnosis  of  malignant  changes,  cellular  atypia  or  other  findings  of  concern  in  the  ulipristal  acetate 
treatment groups. The incidence of PAEC at week 38 (6 months after end of treatment) was similar to 
that observed at screening. Diverging results of the histopathologic endometrial assessments between 
pathologists underlines the need of PAEC trained pathologists to avoid misdiagnosis in clinical routine.  
The  short-term  safety  data  after  3  months  of  treatment  with  ulipristal  acetate    do  not  show  an 
increased risk for malignant changes in the endometrium (studies PGL07-021, PGL07-022. and interim 
safety analysis of PGL09-026)). The long-term endometrial safety data of PAEC will also be followed in 
the  ongoing  phase  III  clinical  study  (PGL09-026),  its  extension  (PGL09-027),  a  non-interventional 
study (PGL10-014) and a retrospective drug utilization study (PGL11-020). Considering the indication 
is  limited  to  treatment  duration  of  a  maximum  3  months  including  a  contraindication  for  treatment 
beyond this duration, no major safety issues remain.  
Based on the clinical safety data submitted, the Product Information has been amended as follows: 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC notes that here are no data available on treatment with duration longer than 
3  months  or  on  repeat  courses  of  treatment,  therefore,  treatment  duration  should  not  exceed  3 
months. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 94/106 
 
 
 
Section  4.4.  of  SmPC  notes  that  ulipristal  acetate  has  a  specific  pharmacodynamic  action  on  the 
endometrium.  Increase  in  thickness  of  the  endometrium  may  occur.  If  the  endometrial  thickening 
persists  within  the  3  months  following  the  end  of  treatment  and  return  of  menstruations,  this  may 
need to be investigated as per usual clinical practice to exclude underlying conditions. 
Changes  in  the  histology  of  the  endometrium  may  be  observed  in  patients    treated  with  ulipristal 
acetate.  These  changes  are  reversible  after  treatment  cessation.  These  histological  changes  are 
denoted  as  “Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator  Associated  Endometrial  Changes”  or  PAEC  and  should 
not be mistaken for endometrial hyperplasia  
Section 4.8 of the SmPC notes that in 10-15% of patients, thickening of the endometrium (> 16 mm 
by  ultrasound  or  MRI  at  end  of  treatment)  was  observed  with  ulipristal  acetate;  this  reverses  when 
treatment is stopped and menstrual periods resume. 
In  addition,  reversible  changes  to  the  endometrium  are  denoted  PAEC  and  are  different  from 
endometrium  hyperplasia.  If  hysterectomy  or  endometrial  biopsy  specimens  are  sent  for  histology, 
then the pathologist should be informed that the patient has been prescribed ulipristal acetate . 
Section  5.1  of  the  SmPC  notes  that  in  about  10-15%  of  patients  treated  with  ulipristal  acetate  the 
endometrium  may  thicken  (>16  mm)  during  treatment.  This  thickening  disappears  after  treatment is 
withdrawn  and  menstruation  occurs.  If  the  endometrial  thickness  persists  within  the  3  months 
following the end of treatment and return of menstruations, then this may need to be investigated as 
per usual clinical practice to exclude underlying conditions. 
The  direct  action  on  the  endometrium  results  in  class-specific  changes  in  histology  termed  PAEC. 
Typically, the histological appearance is an inactive and weakly proliferative epithelium associated with 
asymmetry  of  stromal  and  epithelial  growth  resulting  in  prominent  cystically  dilated  glands  with 
admixed  oestrogen  (mitotic)  and  progestin  (secretory)  epithelial  effects.  Such  a  pattern  has  been 
observed in approximately 60% of patients treated with ulipristal acetate for 3 months. These changes 
are  reversible  after  treatment  cessation.  These  changes  should  not  be  confused  with  endometrial 
hyperplasia. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety profile of Esmya is considered acceptable and all the adverse reactions reported in clinical 
trials have been included in the Product Information.  
An ongoing phase  III study (PGL09-026), and its extension, (PGL09-027) will  address the long term 
effect  of  prolonged  treatment  of  the  endometrium  with  ulipristal  acetate,  the  risk  of  inappropriate 
management  of  endometrium  thickening  (unnecessary  interventions  or  treatments),  the  risk  of 
inappropriate diagnosis of endometrial hyperplasia (mistaking PAEC for hyperplasia). 
In  addition  to  this,  the  applicant  will  carry  out  a  non-interventional  study  (PGL10-014)  and  a 
retrospective drug utilization study (PGL11-020) to further identify the impact of treatment on surgery, 
delays  in  the  diagnosis  of  atypical  endometrial  hyperplasia  or  adenocarcinoma,  and    to  gather  more 
information on the risk of off label use (treatment beyond 3 months).  
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 95/106 
 
 
 
 
These post-authorisation measures have been adequately covered in the RMP. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table 37. Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance activities                       
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Important identified risks 
Inappropriate 
management of 
endometrium 
thickening 
(unnecessary 
interventions or 
treatments). 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Review in PSURs as event of 
special interest. 
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014). 
Monitoring in clinical research 
(AESI).  
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
studies. 
Prescription pattern/drug 
utilization study (PGL11-020). 
Targeted follow-up of 
respective ADR reports. 
Risk  included  in  the  SmPC,  section  4.4,  4.8  and 
5.1 (including recommendation for management).  
Warning in section 4.4. of SmPC: 
“Ulipristal acetate has a specific pharmacodynamic 
action  on  the  endometrium.  Increase  in  thickness 
of the endometrium may occur. If the endometrial 
thickening  persists  within  the  3  months  following 
the end of treatment and return of menstruations, 
this  may  need  to  be  investigated  as  per  usual 
clinical practice to exclude underlying conditions” 
Pharmacodynamic  properties  in  section  5.1.  of 
SmPC: 
“Ulipristal  acetate  exerts  a  direct  effect  on  the 
endometrium....” 
...In  about  10-15%  of  patients  treated  with 
ulipristal  acetate  the  endometrium  may  thicken 
(>16  mm)  during  treatment.  This  thickening 
disappears  after  treatment  is  withdrawn  and 
menstruation  occurs.  If  the  endometrial  thickness 
persists  within  the  3  months  following  the  end  of 
treatment  and  return  of  menstruations,  then  this 
may  need  to  be  investigated  as  per  usual  clinical 
practice to exclude underlying conditions.” 
Description  of  selected  adverse  reactions 
section 4.8. of SmPC: 
“Endometrial thickening 
In  10-15%  of  patients, 
the 
endometrium  (>  16  mm  by  ultrasound  or  MRI  at 
end  of  treatment)  was  observed  with  ulipristal 
acetate;  this  reverses  when  treatment  is  stopped 
and menstrual periods resume.” 
thickening  of 
in 
Inappropriate 
diagnosis of 
endometrial 
hyperplasia (mistaking 
PAEC for hyperplasia) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Review in PSURs as event of 
special interest. 
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014). 
Monitoring in clinical research 
(AESI). 
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
Educational material to prescribers. 
Risk included in the SmPC, section 4.4, 4.8 and 
5.1. 
Warning in section 4.4. of SmPC: 
“Ulipristal acetate has a specific pharmacodynamic 
action  on  the  endometrium....  Changes  in  the 
histology of the endometrium may be observed in 
patients    treated  with  ulipristal  acetate.  These 
changes  are  reversible  after  treatment  cessation. 
These  histological  changes  are  denoted  as 
“Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator  Associated 
Endometrial  Changes”  or  PAEC  and  should  not  be 
mistaken for endometrial hyperplasia (see sections 
4.8. and 5.1.).”   
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 96/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies. 
Prescription pattern/drug 
utilization study (PGL11-020). 
Targeted follow-up of 
respective ADR reports. 
the  histological  appearance 
Pharmacodynamic  properties  in  section  5.1.  of 
SmPC: 
“Ulipristal  acetate  exerts  a  direct  effect  on  the 
endometrium.... 
The  direct  action  on  the  endometrium  results  in 
class-specific  changes  in  histology  termed  PAEC. 
is  an 
Typically, 
inactive  and  weakly  proliferative  epithelium 
associated  with  asymmetry  of  stromal  and 
epithelial  growth  resulting  in  prominent  cystically 
dilated  glands  with  admixed  oestrogen  (mitotic) 
and progestin (secretory) epithelial effects. Such a 
pattern  has  been  observed  in  approximately  60% 
of  patients  treated  with  ulipristal  acetate  for  3 
months.  These  changes  are  reversible  after 
treatment cessation. These changes should not be 
confused with endometrial hyperplasia.” 
Description  of  selected  adverse  reactions 
section 4.8. of SmPC: 
“In 
the 
addition, 
endometrium  are  denoted  PAEC  and  are  different 
from endometrium hyperplasia. If hysterectomy or 
endometrial  biopsy  specimens  are  sent 
for 
histology, then the pathologist should be informed 
that  the  patient  has  been  prescribed  ulipristal 
acetate (see section 4.4 and 5.1).” 
reversible 
changes 
to 
in 
Educational  material 
pathologists. 
to 
prescribers 
and 
Risk included in the SmPC Section 4.4. : 
“Bleeding pattern 
Patients  should  be  informed  that  treatment  with 
ulipristal  acetate  usually  leads  to  a  significant 
reduction  in  menstrual  blood  loss  or  amenorrhea 
within  the  first  10 days  of  treatment.  Should  the 
excessive  bleeding  persist,  patients  should  notify 
their  physician.  Menstrual  periods  will  generally 
return  within  4 weeks  after  the  end  of  the 
treatment course.” 
Risk included in the SmPC, section 4.8. 
Description  of  selected  adverse  reactions 
section 4.8. of SmPC: 
Uterine haemorrhage 
“Patients  with  heavy  menstrual  bleeding  due  to 
uterine  fibroids  are  at  risk  of  excessive  bleeding, 
which  may  require  surgical  intervention.  A  few 
cases have been reported during ulipristal acetate 
treatment  or  within  2-3  months  after  ulipristal 
acetate treatment was stopped.”  
in 
Important potential risks 
Acute uterine bleeding 
requiring immediate 
intervention 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Review in PSURs as event of 
special interest. 
Monitoring in clinical research 
(AESI). 
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
studies  
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014). 
Drug induced liver 
injury 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Review in PSURs as event of 
special interest. 
Monitoring in clinical research 
(AESI). 
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
studies  
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014)  
Important missing information 
Treatment beyond 
three months  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs, 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Statement in the SmPC, section 4.1., 4.2, 4.3. and 
4.4.. 
Indication (section 4.1 of SmPC) 
“Ulipristal  acetate  is  indicated  for  pre-operative 
Page 97/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014)  
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
studies  
Prescription pattern/drug 
utilisation study (PGL11-020) 
Long-term effects of 
prolonged treatment 
on the endometrium 
(including possible 
malignant changes) 
Delayed diagnosis of 
atypical endometrial 
hyperplasia or 
adenocarcinoma 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs  
PGL09-026 and PGL09-027 
studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs  
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014)  
Impact on surgery 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs, 
Non-interventional study 
(PGL10-014)  
Prescription pattern/drug 
utilization study (PGL11-020). 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs, 
Phase I study in women with 
mild, moderate and severe 
hepatic impairment (PGL-W-
001) post-approval)  
Use in patients with 
moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  symptoms  of 
uterine  fibroids  in  adult  women  of  reproductive 
age.  The  duration  of  treatment  is  limited  to  3 
months (see section 4.4) 
Contra-indication (section 4.3 of SmPC) 
“Due  to  the  lack  of  long  term  safety  data,  the 
duration of treatment should not be longer than 3 
months (see section 4.2. and 4.4.)” 
Posology  and  route  of  administration  in  section 
4.2. of SmPC: 
“The  treatment  consists  of  one  tablet  of  5  mg  to 
be  taken  orally  once  daily  for  up  to  3  months. 
There  are  no  data  available  on  treatment  with 
duration  longer  than  3  months  or  on  repeat 
courses  of 
treatment 
duration  should  not  exceed  3  months.”Special 
Warnings and precautions for use in section 4.4 of 
SmPC: 
“In absence of safety data for a period longer than 
3  months  or  on  repeat  courses  of  treatment,  the 
risk  of  adverse  impact  on  the  endometrium  is 
unknown  if  treatment  is  continued;  therefore, 
treatment duration should not exceed 3 months.” 
Educational material to prescribers. 
Statement  in  SmPC  section  4.2.  Posology  and 
route of administration: 
“There  are  no  data  available  on  treatment  with 
duration  longer  than  3  months  or  on  repeat 
courses  of 
treatment 
therefore, 
treatment, 
duration should not exceed 3 months.” 
treatment, 
therefore, 
Statement  in  the  SmPC  section  4.4  (special 
warnings and precautions): 
“Ulipristal acetate has a specific pharmacodynamic 
action  on  the  endometrium.  Increase  in  thickness 
of the endometrium may occur. If the endometrial 
thickening  persists  within  3  months  following  the 
end of treatment and return of menstruations, this 
may  be  investigated  as  per  usual  clinical  practice 
to exclude underlying conditions.” 
Statement 
SmPC 
(pharmacodynamic properties):  
“Endometrium 
If  endometrial  thickness  persists  within  the  3 
months following the end of treatment and return 
of  menstruations,  then  this  may  need  to  be 
investigated  as  per  usual  clinical  practice  to 
exclude underlying conditions.” 
section 
5.1. 
the 
in 
Educational  material 
pathologists. 
No routine risk minimisation deemed necessary. 
prescribers 
to 
and 
Statement in the SmPC, section 4.2, 4.4, and 5.2. 
Posology and method of administration in section 
4.2. of SmPC: 
“Hepatic impairment 
No  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  for  patients 
with  mild  hepatic  impairment.  In  the  absence  of 
is  not 
studies,  ulipristal  acetate 
specific 
recommended in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic  impairment,  unless  the  patient  is  closely 
monitored (see section 4.4).”  
Page 98/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in patients with 
severe renal 
impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs, 
Co-administration with 
P-gp substrates 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
practices, 
Review in PSURs,  
Phase I DDI study (post-
approval). 
liver 
impaired 
Special warnings and precautions for use in 
section 4.4. of SmPC: 
“Hepatic impairment 
There  is  no  therapeutic  experience  with  ulipristal 
acetate  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment. 
Hepatic  impairment  is  expected  to  alter  the 
in 
elimination  of  ulipristal  acetate,  resulting 
increased  exposure  (see  section  5.2.).  This  is 
considered not to be clinically relevant for patients 
with  mildly 
function.  Ulipristal 
acetate  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  patients 
with  moderate  or  severe  hepatic  impairement, 
unless  the  patient  is  closely  monitored  (see 
section 4.2).”  
Pharmacokinetic properties in section 5.2. of 
SmPC: 
“Special Populations 
No  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  ulipristal  acetate 
have  been  performed  in  women  with  impaired 
renal or hepatic function.” 
Statement in the SmPC, section 4.2, 4.4. and 5.2. 
Posology and method of administration in section 
4.2. of SmPC: 
“Renal impairment 
No  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients 
with  mild  or  moderate  renal  impairment.  In  the 
absence of specific studies, ulipristal acetate is not 
recommended 
in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment (see section 4.4. and 5.2.).” 
Special warnings and precautions for use in 
section 4.4. of SmPC: 
“Renal impairment 
Renal impairment is not expected to significantly 
alter the elimination of ulipristal acetate. In the 
absence of specific studies ulipristal acetate is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal 
impairment, unless the patient is closely 
monitored (see section 4.2).” 
Pharmacokinetic properties 5.2. of SmPC: 
“No pharmacokinetic studies with ulipristal acetate 
have  been  performed  in  women  with  impaired 
renal or hepatic function.” 
Statement in the SmPC, section 4.4, 4.5. and 5.2. 
Special warnings and precautions for use in 
section 4.4. of SmPC. 
“Concomitant treatments 
Ulipristal acetate is not recommended for patients 
receiving  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp)  substrates  (e.g. 
dabigatran etexilate, digoxin) (see section 4.5).” 
Interactions in section 4.5. of SmPC: 
“P-gp substrates 
In vitro data indicate that ulipristal acetate may be 
relevant 
an 
concentrations  in  the  gastrointestinal  wall  during 
absorption.  Thus,  co-administration  of  ulipristal 
levels  of 
acetate  may 
concomitant  medicinal 
are 
that 
substrates of P-gp. In the absence of clinical data, 
co-administration  of  ulipristal  acetate  and  P-gp 
substrates  (e.g.  dabigatran  etexilate,  digoxin),  is 
not recommended (see section 4.4).” 
inhibitor  of  P-gp  at  clinically 
increase  the  plasma 
products 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns: 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 99/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
PGL09-026. Phase III Study 
A  Phase  III,  multicentre,  clinical  study  investigating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  3 
months  open-label  treatment  with  ulipristal  acetate,  followed  by  a  randomised, 
double-blind  placebo  controlled  period  of  10  days  treatment  with  progestin,  in 
subjects with fibroids and heavy uterine bleeding. 
PGL09-027. Phase III Study extension phase 
A Phase III, multicentre, clinical study investigating the efficacy and safety of three 
successive  periods  of  3-month  open-label  ulipristal  acetate  treatment,  each 
followed  by  ten  days  of  double-blind  treatment    with  progestin  or  placebo  and  a 
drug-free period until return of menses, in subjects with fibroids and heavy uterine 
bleeding. 
Due date 
Q3 2012 
Q1 2014 
PGL10-014. Non interventional study in pre-operative treatment of moderate to 
Q4 2015  
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids  
A prospective multicenter non-interventional study of women treated with Esmya 
(ulipristal acetate) as pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of 
uterine fibroids 
PGL11-020. Esmya prescription patterns in Europe  
Q3 2015 
A retrospective drug utilisation chart review study. 
PGL-W-001. Phase I study in women with mild, moderate and severe hepatic 
Q3 2014 
impairment 
Phase I DDI study with P-gP substrate 
A  104-week  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats  and  a  26-week  carcinogenicity  study  in 
transgenic TgRasH2 mice 
Q3 2013 
Q4 2012 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required: 
• 
Educational material to prescribers (gynaecologists) (see Annex 11) when product made available 
which  will  include  the  full  SmPC.  In  addition  to  the  SmPC  and  its  highlighted  extracts,  the  
“Physician’s guide to prescribing” will include a detailed recommendation of endometrial thickness 
management with a reminder of the endometrial effect and the need to inform the pathologist that 
the patients was treated with Esmya if biopsy/surgical samples are send for analysis. The material 
will  include  a  cover  letter  reminding  the  indication  (pre-operative  treatment  and  limited  to  3 
months) and posology details (treatment should not exceed 3 months); all documents will highlight 
treatment  duration  is  limited  to  3  months  because  of  the  absence  of  safety  data  on  longer 
treatment  than  3  months  or  on  re-treatment.  The  material  will  also  highlight  the  need  to 
investigate any persistence of endometrial thickening to exclude underlying conditions. 
• 
Educational material to pathologists (see Annex 12) when product made available in each country 
with a “Pathologist’s guide”, a USB stick or CD ROM with images of digital specimens (digital library 
with  high  resolution  images)  to  compare  histological  appearances  of  PAEC  and  endometrial 
hyperplasia, and a copy of the SmPC. 
2.8.  Significance of paediatric studies 
Not applicable 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 100/106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The primary goal of ulipristal acetate treatment in the pivotal studies (PGL07-021, PGL07-022) was to 
reduce  heavy  menstrual  bleeding  and  anaemia,  decrease  myoma  related  symptoms  prior  to  surgery 
For  treatment  of  fibroid-related  bleeding  and  anaemia,  ulipristal  acetate  was  superior  compared  to 
placebo after 3 months of treatment and non-inferior to a GnRH-agonist.  
In the active comparator-controlled trial, a reduction in size of the three largest fibroids as assessed by 
ultrasound was a secondary endpoint. The median ‘reduction in size of the three largest myomas’ (PP) 
was non-inferior in the ulipristal acetate groups compared to the leuprorelin treated group. The volume 
decrease  in  the  pre-operative  group  was  -25.6%  in  the  5  mg  arm,  -31.0%  in  the  10  mg  arm 
and  -46.6%  in  the  leuprorelin  arm.  At  6  months  post-treatment,  fibroid  volume  reduction  was  better 
maintained following ulipristal acetate than following GnRH-agonist. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
No uncertainties in the knowledge about the beneficial effects have been identified. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The safety database includes women treated with a dose of 5 mg/day or higher up to 3 months from 
Studies  PGL-N-0287,  PGL-N-0090,  PGL07-021  and  PGL07-022.  Complete  6-month,  post-treatment 
clinical study reports of the pivotal phase III studies were also submitted (PGL07-021 and PGL07-022 
Part B CSRs) and interim safety analysis from the ongoing Phase IIIb Study PGL09-026. The inclusion 
of  the  subjects  from  study  PGL09-026  increases  the  number  of  patients  having  been  exposed  to  at 
least 3 months of ulipristal acetate to the target dose of 5 mg or above to a total of 529 subjects. 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  in  the  two  pivotal  studies  were  related  to  the 
reproductive system and the breast, and assessed as mild or moderate for all treatment groups. 
There  is  no  agreement  on  the  upper  limit  of  normal  endometrial  thickness  in  women  of  reproductive 
age,  but  according  to  the  American  College  of  Radiologists  (Fleischer  A.C.  et  all,  2007),  Endometrial 
thickness  >  16  mm  has  been  proposed  as  a  valid  cut  off  for  suggesting  possible  endometrium 
pathology (positive predictive value of 14% for demonstrating relevant pathology). The percentage of 
patients  with  endometrial  thickness  >16  mm  was  higher  with  5  mg  (11%  in  PGL07-021  and  PGL07-
022)  and  10  mg  (7%  in  PGL07-021  and  15%  in  PGL07-022)  ulipristal  acetate  compared  to  placebo 
(2%)  and  leuprorelin  (1%)  at  Week  13.  In  line  with  these  findings  are  the  TEAEs  of  endometrial 
hypertrophy  in  3  subjects  who  received  10  mg/day  ulipristal  acetate.  At  Week  17  (1  month  post-
treatment)  there  was,  however,  no  difference  between  the  treatments  in  PGL07-022.  Thus,  the 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 101/106 
 
 
 
submitted  data  are  reassuring  that  the  increased  percentage  of  endometrium  thickness  >  16  mm  is 
reversed 1 month post-treatment.  
In  the  assessments  of  endometrial  biopsies,  a  large  variation  between  pathologists  in  the 
histopathologic  evaluation  highlights  the  need  for  further  investigations.  An  increased  number  of 
subjects with endometrial thickness  >16 mm  at week 13  were noted in groups treated with ulipristal 
acetate  compared  to  placebo  or  leuprorelin.  In  clinical  routine,  findings  of  “non-physiological” 
endometrium  as  well  as  an  increased  endometrial  thickness  might  lead  to  further  examination  to 
exclude endometrial pathology. To address this matter, prescribers will be informed in the SmPC that 
increased  thickening  of  the  endometrium  may  occur  (SmPC,  Section  4.4)  and  that  up  to  15%  of  the 
patients  may  experience  a  thickening  exceeding  16mm  and  such  thickening  may  be  investigated  if 
persisting  more  than  3  months  following  the  end  of  treatment  and  return  of  menstruations  (SmPC, 
Section  5.1).  Additionally,  the  applicant  has  provided  an  educational  program  to  enforce  this 
information. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Concerning  human  pharmacokinetics,  the  dossier  contains  studies  for  the  characterisation  of 
pharmacokinetic properties of ulipristal acetate. However, the data are limited. Two in vivo interaction 
studies  are  available  and  no  studies  were  performed  in  special  populations.  To  address  this  matter. 
prescribers  will  be  informed  in  the  SmPC  of  recommendations  for  patients  with  renal  impairment, 
hepatic impairment and children. The applicant will also conduct a Phase I study in women with mild, 
moderate and severe hepatic impairment (PGL-W-001). 
Non-physiological  changes  in  the  endometrium  (cystic  hyperplasia)  have  been  observed  with  Esmya 
during  the  3-month  clinical  trials.  An  additional  6-month  post-treatment  follow-up  after  3  months  of 
treatment  with  Esmya  has  been  submitted.  Endometrial  safety  has  not  been  established  beyond  3 
months  as  no  safety  data  are  available  for  a  treatment  duration  longer  than  3  months,  except  for  9 
subjects in study PGL-N-0090.  
The  indication  has  therefore  been  restricted to  patients  who  are  planned  for  surgery  only.  The  SmPC 
also  includes  a  statement  in  section  4.2  to  limit  the  risk  for  off-label  use  and  a  contra-indication  in 
section 4.3 for treatment beyond 3 months. 
In addition to this, the applicant has agreed as part of the RMP to conduct a retrospective chart review 
to identify the risk for off-label use and provided a synopsis (PGL11-020). Not less than 1000 subjects 
will  be  identified  and  retrospectively  followed-up  for  12  months  after  3  month  treatment.  The  final 
protocol will be agreed by the CHMP. 
The  proposed  educational  program  for  gynaecologists  and  pathologists  has  been  revised  and  is 
considered acceptable. The proposed survey is aimed to investigate the knowledge of ulipristal acetate 
among  all  prescribers  and  pathologists  who  received  the  educational  program.  The  educational 
program, in combination with the proposed prescription pattern study are considered sufficient and will 
provide  appropriate  measures  on  reducing  the  risk  of  inappropriate  management  of  endometrium 
thickening  (unnecessary  interventions  and  treatments),  inappropriate  diagnosis  of  endometrial 
hyperplasia  (mistaken  as  PAEC),  delayed  diagnosis  of  atypical  endometrial  hyperplasia  or 
adenocarcinoma, and long term treatment with ulipristal acetate. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 102/106 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
A  clinically  significant  reduction  in  bleeding  and  anaemia  were  demonstrated  when  ulipristal  acetate 
was  compared  to  placebo,  and  non-inferior  to  the  comparator  GnRH-agonist  with  a  more  rapid effect 
when given for a period of three months. A significant reduction in fibroid size is considered adequately 
shown. For pre-operative treatment, the clinical relevance of Esmya is justified. 
Significant changes in endometrial thickness may, however, occur with non-physiological changes and 
increase in thickness. The increased percentage of endometrium thickness > 16 mm is reversed after 
discontinuation.  The  incidence  of  endometrial  hyperplasia  was  very  low  (1  case)  and  no  different  to 
controls (one case with placebo and one case with GnRH-agonist).  
Endometrial  data  at  week  38  in  Study  PGL07-021  and  Study  PGL07-022  are  reassuring  regarding 
diagnosis  of  malignant  changes,  cellular  atypia  or  other  findings  of  concern  in  the  ulipristal  acetate 
treatment groups. The incidence of PAEC at week 38 (6 months after end of treatment) was similar to 
that observed at screening. The short-term safety data after 3 months of treatment with Esmya do not 
show an increased risk for malignant changes in the endometrium (studies PGL07-021, PGL07-022 and 
PGL09-026). Further data regarding the carcinogenic potential of ulipristal acetate will be provided by 
two ongoing non-clinical carcinogenicity studies.  
Duration  of  treatment  was  restricted  to  3  months,  except  for  9  subjects.  It  is  therefore  unknown 
whether the non-physiological changes observed during treatment might lead to endometrial pathology 
if  treatment  is  continued  beyond  3  months  of  treatment.  As  a  consequence,  treatment  duration  has 
been limited to 3 months. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The  clinical  efficacy  has  been  adequately  established  and  there  are  no  major  safety  concerns.  In 
conclusion, the B/R balance of Esmya for the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms 
of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age is positive. The duration of treatment is limited 
to 3 months. 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Esmya  is  positive  for  the  pre-operative  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The duration of treatment is 
limited to 3 months. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 103/106 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed  in  version  7  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
•  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
•  at the request of the EMA 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Prior  to  launch  of  the  product  in  each  Member  State,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  shall  agree 
the content and format of the educational material with the national competent authority. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that, at launch and thereafter, all prescribers of 
Esmya  and  pathologists  who  review  samples  from  Esmya-treated  patients  are  provided  with 
educational material. 
The educational material shall consist of the following: 
• 
Educational material for prescribers (gynaecologists) which contains: 
o  Cover letter 
o  SmPC 
o  Physician’s guide to prescribing Esmya 
• 
Educational material for pathologists which contains  
o  Pathologist’s guide 
o  USB stick or CD ROM with images of digital specimens (digital library with high 
resolution images). 
o  SmPC 
The educational material shall contain the following key elements: 
Physician’s guide to prescribing 
• 
detailed recommendations for management of endometrial thickening 
reminder of the effect of ulipristal acetate on the endometrium 
• 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 104/106 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 the  need  to  inform  the  pathologist  that  patients  were  treated  with  Esmya  if  biopsy/surgical 
samples are to be sent for analysis. 
the indication: pre-operative treatment limited to 3 months 
the  contraindications  of  pregnancy  and  breastfeeding,  genital  bleeding  of  unknown  aetiology 
or for reasons other than uterine fibroids, and uterine, cervical, ovarian or breast cancer. 
absence of safety data for treatment longer than 3 months and for re-treatment 
the  need  to  investigate  as  per  usual  clinical  practice  persistence  of  endometrial  thickening 
following  treatment  discontinuation  and  return  of  menstruation  to  exclude  underlying 
conditions. 
Educational material for pathologists 
• 
• 
key  effects  of  Esmya  on  Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator  Associated  Endometrial  Changes 
(PAEC) and how they differ from those of unopposed oestrogen 
the differential diagnosis between PAEC, unopposed oestrogen and endometrial hyperplasia 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States 
The  Member  States  should  ensure  that  all  conditions  or  restrictions  with  regard  to  the  safe  and 
effective use of the medicinal product as described below are implemented: 
Prior  to  launch  of  the  product  in  each  Member  State,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  shall  agree 
the content and format of the educational material with the national competent authority. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that, at launch and thereafter, all prescribers of 
Esmya  and  pathologists  who  review  samples  from  Esmya-treated  patients  are  provided  with 
educational material. 
The educational material shall consist of the following: 
• 
Educational material for prescribers (gynaecologists) which contains: 
o  Cover letter 
o  SmPC 
o  Physician’s guide to prescribing Esmya 
• 
Educational material for pathologists which contains  
o  Pathologist’s guide 
o  USB stick or CD ROM with images of digital specimens (digital library with high 
resolution images). 
o  SmPC 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 105/106 
 
 
 
 
 
The educational material shall contain the following key elements: 
Physician’s guide to prescribing 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
detailed recommendations for management of endometrial thickening 
reminder of the effect of ulipristal acetate on the endometrium 
 the  need  to  inform  the  pathologist  that  patients  were  treated  with  Esmya  if  biopsy/surgical 
samples are to be sent for analysis. 
the indication: pre-operative treatment limited to 3 months 
the  contraindications  of  pregnancy  and  breastfeeding,  genital  bleeding  of  unknown  aetiology 
or for reasons other than uterine fibroids, and uterine, cervical, ovarian or breast cancer. 
absence of safety data for treatment longer than 3 months and for re-treatment 
the  need  to  investigate  as  per  usual  clinical  practice  persistence  of  endometrial  thickening 
following  treatment  discontinuation  and  return  of  menstruation  to  exclude  underlying 
conditions. 
Educational material for pathologists 
• 
• 
key  effects  of  Esmya  on  Progesterone  Receptor  Modulator  Associated  Endometrial  Changes 
(PAEC) and how they differ from those of unopposed oestrogen 
the differential diagnosis between PAEC, unopposed oestrogen and endometrial hyperplasia 
Additional data/market exclusivity 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the data submitted by PregLem France SAS, taking into account the 
provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and considers by consensus that the new 
therapeutic indication brings significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. 
Esmya 
CHMP assessment report  
Rev06.11 
Page 106/106 
 
 
 
 
 
