EMA/244278/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004883 
Esperoct (turoctocog alfa pegol) 
An overview of Esperoct and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Esperoct and what is it used for? 
Esperoct is a medicine used to treat and prevent bleeding in patients with haemophilia A, an inherited 
bleeding disorder caused by the lack of a clotting protein known as factor VIII. Esperoct can be used in 
adults and children from 12 years of age. 
Esperoct contains the active substance turoctocog alfa pegol. 
How is Esperoct used? 
Esperoct can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the treatment of haemophilia.  
Esperoct is given as an injection into a vein. The dose, frequency and duration of treatment depend on 
whether it is used to treat or prevent bleeding, as well as on the severity of the haemophilia, the 
extent and location of the bleeding and the patient’s condition and weight. Patients or their carers may 
be able to inject Esperoct themselves at home once they have been trained appropriately.  
For more information about using Esperoct, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Esperoct work? 
Patients with haemophilia A lack factor VIII, a protein needed for normal clotting of the blood, and as a 
result, they bleed readily. The active substance in Esperoct, turoctocog alfa pegol, works in the body in 
the same way as human factor VIII. It replaces the missing factor VIII, thereby helping the blood to 
clot and giving temporary control of the bleeding disorder.  
Part of the active substance is a chemical called polyethylene glycol (PEG), which is added to help the 
medicine remain in the body for longer and thereby prolong its action. 
What benefits of Esperoct have been shown in studies? 
Esperoct has been shown to be effective at preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients with 
severe haemophilia who were previously treated with other factor VIII products.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In a study involving patients between 12 and 66 years of age, 175 patients given Esperoct every 4 
days or twice weekly as preventive treatment had, on average, around 4 bleeding episodes a year, 
achieving the target of the study, which was less than 8.5 episodes a year. When bleeding episodes 
occurred, they were successfully treated with one or two further injections in 94% of cases. 
Twelve further patients in this study did not receive preventive treatment but were given Esperoct for 
treating bleeding ‘on demand’. These patients had on average around 32 bleeding episodes a year and 
Esperoct was successful at stopping the bleeds 97% of the time after 1 or 2 injections.  
In a second study in 68 children aged below 12 years, Esperoct given as preventive treatment reduced 
the number of bleeding episodes to around 2 episodes a year. 
What are the risks associated with Esperoct? 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions can occur with Esperoct and are uncommon (affecting up to 1 in 
100 people). These include swelling, burning and stinging at the injection site, chills, flushing, itchy 
rash, headache, hives, low blood pressure, lethargy, nausea and vomiting, restlessness, a rapid 
heartbeat, tightness of the chest, tingling and wheezing. In some cases these reactions can become 
severe. 
Very rarely, patients may develop antibodies against hamster protein in the medicine and have allergic 
reactions. Esperoct must not be used in patients with allergy to hamster proteins.  
Following treatment with factor VIII products, including Esperoct, some patients may develop inhibitors 
(antibodies) against factor VIII, causing the medicine to stop working and resulting in a loss of 
bleeding control. In such cases, a specialised haemophilia centre should be contacted. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Esperoct, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Esperoct authorised in the EU? 
Studies have found that Esperoct is effective at preventing and treating bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia A. Because Esperoct is ‘pegylated’, patients on this medicine could also have fewer or less 
frequent injections than they would on conventional FVIII products. However, part of the active 
substance in Esperoct (called PEG) may accumulate in the body, including in a structure in the brain 
called the choroid plexus, following long-term treatment. Since this could potentially cause problems 
especially in children below 12 years of age, Esperoct is only approved for use in adults and children 
from 12 years of age. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Esperoct’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Esperoct? 
The company that markets Esperoct will carry out a study to investigate the potential effects of PEG 
accumulation in the choroid plexus of the brain and other tissues and organs. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Esperoct have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Esperoct are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Esperoct are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Esperoct (turoctocog alfa pegol) 
EMA/244278/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Esperoct 
Esperoct received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 June 2019. 
Further information on Esperoct can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/esperoct.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2019. 
Esperoct (turoctocog alfa pegol) 
EMA/244278/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
