6 May 2019 
EMA/271276/2019 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Esperoct (turoctocog alfa pegol) 
Treatment of haemophilia A  
EU/3/12/995 
Sponsor: Novo Nordisk A/S 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 7 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Pegylated recombinant factor VIII 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Turoctocog alfa pegol 
Initial orphan condition 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of haemophilia A 
Powder for solution for injection  
Intravenous use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
B02BD02 
Sponsor’s details: 
Novo Nordisk A/S 
Novo Alle 
2880 Bagsvaerd 
Denmark 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Novo Nordisk A/S 
8 March 2012 
30 March 2012 
EU/3/12/995 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
A. Laslop, E. Balkowiec - Iskra 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Novo Nordisk A/S 
27 February 2018 
29 March 2018 
EMA/H/C/004883/0000 
Esperoct  
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). 
Further information on Esperoct can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/hu
CHMP opinion date 
man/EPAR/esperoct  
26 April 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
K. Penttilä, B. Blöchl-Daum 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
8 March 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
19-21 March 2019 
questions  
Sponsor’s removal request  
Removal from the Register 
30 April 2019 
6 May 2019 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2012 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
•  haemophilia A (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 0.7 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the application was made;  
• 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to spontaneous bleeding episodes as well as 
substantially prolonged bleeding upon injury. Approximately 80-85% of bleeding episodes occur in 
the muscles and joints of the elbows, knees and ankles, causing acute haemarthrosis and 
synovitis. Recurrent bleeds in the same location lead to chronic arthropathy, muscular atrophy and 
deformities. In young children with severe haemophilia, spontaneous bleeds occur within the first 2 
years of life, after the child starts to walk. Rare but life-threatening bleeds also occur in the central 
nervous system, throat, neck, and gastrointestinal tract; 
• 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, sufficient justification has been provided that pegylated recombinant factor VIII may be of 
significant benefit to those affected by the condition. This is in particular with regards to improved 
pharmacokinetics as shown in preclinical and early clinical data, i.e. an extended half-life of the 
product and a longer time spent with factor VIII levels needed for normal coagulation processes. 
This might translate into a major contribution to patient care due to reduced number of infusions, 
with potential increase of the compliance to the treatment and reduction of patients’ discomfort 
from repeated infusions.  
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The approved therapeutic indication “treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency)” falls within the scope of the designated orphan 
condition “treatment of haemophilia A” . 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Turoctocog alfa pegol is a recombinant human factor VIII (FVIII) product with a specific 
glycoPEGylation on the O-linked glycan. The mechanism of action is based on replacement of the 
deficient or absent FVIII in patients with haemophilia A.   
The medical plausibility is subject to a positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Efficacy data are derived from three clinical studies: pivotal trial 3859 in adults and adolescents (main 
part and two extension phases); trial 3885 in the paediatric population (main part and one extension 
phase); and trial 3860 (surgery trial). All trials were open-label, multicentre trials. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 4/8 
 
 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no significant changes in the life-threatening and/or chronically debilitating nature of 
the condition since the designation of the orphan medicinal product. 
The condition remains chronically debilitating due to recurrent bleedings in joints, gastrointestinal tract 
or in surgery, which may be also be life-threatening. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
There have been no significant changes in the prevalence of the condition since the time of orphan 
designation. The sponsor based the updated estimate of prevalence on the latest WFH Survey on the 
European Haemophilia A Prevalence. As compared to the initial designation the survey now included 31 
countries (the 28 EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). 
The sponsor concluded with an estimate of 0.75 in 10,000, which is not significantly different from the 
figure at designation and from other recent designations (0.7 in 10,000).  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The sponsor provided an up to date table with all currently authorised products for the condition (table 
1). However, in the time since the sponsor provided the maintenance report emicizumab (Hemlibra), a 
bispecific monoclonal antibody which mimics coagulation factor VIII and damoctocog alfa pegol (Jivi), a 
prolonged half-life FVIII product, have also been authorized.  
Table 1.   
Medicine 
Marketing 
Indication 
Name, active 
Authorisati
substance 
on Holder 
Advate, 
Baxter AG 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
octocog alfa 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). ADVATE is indicated in all age 
groups. 
Adynovi, 
Baxalta 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 12 years and 
rurioctocog alfa 
Innovations 
above with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). 
pegol 
Afstyla, 
GmbH 
CSL Behring 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
lonoctocog alfa 
GmbH 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Afstyla can be used for all age 
groups. 
Elocta,  
Swedish 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
efmoroctocog 
Orphan 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Elocta can be used for all age 
alfa 
Biovitrum 
groups. 
AB 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 5/8 
 
 
Medicine 
Marketing 
Indication 
Name, active 
Authorisati
substance 
on Holder 
Helixate 
NexGen,  
octocog alfa 
Bayer AG 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
(congenital factor-VIII deficiency).  
This preparation does not contain von Willebrand factor and is 
therefore not indicated in von Willebrand's disease. 
This product is indicated for adults, adolescents and children of all 
ages. 
Iblias,  
Bayer AG 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
octocog alfa 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Iblias can be used for all age 
Kogenate 
Bayer,  
octocog alfa 
groups. 
Bayer AG 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
(congenital factor-VIII deficiency). This preparation does not contain 
von Willebrand factor and is therefore not indicated in von 
Willebrand's disease. 
This product is indicated for adults, adolescents and children of all 
ages. 
Kovaltry,  
Bayer 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
octocog alfa 
Pharma AG 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Kovaltry can be used for all age 
groups. 
NovoEight,  
Novo 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
turoctocog alfa 
Nordisk A/S 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Novoeight can be used for all age 
groups. 
Nuwiq,  
Octapharma 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
simoctocog alfa 
AB 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Nuwiq can be used for all age 
groups. 
ReFacto AF,  
Pfizer Ltd 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
moroctocog alfa 
(congenital factor-VIII deficiency). ReFacto AF is appropriate for use 
in adults and children of all ages, including newborns. ReFacto AF 
does not contain von-Willebrand factor, and hence is not indicated in 
von-Willebrand's disease. 
Vihuma,  
Octapharma 
Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
simoctocog alfa 
AB 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency).Vihuma can be used for all age 
Voncento,  
CSL Behring 
Von Willebrand disease (VWD): Prophylaxis and treatment of 
human 
GmbH 
haemorrhage or surgical bleeding in patients with VWD, when 
groups. 
coagulation 
factor VIII / 
human von 
willebrand 
factor 
desmopressin (DDAVP) treatment alone is ineffective or 
contraindicated. 
Haemophilia A (congenital factor-VIII deficiency): Prophylaxis and 
treatment of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A. 
There are current guidelines in Europe for patients with haemophilia (European Principles of 
Haemophilia Care, Haemophilia (2008), 14, pp361-374). There are also guidelines on the management 
of haemophilia published by the World Federation of Haemophilia (Haemophilia 2013, 19, e1-e47). The 
primary aim of care is to prevent and treat bleeding with the deficient clotting factor. Treatment of 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
severe HA presently consists of intravenous infusion of recombinant FVIII or concentrates both as 
prophylaxis 2-3 times per week, and “on demand” at the time of a bleed. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor reports the conclusion of the protocol assistance procedure in relation to significant 
benefit (May 2014; EMEA/H/SA/1528/2/2012/PA/III CORRIGENDUM). At the time the COMP agreed 
that if the extended half-life resulted in a clinically meaningful reduction of the number of infusions this 
could support maintenance of orphan status. Equivalence in efficacy and a clinically relevant advantage 
in safety could also support significant benefit.  
The sponsor at this stage argues that the significant benefit would be based on a major contribution to 
patient care, because Turoctocog alfa pegol could be effective with a once a week administration in a 
subset of patients.  
Threeextended half-life FVIII products are currently authorised in the European Community: Elocta, 
Adynovi, and Jivi. For long-term prophylaxis, the recommended schedule of Elocta is every 3-5 days, 
and the recommended dose of Adynovi is twice weekly (3 to 4 days intervals). For both products, the 
SmPcs indicate that adjustments of doses and administration intervals may be considered based on 
achieved FVIII levels and individual bleeding tendency. This means that for some patients larger 
intervals are possible. Indeed in the clinical studies weekly doses were also used (see e.g. weekly 
prophylaxis in section 5.1. of Elocta SmPc). In the case of Jivi, the dose for prophylaxis is 45-60 IU/kg 
every 5 days. Based on patient clinical characteristics the dose can also be 60 IU/kg every 7 days or 
30-40 IU/kg two times per week. 
The claim of the sponsor that Turoctocog alfa pegol results in a major contribution of patient care do 
not therefore appear sufficiently substantiated. The sponsor reports that in the phase 3 clinical trial 
3859 turoctocog alfa pegol was tested once weekly by randomisation of patients after the main phase 
of the trial. When patients were randomised to once weekly prophylaxis in extension phase part 1, the 
median ABR was 0.00 bleeds/patient/year. When ABR was calculated for patients on once weekly 
dosing up to the data cut-off for extension phase part 2, median ABR was 1.82 bleeds/patient/year. 
The average mean prophylaxis dose was 77.1 IU/kg for the 75 IU/kg once weekly dosing regimen. The 
sponsor then reports that this could translate into improved adherence to prophylaxis, and fewer 
injection-related complications and that compared to authorised products, the treatment burden could 
be expected to be lowered for a sub-group of patients that can control bleedings with once weekly 
treatment.  
The sponsor has not sufficiently substantiated the advantage compared to the currently authorised 
longer acting products. The discussion on significant benefit should also take into account the most 
recently authorized product in the EU since the time of the submission of the maintenance report. The 
COMP was of the opinion that even though Hemlibra is authorized for patients that have developed 
inhibitors, a formal discussion on significant benefit is still needed. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
The sponsor should further discuss the significant benefit of the proposed product vis a vis the 
currently authorised FVIII products with extended half-life, and emicizumab. 
The sponsor is reminded that data are needed to support any claim of significant benefit, as 
assumptions are not acceptable at this stage. The discussion on significant benefit should therefore 
include data showing that turoctocog alfa pegol actually translates into a quantifiable benefit for 
patients.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 7/8 
 
 
Comments  
Following communication of the outcome of the discussion, the sponsor formally requested the 
withdrawal of the orphan designation on 30 April 2019, prior to responding to the list of questions. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/271276/2019 
Page 8/8 
 
 
