1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
The pathophysiology of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is characterised by deficient insulin activity 
arising from decreased insulin secretion secondary to beta cell failure, and/or compromised insulin 
action in peripheral target tissues (insulin resistance). This abnormal metabolic state is exacerbated by 
excess hepatic glucose production and altered metabolism of proteins and lipids, which along with 
hyperglycaemia, contribute to microvascular and macrovascular complications.  
T2DM accounts for approximately 85% to 95% of diabetes cases in developed regions like the 
European Union. Age and weight are established risk factors for T2DM. The majority of patients with 
T2DM are overweight or obese. Diet modification and exercise is the first line of treatment for T2DM. 
Pharmacologic intervention with one oral antidiabetic drug (OAD) is usually the next step in 
treatment. After 3 to 9 years of OAD monotherapy, patients typically require an additional 
intervention. The recommended first line treatment is metformin, which restrains hepatic glucose 
production and decreases peripheral insulin resistance. Sulphonylureas, which are insulin 
secretagogues, may be used as an alternative to patients intolerant to metformin, or as an addition to 
metformin. Other second line oral treatment alternatives include alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, 
meglitinides and thiazolidinediones. Recently the first GLP-1 analogue, exenatide, and the first DPP-4 
inhibitors, sitagliptin and vildagliptin, were approved by the CHMP.  
Vildagliptin belongs to a new class of oral anti-diabetic drugs and is a selective and reversible 
inhibitor of Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4), the enzyme which inactivates the incretin hormones, 
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), hormones 
which significantly contribute to the maintenance of glucose homeostasis.  
Metformin is an established first line treatment for T2DM. While the exact mechainsm of action is not 
fully understood, metformin is thought to act primarily to increase intestinal glucose utilization and 
enhance hepatic and peripheral insulin sensitivity . 
The combination of vildagliptin and metformin is intended for use in patients with T2DM as fixed 
combination tablets.  
The therapeutic indication granted is:  
The treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients who are unable to achieve sufficient glycaemic 
control at their maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone or who are already treated with the 
combination of vildagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
The tablets are available in 2 strengths: vildagliptin 50 mg and metformin 850 mg, and vildagliptin 50 
mg and metformin 1000 mg. In all cases, the recommended daily dose is 100 mg vildagliptin, allowing 
a daily dose of 1700 to 2000 mg metformin. 
The combination of two classes of antihyperglycaemic agents in one single tablet can improve 
compliance with treatment, and thus eventually glycaemic control. Currently, no fixed dose 
combination of a DPP4 inhibitor and metformin is available in Europe. 
Vildagliptin (Galvus) has received a positive opinion for granting a marketing authorization on 19 July 
2007. Metformin was initially granted national authorisations in the EU from 1959 to 1997. Following 
a referral to the CPMP under Article 11 of Council Directive 75/319, as amended, a decision on a 
harmonised SPC for metformin was issued in February 2001. The indication proposed for Eucreas is 
fully consistent with that already approved for Vildagliptin (Galvus) in combination with metformin. 
1/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Eucreas  is  presented  as  immediate  release  film-coated  tablets  containing  vildagliptin  and  metformin 
hydrochloride  as  active  substances  in  the  strength  combination  50  mg/850  mg  and  50  mg/1000mg. 
The  other  ingredients  are  hydroxypropyl  cellulose  and  magnesium  stearate.  The  film  consists  of 
hypromellose, macrogol, talc, titanium dioxide, purified water and colorants. 
The film-coated tablets are marketed in Aluminium/Aluminium (PA/Al/PVC/Al) blister. 
Active Substance  
Two active substances are used in this fixed combination product, vildagliptin and metformin 
hydrochloride 
Vildagliptin 
is  (S)-1-[2-(3-Hydroxyadamantan-1-ylamino)acetyl]pyrrolidine-2-carbonitrile 
Its  chemical  name 
according to the IUPAC nomenclature. 
Vildagliptin is a white to slightly yellowish or slightly greyish crystalline powder and no polymorphs 
or solvates have been identified so far. Vildagliptin is non-hygroscopic and freely soluble in water and 
polar organic solvents. The above-mentioned active substance has one chiral centre and is used as a 
single enantiomer (S).  
•  Manufacture 
Vildagliptin  is  synthesised  in  two  reactions  steps  followed  by  purification  (recrystallisation).  The 
manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  described.  Critical  parameters  have  been  identified  and 
adequate  in-process  controls  included.  Specifications  for  starting  materials,  reagents,  and  solvents 
have been provided. Adequate control of critical steps and intermediates has been presented. Structure 
elucidation  has  been  performed  by  elemental  analysis,  ultraviolet  spectroscopy,  infrared  absorption 
spectroscopy, 1H-NMR spectroscopy, 13C-NMR spectroscopy, and mass spectroscopy. The molecular 
weight  was  determined  by  elemental  analysis  which  is  in  agreement  with  the  expected  molecular 
weight.  The  proposed  molecular  structure  was  confirmed  by  X-ray  powder  diffraction  and  X-ray 
single crystal structural analysis. 
•  Specification 
The  Vildagliptin  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance  (slightly  yellowish  or  slightly  greyish 
powder),  particle  size  (by  laser  light  diffraction),  identification  (by  IR-KBr,  IR-ATR  and  X-ray 
diffraction), related substances (HPLC and IC), R-enantiomer of vidagliptin (HPLC), residual solvents 
(Head-space GC), loss on drying (thermogravimetry), sulphated ash, heavy metals, clarity of solution, 
colour of solution, assay (HPLC) and microbiological limit tests. 
It  was  verified  that  all  specifications  reflect  the  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  vildagliptin.  The 
analytical methods, which were used in the routine controls, were well described and their validations 
are in accordance with the relevant ICH guidelines.  
Impurities were described, classified as process related impurities and possible degradation products, 
and qualified. Residual solvents were satisfactorily controlled in the active substance according to the 
relevant ICH requirements. Batch analysis data for the vildagliptin active substance were provided and 
all results comply with the specifications and show a good uniformity from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The stability results from long-term accelerated and stress studies were completed according to ICH 
guidelines demonstrated adequate stability of the vildagliptin. This active substance is not susceptible 
to degradation under the influence of light and temperature exposure. The results of the long-term and 
2/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accelerated studies fulfil the proposed specification and for that reason support the proposed retest 
period.  
Metformin hydrochloride 
Metformin hydrochloride’s chemical name is 1,1-Dimethylbiguanide monohydrochloride according to 
the  IUPAC  nomenclature.  This  active  substance  is  described  in  the  Ph.Eur.  It  is  a  white  crystalline 
powder  that  is  odourless.  The  compound  is  freely  soluble  in  water,  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol  and 
practically  insoluble  in  acetone,  diethylether  and  dichloromethane.  It  has  a  specific  crystalline  form 
and  has  not  demonstrated  polymorphism  or  solvates.  Particle  size  does  not  significantly  influence 
dissolution of metformin hydrochloride, because it is freely soluble in water. 
The chemistry, manufacturing and control information on metformin hydrochloride has been evaluated 
by  the  EDQM  and  a  European  Certificate  of  Suitability  of  the  Monograph  of  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) has been issued. It was noticed that two additional supplementary tests (Other 
impurities and residual solvents) were included in the CEP. 
Metformin  hydrochloride  specifications  includes  tests  for  appearance  (white,  crystalline  powder), 
particle size (laser light diffraction), clarity and colour of the solution (Ph.Eur), identification (IR and 
XRPD), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), loss on drying (Ph.Eur), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur), 
heavy metals (Ph.Eur), assay (HPLC) and microbiological limit tests. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriate for controlling the quality of this 
active substance. 
Batch  analysis  data  for  the  metformin  hydrochloride  drug  substances  were  provided  and  all  batch 
analysis results comply with the specifications and show consistency from batch to batch. 
The stability results from long-term accelerated and stress studies were completed according to ICH 
guidelines  demonstrated  adequate  stability  of  the  metformin  hydrochloride.  The  re-test  period 
proposed was considered acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
All information regarding the choice of the drug substance and the excipients are sufficiently justified. 
Well  known  excipients  were  used  in  the  formulation,  selected  based  on  their  suitability  for  use  in  a 
melt granulation process. 
Several  tablet  strengths  of  vildagliptin  /  metformin  hydrochloride  were  developed  for  Eucreas  film-
coated tablets and were used either in clinical trials or in stability program. However, only two tablet 
strengths (50 mg/850 and 50 mg/1000 mg) will be marketed. 
The main aim of the applicant was to develop robust final formulation that would be suitable for 
routine manufacturing at the production scale of film-coated tablets which contain 2 active substances. 
In this context, different formulation containing slightly different excipients were investigated and 
optimised. Having investigated different formulations the applicant selected for commercialisation the 
melt granulation  
It was noticed that during the scale up minor changes were made to the formulation. However, it was 
verified that these changes do not have an impact on the formulation quality and performance. 
In order to differentiate the two strengths the colorant used in the film-coating system was slightly 
different.  
3/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  involves  standard  technology  using  standard 
manufacturing processes such as mixing/kneading, melt granulation, compressing and film coating.  
Furthermore,  the  equipment  used  is  commonly  available  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry.  It  was 
demonstrated that melt granulation step is critical in the manufacturing process. 
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The  drug  product  specifications  were  established  according  the  ICH  guidelines  and  include  the 
following tests: appearance, identification (TLC and HPLC), mean mass, dissolution (Ph.Eur., HPLC), 
water (Karl Fischer), degradation products (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units by content uniformity 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC), microbial limits (Ph Eur). 
All  analytical  procedures  that  were  used  for  testing  the  drug  product  were  properly  described. 
Moreover,  all  relevant  methods  were  satisfactorily  validated  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  ICH 
guidelines.  
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the relevant ICH guidelines. The stability program 
was based on bracketing between the lowest (1:20) and highest (1:5) ratio of vildagliptin / metformin 
hydrochloride.  For  the  extremes  the  following  batches  were  included:  three  batches  are  at  25/500 
(1:20) and three at 50/250 (1:5). Moreover, one batch each of all the other strengths was also included. 
It  was  verified  that  all  batches  have  been  stored  at  long  term  and  accelerated  conditions  in  the 
proposed  market  packaging.  One  batch  each  of  the  extremes  was  stored  under  elevated  temperature 
conditions for 3 months and at ICH conditions, another batch each of the extremes was stored under 
low temperature conditions for 6 months and finally another batch each of the extremes was stored for 
photostability at ICH conditions. 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture,  control  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in accordance with relevant CHMP and ICH 
guidelines.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the 
finished  product.  Therefore,  this  medicinal  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance in the clinic. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All pivotal toxicology and safety pharmacology studies were conducted in compliance with Good 
Laboratory Practices. A facility inspection has been performed of one laboratory site by an EMEA 
GLP inspection team. The audit did not result in any objections to the use of the audited studies for the 
safety evaluation.  
Non-clinical studies with the combination of vildagliptin and metformin were limited to studies on 
repeat-dose toxicity and embryo-foetal toxicity. 
The non-clinical data relating to vildagliptin consisted mostly of original data from the applicant and 
was largely identical to the data submitted for the approval of vildagliptin (Galvus). 
4/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is a limited amount of non-clinical data on metformin, and no new original data was submitted. 
The applicant performed an extensive review of the literature. In the light of the longstanding clinical 
use of metformin, this was considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
Pharmacology 
Vildagliptin 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies 
The non-clinical pharmacology program has demonstrated that vildagliptin is a selective and potent 
inhibitor of DPP-4. The IC50 value for inhibition of human DPP-4 is about 3 nM and similar activity 
was observed with the rat enzyme, demonstrating the lack of species selectivity. Vildagliptin showed 
some activity at the related enzymes DPP-8 and DPP-9 (Ki values of 506 nM and 65 nM, 
respectively). Although these values are 253 and 32 times higher than the Ki for DPP-4, activity at 
Cmax in humans (2.3 µM) is likely. No assays exist allowing evaluation of DPP-8/DPP-9 inhibition in 
vivo. The possibility of activity at one or both of these targets is considered a safety concern in 
relation to the occurrence of skin lesions in monkeys (see below). No, or minimal, inhibition was seen 
with other related enzymes. 
In vivo studies 
In vivo pharmacodynamic studies were performed in rats and monkeys. These studies demonstrated 
the in vivo inhibition of DPP-4 and increased plasma levels of GLP-1. Studies in diabetic rats and in 
insulin-resistant monkeys demonstrated a glucose-lowering effect of vildagliptin. Chronic effects of 
vildagliptin were studied in pre-diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic monkeys. Beneficial effects were 
observed on HbA1c, fasting insulin, fibrinogen and PAI-1. 
Vildagliptin increased β-cell mass in neonatal rats, and improved β-cell function in streptozotocin-
induced diabetic mice. These data could suggest that vildagliptin has the potential to mitigate the 
progressive loss of islet function in type 2 diabetes patients. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Vildagliptin showed no significant effect on gastric emptying in monkeys. This is in contrast to what 
has been observed with exogenously-administered GLP-1 and GLP-1 analogues. 
As discussed above, activity at the related enzymes DPP-8 and/or DPP-9 can not be excluded at 
clinical exposures. Concerns related to secondary pharmacology can also arise from the importance of 
DPP-4 in enzymatic and non-enzymatic functions other than inhibiting the inactivation of GLP-1 and 
GIP. 
DPP-4 (CD26) is present as a cell surface molecule on immune cells and has been characterised as an 
important costimulatory molecule in immune activation. Although some studies applying DPP-4 
inhibitors have suggested a role for the enzyme activity for the immune function, other studies have 
suggested costimulation to be unrelated to the enzyme activity. The studies performed with 
vildagliptin and discussed in the dossier support the view that the immune function of CD26 is 
independent of its enzyme activity. 
There are no indications for safety issues related to other DPP-4 substrates than GLP-1 and GIP.  
Potential effects on the immune system, resulting in an increased risk for infections and on substance 
P and neurokinin resulting in an increased risk of angioedema are discussed in the Risk Management 
Plan. No increased risk has been observed during clinical development for any of these adverse events. 
5/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metformin and Eucreas 
No pharmacological studies with metformin or the combination vildagliptin-metformin has been 
performed by the applicant. The applicant has discussed the pharmacology of metformin based on 
literature data. While the exact mechanism of the in vivo glucose-lowering by metformin is not fully 
understood, the primary effects are attributed to a decrease of hepatic glucose production, a delay of 
intestinal glucose absorption and in increase of glucose disposal in peripheral tissues. All of these 
effects of metformin are reported in preclinical animal models. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies have been conducted to evaluate neuropharmacological, respiratory and 
cardiovascular effects of vildagliptin in animals.  
Cardiovascular changes were observed in dogs at high doses, occasionally resulting in mortality. 
Possible mechanisms were examined in an extensive battery of in vitro and in vivo studies of 
cardiovascular parameters. These effects are possibly related to inhibition of SCN5A sodium channels 
which was observed in in vitro studies. Based on dog exposure data (Cmax > 7-fold higher at NOAEL 
than seen at maximum dose in humans) and the in vitro IC50 for sodium channels (365 µM versus 
clinical Cmax of 2 µM), a clinical effect is unlikely. However, conduction disturbances were further 
investigated in humans. 
No formal safety pharmacology program has been performed with metformin since its development in 
the 1950s. This was considered acceptable taking into account the extensive accumulated experience 
with its use since then. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  effects  of  combinations  of  vildagliptin  with  the  rapid-onset  insulinotropic  agent,  nateglinide 
(Starlix®) and with the insulin sensitizer, pioglitazone (Actos®) were assessed in Zucker fatty rats and 
resulted in an additive or more than additive effect on several plasma glucose-related parameters. 
No specific interaction studies with vildagliptin and metformin had been performed.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Vildagliptin 
Vildagliptin was rapidly absorbed with a high bioavailability in all species. There were no important 
differences in pharmacokinetic parameters between the tested animal species and humans. 
Vildagliptin showed low binding to plasma proteins in all species (<10%). In a whole body 
autoradiography study in rats, vildagliptin-related radioactivity was widely distributed to most tissues. 
Drug-related radioactivity was bound to melanin. There was a low passage for drug-related 
radioactivity across the blood-brain barrier. No radioactivity was detected in any tissue at 48 h post-
dose. Studies in pregnant rats and rabbits demonstrated placental transfer of vildagliptin. 
The parent compound was one of the major circulating components in all species and all metabolites 
observed in humans were also found in the animal species. Hydrolysis was the main mechanism of 
vildagliptin metabolism in all species and exposure to the major metabolites was broadly similar in the 
rat, dog and human. In humans, the predominant metabolic pathway was hydrolysis at the cyano 
moiety to form a carboxylic acid metabolite (M20.7/LAY151), accounting for approximately 55% of 
circulating drug-related material following an oral dose. M20.7 was the main metabolite both in the rat 
(54%) and the dog (33%). In the rabbit, another hydrolysis product M15.3 was the main metabolite 
(53%). 
Vildagliptin is produced as a pure S-enantiomer. A clinical study showed that chiral conversion in vivo 
is unlikely. 
6/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Urinary excretion was the main route in all species except the rat, where equal amounts were excreted 
with urine and faeces. Milk transfer of vildagliptin and metabolites were demonstrated in the rat, 
which is therefore mentioned in the SPC section 4.6, with a milk/plasma ratio for total radioactivity of 
4. 
In vitro studies demonstrated that vildagliptin is unlikely to exhibit a potential for pharmacokinetic 
drug interactions. Vildagliptin did not inhibit Pgp or any of a series of CYP enzymes. There was no 
evidence for enzyme induction. 
Metformin and Eucreas 
Metformin is a highly polar, highly water soluble bi-substituted guanidine derivative that most likely 
exists as a positively charged molecule under physiological conditions. Consequently, metformin 
absorption in humans and animals is incomplete. Metformin shows negligible plasma protein binding. 
Metformin is believed to be a substrate for rodent organic anion transport proteins which may play a 
part in its distribution to various tissues. Metformin is excreted mainly as unchanged drug in the urine.  
Toxicokinetic analysis from toxicity studies with multiple fixed dose combinations of vildagliptin and 
metformin were conducted in rats and dogs. The results demonstrated the absence of any effect of 
metformin on vildagliptin, or LAY151 (vildagliptin metabolite) exposure. Exposure to metformin 
appeared to be slightly increased when coadministered with vildagliptin in some dog and rat studies. 
Toxicokinetic evaluations were performed in embryo-foetal development studies conducted in rats and 
rabbits. In general, exposure to vildagliptin and metformin in the foetus was low in both species and 
metformin exposure was similar in the presence and absence of vildagliptin. 
Toxicology 
Vildagliptin 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Vildagliptin exhibits low acute toxicity. In mice and rats no toxicological signs were observed after a 
single oral dose of 2000 mg/kg. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat dose toxicity studies were performed in rats (up to 26 weeks) and dogs (up to 52 weeks). These 
models are considered relevant, based on the lack of species specificity for the pharmacological 
activity of vildagliptin, and the similarities in metabolism to humans.  
The main toxicological effect noted in rats was the accumulation of clusters of foamy alveolar 
macrophages in the lung. Similar observations were made in mice. This finding was proposed to be 
due to an exaggerated pharmacological effect of DPP-4 inhibition in the rat. The clinical relevance of 
the lung findings in rats cannot be fully excluded. There is a considerable safety margin (5 x human 
AUC at NOAEL) and the findings are considered of limited importance.  
The most consistent toxicological finding in the dog was the appearance of gastrointestinal symptoms, 
particularly soft faeces, mucoid faeces, diarrhea and at higher doses, faecal blood. These signs were 
observed at relatively low systemic exposures (observed already at lowest dose representing 2 x 
human AUC). GI findings were not observed in any other species and according to the applicant no GI 
disorders have been observed in clinical trials. The CHMP was of the opinion, that these findings are 
unlikely to be of clinical importance. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The data from genotoxicity studies conducted with vildagliptin in several standard genotoxicity tests 
do not indicate a genotoxic potential. 
7/27 
© EMEA 2007 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Life-time carcinogenicity studies were performed in mice and rats. No evidence for a carcinogenic 
potential was observed in the rat. An increased incidence of hemangiosarcomas was observed at the 
highest dose in female rats while in male rats, the incidence was slightly decreased. Given the mouse 
findings discussed below, a relation to treatment cannot be fully excluded. In the mouse there was an 
increased incidence of hemangiosarcomas and mammary carcinoma. The increased incidence of 
hemangiosarcoma in mice occurred only in organs where this tumour occurs as a relatively common 
spontaneous finding in the mouse (liver, spleen, uterus etc.). It is suggested that a predisposition to 
spontaneous hemangiosarcoma at the affected site is needed for vildagliptin to promote an increased 
incidence. A study in the mouse demonstrated that vildagliptin inhibits VEGF-induced angiogenesis. 
Based on these mechanistic data the applicant proposes a mechanism whereby inhibition of VEGF-
induced angiogenesis over a long period exerts selection pressure in favour of endothelium that 
proliferates independently of VEGF and hence increases the likelihood of endothelial neoplasia. There 
was a disproportionate increase in hemangiosarcoma involving the liver in treated male mice at ≥ 250 
mg/kg/day. At the same time there was a decreased incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in male 
mice. The applicant hypothesizes that hemangiosarcomas may originate within early hepatocellular 
tumours or preneoplastic lesions followed by obliteration of the hepatocellular tumour and its 
replacement with the more aggressive hemangiosarcoma. There is a substantial safety margin 
(exposure margin at NOAEL = 16). It was considered that vildagliptin is likely to act by promoting 
development of a tumour form that appears commonly mice, and that the data do not suggest an 
increased risk for hemangiosarcoma development in humans where this tumour form is uncommon. 
The fact that the incidences of other common spontaneous tumours were not increased by vildagliptin 
treatment supports the view that a more general tumour promoting effect of vildagliptin is unlikely. 
The applicant will further study the mechanism for tumour development in the liver of mice, and the 
findings were considered by the CHMP not to represent a significant risk to humans. 
In the case of mammary adenocarcioma, the applicant suggested that tumours noted in the mouse 
carcinogenicity study are likely the result of an effect on the pituitary-gonadal axis that is unlikely to 
be of relevance to humans. In mammary tissue from mice treated with vildagliptin for 53 weeks there 
was a dramatic upregulation of genes related to milk production, such as casein-beta, casein-gamma 
and lactalbumin, suggesting that hormonally-driven changes are occurring in the mammary gland of 
mice treated with vildagliptin. The CHMP was of the opinion that these effects are unlikely to be of 
relevance to humans. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Vildagliptin showed no effects on fertility, reproductive performance or early embryonic development 
in the rat. Embryo-foetal toxicity was evaluated in rats and rabbits. In the rat, an increased incidence of 
wavy ribs was observed at ≥ 225 mg/kg/day, in association with reduced maternal body weight 
parameters. Although classified as a malformation, literature data suggest that wavy ribs in the rat may 
be reversible. In rabbits, decreased foetal weight and skeletal variations indicative of developmental 
delays were noted in rabbits at 150 mg/kg/day, in the presence of severe maternal toxicity (including 
mortality). It is concluded that vildagliptin is not selectively embryotoxic and does not exhibit a 
teratogenic potential. In the peri- and postnatal toxicity study in rats, maternal toxicity was observed at 
all doses. Transient decrease in F1 generation body weight and a decreased number of central beam 
breaks in open-field motor activity tests were observed at ≥ 150 mg/kg/day. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance of vildagliptin was investigated as part of the intravenous toxicity. No local effects due 
to vildagliptin were observed in either species. A skin irritation study conducted in rabbits did not 
indicate any dermal irritant properties.  
8/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Vildagliptin showed no effect on the immune response in KLH-immunised rats. As discussed in the 
section on Pharmacology, the lack of immunotoxicity supports the view that the immune function of 
DPP-4/CD26 is independent of its enzymatic activity. 
No toxicity studies with metabolites were performed. The main human metabolites were present at 
similar amounts in the toxicology species. In patients with renal impairment, the exposure to the 
pharmacologically inactive metabolite LAY151 may be increased up to 6 times. There are no 
indications for any toxicity related to the metabolite and no further studies are warranted. 
Drug impurities requiring toxicological qualification were tested in repeat-dose toxicity and 
genotoxicity studies with a vildagliptin preparation spiked with the impurities at levels of 2-3%. There 
were no findings suggesting a change in toxicity profile. 
Available data indicate that the administration of DPP-4 inhibitors to monkeys results in dose and 
duration-dependent increases in necrotic lesions of the tail, digits, ears, nose and scrotum. The 
mechanism is unknown and such lesions have not been described in humans, rats or dogs. Data from 
the safety pharmacology study in monkeys suggest that vildagliptin may cause skin lesions in the 
monkey. A 13-week toxicology in cynomolgus monkeys shows occurrence of necrotic lesions with a 
lack of safety margin and lack of reversibility at higher doses. The skin lesions are proposed to result 
from peripheral vasoconstriction.The skin lesions were observed at doses that produced a tachycardic 
and a prohypertensive action indicating a sympathomimetic effect of vildagliptin at these doses in 
monkeys.The applicant argues that these findings were related to DPP4 inhibition, and that monkeys 
are much more sensitive to DPP4 inhibition than humans. The lack of skin lesions with sitagliptin in 
rhesus monkeys speaks against this proposal suggesting that other factors may be involved in causing 
the skin lesions result, such as inhibition of DPP8 and or DPP9, the occurrence of which in vivo is not 
known. 
Based on mechanistic considerations, no firm conclusion on the relevance of the skin lesions in 
monkeys for clinical safety can be drawn at this time. The CHMP considered these findings acceptable 
for a market authorisation, considering the clinical safety documented so far, and appropriate means 
taken by the applicant to identify any signals in the post-marketing phase. Further studies on the 
mechanism of skin lesions in the monkeys will be performed as follow-up measures. In addition to 
describing the findings in SPC section 5.3, a warning is included in section 4.4 with a reference to 
section 5.3. 
Eucreas 
Toxicology information for metformin, beyond what is in the product labelling information, is 
not publicly available. No studies have been performed by the applicant. This is acceptable, given the 
long clinical experience with metformin. 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies up to 13 weeks with the combination vildagliptin and metformin were 
performed in rats and dogs. No important safety concerns were identified. The effect of the 
combination of vildagliptin and metformin on embryo-foetal development was studied in rats and 
rabbits. There was no evidence of teratogenicity in either the rat or rabbit. Adverse effects on the 
foetus (slight decreases in ossification in rats and increased early resoprtion in rabbits) were associated 
with metformin-induced maternal toxicity, which included mortality and moribundity, at 10/100 and 
100/1000 mg/kg/day vildagliptin/metformin in the rat and rabbit, respectively. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The environmental risk assessment concluded that the concentrations expected to enter the 
environment are not expected to pose a risk. 
9/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The phase III clinical development program consisted of registration studies to support the use of 
vildagliptin as monotherapy or as combination therapy with other commonly-used antidiabetic drugs 
(metformin, sulfonylurea, thiazolidinedione, insulin). These were part of an application for 
Vildagliptin (Galvus), for which the CHMP granted a positive opinion on 19 July 2007. This positive 
opinion approved the use of Vildagliptin for add-on combination therapy with metformin, sulfonylurea 
and thiazolidinedione. 
The further development of the fixed combination tablets of vildagliptin and metformin led to 
4 new pharmacokinetic (PK) studies of the fixed combination tablet as part of the biopharmaceutical 
development and included: 
• 3 cross-over design PK studies in healthy subjects, to assess if the fixed combination tablet is 
bioequivalent to the free combination of the active components 
• 1 cross-over design PK study to assess the effect of food on the absorption of the fixed combination 
tablet. 
The new galenic development did not involve any new clinical pharmacology studies or any new 
clinical studies. The clinical efficacy and safety data provided for metformin in the current clinical 
development were further supplemented by the data provided in reviews. 
The biopharmaceutical and clinical pharmacology for metformin are well-documented and provided in 
the product label. 
The clinical development program was based on international regulatory guidelines and consultations 
with health authorities, including EMEA/CPMP Scientific Advice given in November 2003. 
There were two important developments within the phase II-III clinical program: 
1. The vildagliptin 100 mg dose was initially discontinued by amendment in two phase II dose 
selection studies and resumed in phase III studies (when the early cardiac findings in dogs at very high 
exposures were not confirmed in a later clinical cardiac safety study). 
2. Additional patients were recruited in five of the key phase III studies in the vildagliptin program to 
replace those patients whose HbA1c assessments were found to be unreliable and could not be 
repeated. 
The therapeutic indication for Eucreas claimed by the applicant and also finally granted was:  
The treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients who are unable to achieve sufficient glycaemic 
control at their maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone or who are already treated with the 
combination of vildagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A total of 38 clinical pharmacology studies enrolling approximately 1014 subjects have been 
conducted with vildagliptin to evaluate PK, dose-response, PK/PD relationship, mode of action and 
potential for drug-drug interactions. Vildagliptin is analyzed in plasma and urine using a specific LC-
MS method.  
10/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five biopharmaceutical studies (one relative bioavailability study, one food effect study, and three 
bioequivalence studies) of vildagliptin/metformin fixed dose combination (FDC) pertinent to this 
submission were conducted in healthy subjects. 
Fixed dose combination 
There is good PK rational for the development of the fixed combination under consideration. 
Metformin and vildagliptin exhibit comparable elimination half-lives and similar subsequent dosing 
intervals. Also, low potential for drug-drug interaction by enzymatic metabolism is expected. 
Three bioequivalence studies, one for each strength, was conducted comparing the rate and extent of 
absorption of the fixed combination of vildagliptin/metformin FMI tablets (final formulation intended 
for marketing) with that of a free combination of vildagliptin 50 mg and metformin (Glucophage) 
tablets used in clinical studies. The studies were open-label, randomized, single-dose, two-treatment, 
two-period, two-sequence crossover studies. Study medication was taken in a fasting state. Blood 
samples were collected for 48 h. Vildagliptin and metformin concentration in plasma were 
simultaneously measured by using LC-MS/MS. Bioequivalence between all three strengths of the 
fixed combination and the corresponding free combination was demonstrated for both vildagliptin and 
metformin AUC and Cmax, using the normal acceptance criteria 0.80-1.25.  
The effect of food on the extent and rate of absorption for vildagliptin and metformin components in 
the fixed combination tablets was investigated using the highest dose (50mg/1000mg). Food had no 
effect on the rate and extent of absorption of vildagliptin from the fixed combination formulation. 
Metformin absorption rate was decreased by concomitant food intake resulting in a 26% reduction in 
Cmax and delay in tmax. Extent of absorption was not significantly affected, with AUC reduced only by 
7%. The effect of food on metformin is slightly less than reported previously for Glucophage. The 
difference in food effect between the fixed combination and Glucophage is not considered clinically 
relevant. 
The  potential  for  PK  drug-drug  interaction  between  both  components  of  the  fixed  combination  has 
been evaluated. No clinically relevant interaction between vildagliptin and metformin was found in the 
conducted study. 
Vildagliptin 
•  Absorption 
Vildagliptin is rapidly absorbed with a median tmax of about 1.5 hr after oral dosing and has a mean 
absolute oral bioavailability of 85.3 ± 10.8 %. An in vitro study with Caco-2 cell monolayer suggests 
that vildagliptin is a substrate of P-gp, with a low affinity, however. The rate of absorption is reduced 
when vildagliptin final marketing tablets are taken with a high fat meal and there is also a slight 
reduction of extent of absorption as reflected by an increase in tmax from 1.75 h under fasting 
conditions to 2.5 h after a high fat meal, a 19% decrease in Cmax and 10% decrease in AUC. These 
effects are not considered clinically relevant. The mean AUC in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
at the therapeutic dose (2160 ± 520 ng·hr/mL, N=71) was comparable to healthy subjects (2275 ± 459 
ng·hr/mL, N=150). 
•  Distribution 
The protein binding of vildagliptin to human plasma is low (9.3%). Vildagliptin distributes equally 
between plasma and red blood cells. The volume of distribution (Vss) is 70.7±16.1 L, indicating 
distribution to the extravascular tissue compartment. 
•  Elimination 
Vildagliptin is eliminated mainly by metabolism and subsequent urinary excretion of metabolites. 
After administration of 14C-vildagliptin 100 mg oral solution 85.4±4.4% of the dose was excreted in 
11/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
urine and 14.8±3.5% in faeces. About 33% of dose was excreted in urine as unchanged vildagliptin 
after intravenous administration. Mean total plasma clearance (CL) determined after intravenous 
administration of 25 mg was 40.6±8.97 L/hr and renal clearance (CLR) 13.0±2.35 L/hr . The mean 
plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) of vildagliptin after oral administration was about 2-3 h. The main 
metabolic pathway is hydrolysis accounting for about 60% of the dose. Glucuronidation is a minor 
elimination pathway accounting for 4.4% of the dose and oxidation accounts only for 1.6% of the 
dose. Multiple tissues can hydrolyse vildagliptin to the major metabolite LAY151. CYP450 
isoenzymes are involved in vildagliptin metabolism only to a minor extent. Hence, the potential for 
interactions with vildagliptin metabolism is very small. The major metabolite LAY151 has no effect 
on DPP-4 activity, indicating that it is not pharmacologically active. Vildagliptin is an S-enantiomer. 
Available data suggest that in vivo inter-conversion to the D-enantiomer is unlikely. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose and time dependency 
The pharmacokinetics of vildagliptin is roughly dose proportional. Data on single dose administration 
of 25-600 mg and multiple dose administration of 25 – 400 mg show that AUC and Cmax increase 
slightly more than in proportion to dose, however, the deviation from linearity is minor with a 2.2-fold 
increase in AUC as the dose is increased 2-fold. No accumulation of vildagliptin is observed following 
single administration per day of a dose ranging from 25 mg to 200 mg for 10 days. This suggests that 
the clearance is not time-dependent.  
Variability 
The inter-subject coefficient of variation for plasma AUC is in the range of 15-20% and in Cmax about 
25% in healthy volunteers after an oral dose. The inter-individual variability in CL/F was 42% in the 
population PK analysis. 
Target population 
The  applicant  has  submitted  sufficient  documentation 
pharmacokinetics are similar in diabetic patients when compared to healthy subjects.  
to  demonstrate 
that  vildagliptin 
•  Special populations 
Vildagliptin total and renal clearances are decreased in patients with renal impairment. Vildagliptin 
AUC was increased by 101%, 32%, 134% and 42%, respectively, and AUC of the main metabolite 
(LAY151) 1.6, 2.4, 5.4 and 6.7 - fold, respectively, in patients with mild, moderate and severe renal 
impairment, and ESRD. Hepatic impairment has a limited influence of vildagliptin PK, with no effect 
in mild and moderate hepatic impairment and only a 22% increase in vildagliptin AUC in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. AUC of LAY151 increased with decreased hepatic function. There was a 
2-fold increase in exposure of LAY151 in severe hepatic impairment. Gender, age, weight and race 
had no clinically significant effects on vildagliptin exposure. Vildagliptin pharmacokinetics has not 
been evaluated in children or adolescents. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
CYP450 isoenzymes are involved in vildagliptin metabolism only to a minor extent. Hence, the 
potential for interactions with vildagliptine metabolism is very small. Vildagliptin is a substrate of P-
gp. However, the risk for clinically relevant interactions with inhibitors of P-gp or other transport 
proteins seems to be low. In vitro studies suggested a low potential for interaction with CYP450 
isoenzymes. The potential for inhibition of CYP1A2, 2D6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2E1, 3A4 and P-gp and 
potential for induction of CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A, UGT1A1, Pgp and 
MRP2 has been evaluated in vitro. Studies evaluating the potential for inhibition of CYP2B6, 
UGT1A1 and MRP-2 are lacking.  
In vivo interaction studies were conducted with other antidiabetic agents (glyburide, pioglitazone, 
metformin), some cardiovascular drugs (amlodipine, valsartan, ramipril, simvastatin) and the narrow 
therapeutic drugs digoxin and warfarin. There were no clinically relevant interactions between 
12/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vildagliptin and the studied drugs. A small effect on digoxin renal clearance (19% reduction) might 
suggest a mild inhibition of P-glycoprotein. However, this is unlikely to be clinically relevant for 
digoxin or for other P-gp substrates. Simvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4, S-warfarin is a substrate 
of CYP2C9 and pioglitazone is a substrate of CYP2C8. Lack of in vivo interaction with these 
substrates support the in vitro prediction that vildagliptin is not expected to affect the PK of substrates 
of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C8.  
It can be concluded that the interaction potential of vildagliptin is low.  
Metformin 
Metformin has an absolute oral bioavailability of 40-60%. The absorption is incomplete and saturable 
with lower bioavailability at higher doses. Metformin is rapidly distributed and does not bind to 
plasma protein. No metabolites or conjugates of metformin have been identified, and renal excretion 
of unchanged metformin is the major elimination pathway. The mean elimination half-life of 
metformin after oral administration is between 4.0 and 8.7 hours. The elimination is prolonged in 
patients with renal impairment and correlates with creatinine clearance resulting in increased exposure 
in patients with renal impairment. For this reason, metformin is contraindicated in patients with renal 
dysfunction, defined as creatinine clearance <60 ml/min. This is reflected in the SPC in section 4.3, 
with related warnings in section 4.4. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Vildagliptin belongs to a new class of oral anti-diabetic drugs and acts as a selective and reversible 
inhibitor of DPP-4. This enzyme inactivates the incretin hormones, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), 
and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). The inhibition of DPP-4 therefore increases 
the levels of these hormones which is likely to be the most significant contribution to the improvement 
of glucose homeostasis by vildagliptin. 
The pharmacodynamics of metformin is not completely understood, but its main glucose-lowering 
effect appears to be caused by reduced hepatic glucose output and enhanced peripheral glucose uptake. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In vildagliptin pharmacodynamic studies, a single dose of vildagliptin in patients with T2DM lead to 
inhibition of DPP-4 activity in plasma by more than 90% at all doses from 10 to 400 mg. The duration 
of DPP-4 inhibition was dose dependent and to achieve a lasting result the DPP-4 inhibition should be 
>70 % which corresponds to a dose >10 mg bid. Increases of GLP-1 and GIP concentrations are the 
expected results of DPP-4 inhibition and studies have confirmed that meal-stimulated as well as 
between-meal concentrations were raised after 4 week treatment with vildagliptin. Increased 
concentrations of incretin hormones leads to alfa- and beta-cell stimulation resulting in increased 
secretion of insulin and reduced glucagon secretion. This was proven in mechanistic studies. 
Chronic treatment as well as treatment with a single dose of vildagliptin resulted in reductions of 
postprandial glucose. In one study, 100 mg and 200 mg vildagliptin was equally effective. There were 
also evidences for reduced fasting glucose.  
Measures of insulin resistance assessed during mechanistic studies of vildagliptin showed tendencies 
towards increased insulin sensitivity. An improved metabolic state associated with lower glucose 
levels is predicted to reduce the demand for insulin and thus by definition attenuate insulin resistance. 
There is few, if any, evidence that vildagliptin has an effect per-se on insulin resistance.  
There are unanswered questions concerning secondary pharmacology as the risk of inhibition or 
activation of other DPP-4 substrates is unclear. These could include vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) 
and neuropeptide Y (potential to alter blood pressure control), bradykinin and substance P (associated 
angioedema in patients with low DPP-4 activity and taking ACEIs), gastrin and growth hormone 
release mediators, or immune cytokines. Potential risks associated with these effects are identified in 
the risk management plan.  
13/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No pharmacodynamic studies for metformin were contributed. Metformin decreases glucose levels. It 
is thought to act by either decreasing gluconeogenesis or decreasing glycogenolysis, as well as 
enhanced glucose uptake by peripheral tissues such as muscle and fat cells. The combined use with 
Vildagliptin results in an improved glucose-lowering effect by combining different mechanisms of 
action. 
Clinical efficacy 
Overview 
Data establishing the clinical efficacy of Eucreas are based on studies with vildagliptin and with 
vildagliptin using metformin as add-on. Study 2303, testing the combined use of vildagliptin + 
metformin, is the pivotal study with regard to efficacy. These studies were also part of the data 
submitted for Galvus, no additional studies had been performed. 
Metformin efficacy data 
Metformin has been used for more than 40 years and is generally considered as the first line treatment 
of patients with T2DM. A brief summary of scientific review articles concerning the efficacy of 
metformin was provided by the applicant. Metformin has been shown to reduce HbA1c levels between 
-1 and -3%, FPG by 2.78 to 3.9 mmol/L, and some studies have shown positive effects on blood lipid 
concentrations as well as body weight. The UKPDS showed that overweight patients treated with 
metformin after failure of diet alone, had a significant reduction of the absolute risk of any 
diabetes-related complication, myocardial infarction and mortality compared to patients treated with 
diet alone. 
•  Dose finding studies 
Vildagliptin and metformin was proposed for use in patients with T2DM as fixed combination tablets 
in 2 strengths: vildagliptin 50mg/ metformin 850mg and 50mg/ metformin 1000mg (both 
recommended for bid dosing).  
In the vildagliptin phase III studies the efficacy of the 100 mg per day regimen was not consistently 
greater than that of the 50 mg per day regimen. According to results from a meta-analysis, there is an 
increase in the placebo-subtracted effect of vildagliptin when the dose is increased from 50 mg to 100 
mg. This increase is greater in patients with baseline HbA1c of 9.5% (-0.4%) than in those with 
baseline HbA1C of 8.5% (-0.28%). Although this increase is small, it justifies using 100 mg instead of 
50mg daily. 
•  Vildagliptin monotherapy studies 
The monotheraphy studies included patients with characteristic baseline data for T2DM with a rather 
short duration. Vildagliptin therapy for 24 week resulted in a reduction of HbA1c (~1%) and FPG (~1 
mmol/l). Vildagliptin was statistically inferior to metformin 1000 mg bid and may be clinically, 
although not statistically, inferior to rosiglitazone 8 mg qd (CI for difference between treatments -
0.01- 0.39, non-inferiority margin 0.40, ITT population). However, for HbA1c results in the PP 
population, the upper limit of the CI of the difference between vildagliptin and rosiglitazone exceeded 
the pre-defined non-inferiority margin of 0.4%. At present there are no data comparing vildagliptin 
and SU. A comparative study is ongoing. Vildagliptin treatment was largely lipid and weight neutral.  
•  Vildagliptin+metformin studies 
Study 2303 is the pivotal study for this application concerning efficacy. Study 2204 was considered as 
a supportive study, with a dose of vildagliptin lower than the intended dose of vildagliptin and a 
duration of only 12 weeks.  
Table 1  Studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of the combination vildagliptin/metformin 
14/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No.  Study objective, 
population 
Randomize
d patients  
Treatme
nt 
duration 
Dosage 
Placebo-controlled studies  
LAF 
A2204 
Dose selection study in 
patients inadequately 
controlled by 
metformin 
(HbA1c 7.0% - 9.5%) 
Efficacy/safety in 
T2DM patients 
inadequately 
controlled by 
metformin  
(HbA1c 7.5% - 11%) 
132 
12 weeks  vilda 50 mg 
qd+metformin 
placebo+metformin 
544 
24 weeks  vilda 50 mg qd+ 
metformin 
vilda 50 mg 
bid+metformin 
placebo+metformin 
LAF 
A2303 
METHODS 
Primary 
efficacy  
change in 
HbA1c 
change in 
HbA1c  
Study Participants  
Patients with T2DM whose glycaemic control was not achieved despite treatment were treated for ≥ 3 
months with anti-diabetic drugs and had not achieved adequate glycaemic control.  
In the pivotal study 2303, patients were 18-78 years old, had a BMI between 22 and 45 kg/m2 and an 
HbA1c of 7.5-11%. Patients were on a stable dose of at least 1500 mg metformin daily for a minimum 
of 4 weeks prior to first visit 1. For a maximum tolerated dose of metformin < 2000 mg daily, either an 
attempt to reach higher doses in the past was demonstrated or a start with a higher dose at the 
beginning of the trial was performed. The dose of metformin used at randomization had to be 
maintained unchanged throughout the trial. 
In study 2303, 135 patients were treated with vildagliptin 50 mg bid + metformin 1g bid and 2 patients 
were treated with vildagliptin 50 mg bid + metformin 850 mg bid. 
In study 2204, the vildagliptin 100mg qd arm was prematurely discontinued (due to safety signals in 
dogs) and thus the results do not include the intended dose of vildagliptin. Furthermore, this study was 
only of 12 weeks duration.  
Endpoints 
The primary efficacy parameter was HbA1c. Some of the secondary efficacy parameters included were: 
FPG, fasting lipids, body weight, some parameters indicative of beta-cell function and insulin 
resistance, responder rates: (Endpoint HbA1c < 7% / ≤ 6.5%. HbA1c absolute reduction from baseline 
at endpoint ≥ 1%, /   ≥ 0.7%, / ≥ 0.5%). 
Statistical methods 
The statistical methods used, including the approach to deal with the baseline HbA1c assay issue, were 
considered to be adequate.  
Overall, the design and study population was considered as adequate. 
RESULTS 
Add-on  therapy  of  metformin  to  vildagliptin  resulted  in  clinically  and  statistically  significant 
reductions  of  HbA1c  (0.65%  in  study  2204  and  0.73  and  1.10  %  in  study  2303)  and  FPG  (0.98 
mmol/L in study 2204 and 0.16 and 1.67 mmol/L in study 2303) compared to placebo.  
Body weight slightly decreased in the metformin + placebo group (-1.02 kg). The decrease was less 
pronounced when vildagliptin 50 mg od was added to metformin (-0.38 kg) while with vildagliptin 50 
mg bid there was a slightly increased body weight (+0.21 kg, difference with placebo: p<0.001). Thus, 
when  added  to  metformin,  vildagliptin dose-dependently  increased  weight  up  to  1.24  kg  on  average 
15/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared  to  metformin  alone,  but  the  combined  effect  of  metformin  and  vildagliptin  on  weight 
compared to baseline values was largely weight-neutral. 
There was a slight reduction in systolic blood pressure in the vildagliptin groups. Whether this is a 
result of an improved metabolic state or other mechanisms is not known.  
Since vildagliptin is presently not indicated as monotherapy, the additional effect of metformin added 
to ongoing vildagliptin treatment has not been evaluated. 
Fig. 1: Time course of decline in HbA1c from baseline at Week 24/12 ( studies 2303 and 2204) 
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
n
a
e
M
Vildagliptin (50 mg qd) & metformin
Vildagliptin (50 mg bid) & metformin
Placebo & metformin
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
24
Time (wk)
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
n
a
e
M
6.5
-8
Vildagliptin (50 mg qd) & metformin
Placebo & metformin
-4
0
4
8
12
Time (wk)
Additional outcomes with the pivotal study 2303 
Tab. 2: Change in HbA1c from baseline at Week 24 
Baseline 
HbA1c 
(%) 
mean 
(SE) 
N 
Change  
in HbA1c (%)
adj. mean 
(SE) 
Difference 
to 
comparator
mean (SE) 
95% CI 
p-
value 
Primary efficacy ITT population  (ITT population for 1 study) 
143 
Study 2303 (24 weeks, placebo-controlled add-on combination) 
vilda 50 mg qd + 
metformin 
vilda 50 mg bid + 
metformin 
placebo + metformin 
+0.23 (0.10) 
-0.88 (0.10) 
-0.51 (0.10) 
143 
130 
-0.73 (0.14) 
-1.10 (0.14) 
8.38 
(0.08) 
8.38 
(0.09) 
8.30 
(0.08) 
(-1.00, -
0.47) 
(-1.37, -
0.84) 
<0.001
* 
<0.001
* 
Tab. 3: Responder analyses for the add-on combination studies 
≥ 0.7% HbA1c 
reduction  
Diff. 
to 
contro
l 
Resp. 
rate 
%  
p- 
value 
≥ 1.0% HbA1c 
reduction  
Diff. 
to 
contro
l 
Resp
. 
rate 
%  
p- 
value 
HbA1c < 7% 
Resp. 
rate 
% 
Diff. 
to 
contro
l 
p- 
value 
Primary efficacy ITT population  (ITT population for 1 study) 
Study 2303 (24 weeks, placebo-controlled add-on combination) 
vilda 50 qd + 
metformin 
46.2%  26.2%  <0.001 
30.8
% 
17.7%  <0.00
1 
27.0% 
17.6
% 
<0.001 
16/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vilda 50 bid + 
metformin 
placebo + 
metformin 
60.1%   40.1%  <0.001  44.1
31.0%  <0.00
20.0% 
% 
13.1
% 
1 
<0.001 
35.5%   26.1
% 
9.4%  
No comparisons have been made with other often used add-on alternatives such as metformin +SU, for 
which efficacy and safety is well documented. Studies are ongoing and the applicant has committed to 
provide available results. No clinical studies have been performed with the fixed combination product 
and thus no direct assessment of potential advantages has been performed.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Two-hundred thirty eight patients older than 65 and 41 patients older than 75 years have been treated 
with the recommended dose of vildagliptin as monotherapy in the primary ITT population. The 
reduction in HbA1c was somewhat smaller in patients older than 75 years, but the number of patients 
was limited. Non-obese patients responded better to vildagliptin than obese patients. This difference in 
efficacy may, at least partly, be explained by increased insulin resistance in obese subjects and may 
not be of clinical relevance. The efficacy in male patients was larger compared to that in females and 
the efficacy in black people was smaller compared to that in Caucasians and Hispanics. There is no 
evident explanation to these differences in efficacy. However, a mean difference of 0.2% between men 
and women may not be of clinical relevance. Furthermore, no clinically relevant differences in the 
pharmacokinetics of vildagliptin have been observed between male and female healthy subjects or due 
to ethnicity. 
In combination with metformin, only 7 patients older than 75 years were included in the studies. Given 
the very small number of patients older than 75 years treated with the combination vildagliptin + 
metformin, the use of Eucreas is not recommended in this population. Information has been included 
in the SPC. 
Metformin is contraindicated in patients with heart failure, renal and hepatic impairment and thus, 
Eucreas includes the same contraindications, as listed in the SPC. 
Long-term Efficacy data 
Concerning  long-term  efficacy  data  for  vildagliptin,  results  have  been  provided  from  one  52  week 
study (metformin-controlled, monotherapy, study 2309) and one 40 week extension study following a 
12 week core study (add-on therapy to metformin, study 2204), both designed to show efficacy over 1 
year (Fig. 2). The proportion of completers after 52 weeks in the monotherapy study was 72% of 780 
randomised patients and thus this study provide 1 year efficacy data for vildagliptin as monotherapy in 
a substantial group of patients. The results achieved after 24 weeks in this study were less pronounced 
at the week 52 follow-up, but still clinically relevant (mean reduction of HbA1c = 0.96%).  
Fig. 2  Mean HbA1c over time in long-term controlled studies (1 year) (monotherapy and add-on 
to metformin) 
17/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
n
a
e
M
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
n
a
e
M
V i ld a g li p ti n  5 0  m g  b i d
M e tfo r m i n  1 0 0 0  m g  b i d
- 4
0
4
8
1 2
1 6
2 0
2 4
2 8
3 2
3 6
4 0
4 4
4 8
5 2
T i m e   ( w k )
V i ld a g li p ti n  5 0  m g  q d  &  m e tfo r m i n
P la c e b o  &  m e tfo r m i n
9 .5
9 .0
8 .5
8 .0
7 .5
7 .0
6 .5
8 .4
8 .0
7 .6
7 .2
6 .8
- 4
0
4
8
1 2
1 6
2 0
2 4
2 8
T im e  ( w k )
3 2
3 6
4 0
4 4
4 8
5 2
During  the  MAA  procedure,  data  has  been  provided  from  a  1  year  extension  of  the  52  week 
monotherapy study (2309 E1). At 2 years, a 1.0% reduction in HbA1c was observed in the vildagliptin 
50  mg  bid  treatment  group  compared  to  a  1.5%  reduction  in  the  metformin  1000  mg  bid  treatment 
group. However, the durability of the efficacy of vildagliptin will be formally assessed in an ongoing 
appropriately powered time to failure analysis intended to assess sustainability of glycaemic control. 
Long-term efficacy data for vildagliptin as add-on therapy is limited. Only 32 patients treated with 
vildagliptin plus metformin completed the extension study and these patients were not treated with the 
recommended dose 50 mg bid. Long-term extension studies are on-going and the Applicant has 
committed to provide results as FUM.  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Metformin has been used in Europe since the 1950s and the safety profile has been well established as 
patient exposure has been extensive. The safety analysis from Study 2309 includes patients that were 
exposed to up to 1g metformin bid treatment, over a period of 52 weeks. 
Safety data for vildagliptin has been obtained from 3784 patients with T2DM in phase II or III trials of 
≥ 12 weeks treatment duration, with 2264 patients receiving vildagliptin as monotherapy and 
1520 patients receiving vildagliptin in combination with another medicinal product. The target dose of 
100 mg vildagliptin was given to 2682 patients. 274 patients have been exposed to vildagliptin for ≥52 
weeks as monotherapy. In total, 441 patients had been treated with vildagliptin and metformin and 
received at least one dose of study medication, had at least one post-baseline safety assessment and 
were included in the safety analysis. Overall, the ratios of completers were sufficiently high 
throughout studies. The number of patients discontinuing due to adverse events did not differ between 
vildagliptin and placebo groups except for an increased proportion in the vildagliptin+insulin group 
compared to placebo+insulin group.  
18/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse events in monotherapy studies 
Reviews of randomized controlled clinical studies with metformin in the 1990s (including the 
UKPDS) describe adverse events similar to those in the Glucophage SPC, with up to 50% of the 
patients suffering from abdominal pain, nausea and diarrhea. The overall incidence of AEs in the 52-
week study 2309 was around 75% in the metformin monotherapy group. The most common AEs were 
gastrointestinal disorders, infections and infestations and nervous system disorders. 
The overall incidences of AEs in the three vildagliptin dosing groups in the monotherapy studies were 
largely comparable to those in the placebo groups. Adverse drug reactions reported at an increased 
frequency compared to placebo included dizziness, headache, peripheral oedema, constipation, 
nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection and arthralgia. 
Severe events in the vildagliptin 50 mg bid group were driven by infections and infestations 
(influenza, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis), occurring in 1.4% of patients versus 0.3% on placebo, and 
nervous system disorders (0.9% of patients) versus 0.6% on placebo.  
Adverse events in combination studies 
Adverse drug reactions reported in patients who received Galvus 100 mg in combination with 
metformin (n=208) were tremor, headache, dizziness, fatigue and nausea. 
The overall incidence of AEs in the vildagliptin + metformin and the placebo + metformin groups was 
similar. Gastrointestinal disorders were less frequent in the vildagliptin + metformin group. There was 
a higher incidence of headache, dizziness and tremor in the vildagliptin + metformin group compared 
to placebo. 
In the clinical pharmacology studies the adverse events did not differ from those seen in the clinical 
trials. With high doses of vildagliptin (400 mg and 600 mg), peripheral oedema, pain in extremities, 
myalgia and paresthesia emerged as dose-dependent AEs. 
Angioedema 
Rare cases of angioedema have been reported on vildagliptin at a similar rate to controls. These cases 
appear more frequent when vildagliptin is administered in combination with an ACE I. Angioedema 
will be followed as part of targeted post-marketing activities. Information concerning angioedema is 
included in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Cardiac adverse events 
Since early studies had shown sudden deaths in dogs at high doses of vildagliptin, and a later telemetry 
study  in  dogs  had  shown  an  effect  on  cardiac  conduction  at  peak  concentrations  of  high  doses  of 
vildagliptin, special focus was placed on the potential for conduction disturbances in human subjects. 
ECG  measurements  during  exposure  to  high  doses  in  healthy  volunteers  showed  no  effect  of 
vildagliptin on QT/QTc or QRS intervals with doses from 100mg daily up to 400mg. In the clinical 
studies, there was a higher incidence of first degree AV block in patients treated with vildagliptin as 
defined by the proportion of patients with PR >200 msec. A majority of the patients with first degree 
AV block had only moderately increased PR lengths. At this stage the association between vildagliptin 
and  first  degree  AV  block  can  be  neither  confirmed  nor  excluded.  Conduction  disorder  and  cardiac 
events  of  hypoxic  and/or  ischemic  origin  will  be  evaluated  as  part  of  targeted  post-marketing 
activities. 
Hypoglycaemia 
Metformin has not been shown to produce hypoglycaemia in patients with T2DM or normal subjects 
(except in special circumstances) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia. 
In the monotherapy studies the number of patients with hypoglycaemic events was low in all treatment 
groups.  However,  the  proportion  of  patients  who  reported  hypoglycaemic  events  in  the  vildagliptin 
groups was higher with vildagliptin monotherapy (0.4% on vildagliptin 100mg daily) as compared to 
19/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo  (0%),  but  similar  compared  to  some  active  controls  (0.4%  in  both  the  metformin  and 
rosiglitazone groups and 0% in the pioglitazone group). 
In the add-on studies with metformin there was no statistically significant increased incidence of 
hypoglycaemia when vildagliptin was combined with metformin compared to placebo and moreover 
the proportion of patients who reported hypoglycaemic events in the vildagliptin groups was higher 
with vildagliptin monotherapy as compared to placebo or metformin. 
No severe hypoglycaemic events were reported on vildagliptin. 
Skin disorders 
Due to the findings of skin lesions in monkeys, the Applicant has performed a review of reported skin 
disorders in the clinical study program for vildagliptin. Overall, the cases were rather few and of mild 
severity. The most frequently reported disorders were those of rash and rash-related events. However, 
rash-related disorders were not similar to the skin lesions observed in the monkey toxicity study.  
Adverse events such as skin lesions blister and skin ulcer could potentially provide the closest clinical 
correlation to the types of lesions observed in the monkey study. The incidence rates of selected skin-
related events (blister, skin lesion, exfoliation, ulcer and diabetic foot complications) observed for 
vildagliptin 50mg QD and 100mg daily were similar to the placebo incidence. There did not seem to 
be a relationship between the vildagliptin dose and skin events.  
To alert prescribers to notice potential skin disorders and to provide information concerning the 
limited experience in patients with skin complications, a warning has been included in SPC section 
4.4. Skin events will be part of targeted post-marketing activities 
Other potential risks 
Potential risks associated with vildagliptin due to hypothetical mechanistic considerations or non 
clinical findings include drug induced liver injury, infections, muscle events, gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage and severe hypoglycaemia. These potential risks will be monitored in the PSURs and/ or 
in the planned post authorisation safety study (angioedema, foot ulcer, hepatic toxicity, serious 
infections, hypoxic/ischemic cardiac events, peripheral oedema). 
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
Lactic acidosis is a rare, but serious, metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin 
accumulation during treatment. A review of controlled trials involving metformin that lasted at least 1 
month, pooled data giving a mean treatment period of 2.1 years. No cases of lactic acidosis were found 
in 36,000 patient-years of exposure to metformin. However, cases of lactic acidosis continue to be 
reported in patients taking metformin. Among the first million patients who took metformin in the 
U.S., there were 47 reports (20 fatal) to the FDA of lactic acidosis. Of these patients, 43 had renal 
failure or risk factors for lactic acidosis besides metformin (primarily congestive heart failure). A 
warning is given and precautions recommended in the SPC section 4.4. 
SAE were uncommon in all studies and there was no clustering of specific advents associated with 
vildagliptin treatment. In total, including ongoing studies, there were 50 SAEs with an outcome of 
death. Of these cases, 26 (6 female and 20 male) patients were exposed to vildagliptin mono- or add-
on combination therapy. All 26 of these cases were considered not suspected to be related to study 
drug. The causes of death included a variety of different conditions and were largely similar in patients 
treated with vildagliptin and in patients in other treatment groups. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Gender:  
In both monotherapy and add-on studies the overall AE rates in females were higher than in males 
which were not the case in the placebo groups. There is no evident explanation to this difference. The 
applicant has committed to monitor this as part as routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
20/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly:  
Elderly patients, in particular those with moderate renal dysfunction, have a notably higher incidence 
of AEs relative to cardiac disorders and eye disorders although caution is needed in interpretation of 
these difference due to the low patient numbers in this renal category. Safety data regarding this 
population will be monitored specifically. 
Renal Insufficiency:  
The number of subjects with MDRD estimated renal impairment for the monotherapy and add-on 
therapy datasets was 1870 patients. Of these 198 vildagliptin-treated patients had moderate renal 
impairment in both datasets combined. In the monotherapy studies there were indications of an 
increased incidence of overall AE and of gastrointestinal and nervous system disorders in patients with 
moderate renal insufficiency. Concerning the add-on studies, there were too few patients with 
moderate renal impairment in each treatment group for an adequate evaluation of safety. However, the 
overall incidence of AE in patients with moderate renal impairment tended to be higher when 
vildagliptin was combined with metformin and pioglitazone compared to placebo.  
Metformin is contraindicated in patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance < 
60ml/min). Therefore, this is also a contraindication for the use of Eucreas. Renal function should be 
checked before starting Eucreas and at least annually during therapy (mentioned in the SPC in section 
4.2 as well as 4.4) 
Congestive Heart Failure:  
Patients with heart failure NYHA III-IV were largely excluded from the clinical studies. Although the 
data in patients categorized into CHF class NYHA I-II is limited (currently n=62), such patients were 
included in the clinical trials and their safety profile was not different from that in patients without 
CHF. The applicant commits to further assess safety in a CHF population in a proposed 12-month 
post-marketing randomized safety study, through enhanced pharmacovigilance and through the 
proposed safety cohort study. However since metformin is contra-indicated in patients with heart 
failure. Therefore Eucreas is also contra-indicated in this population (in section 4.3 of the SPC). 
•  Laboratory findings 
A small numerical imbalance of reports of generally asymptomatic elevated transaminases was 
reported in patients treated with vildagliptin 100 mg daily in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, it is 
recommended in section 4.4 of the SPC that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of 
treatment with Eucreas and periodically thereafter. Eucreas should not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment.  
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considers that the Pharmacovigilance System as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements and provides evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for notification of any adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
21/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Transaminase 
elevations 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine PVG with targeted monitoring 
for DILI, see below. 
Prescribing information will include 
precautions and transaminase monitoring. 
The SmPC will state in [SmPC section 
4.4]: 
A small numerical imbalance of reports of 
generally asymptomatic elevated 
transaminases was reported in patients 
treated with vildagliptin 100 mg daily in 
controlled clinical trials (see [SmPC 
section 4.8]). Therefore, as per routine 
clinical practice, it is recommended that 
liver function tests be performed prior to 
the initiation of treatment with 
vildagliptin and metformin periodically 
thereafter. Patients who develop increased 
transaminase levels should be monitored 
with a second liver function evaluation to 
confirm the finding and be monitored 
until the abnormalit(ies) return to normal. 
Should an increase in AST or ALT of 3x 
ULN or greater persist, withdrawal of 
therapy with vildagliptin and metformin is 
recommended. 
Vildagliptin and metformin should not be 
used in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Angioedema will be included in the 
[section 4.8 of the SmPC]. 
Lactic acidosis will be described under 
[SmPC section 4.4]. 
Skin lesions found in monkeys will be 
described under [SmPC section 4.4], 
including guidance on observing patients’ 
skin for potentially related manifestations, 
with a cross reference to non clinical 
findings in the [SmPC section 5.3]. The 
patient leaflet will include lay language 
on observing skin for potentially related 
manifestations. 
Same as risk minimization activities for 
transaminases elevations 
22/27 
© EMEA 2007 
Angioedema 
Lactic 
acidosis 
Skin lesions 
with and 
without 
concurrent 
edema and 
vascular 
disorder 
Drug-induced 
liver injury 
(DILI) 
Targeted follow up for all cases, 
aggregate reporting in PSURs, in 
addition to routine pharmacovigilance. 
Targeted follow-up and aggregate 
analysis will include monitoring for 
concomitant ACEI/ARB use. 
Angioedema to be a component of post-
marketing epidemiologic study. 
Routine PVG and PSUR reporting. 
Lactic acidosis to be a component of 
post-marketing epidemiologic study. 
Targeted monitoring of relevant skin 
events, vascular and edema events by 
using appropriately designed 
questionnaires for follow-up information 
which will include questions on renal 
function, monthly and PSUR aggregate 
reporting with re-assessment at one year, 
in addition to routine 
pharmacovigilance.  
Non-clinical and clinical mechanistic 
studies 
Skin lesions to be a component of post-
marketing epidemiologic study. 
Routine pharmacovigilance plus targeted 
follow-up of serious clinical trial and 
spontaneous cases, monthly and PSUR 
aggregate reporting for one year with re-
assessment at that time. 
Drug-induced liver toxicity to be a 
 
 
Safety issue 
Cardiac 
conduction 
disturbance 
Muscle events 
with and 
without 
concurrent 
statin use 
None 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
component of post-marketing 
epidemiologic study. 
Targeted follow-up of serious reports of 
AV block with a particular focus on 
patients with a medical history of AV 
block and renal impairment, aggregate 
reporting in PSURs, in addition to 
routine pharmacovigilance. If available, 
Novartis will provide data on the 
incidence of conduction disturbances 
and other AEs related to cardiac 
function in high risk patients with 
hypertension, dyslipidemia and/or 
cardiovascular disease. 
Targeted follow-up of adverse muscle 
events, such as myalgia and myopathy, 
as well as for events of greater severity, 
such as rhabdomyolysis. Since the use of 
statins may be high in the target 
population, Novartis would like to 
differentiate any potential risk with this 
parameter, as well as differentiating 
according to degree of renal impairment. 
Novartis will provide a comprehensive 
analysis of all subjects/patients exposed 
to both vildagliptin alone and with 
statins who have increased CPK levels 
irrespective of magnitude in the PSUR. 
The name and dosages of statins 
administered, duration of statin 
administration will be indicated. 
Detailed narratives of these patients will 
be provided. 
None 
Hypoglycemia  Routine pharmacovigilance for events of 
greater severity with targeted follow-up. 
Queries regarding ACEI/ARB use as 
part of follow-up. 
Listing as an undesirable effect in [SmPC] 
and described in the prescribing 
information.  
Neurotoxicity  Evidence of neurotoxicity, by evaluating 
reports pertaining to the MedDRA SOCs 
Nervous System Disorders and 
Psychiatric Disorders, will be a topic of 
interest in the PSURs. This will be re-
assessed for appropriateness and any 
need for greater specificity of terms (eg 
instead of SOC, using specific PTs) at 
one year. 
Targeted follow-up of serious post-
marketing reports of infections along 
with PSUR aggregate review of these 
reports. Serious infections, as well as 
those with an outcome of death, will be 
a component of a population-based post-
marketing epidemiologic study. 
Novartis will substratify (S)AE reports 
Serious 
infections 
Gender 
None 
None 
None. 
23/27 
© EMEA 2007 
Safety issue 
incidence/diff
erences 
Patients ≥ 75 
years of age 
Patients with 
moderate and 
severe renal 
impairment 
Patients with 
severe hepatic 
impairment 
Patients with 
compromised 
cardiac 
function 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
from clinical trials according to gender 
in PSURs to look for any increase in the 
incidence of AEs in women. Post-
marketing and spontaneous reports will 
be examined, as well. 
As there is limited information 
concerning use of vildagliptin and 
metformin in patients ≥ 75 years of age, 
safety data regarding this population will 
be presented separately in clinical trial 
reports as well as in PSURs and other 
aggregate reporting, ie monthly for 
certain events. Data will be substratified 
for 65-74 and 75+ years. 
Post-marketing clinical studies in 
moderate and severe renal impairment. 
Targeted FU of post-marketing records 
of skin, cardiac, and hepatic reports for 
degree of renal impairment. 
SmPC will state that there is limited 
information concerning use of vildagliptin 
and metformin in patients ≥ 75 years of 
age and that caution should be exercised 
when prescribing to this group ([SmPC 
section 4.2 and 4.4]) 
SmPC will state ([SmPC section 4.2]) that 
vildagliptin and metformin is 
contraindicated in patients with creatinine 
clearance below 60ml/min. In the elderly, 
the [SmPC] advises regular checks of 
renal function and that vildagliptin and 
metformin has not been studied in patients 
over 75 years of age.  
SmPC will state that vildagliptin and 
metformin is contraindicated in patients 
with hepatic impairment, ([SmPC section 
4.2]) 
SmPC will state that there is limited 
information concerning use of vildagliptin 
and metformin in patients with heart 
failure class I and II and that therefore 
vildagliptin and metformin should be 
cautiously used in these patients. SmPC 
will also state that there is no experience 
of vildagliptin and metformin use in 
patients with heart failure class III and IV 
and that therefore use is not recommended 
in these patients ([SmPC section 4.4]) 
With targeted follow-up, there will be 
questions on hepatic impairment. 
With targeted follow-up, there will be 
questions on cardiac failure and 
arrhythmias. The PSUR will monitor 
cardiac events related to ischemia and 
hypoxia: eg congestive heart failure; 
acute coronary syndrome; myocardial 
infarction; need for invasive procedures, 
such as CABG, PCI; stroke; 
cardiovascular deaths, including sudden 
deaths or deaths of unknown cause. 
SMQs for Ischemic Heart Disease and 
Cerebrovascular Disorders, Ischaemic 
Cerebrovascular Conditions subsearch, 
will be employed, as well as the 
MedDRA v.9.1 HLT Vascular 
Therapeutic Procedures and the Novartis 
standard PSUR death search, 
substratified for cardiovascular deaths, 
sudden deaths, and deaths due to 
unknown cause. The matched cohort 
observational study will monitor 
detailed concomitant treatments, in 
particular cardio-depressant drugs 
(including dofetilide). 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
24/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  few  minor  unresolved  quality  issues,  which  do  not 
have any impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. These will be addressed as part of 
the follow-up measures to be addressed post-authorisation. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Essentially no preclicinical studies with the fixed combination Eucreas were conducted, instead the 
pharmacology and toxicology was mostly studied separately for the vildagliptin and metformin 
component. Overall, the data presented, as well the analysis of available literature, supported the 
combined use, and the evidence provided was considered acceptable by the CHMP. Data presented for 
vildagliptin specifically demonstrated a glucose-lowering effect in animal models of diabetes due to an 
inhibitory effect on the enzyme DPP-4, thus increasing the levels of incretin hormones which is 
thought to be the principal mechanism of improvement of glucose homeostasis by vildagliptin.  
The general pharmacology studies of vildagliptin showed little safety concerns. Cardiovascular 
changes at high concentrations in dogs were further investigated in humans and are taken into account 
within the RMP. The toxicology programme for vildagliptin raised little concern; there were, however, 
skin-lesions observed in vildagliptin-treated cynomolgus monkeys. The clinical relevance of these 
findings is unknown, but no equivalent was found in clinical safety studies. Nevertheless, this issue is 
addressed in the SPC, as well as in follow-up measures. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy of Eucreas was sufficiently demonstrated. In the absence of clinical efficacy studies 
conducted with the vildagliptin / metformin fixed-dose combination product, this has been 
demonstrated by bioequivalence studies together with add-on therapy studies of vildagliptin to 
metformin, as well as vildagliptin monotherapy studies. Except for the bioequivalence studies, these 
studies were also part of the data presented by the applicant leading to a positive opinion for 
vildagliptin (Galvus). 
Bioequivalence between the two strengths of the fixed combination and the corresponding free 
combination was demonstrated for both vildagliptin and metformin AUC and Cmax, using the normal 
acceptance criteria 0.80-1.25. 
Studies with vildagliptin given alone in T2DM patients showed a reduction of HbA1c (~1%) and FPG 
(~1 mmol/l) after 24 weeks. The usage as approved is largely based on one pivotal add-on placebo-
controlled study and one small supportive study with metformin as a base treatment. The populations 
studied hereby reflected sufficiently the populations indicated for use. 
The pivotal add-on therapy study included patients with inadequate glucose control on monotherapy 
and achieved clinically relevant reductions of HbA1c by adding a 50 mg bid dose of vildagliptin (0.88 
% absolute reduction, 1.10 % reduction compared with metformin alone) after 24 weeks.  
Vildagliptin given together with metformin was largely weight neutral. No comparisons have been 
made with other often used add-on alternatives such as metformin combined with a sulfonylurea. 
The recommended dose is 100 mg daily for the vildagliptin component. The recommended dose for 
metformin is 2000 mg. There are two tablet strengths approved, 50 mg vildagliptin and 850 mg 
metformin, as well as a second tablet with 50 mg vildagliptin and 1000 mg metformin. This allows the 
use of 1700 mg metformin with this fixed-dose combination, if this is clinically appropriate.  
25/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No study in the paediatric population was performed and therefore the use in this population is not 
recommended. Experience in patients aged 75 years and older is limited and caution should be 
exercised with the use in this population. 
Safety 
Metformin has been used in Europe since the 1950s and has a well-established safety profile due to 
extensive patient exposure. The vildagliptin safety data was based on 3784 patients with T2DM 
exposed for ≥ 12 weeks, both as monotherapy or in combination with another antidiabetic product. 
274 patients have been exposed to vildagliptin for ≥52 weeks as monotherapy. Data from the 
combined use was from two studies, where a total number of 441 patients had been treated 
concomitantly with vildagliptin and metformin. 
Common adverse events of a monotherapy with metformin are abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, 
diarrhoea, and metallic taste. With vildagliptin monotherapy, the overall incidences of AEs were 
largely comparable to placebo. Adverse reactions reported at an increased frequency compared to 
placebo included dizziness, headache, peripheral oedema, constipation, nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and arthralgia. In the combined use of vildagliptin with metformin, adverse 
reactions were reported to include tremor, headache, dizziness, fatigue and nausea.  
Eucreas shares some common concerns with vildagliptin (Galvus), in particular reported rare cases of 
angioedema,  a  small  numerical  imbalance  of  reports  of  elevated  liver  enzymes,  and  a  possible 
association  between  vildagliptin  and  first  degree  AV  block  (neither  confirmed  nor  excluded  at 
present).  In  addition,  there  were  preclinical  findings  with  vildagliptin  of  skin  lesions  in  monkeys 
(without the detection of a clinical equivalent at present). These issues are identically addressed as for 
Galvus  by  text  in  the  SPC  and  by  a  commitment  of  the  applicant  to  perform  appropriate  follow-up 
measures.  Eucreas  shares  with  metformin  the  risk  of  the  rare  but  serious  metabolic  complication  of 
lactic acidosis. This issue is addressed appropriately with warnings and contraindications (in section 
4.3 and 4.4) in the SPC. 
The number of hypoglycaemic events was low in patients treated with vildagliptin and metformin. 
SAE  were  uncommon  in  all  studies  and  there  was  no  clustering  of  specific  advents  associated  with 
vildagliptin treatment.  
There  are  concerns  with  regard  to  the use  of  vildagliptin  in patients  with  moderate  and  severe  renal 
impairment. Vildagliptin safety is also not sufficiently assessed in patients with cardiac heart failure. 
Since  both  circumstances  constitute  a  contraindication  for  the  use  of  metformin,  Eucreas  is 
contraindicated as well for this patient population. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation – To be confirmed and assessed by Raps 
The Applicant performed a user consultation testing on the package leaflet. The design of the test 
formed the basis of an adequate and competent testing of the PIL in regard to finding, diagnosing and 
amending possible weaknesses. The present readability test was well designed to meet its main 
objectives. The results of the user testing described in the user testing report support the changes made 
to the PIL. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits of Eucreas include clinically relevant and significant reductions of HbA1c and FPG 
compared to placebo. Treatment with Eucreas is also largely weight neutral. However, the therapy 
26/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with Eucreas has not been compared to other combination therapies, such as metformin plus 
sulfonylurea, and long-term efficacy data for Eucreas is limited. Both uncertainties are addressed in 
ongoing studies, the results of which will be evaluated as follow-up-measures. A presumed benefit of 
Eucreas is also the expected improvement of compliance by use of two antidiabetic agents in one 
tablet. 
Risks of the use of Eucreas are reported rare cases of angioedema, of elevations of transaminases, and 
the findings of skin lesions in monkeys. The risk of lactic acidosis due to metformin accumulation is 
addressed by warnings and contraindications. Eucreas is therefore contraindicated in moderate to 
severe renal impairment and cardiac heart failure.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  EUCREAS  in  the  treatment  of  Type  II  diabetes  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
27/27 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
