EMA/526898/2016  
EMEA/H/C/001199 
EPAR summary for the public 
Eurartesim 
piperaquine tetraphosphate / artenimol  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Eurartesim. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Eurartesim. 
What is Eurartesim? 
Eurartesim is a malaria medicine that contains the active substances piperaquine tetraphosphate and 
artenimol. It is available as tablets (160 mg/20 mg; 320 mg/40 mg).  
What is Eurartesim used for? 
Eurartesim is used to treat uncomplicated malaria caused by the Plasmodium falciparum parasite. 
‘Uncomplicated’ means the disease does not involve severe, life-threatening symptoms. It can be used 
in adults and children aged 6 months and over and weighing 5 kg or more.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Eurartesim used? 
Eurartesim is taken once a day for three consecutive days, at the same time each day. The dose is 
determined by the patient’s body weight. The tablets are swallowed with water when the stomach is 
empty, at least three hours before or after a meal. The tablets may be crushed and mixed with water if 
needed. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Eurartesim work? 
Malaria is an infection caused by a parasite known as Plasmodium and spread through the bite of an 
infected mosquito. The active substances in Eurartesim, piperaquine tetraphosphate and artenimol, are 
antimalarial substances which kill the P. falciparum parasite. Piperaquine tetraphosphate is a so-called 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
bisquinolone. It is chemically related to other widely available medicines used to treat malaria. It is 
thought to work by blocking a step in the parasite’s metabolism needed for its survival. Artenimol is a 
derivative of the naturally occurring substance artemisinin. Although the exact way in which it kills the 
parasite is not fully understood, it is believed to damage the parasite membrane. 
How has Eurartesim been studied? 
Eurartesim was investigated in two main studies in patients with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. 
In the first study, Eurartesim was compared with another malaria medicine containing artesunate and 
mefloquine in 1,150 patients. The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients who 
were cured 63 days after treatment. In the second study, Eurartesim was compared with another 
medicine containing artemether and lumefantrine in 1,553 children. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the proportion of patients who were cured 28 days after treatment. 
What benefit has Eurartesim shown during the studies? 
Eurartesim was shown to be effective in treating uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. In the first 
study, 63 days after treatment 97% of patients who received Eurartesim had been cured, compared 
with 95% of patients treated with the comparator medicine. In the second study, 28 days after 
treatment 93% of patients who received Eurartesim had been cured, compared with 95% of patients 
treated with the comparator medicine. 
What is the risk associated with Eurartesim? 
In adults, the most common side effects with Eurartesim (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) 
are anaemia (low red blood cell counts), headache, QTc interval prolongation (an alteration of the 
electrical activity of the heart, which can cause a life-threatening abnormality of heart rhythm), 
tachycardia (rapid heartbeat), weakness, and fever. In children, the most common side effects with 
Eurartesim (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) were influenza (flu), cough and fever. For the full list of 
all side effects with Eurartesim, see the package leaflet. 
Eurartesim must not be used in patients with severe malaria. It must not be used in patients who have 
or are at risk of QTc interval prolongation or cardiac arrhythmias (unstable heart rhythm) or who are 
taking medicines that can affect heart rhythm. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Eurartesim been approved? 
The CHMP considered that Eurartesim had been shown to be effective in treating uncomplicated 
P. falciparum malaria while the side effects were similar to those seen with comparable treatments. 
The CHMP noted the potential risk for QTc interval prolongation, and included restrictions in the 
product information to minimise the risk to patients. The Committee noted that Eurartesim meets 
World Health Organization recommendations for P. falciparum malaria treatment by offering a new 
alternative artemisinin combination therapy containing two active substances which work in different 
ways. Therefore, the Committee concluded that the benefits of Eurartesim outweigh its risks and 
recommended that it be granted marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Eurartesim? 
The company that markets Eurartesim will provide all doctors expected to prescribe or use Eurartesim 
with an educational pack containing important information on the correct use of the medicine, including 
Eurartesim  
EMA/526898/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
a checklist of the medicines that Eurartesim must not be given with, to reduce the risk of QTc interval 
prolongation. The Eurartesim carton is to include instructions to take the medicine at least 3 hours 
before or after food. The company will also complete a study on Eurartesim’s effects on the heart. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Eurartesim have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.  
Other information about Eurartesim 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Eurartesim on 27 October 2011. 
The full EPAR for Eurartesim can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Eurartesim, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2016.  
Eurartesim  
EMA/526898/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
