European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/449199/2008   
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Evicel 
Common Name: human fibrinogen / human thrombin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000898 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 12 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 33 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 35 
Page 2 of 37 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  OMRIX  biopharmaceuticals  S.A.  submitted  on  25  July  2007  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Evicel,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (2)  b  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 23-26 January 2006. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure under Article 3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was on the basis that 
it is a new medicinal product derived from human plasma: The formulation of the fibrin sealant kit is 
novel  in  that  its  fibrinogen  component  is  not  formulated  with  any  antifibrinolytic  agent  (such  as 
aprotinin or tranexamic acid).  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
Composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based 
on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature  substituting/supporting  certain 
test(s) or study(ies). 
Licensing status: 
Evicel has been given a Marketing Authorisation in USA on 06.06.2006. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Dr. Christian K. Schneider 
Co-Rapporteur: Prof. Michal Pirozynski 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the 
The application was received by the EMEA on 25 July 2007. 
The procedure started on 15 August 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 November 
2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 7 
November 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  10-13  December  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 13 December 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  
27  March 2008. 
The  summary  report  of 
the  following  site(s)  Omrix 
inspection  carried  out  at 
Biopharmaceuticals  Ltd., Kiryat  Ono,  Israel  between  13-17  April 2008  was  issued  on  10  July 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 13 May 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 27-30 May 2008 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 June 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 7 July 2008. 
During the meeting on 21-24 July 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Evicel  on  24  July  2008.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 22 July 2008. 
Page 3 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1  
Introduction 
Evicel is a fibrin sealant kit consisting of two human plasma-derived components, Human Fibrinogen 
and Human Thrombin. 
The term fibrin sealant denotes a product containing coagulation factors, to be administered topically 
in order to produce a fibrin clot. Typical fibrin sealant kits consist of at least two components, which 
are kept separately until allowed to mix in topical application. One of the components usually contains 
human fibrinogen, as substrate of the clot. The other component contains biologically active thrombin, 
which will convert the fibrinogen of the first component to fibrin.  
Fibrinogen  is  cleaved  to  fibrin  by  thrombin,  and  consequently  the  fibrin  clot  is  formed.  Factor  XIII 
(contained in low amounts in the preparation) crosslinks fibrin fibers, after activation to Factor XIIIa 
by thrombin. By this mechanism haemostasis is achieved and a matrix generated, which supports the 
natural  wound  healing  process.  The  final  stage  of  the  blood  coagulation  process,  i.e.  the  natural 
mechanism of clot formation, is imitated by fibrin sealant. 
Evicel is a further development of Quixil, which is approved for marketing in 14 EU countries since 
2003, first in 1999 in UK. One difference between Evicel and Quixil is the final composition of the 
fibrinogen component whereas the thrombin component remains the same. The fibrinogen component 
of  Quixil  contains  the  synthetic  antifibrinolytic  agent  tranexamic  acid  (TA),  which  inhibits  the 
degradation  of  fibrinogen.  However,  because  tranexamic  acid  is  potentially  neurotoxic  Quixil  is 
contraindicated for use in neurosurgery and all procedures where contact with the CSF and dura mater 
might  occur.  By  specific  removal  of  plasminogen  the  need  for  stabilization  with  tranexamic  acid  is 
avoided,  and  Evicel’s  fibrinogen  is  formulated  without  tranexamic  acid.  Its  protein  concentration  is 
30-50% higher requiring the submission of a new application for marketing authorisation. 
The indication claimed by the applicant is “Evicel is intended for clinical use as supportive treatment 
in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis and to 
promote sealing, or as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery”. The approved indication is 
“Evicel is used as supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, 
for improvement of haemostasis. Evicel is also indicated as suture support for haemostasis in vascular 
surgery”. Evicel is intended for epilesional use only. The posology should always be oriented towards 
the underlying clinical needs of the patient. In clinical trials in vascular surgery, the individual dosage 
used was up to 4 ml, whereas in retroperitoneal or intra-abdominal surgery the individual dosage used 
was up to 10 ml, however application of the product must be individualised by the treating physician. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Evicel  Solutions  for  Sealant  is  a  Fibrin  Sealant  Kit  (Ph.  Eur.  01/2005:0903)  consisting  of  two 
biological,  double  virus-inactivated  components,  Human  Fibrinogen  and  Human  Thrombin,  each 
supplied as frozen solution with an application device. Upon thawing component 1 is to be mixed with 
component 2 in equal volumes. Human Fibrinogen is a concentrate of clottable protein and Thrombin 
is  an  enzyme  that  causes  clottable  protein  to  coagulate.  Thus,  when  the  two  components  are  mixed 
together  they  immediately  form  a  fibrin  clot.  Evicel  is  intended  for  epilesional  use  in  a  surgical 
context.  
Component 1 - Human Fibrinogen 
The primary difference between the Fibrinogen components of Quixil and Evicel, is that plasminogen 
is  removed  from  the  preparation  by  an  affinity  chromatography,  so  that  the  need  to  add  tranexamic 
acid as a stabiliser is avoided. Tranexamic acid serves as a competitive inhibitor of plasminogen, and 
is used in Quixil as an anti-fibrinolytic agent. However, tranexamic acid is potentially neurotoxic, and 
Page 4 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as  a  result,  Quixil  is  contraindicated  for  use  in  neurosurgery  and  procedures  where  contact  with  the 
CSF and dura mater might occur.  
All  the  earlier  manufacturing  steps,  including  the  viral  inactivation,  are  identical  to  those  in 
manufacture of Quixil’s Human Fibrinogen component. The concentration of protein in the fibrinogen 
component of Evicel is 30-50% higher than in the Quixil component. 
Composition 
Human Fibrinogen component is a non-pyrogenic solution, pH 6.8 – 7.2, consisting of a concentrate of 
clottable proteins with a concentration of 50-90 mg/ml. It principally consists of fibrinogen, but also  
of  fibronectin,  albumin,  immune  globulins  and  trace  amounts  of  other  plasma  proteins  (e.g.  Factor 
VIII, Factor XIII, von Willebrand Factor). In addition, it contains arginine hydrochloride as stabiliser 
as  well  as  glycine,  sodium  chloride,  sodium  citrate  and  calcium  chloride  as  buffer  agents.  Human 
Fibrinogen component is supplied to the user as frozen solution. 
Container and closure 
Human Fibrinogen drug product is filled in 5 ml aliquots into 10ml Ph.Eur. Type I glass vials; or 1ml 
or  2ml  aliquots  into  7ml  vials.  Rubber  infusion  stoppers  of  type  I  (Ph.  Eur.,  Rubber  Closures  for 
Containers for Aqueous Preparations for Parenteral Use) are used as closures for the vials. Both vials 
and  stoppers  are  siliconised.  The  closures  are  sealed  in  place  with  aluminium  crimps  with  flip-off 
caps.  The  specifications  of  the  glass  vials  and  the  infusion  stoppers  as  well  as  the  corresponding 
Quality  Certificates  are  provided.  In  summary,  the  container  closure  system  for  Human  Fibrinogen 
drug product is in compliance with Ph.Eur. requirements.  
Drug Substance 
Manufacturing process development 
The manufacturing process development is sufficiently described. The rationale for the introduction of 
the affinity chromatography for selective removal of plasminogen is sufficiently justified. By specific 
removal  of  plasminogen  the  need  for  stabilization  with  tranexamic  acid  is  avoided,  and  Evicel’s 
Fibrinogen is formulated without tranexamic acid. Some of the validation and developmental studies 
were conducted on batches of Human Fibrinogen for Quixil. However, all steps up to (and including) 
the pasteurization are identical, and all development and validation studies of these steps are equally 
applicable  to  Evicel’s  Fibrinogen.  For  the  steps  that  differ,  relevant  development  and  validation 
studies have been performed. A second modification of the manufacturing process was a scale-up of 
production by 3.5 fold.  
Starting material 
Human  plasma  is  used  as  starting  material  for  the  production  of  fibrinogen.  The  collection,  viral 
marker  testing,  transport  and  storage  of  single  donations  as  well  as  the  viral  marker  testing  of  the 
plasma pool are documented in the PMF which is evaluated and certified in parallel to the centralised 
procedure for Evicel (EMEA/H/PMF/000013/07).  
Description of manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process of the fibrinogen component is described in detail and comprehensively. It 
consists of precipitation and purification steps and includes two steps for virus inactivation. 
In-process controls 
The applicant has established in-process-controls and defined acceptance criteria at critical steps of the 
manufacturing process to assure that the process is controlled. A rationale is given for all in-process 
controls supported by experimental data from 21 human fibrinogen batches. The in-process controls 
performed  during  manufacture  of  human  fibrinogen  bulk  are  appropriate  to  ensure  the  quality  and 
consistency of the drug substance. 
Batch size 
The batch size for the production of fibrinogen drug substance is adequately defined. The only step 
where pooling of intermediates may take place is at the cryoprecipitation level. 
Page 5 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reprocessing 
In  case  of  a  mechanical  failure  of  the  centrifugation,  filtration,  or  chromatography  systems,  the 
repetition  of  the  processing  step  would  be  permitted,  provided  that  the  manufacturer’s  Quality 
Assurance department confirms that this repetition is unlikely to affect the quality of the product. The 
repetition of the virus inactivation is not allowed and the drug substance is not reworked. 
Control of materials 
Certificates of Analysis are provided for all ingredients, reagents and auxiliary material purchased and 
retested by the manufacturer according to Ph. Eur. in the manufacture of drug substance fibrinogen. In 
the  case  where  there  is  no  pharmacopoeial  specification,  the  supplier’s  specifications  are  provided. 
Water for injection for production is manufactured and controlled by the manufacturer’s PFI. 
Intermediates 
Cryoprecipitate used as intermediate for the production of fibrinogen is produced from human plasma 
which collection, testing, storage and transport is documented and evaluated within the OMRIX PMF 
certification procedure ((EMEA/H/PMF/000013/07).  
Analytical data from cryoprecipitate used for the production of 3 batches of fibrinogen were submitted 
for characterisation of cryoprecipitate. 
The storage of the cryoprecipitate intermediate is justified by stability data. 
Process validation 
Manufacturing  steps  critical  for  safety  and  quality  of  fibrinogen  drug  substance  were  identified  and 
adequately validated based on data from three commercial scale validation batches. In addition, data 
from the analysis of final product from the validation batches as well as in-process control data from 
21 batches produced in 2006 were provided. In conclusion, the manufacturing process is sufficiently 
controlled to ensure batch to batch consistency. 
•  Specification 
Appropriate drug substance specifications are set for Human Fibrinogen and are sufficiently justified. 
Analytical procedures 
The  analytical  methods  used  for  the  control  testing  of  the  fibrinogen  drug  substance  are  adequately 
described and validated.  
Assay for fibrinogen 
Initially, the applicant applied for a modified version of the clottable protein test for determining the 
active substance in the fibrinogen component and called this assay clottable fibrinogen test. However, 
as  there  was  a  statistical  significant  difference  between  this  test  and  the  Ph.  Eur.  test,  the  applicant 
agreed  within  the  response  to  the  List  of  outstanding  Issues  to  measure  potency  of  fibrinogen  by 
“Determination  of  Clottable  Protein”  as  specified  by  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  Fibrin  Sealant  Kit 
(01/2008:0903)  with  the  modification  that  the  determination  of  protein  will  be  done  by  a  method 
which  compares  the  UV  absorbance  at  280  nm  of  the  test  sample  with  that  of  a  standard  protein 
solution.  A  batch  of  Human  Fibrinogen,  calibrated  for  total  protein  is  used  as  the  standard.  The 
proposed  method  has  been  compared  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  method  (Kjeldahl  method).  Statistical 
evaluation revealed no statistically significant differences between the two methods.  
The  active  ingredient  of  the  Fibrinogen  component  will  be  declared  as  “Clottable  Protein”.  The 
specification is 50-90 mg/ml (71 % to 129 %) corresponding to the specification range defined by the 
Ph. Eur.  
•  Stability 
The provided stability data support the storage of Human Fibrinogen drug substance.  
•  Comparability Exercise for Fibrinogen Drug Substance of Quixil vs Evicel 
Page 6 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For comparison the applicant provided the composition of Human Fibrinogen of Quixil versus 
Evicel. 
Drug Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
By specific removal of the product related impurity plasminogen during the purification process of the 
fibrinogen  drug  substance  of  Evicel  (see  above)  the  need  for  stabilisation  of  fibrinogen  with 
tranexamic  acid  is  not  required.  The  excipients  used  for  formulation  are  non-toxic  and  act  as 
stabilising agents. They are also contained in the formulation of the predecessor product Quixil.  
Description of the manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process of the Human Fibrinogen drug product is adequately described.  
The  batch  formula  has  been  provided.  Critical  process  steps  were  identified  and  validated  at 
commercial scale to ensure batch to batch consistency.  
Control of excipients 
All excipients are already present at their final concentration in the drug substance and are adequately 
controlled. 
•  Product Specification 
The specifications for the Human Fibrinogen drug product are adequately set and justified.  
Analytical  methods  are  appropriate  to  control  the  defined  parameters  and  comply  with  the  Ph.Eur 
monograph. Validations of analytical methods were provided according to ICH guideline Q2 (R1). 
The  Ph.Eur.  requires  that  in  case  a  Human  Fibrinogen  drug  product  contains  factor  XIII  at  a 
concentration exceeding 10 U/ml, its estimated potency should appear on the label. The applicant does 
not consider factor XIII to be an active ingredient in the Human Fibrinogen component of Evicel.  
•  Stability of the Product 
The provided stability data justify the shelf life and storage conditions as described in the SPC.  
In use stability data support the wording of the SPC (section 6.6) that the incubation period at 37oC for 
thawing of Evicel’s frozen Fibrinogen component is defined to not more than 10 minutes. 
Component 2 – Human Thrombin 
Introduction 
Thrombin  belongs  to  the  family  of  Trypsin-like  serine  proteases  which  are  synthesized  as  inactive 
precursor  to  be  cleaved  by  limited  proteolysis  into  the  active  form.  In  the  manufacture  of  Evicel’s 
Human  Thrombin,  Prothrombin  is  cleaved  and  released  as  Thrombin  during  a  chromatographic 
purification  step.  Thrombin  is  a  highly  specific  protease  which  cleaves  fibrinogen  into  fibrin. 
Thrombin (α thrombin) is subject to slow auto-degradation to the smaller proteins, β- and γ-thrombin.  
The  manufacture  of  Human  Thrombin  starts  with  cryopoor  plasma  followed  by  purification  steps 
using  anion  and  cation  exchange  chromatography.  The  applicant  claims  that  no  manufacturing 
changes occur in Evicel’s Thrombin component compared to the predecessor product Quixil.  
Composition 
Evicel’s  Thrombin  component  is  a  non-pyrogenic  solution  consisting  of  800-1200  IU/ml  human 
thrombin with human albumin  and mannitol as stabilisers and as well as calcium chloride and sodium 
Page 7 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acetate as buffer agents. The pH of the solution is 6.8 – 7.2. Thrombin component is supplied to the 
user as frozen solution. 
Container closure system 
The container closure system for Human Thrombin is the same as for Human Fibrinogen. 
Drug Substance  
Human Thrombin drug substance is defined as the formulated bulk prior to sterile filtration and filling 
into vials. 
Manufacturing process development 
A  summary  of  pharmaceutical  development  studies  performed  to  optimize  and  validate  the  critical 
steps of the manufacturing process are provided.  
Starting material 
The human plasma used as starting material for the production of Human Thrombin is the same as the 
one used for the production of Human Fibrinogen. The collection, viral marker testing, transport and 
storage of single donations as well as the viral marker testing of the plasma pool are documented in the 
PMF  which  is  evaluated  and  certified  in  parallel  to  the  centralised  procedure  for  Evicel 
(EMEA/H/PMF/000013/07). 
Description of the manufacturing process 
The  applicant  has  provided  extensive  information  to  adequately  describe  the  manufacturing  process 
and process controls. It consists of purification steps and two steps for virus inactivation/removal.  
In-process controls 
Adequate in-process controls and acceptance criteria are established at critical steps to ensure that the 
manufacturing process is sufficiently controlled.  
Batch size 
The batch size is defined.  
Reprocessing 
The criteria for reprocessing are the same as for the manufacture of Human Fibrinogen. 
Control of materials 
Certificates of Analysis are provided for all ingredients, reagents and auxiliary material purchased and 
retested by the manufacturer according to Ph. Eur. in the manufacture of drug substance. In the case 
where there is no pharmacopoeial specification, the supplier’s specifications are provided. Water for 
injection for production is manufactured and controlled by the manufacturer’s PFI. 
Albumin 
Human Thrombin component contains Human Albumin for stabilisation. It complies with the Ph. Eur. 
monograph “Human Albumin Solution”.  
The  information  related  to  the  plasma  used  as  starting  material  in  the  manufacture  of  Albumin  is 
provided in a Plasma Master File, which is certified. This PMF is valid to its full extent for Human 
Albumin.  
Certificate  of  Analysis  for  Human  Albumin  has  been  provided.  The  applicant  confirms  to  use  the 
albumin  only  when  it  is  within  its  shelf  life.  EU  OMCL  batch  release  testing  of  the  albumin  is 
performed.  
Intermediates 
There is no pooling of intermediates during the production of Human Thrombin drug substance.  
Process validation 
Page 8 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The consistency and robustness of the manufacturing process used for production of Human Thrombin 
was  validated  by  the  manufacture  of  three  consecutive  batches.  Critical  manufacturing  steps  were 
identified and adequately validated. In addition, in-process controls of the three validation batches and 
batches  manufactured  in  2006  were  analysed.  All  results  were  within  the  specified  limits 
demonstrating  the batch  to  batch  consistency  of  drug  substance production.  In  line  with  this  finding 
were the results from testing and additional characterisation of the finished product of the validation 
batches.  
•  Specification 
Adequate specifications are set for the Human Thrombin drug substance and sufficiently justified. 
Analytical procedures for the testing of the Human Thrombin drug substance are submitted. Thrombin 
is determined by the clotting assay described for Component 2 of Fibrin sealant Kit in the Ph.Eur.. In 
compliance with ICH guideline Q2(R1) (Validation of Analytical Procedures: Text and Methodology) 
the  applicant  has  provided  method  validations  for  all  analytical  methods  used  in  the  quality  control 
during  release  of  Human  Thrombin  drug  substance.  For  analytical  procedures  which  are  not  fully 
compendial,  a  justification  was  provided  why  comparability  could  not  be  fully  shown  between  the 
Ph.Eur. method and the method used. 
Batch analysis 
Batch results from 5 successive batches of Human Thrombin drug substance were submitted. All test 
results  are  within  the  defined  specifications  and  demonstrate  the  consistency  in  the  manufacture  of 
Human Thrombin component of Evicel. 
Container closure  
Human Thrombin drug substance is filled in bags. The contact layer is Polyethylene-vinyl acetate Ph. 
Eur. The bags are sterilised by gamma-radiation.  
•  Stability 
Human  Thrombin  drug  substance  may  be  stored.  For  justification  sufficient  stability  data  were 
provided. 
Drug Product  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Description of manufacturing process 
Sufficient information has been provided to adequately describe the manufacturing process of Human 
Thrombin drug product.  
The  batch  formula  is  given.  The  process  has  been  sufficiently  validated  for  this  production  scale. 
Critical parameters at critical steps of the drug product manufacturing process were identified to assure 
that the process is controlled to ensure the quality and consistency of the drug product.  
Control of excipients 
All excipients are already present at their final concentration in the drug substance and are adequately 
controlled. 
•  Product Specification 
The Human Thrombin drug product specifications are adequately set and justified to ensure product 
quality.  
Page 9 of 37 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analytical methods are appropriate to control the defined parameters and comply with the Ph.Eur 
monograph. Validations of analytical methods were provided according to ICH guideline Q2 (R1). 
Batch analysis 
Analysis  of  data  from  five  representative  batches  demonstrates  consistent  batch  to  batch  quality  of 
Human Thrombin drug product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The provided stability data justify the shelf life and storage conditions as described in the SPC. 
Evicel - Assembled Product 
Description and Composition 
Evicel  is  a  fibrin  sealant  consisting  of  two  plasma-derived  components,  Human  Fibrinogen  and 
Human Thrombin solutions.  These are supplied in the frozen state, thawed by the user, and combined 
for local application with a CE marked application device to achieve haemostasis. The composition of 
the two components is given above. The application device is not part of this application for marketing 
authorisation. 
Container 
The  Evicel  kit  consists  of  two  cardboard  packages.  One  package  contains  one  vial  of  each  of  the 
biological  components,  Human  Fibrinogen  and  Human  Thrombin  and  the  other  contains  the  CE-
marked application device. 
•  Manufacture 
Description of the manufacturing process 
A  package  of  Evicel  contains  one  vial  of  Component  1  -  Human  Fibrinogen  and  one  vial  of 
Component 2 – Human Thrombin (each 5ml, 2ml or 1ml) and a CE-marked application device (5ml or 
1ml/2ml). 
The manufacturing steps include the final packaging of the biological components and QA approval, 
release storage, assembly and labeling of device package.  
•  Product Specification 
An identification test is performed for the fibrin sealant kit to check whether the two components form 
a clot immediately when mixed and applied with the device to a glass plate. The performance of the 
application device in producing a homogeneous mixture of the two components has been validated. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Both components of Evicel, Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin, as well as the Human Albumin 
used as stabiliser for the thrombin are produced from human plasma sourced in the USA.  
Risk of contamination with TSE 
Appropriate donor selection criteria are in place. Donors with an increased risk for sporadic or variant 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob-Disease  are  excluded.  Systems  are  in  place  which  allow  traceability  of  each 
donation supplied for the manufacture of fibrinogen, thrombin and albumin in case a donor develops 
(or  is  strongly  suspected  to  have  develop)  vCJD.  In  this  case  any  batches  of  Evicel  which  include 
suspected donations would be withdrawn from the market and the competent authorities informed.  
The prion removal capacity of the manufacturing processes for fibrinogen, thrombin and albumin was 
investigated. In summary, compliance with Position Statement CPMP/BWP/2879/02 on human TSEs 
and plasma-derived medicinal products has been demonstrated.  
Page 10 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious viruses 
Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin 
The overall viral safety strategy includes selection of qualified donors and testing of plasma donations 
collected  in  the  USA.  The  donor  selection  and  plasma  donation  testing  strategy  for  viral  markers  is 
considered adequate.  
The  applicant  validated  virus  inactivation  steps  included  in  the  manufacture  of  fibrinogen  and 
thrombin. These steps were validated for their capacity to inactivate/remove viruses. The selection of 
process steps for validation is considered sufficient. The virus studies are of good quality and comply 
with the requirements of Guideline CPMP/BWP/268/95. Adequate controls (cyto
toxicity, interference) 
w
ere performed and complete study reports including raw data were submitted.  
In summary, two dedicated steps for virus inactivation/removal were introduced into the manufacture 
of  fibrinogen.  Enveloped  viruses  are  efficiently  inactivated  at  both  virus  inactivation  steps.  One  of 
them  also  inactivates  non-enveloped  viruses  such  as  Hepatitis  A  virus.  Nevertheless,  validation  of 
enveloped  virus  reduction  at  pasteurisation  should  include  a  Herpesvirus  (e.g.  PRV).  Having  a  full 
validation data base is highly recommended for cases when post donation information indicating virus 
positive samples entering the fractionation pool, would become available. Since there are no general 
concerns  regarding  enveloped  virus  safety  this  virus  validation  study  can  be  performed  post-
authorisation. Since PRV is wi
dely used for this purpose, the manufacturer commits to perform a viral 
in
activation study with PRV.  
The  virus  reduction  strategy  for  thrombin  is  based  on  an  efficient  inactivation  step  for  enveloped 
viruses and a step for which removal
 of enveloped viruses as well as small non-enveloped viruses such 
a
s parvoviruses was demonstrated.  
Human Albumin 
As for fibrinogen and thrombin, the overall viral safety strategy includes selection of qualified donors 
and testing of plasma donations collected in the US
A. The donor selection and plasma donation testing 
s
trategy for viral markers is considered adequate.  
Due to the established and validated manufacturing
ri
sk from albumin has been adequately minimised. 
 procedure and final pasteurisation step, the viral 
Risk assessment and Statements in SPC Section 4.4 
A  risk  Assessment  according  to  new  chapter  6  of  Guideline  CPMP/BWP/269/95  concerning  HIV, 
HBV, and HCV has been submitted. T
he provided data justify the inclusion of the following warning 
statement into section 4.4 of the SPC: 
The  me
HAV.  
The measures taken may be of limited value against non-enveloped viruses such as parvovirus B19.
Parvovirus B19 infection may be serious for pregnant women (foetal infection) 
and for individuals 
w
ith immunodeficiency or increased erythropoiesis (e.g. haemolytic anaemia). 
asures  taken  are  considered  effective  for  enveloped  viruses  such  as  HIV,  HBV,  HCV,  and 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substances  and  drug  products  of 
both components of Evicel, Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin were presented in a satisfactory 
manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important 
product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. Safety with regard to transmissible agents, such as 
human TSE and enveloped and non-enveloped viruses has been demonstrated in compliance with the 
relevant CHMP guidelines. 
At the time of the CPMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and 
committed to resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Page 11 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical study program for Evicel focussed on the evaluation of its primary pharmacological 
effects especially haemostatic efficacy, the frequency of occurrence of post-surgical adhesions and the 
stability of the clot onc
e formed, in comparison with other marketed fibrin sealants (Quixil, Surgicel, 
Tissucol and Tisseel). 
The pivotal non-clinical studies for Evicel have been conducted in compliance with Good Laboratory 
tandards. Most of the other non-clinical studies provided were not performed under 
Practice (GLP) s
LP standards. 
G
P
harmacology 
T
he pharmacological studies provided are summarised in Table 1: 
Table 1: Pha
Study type 
rmacolog
ical studies performed fo
Route/Administration 
r Evicel 
Rabbit partial 
hepatectomy model  
Rat kidney 
haemorrhage model  
Rat kidney 
haemorrhage  model  
Rat abdominal wall 
defect model 
Local / sprayed onto resected liver 
prayed onto resected 
prayed onto resected 
Local / s
kidney 
Local / s
kidney 
Local / sprayed ont
abdominal wall 
o incised 
GLP-
compliance 
yes 
no 
no 
no 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  objective  of  a  rat  kidney  haemorrhage  study  was  to  assess  the  haemostatic  profile  of 
Evicel  and  secondly  to  investigate  the  influence  on  its  haemostatic  performance,  when  different 
amounts of Fibrinogen degradation products (FgDPs) were added. The impact of the reduction in the 
clottable  Fibrinogen  concentration  by  spiking  with  Albumin  was  also  investigated.  The  endpoints 
measured  (occurrence  of  points  of  high  pressure  =  bubbles  under  the  clot)  were  found  to  be 
comparable for Evicel and Quixil. When either Albumin or F
gPDs were added to Evicel’s Fibrinogen 
c
omponent haemostatic properties were found to be weaker. 
In  a  second  rat  kidney  haemorrhage  study,  two  groups  each  consisting  of  10  male  rats  were  either 
treated  with  Evicel  or  with  Quixil.  Assessment  of  the  haemostatic  performance  of  Evicel  when 
compared to Quixil revealed that clot performed was similar. In both groups, all 10 animals comple
ted 
a
nd localised points of higher pressure appeared at the clot surface in 2/10 animals in each group.   
The goal of the rat abdominal wall incision study was to evaluate the in vivo longevity of a clot formed 
by  the  Evicel,  in  comparison  to  other  fibrin  sealants.  A  2cm  x  1cm  flap  in  the  abdominal  wall  was 
made,  creating  a  defect  that  penetrates  the  wall  muscles.  The  wounds  were  sprayed  with  1ml  of  the 
fibrin sealant preparations, followed by closure of incision and skin. 5 groups of 10 animals each of 
male  rats  were  used  to  test  Evicel  (two  groups),  Quixil,  Tissucol  and  Tisseel.  The  animals  were 
sacrificed  at  several  time  points  up  to  14  days  following  treatment
.  The  results  of  this  study 
d
emonstrate comparability in clot longevity within the treatment groups. 
The objective of the rabbit partial hepatectomy study was to evaluate the haemostatic properties of two 
batches  of  Evicel  using  a  rabbit  partial  hepatectomy  model.  The  batches  differed  in  the  source  of 
cryoprecipitate.  Partial  hepatectomy  was  performed  in  three  groups  of 10 animals. Each wound was 
sprayed  with  at  least  1  ml  of  either  the  test  or  the  reference  fibrin  sealants.  Time  to  achieve 
haemostasis was recorded for each animal following application of the fibrin sealant. The mean time 
Page 12 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to haemostasis (ca. 50 s) has been found to be similar within the treated group as well as the amount of 
fibrin sealant used. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamic
s 
Studies have not been submitted. 
•  Safety pharmacology program
me 
Studies have not been submitted. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug intera
ctions 
Studies have not bee
n submitted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
he pharmacokinetics of α-thrombin was examined in two studies using radio-labelled thrombin, 
T
which examined intravenous in
jection and topical application to cut surface of liver in rabbits. 
•  Absorption-Bioavailability 
Absorption of 125Iα thrombin either after intravenous injection or on hepatic wounds in the rabbit was 
evaluated. The study was performed in randomized comparative designs in which animals received the 
test material after application to the cut surface or i.v. injection. The results obtained showed that the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  in  the  rabbit  was  equivalent  to  that  seen  in  humans  after  i.v.  inject
ion.  The 
Cmax  (7-9  μg/ml)  was  reached  after  45  –  60  minutes  after  application  and  the  clearance  was  rapid 
about, 0.5 μg/ml remained after 10 hours and levels were almost undetectable after 24 hours. 
tudy  demonstrated  that  the  absorption  of  125Iα  thrombin  is  rapid  and  consists  mainly  of 
The  s
biologically  inactive  peptides  resulting  from  degradation  by  plasmin  of  α  thrombin  embedded  in  a 
clot.  
A second study addressed the absorption of 125I-thrombin and 3H-tranexamic acid after application on 
hepatic wounds in rabbit. The objective of this study was to evaluate blood levels of    125I-thrombin 
and  3H-tranexamic  acid  after  application  to  the  hepatic  wounds  in  rabbit  animal  model.  All  animals 
showed a similar pattern: up to 6 – 10 hours the curves of plasma and filter concentration are parallel, 
r 
with  plasma  concentration  approximately  half  of  the  filter  concentrations.  After  6  hours  the  filte
oncentration  tended  to  increase,  decrease  or  remain  the  same,  while  the  plasma  concentration 
c
continue to incre
ase up to 20 hours. The Cmax of thrombin related proteins was in 55 – 150 mU/ml. 
•  Distribution 
Studies have not
 been submitted. 
•  Metabolism 
Studies have not been submitted. 
•  Excretion 
Studies have not been submitted. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interacti
ons 
Page 13 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies have not been submitted. 
•  Other pharmacokinetics studies 
TnBP and Triton X-100 
The pharmacokinetics of TnBP and Triton X-100 (1+5) were studied in Sprague – Dawley rats after a 
single intravenous administration of the compounds. A literature search allowed to state that studies on 
Nonoxynol-9  substance  closely  related  to  Triton  x-100  indicated  that  this  substance  is  excreted 
primarily via the liver – bile route in the faeces and secondarily in the urine. The
 half life is several 
days. Intravenous administration of 14C-labeled Naonoxynol-9 resulted in complete metabolism of the 
compound, with tissue distribution that concentrated on small and large intestines. 
A number of studies address the potential neurotoxicity and immunotoxicity of TnBP and Triton X-
100. When a LD50 (1863 mg/kg) was given to adult hens, there were no demonstrable signs of neural 
damage or other significant clinical findings. Administration of doses exceeding (over 9000 times) the 
secondary anti-SRBC (sheep red 
daily dose of Evicel gave no indication of any effect on primary or 
blood  cell)  response,  leukocyte  counts,  or  the  sizes  of  vital  organs  (kidneys,  heart,  lungs,  and 
thymuses). Serum IgG and IgM were also similar to that of controls. 
ssed. Triton X-100 proved to be toxic 
The potential cytotoxic effects on the fibroblasts have been addre
in  the  25μg/mL  area;  however  this  was  reduced  when  the  serum  protein  increased.  There  was  no 
evidence of significant cell damage in the mutagenicity studies.  
Triton X-100 inhibits enzyme cell activity in a cell free system. The LC50 for cytochrome oxidase fell 
pm range. Rapid dilution of the residual amounts of Triton X-100 infused with plasma 
within the 22 p
nd  immunoglobulin  allows  concluding  that  these  in  vitro  findings  have  no  toxicological 
a
consequence
s. 
oT xicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicology  stud
summarises studi
es performe
ies  were  performed  in  full  conformity  with  GLP  regulations.  Table  2 
d with
d Triton X. 
 TnBP an
Table 2: Single dose studies 
Substance tested 
TnBP+ Triton X-100 (1+5) 
TnBP+ Triton X-100 (1+20) 
TnBP + Triton X -100 (1+5) 
species 
route
rat 
Mouse 
rat 
Rat mature 
Rat newborn 
i.v. 
i.p. 
i.p. 
i.p. 
i.p. 
stered 
Dose admini
(mg/kg bw) 
3.16 - 100 
1.56 – 22.8 
0.49 – 33.5 
21.5 – 316.0 
10.0 – 316.0 
Results of single dose studies of TnBP and Triton X – 100 administration shows LD50 values ranging 
from 5.1 ± 25.5 to 35 ± 177 mg /kg. This depended on the rodent species and route of administration. 
This  is  at  least  3000  times  greater  than  the  dose  of  TnBP  and  Triton  X-100  expected  in  humans 
eceiving  Evicel.  The  LLD 
(lowest  lethal  dose)  ranges  from  5.3  ±  26  to  6.1  ±  122  mg/kg.  The 
r
NOALEL (no adverse effect level) was 0.2 ± 
4 to 7.7 ± 39 mg/kg at least 130 fold greater than the 
c
alculated dose for patients.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
he combination of T
T
for 13 weeks by means of intravenous
(see Table 3).  
nBP and Triton X – 100 in a mixture ration of 1 + 5 was tested in rats and dogs 
 administration, to mimic the route of administration in humans 
Page 14 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Repeat dose toxicity studies 
Substance 
tested 
species 
route 
TnBP + Triton 
X-100 (1+5) 
rat 
dog 
i.v. 
i.v. 
Doses administer
(μg/kg/
bw/day) 
TnB
P 
12 
60 
300
13 
50 
500 
ed 
on X - 100 
Trit
60 
300 
150
65 
250 
2500 
0 
The calculated NOAEL for local effects was 12 ± 60 μg/kg in the rat, and 13 ± 65 μg/kg in the dog. 
NOAEL  for  systemic  effects  was  300  ±  1500  μg/kg  for  rat  and  500  ±  2500  μg/kg  for  dog.  These 
alues being at least 200 fold grater than the calculated exposure to patients. 
v
  Genotoxicity 
•
The mutagenic potential of fibrinogen and thrombin and the combination of TnBP and Triton X-100 
has  been  assessed  using  the  Ames  test,  mammalian  mutagenicity  assay  (V79  cells)  or  chromosomal 
 rats and the micronucleus test in Sprague Dawley rats and 
analysis of bone marrow in Sprague Dawley
N
MRI mice (see Table 4). 
y Studies performed fibrinogen and thrombin and the combination of TnBP and 
Species/test 
route 
Doses administered 
Table 4: Genotoxicit
Triton X-
100
Substance
tested 
thrombin 
. 
Type of study 
Gene mutation 
test 
fibrinogen 
Gene mutation 
test 
TnBP + 
Triton X -100 
(1+5) 
Gene mutation 
test 
Reverse mutation tests with 
Salmonella typhimurium 
(with and without metabolic
activation) Prokaryocytes 
Reverse mutation tests with 
Salmonella typhimurium 
(with and without metabolic
activation) Prokaryocytes 
Reverse mutation tests with 
Salmonella typhimurium 
(with and without metabolic 
activation) Prokaryocytes 
HGPRT test (V79 cells) 
(with and without metaboli
activation) Eukaryocytes 
c 
Chromoso
analysis 
mal 
Rat bone marrow cytogenic
pling intervals: 6, 
test Sam
24, 48 
Rats micronucleus test 
Sampling i
72 hours 
ntervals: 16, 48, 
In vitro 
In vitro 
In vitro 
In vitro 
i.v. 
i.v. 
5000; 1600; 512; 164; 52 
μg/plate 
5
μg/plate 
000; 280
0; 1568; 878; 492 
5000; 1600; 512; 164; 52 
μg/plate 
5000; 280
μg/plate 
0; 1568; 878; 492 
5 μg -+ 25 
25000 μg 
μg to 5000 μg + 
 μ
 μ
0+500 
1,56+7,81 g  to 25+ 125 g 
(without metabolic activation
) 
6,25+31,25 μg to 10
g (with me
μ
activation) 
mg/kg /bw 
TnBP 
1,25 – 5,0 
tabolic 
Triton X -
100 
6,25-25,0 
mg/kg /bw 
TnBP 
1,25 – 5,0 
Triton X -
100 
6,25-25,0 
The  studies  with  thrombin,  fibrinogen  and  combination  of  TnBP  and  Triton  X  100  revealed  no 
in
dication of gene or chromosomal damage. 
  Carcinogenicity 
•
The carcinogenicity potential of TnBP has been analysed using dietary studies conducted and reported 
with both the CD-1 mouse and the Sprague-Dawley rat. A treatment-related increase in the incidence 
of  hepatocellular  adenomas  occurred  in  male  mice  given  585  mg/kg/day.  In  rats,  there  was  a  dose-
related  increase  in  the  incidence  and  severity  of  hyperplasia  and  the  incidence  of  papillomas  of  the 
Page 15 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
urinary bladder epithelium in animals given 33 mg/kg/day or above. The NOAEL for chronic toxicity 
was 26 and 10 mg/kg/day for mice and rats, respectively, values significantly above potential patient 
exposure.  
Nonxynol-9  was  non-toxic  and  non-carcinogenic  in  a  lifetime  exposure  study  in  ra
in
travaginally. At the potential patient exposure there is no indication of a carcinogenic risk. 
ts  dosed 
  Reproduction Toxicity 
•
Two studies were performed on combinations of TnBP and Triton X-100 in rats and rabbits.  Pregnant 
animals  in  both  studies  received  daily  intravenously  a  combination  of  TnBP  +  Triton  X-100  (1+5) 
during the period of organogenesis. The LTD’s for either dams or foetuses in these conducted studies 
was more than 100 times greater than the dose of Tn
BP or Triton X-100 patients might receive when 
Evicel is administered. 
TnBP teratogenicity studies with doses of 0, 62.5, 125,250, 500 mg/kg/day were administered orally to 
pregnant  Wistar  rats  demonstrating  no  significant  differences  in  dead  or  reabsorbed  f
oetuses,  body 
w
eight of living foetuses or malformations. TnBP was considered to be non-teratogenic. 
  Toxicokinetic data 
•
T
oxicokinetics studies were not submitted. 
  Local tolerance 
•
The local tolerance, systemic toxicity, and haemostatic properties of Evicel in comparison with Quixil 
were evaluated in one study of a single application in a standardized rabbit partial hepatectomy model. 
Macroscopic and microscopic examination of the rated site, target organs and haematological analyses 
were  performed.  No  relevant  clinical  signs  or  effects  were  found.  Only  on-site  adhesions  were 
observed.  There 
was  no  evidence  of  local  intolerance,  systemic  toxicity  and  no  evidence  of 
im
munotoxicity. 
•  Other toxicit
y studies 
Immunotoxicity 
Safety differences between Evicel and Quixil were assessed using a rabbit wound model. The number 
of  cells  present  in  the  blood  did  not  differ  between  both  groups  of  animals.  Results  of  the 
histopathological evaluation grading of the immunological reaction at the site of the incision did n
ot 
show significa
nt difference in any of the parameters, between the test groups and the control group.  
Neurotoxicity 
 The effects on local tolerance and the neurotoxicity of two batches of Evicel were evaluated following 
subdural  administration  of  0.5ml  fibrin  sealant  in  the  rabbit,  with  sham  operated  animals  serving  as 
controls. 10 animals were assigned to each of the three testing groups. Neurobehavioral reactions and 
clinical  signs  were  monitored  in  a  14  days  follow  up  period.  At  sacrifice,  macroscopic  and 
microscopic  examination  of  surgical  sites  was  performed  and  samples  of  cerebro-spinal  fluid  (CSF) 
were  collected  for  analysis.  The  results  of  this  study  revealed  no  significant  difference  in  all 
parameters  tested  between  both  batches  of  Evicel.  Clinical  signs  and  neurological  behaviour  was 
comparable  to  sham  operated  control  group.  Differences  in  CSF  inflammation  markers  in  both 
treatment compared to control group were found. 2 animals in each treatment group displayed discrete 
inflammation signs, none in the control animals. Macroscopic observations at sacrifice revealed that in 
all  treatment  groups  fibrin  sealant  appeared  as  a  thick  translucent  layer  filling  the  defects  and  w
as 
easily detached in most cases. The sham opera
ted defects generally appeared to be filled by tissue. 
E
cotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No studies were submitted. 
Page 16 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical study program for Evicel is considered to be appropriate. It focuses on the evaluation 
of its primary pharmacological effects especially haemostatic efficacy, the frequency of occurrence of 
post-surgical adhesions and the stability of the clot once formed. Given the nature of the product and 
in  view  of  the  epilesional  route  of  administration,  additional  pharmacology  and  pharmacokinetic 
studies were not deemed necessary. Results of these studies revealed no significant difference in the 
pharmacological performance of Evicel in comparison to other fibrin sealants. In addition, the risk of 
xcess fibrinogen resulting from the Evicel is expected to be extremely low because of the epilesional 
e
use of the product. 
ibrin sealants/haemostatics are metabolised in the same way as endogenous fibrin, by fibrinolysis and 
F
phagocitosis. 
The toxicity profile of fibrinogen, thrombin and the final formulation was not studied extensively in 
animals due to the fact that the components of the product are of human origin and stimulation of the 
immune  system  when  introducing  heterologous  proteins  into  animals  would  be  expected.  Such  an 
immune activation may confound interpretation of results of toxicology studies, therefore single and 
repeated  dose  toxicity,  carcinogenicity  and  reproduction  and  developmental  studies  were  neither 
undertaken  with  Evicel,  nor  separately  with  any  the  fibrinogen  or  thrombin  component.  However, 
effects of Evicel on local tolerance and neurotoxicity have been investigated by using a rabbit model 
and the findings do not provide evidence for a toxicological potential. Importantly, studies conducted 
in rabbits to
 evaluate the absorption and elimination of thrombin alone when applied to the cut surface 
o
f  the  liver  resulting  from  partial  hepatectomy  revealed  no  evidence  of  enhanced  thrombogenic  risk 
for Evicel. 
ADME  an
d  toxicology  studies  have  also  been  conducted  on  the  main  impurities  coming  from  the 
s
olvert-detergent  based  viral  inactivation  step  of  Evicel  (TnBP  and  Triton  X-100)  and  raised  no 
concerns. 
2.4 Clinical a
spects 
Introduction 
Evicel was investigated in two randomized, controlled pivotal studies (see Table 5). In study 400-05-
001  Evicel  was  used  in  vascular  surgery  and  compared  to  the  standard  surgical  treatment  manual 
compression. Retroperit
oneal and intra-abdominal surgery was performed in study 400-05-006, where 
E
vicel  was  compared  to  the  active  comparator  Surgicel.  In  addition  eight  supportive  studies  were 
conducted with Quixil. 
Pivo
tal Clinical Studies Conduc
ted with Evicel
Table 5: 
Study ID 
No. study 
centres/ 
loca
Star
tions/ 
t year 
Design 
Control 
400-05-001 
18 
UK, U
S 
200
5 
400-05-006 
15 
US 
2006 
Phase III, single blind, 
standard t
controlled
reatment 
, randomised 
Control- 
Manual compression 
ase III, single blind,  
Ph
controlled, randomised 
Active control - Surgicel 
S
p
urgical 
rocedure 
Study 
Posology 
Subjects  
Total 
m  
By ar
Evi/con
tr 
V
ascular 
Evicel 
1-4 mL  
147 
75/72 
e 
e 
Male/Femal
/ 
Black/White
Other 
Age Rang
(Mean) 
77/70 
26/115/6 
38-90 (66.0) 
al, 
ynaecol., 
Urologic
g
general 
vicel 
E
0.5-10 mL  
135 
66/69 
Surgicel 
1-300 cm2 
17 
57/78
18/100/
0-84 
(55.1) 
Page 17 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
T
he Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
c
ommunity were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
P
harmacokinetics 
N
o pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in man.   
P
harmacodynamics 
N
o pharmacodynamic studies have been conducted in man. 
D
iscussion on pharmacology 
Since Evicel is intended for epilesional use only and intravascular administration is contraindicated, no 
pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in man. In addition, the product's action is based upon 
the  well  known  physiological  process  of  the  fin
al  steps  of  the  coagulation  cascade  and  no  specific 
p
harmacodynamic studies were deemed needed.  
C
linical efficacy  
Two pivotal Phase III studies have been performed with Evicel for demonstration of efficacy and 
safety in vascular surgery (study 400-05-
a
bdominal surgery (study 400-05-006). 
001) and in soft tissue bleeding in retroperitoneal and intra-
  Dose response studies 
•
Evicel is applied by dripping or spraying directly onto the site at which haemostasis is required. Equal 
quantities of the two components (human fibrinogen and human thrombin) combine during application 
to form a thin haemostatic layer that adheres to the tissue. The dosage of Evicel is thus dependent on 
the area of tissue to
 be treated. Dosages of 0.5 to 10 mL of combined product were used in clinical 
tr
ials with Evicel.  
  Main studies 
•
S
tudy 400-05-001 
This is a prospective, randomised controlled phase III study in patients undergoing vascular surgical 
procedures  on  an  end-to-side  femoral  or  upper  extremity  arterial  anastomosis  utilizing  uncoated  or 
heparin-coated  poly
tetrafluoroethylene  (PTFE)  grafts.  Control  patients  were  treated  with  manual 
co
mpression (MC). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Study  participants  either  presented  with  peripheral  vascular  disease  undergoing  vascular  grafting  or 
required  surgery  for  vascular  access  for  renal  dialysis.  Patients  were  randomised  within  their  artery 
type, i.e. femoral or upper extremity. A total of 147 patients were randomised, 75 to Evicel and 72 to 
manual  compression.  Eligible  were  male  and  female  patients,  18  years  or  older,  requiring  elective, 
primary  or  repeat  vascular  procedures  with  at  least  one  end-to-side  femoral  or  upper  extremity 
vascular  access  arterial  anastomosis  (e.g.  femoral-femoral,  femoral-popliteal,  femoral-tibial,  ilio-
femoral,  aorto-bifemoral,  abdominal  aortic  aneurysm,  upper  extremity  vascular  access  for  dialysis) 
using uncoated or heparin-coated PTFE grafts and polypropylene sutures (size 5-0 or 6-0) with a 1:1 
Page 18 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
needle-to-thread ratio. Patients could be randomised, when following initial arterial clamp release the 
surgeon  determined  that  adjunctive  measures  were  needed  to  obtain  haemostasis  at  the  study 
nastomotic site (SAS). Patients had to provide written, informed consent before surgery. 
a
Treatments 
All  patients  received  heparin  before  arterial  clamping.  The  dosage  was  approximately  70  IU/kg  for 
femoral  procedures  and  35  IU/kg  for  upper  extremity  artery  procedures.  After  the  surgeon  had 
determined  that  adjunctive  haemostatic  measures  were  required,  the  randomisation  envelope  was 
broken and the patient randomised to receive either Evicel or MC. One kit of Evicel (2 ml each of the 
fibrinogen and of the thrombin component, total of 4  ml) was pre-prepared for each patient prior to 
randomisation. For patients randomised to Evicel, the required amount of product was administered by 
dripping onto the study anastomotic site. Arterial clamps remained in place during a further minute in 
order  to  allow  time  for  the  fibrin  sealant  to  ‘set’.  In  patients  randomised  to  manual  compression, 
ediately released after randomisation and light manual pressure with sponges 
arterial clamps were imm
t the SAS was applied. 
a
Objectives 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate whether the fibrin sealant Evicel reduces time to 
haemostasis during vascular surgical procedures on an end-to-side femoral or upper extremity arterial 
d  or  heparin-coated  polytetrafluoroethylene  (PTFE)  grafts  compared  to 
anastomosis  utilising  uncoate
anual compression (MC).  
m
Outcomes/endpoints
Primary endpoint:  
- Absence of bleeding a
Secondary endpoints:  
- Absence of bleeding at the SAS
- Incidence of treatment failure 
- Incidence of potential bleeding-related c
- 
Adverse events up to 5-week follow-up 
t the SAS at 4 minutes following randomisation to treatment 
 7 and 10 minutes following randomisation 
omplications up to the end of the 5-week follow-up 
Sample size 
The study was planned to show the superiority of Evicel over MC in stop of bleeding at 4 minutes.  
Based  on  the  assumption  that  the  proportion  of  patients  in  the  Evicel  group  in  whom  bleeding  was 
stopped at 4 minutes would be 0.63 vs. 0.35 in the MC group and a type I error of 0.05 (2-sided) it was 
calculated that a Chisquare test with 72 patients per group would have about 90% power to detect this 
differe
nce.  To  account  for  possible  drop-outs  150  patients  (75  per  arm)  should  be  included  into  the 
tr
ial. 
Randomisation 
Treatment was assigned randomly to each subject on a 1:1 basis. Randomisation was stratified within 
each  participating  site  and  also  stratified  for  femoral  versus  upper  extremity  procedures.  Ethicon 
provided  computer-generated  randomisation  schedules  of  treatment  group  assignment  which  were 
placed  in  sealed  envelopes.  Each  site  was  provided  with  a  series  of  randomisation  envelopes,  each 
bearing the subject randomisation number and artery type (femoral or upper extremity) on the outside. 
The  randomisation  envelope  was  opened  to  determine  the  treatment  allocation  and
  at  the  same  time 
th
e stop-clock was started and the actual time and randomisation number recorded. 
Blinding (masking) 
F
or practical reason (different form of application of Evicel and comparator) blinding was not feasible. 
Statistical methods 
A logistic regression model (with treatment, centre and artery type in the model) was used to assess 
whether there was any difference in the frequencies of responder between both treatments. Treatment 
effects  were  described  by  point 
estimates  and  their  95%  confidence  intervals.  Two-sided  p-values 
w
ere reported for statistical tests. 
Page 19 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  the  primary  endpoint,  absence  of  bleeding  at  SAS  4  minutes  following  randomization,  a 
significant  treatment  p-value  (<0.05)  would  allow  the  acceptance  of  the  alternative  hypothesis, 
indicating a statistically significant treatment difference. 
Two effectiveness analysis sets were defined in the protocol: 
- Full Analysis Set (FAS) comprising all randomised patients (equivalent to the intent-to-treat (ITT) 
set).  
- Per Protocol (PP) Analysis Set comprising all patients in the FAS who had no protocol violations. 
Analysis  using  the  FAS  was  considered  primary.  Analysis  using  the  PP  set  was  carried  out  for  the 
primary variable only and was confirmatory. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
Assessed for 
Eligibility n=166 
Randomised n=147 
Evicel  (n=75) 
Control: Manual 
Compression  n=72 
Treated n=72 
Not treated n=3 (withdrawal) 
Treated n=70 
Not treated n=2 (withdrawal) 
Recruitment 
The  study  was  carried  out  at  5  centres  in  the  UK  and  13  centres  in  the  US.  The  study  population 
comprised  patients  undergoing  vascular  procedures  utilising  uncoated  or  heparin-coated  PTFE 
prosthetic  graft  material,  with  at  least  one  end-to-side  anastomosis  to  a  femoral  or  upper  extremity 
artery. All patients except one (heparin-coated) had an uncoated PTFE graft. Eligible patients who had 
given  written  consent  to  participate  in  the  study  were  randomised  when  suturing  at  the  SAS  was 
complete  and  the  surgeon  considered  the  suture  line  to  be  secure.  If,  after  securing  the  suture  line, 
there remained a presence of bleeding which the surgeon determined required adjunctive haemostatic 
measures, the arterial clamps were reapplied and the patient was considered eligible for randomisation. 
Following randomisation and consecutive application of Evicel or manual compression, patients were 
observed  over  a  10-minute  period  to  determine  when  haemostasis  was  attained  at  the  SAS.  Patients 
were subsequently followed-up at approximately five weeks following the vascular procedure. 
Conduct of the study 
The  majority  of  the  75  patients  randomised  to  Evicel  received  all  of  the  4  ml  of  study  treatment 
supplied. Seventeen (17) patients received less than 4 ml; the amount remaining unused ranged from 
0.2 to 3.0 ml. The mean number of days to discharge was 5.1 (SD 8.1) in the Evicel group and 5.5 (SD 
6.2) in the MC group. Two patients were not discharged from hospital following the procedure. 
Baseline data 
Page 20 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  majority (63.3%) of patients were aged between 50 and 74 years. Overall 115 (78.2%) were of 
Caucasian race and 26 (17.7%) were Black of African descent; none was reported to be of mixed race 
and five (3.5%) were Hispanic/Latino. Approximately half of the patients were ex-smokers (50.3%). 
Following randomisation, the treatment groups were similar in demographic characteristics. 
In the Evicel group polypropylene sutures were used in all patients and these were mainly size 6-0 (55 
[73.3%] patients). All patients except one (heparin coated PTFE) had an uncoated PTFE graft. In the 
MC group polypropylene sutures were used in all patients and these were mainly size 6-0 (47 [65.3%] 
patients). All patients in this group had an uncoated PTFE graft.  
Numbers analysed 
147 patients were randomised. Two efficacy analyses sets were defined in the protocol: 
- Full Analysis Set (FAS): n=75 for Evicel and n=72 for MC. 
- Per Protocol (PP): n=73 for Evicel and n=69 for MC. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  absence  of  bleeding  at  the  SAS  at  4 minutes  following 
randomisation. Results for upper extremity and femoral procedures were similar (see Table 6). 
Table 6: Haemostasis at 4 minutes (Full Analysis Set) 
Variable 
Evicel 
(n=75) 
MC 
(n=72) 
OR1 
95% CI 
P2 
Haemostasis at 4 minutes: 
Overall3 
64 (85.3%) 
28 (38.9%) 
11.3 
 4.7, 27.5 
<0.001 
Upper extremity 
Femoral   
23/27 (85.2%) 
41/48 (85.4%) 
9/21 (42.9%) 
19/51 (37.3%) 
1  Odds Ratio. Figures greater than 1 indicate an advantage for Evicel. 
2  Probability. 
3 The validity of the model fit is questionable due to imbalance between centre and artery type. 
A  highly  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  Evicel  was  also  seen  for  the  secondary 
effectiveness  variables  of  absence  of  bleeding  at  the  SAS  7  minutes  and  10  minutes  following 
randomisation (see Table 7).   
Table 7: Secondary efficacy endpoints (Full Analysis Set) 
Variable 
Evicel 
(n=75) 
MC 
(n=72) 
Haemostasis ≤ 7 minutes 
68 (90.7%) 
43 (59.7%) 
Haemostasis ≤ 10 minutes 
72 (96.0%) 
50 (69.4%) 
OR1 
95% CI 
P2 
7.93 
6.54 
2.8, 21.9 
2.6, 16.1 
<0.001 
<0.001 
18.53 
10.94 
3.7, 91.8 
3.1, 38.8 
<0.001 
<0.001 
1 Odds Ratio. Figures greater than 1 indicate an advantage for Evicel 
2 Probability 
3 Original model. The validity of the model fit is questionable. 
4 Revised model 
5 Four patients were bleeding at 10 minutes and required additional haemostatic measures during 10-min 
observation period. 
Twelve (16.0%) patients in the Evicel group and 15 (20.8%) patients in the MC group were reported 
to  have  potential  bleeding  related  complications.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference 
between the groups (p=0.426). However more cases of anaemia were seen in the MC group than in the 
Evicel group (9 versus 5 cases). 
Page 21 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  treatment  failure  (defined  as  the  presence  of  bleeding  at  the  SAS  10 minutes  following 
randomisation  or  the  need  to  administer  additional  haemostatic  measures  during  the  10-minute 
observation period), occurred more frequently in the MC group (23 [31.9%] versus 6 [8.0%] patients 
in  the  Evicel  group)  and  this  was  highly  statistically  significant  (OR  0.14;  95%  CI  0.05,  0.45; 
p=0.001). Treatment failure was mainly due to the continuation of bleeding at 10 minutes (3 [4.0%] 
Evicel patients versus 22 [30.6%] MC patients).  
Study 400-05-006 
This  is  a  phase  III,  prospective,  randomised  controlled  evaluation  of  Evicel  as  an  adjunct  to 
haemostasis for soft tissue bleeding during retroperitoneal or intra-abdominal surgery. 
Efficacy  was  evaluated  by  the  assessment  of  whether  Evicel  was  non-inferior  to  Surgicel,  an 
absorbable  haemostatic  agent  made  from  oxidised  regenerated  cellulose,  in  achieving  haemostasis 
during  surgical  procedures  involving  soft  tissue  bleeding  in  retroperitoneal  and  intra-abdominal 
surgery. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The study population comprised patients undergoing non-emergent retroperitoneal or intra-abdominal 
surgery  procedures,  wherein  a  soft  tissue  Target  Bleeding  Site  (TBS)  was  identified  for  which  an 
adjunctive  haemostat  was  indicated.  Patients  were  stratified  for  age  (16  years  or  less,  and  over  16 
years) in order to collect data on use in paediatric patients. 
Procedures included, but were not restricted to the following: 
-  Urology:  Simple  or  radical  nephrectomy,  adrenalectomy  (open),  radical  prostatectomy  and 
pyeloplasty. 
-  Gynaecology:  Radical  hysterectomy,  radical  cystectomy  (bladder  removal),  lymphadenectomy 
(lymph node dissection) and primary tumour reduction surgery (i.e. ovarian cancer surgery). 
-  General  surgery:  Colectomy  with  or  without  anal  anastomoses,  low  anterior  resections, 
abdominoperineal resections and retroperitoneal tumour resection surgery. 
The presence of an appropriate soft tissue TBS had to be identified intra-operatively by the surgeon. 
Patients had to be willing to participate in the study and must have provided written informed consent. 
Treatments 
Evicel  or  control  treatment  was  applied  to  the  TBS  immediately  after  opening  the  randomisation 
envelope.  Re-application  was  allowed  at  the  surgeon’s  discretion  within  the  10-minute  observation 
period. Evicel could be administered either by dripping or spraying onto the TBS. 
The  control  group  was  treated  with  Surgicel,  an  absorbable  haemostatic  agent  made  from  oxidised 
regenerated cellulose, indicated for use as an adjunct to haemostasis in surgery and used for several 
decades in the US. Commercially available Surgicel was provided for the clinical trial and was used 
within  label.  Both  treatments  were  pre-prepared  in  total  quantities  of  Evicel  (2  x  5  mL)  or  Surgicel 
(4x8 inches [10.2 x 20.3 cm] per pack) and ready for administration for each patient. 
Objectives 
The study objectives were to evaluate whether the fibrin sealant Evicel was non-inferior to Surgicel in 
achieving haemostasis during surgical procedures involving soft tissue bleeding in retroperitoneal and 
intra-abdominal surgery. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint:  
-  Absence  of  bleeding  at  the  Target  Bleeding  Site  (TBS)  at  10  minutes  following  randomisation  to 
treatment. 
Secondary endpoints:  
- Absence of bleeding at the soft tissue TBS at 4 and 7 minutes following randomisation. 
- Absolute time to haemostasis (TTH). 
Page 22 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Incidence of treatment failure. 
- Incidence of potential bleeding-related complications to end of follow-up (>7 to 14 days). 
- Adverse events to end of follow-up (>7 to 14 days after surgery, clinical or telephone follow-up). 
Sample size 
Study  400-05-006  was  planned  to  show  non-inferiority  of  Evicel  when  compared  to  Surgicel  with 
respect  to  haemostatic  success  at  10  minutes.  Anticipating  a  success  rate  of  0.9  in  both  treatment 
groups and claiming non-inferiority if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval for the ratio of 
success proportions (pFS / pSurgicel) is above 0.8 it was calculated, applying the method of Farrington & 
Manning, that 63 patients per treatment group were needed to achieve 90% power. In order to account 
for possible drop outs 130 patients (65 per group) should be included into the study. 
Randomisation 
Each  site  was  provided  with  computer-generated  randomisation  envelopes  each  bearing  the  subject 
randomisation  number  and  containing the  treatment  allocation.  Treatment  was  assigned  randomly  to 
each  subject  on  a  1:1  basis,  and  randomisation  was  stratified  within  each  participating  site.  At  sites 
capable of enrolling both adult and paediatric subjects, subjects were also stratified by age (≤16, >16) 
and 2 sets of randomisation envelopes were provided to those sites. 
Blinding (masking) 
For practical reason (different form of application of Evicel and comparator) blinding was not feasible. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  analysis  variable  was  the  haemostasis  outcome  at  10  minutes.  The  relative  risk 
(pEvicel/pSurgicel)  for  achieving  haemostatic  success  including  its  2-sided  95%  confidence  interval  was 
calculated using the method described by Koopman. In case the lower limit of this confidence interval 
was  above  0.8,  non-inferiority  of  Evicel  when  compared  to  Surgicel  with  respect  to  haemostatic 
outcome  was  assumed;  in  case  the  lower  limit  of  this  confidence  interval  was  above  1,  superiority 
could be concluded. Subgroup analyses by age were performed in addition. 
For  the  primary  analysis,  missing  values  were  considered  as  failure,  for  the  secondary  endpoints  no 
substitution  of  missing  values  was  planned.  To  assess  the  impact  of  missing  values  on  the  primary 
analysis sensitivity analyses were planned considering missing data as successes, and also, worst-case 
(with  missing  data  for  the  Evicel  group  considered  failures  and  missing  data  for  the  control  group 
considered successes). 
The intent to treat analysis set (ITT set) contained all subjects who were randomised. This set was split 
into:  
- Adult analysis set (all subjects aged more than 16 years to less than 65 years) 
- Paediatric analysis set (all subjects aged 16 years or less) 
- Adult65+ analysis set (subjects aged 65 years or more) 
The  Per  Protocol  (PP)  analysis  set  contained  subjects  in  the  ITT  set  who  had  no  major  protocol 
violations.  The  safety  analysis  set  comprised  all  subjects  who  were  randomised  and  received 
treatment. 
Page 23 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
Assessed for 
Eligibility n=135 
Randomised n=135 
Evicel  n=66 
Control: Surgicel  n=69 
Treated n=62 (1 wrongly 
allocated) 
Non treated n=5 (withdrawal) 
Treated n=65 
Not treated n=4 (withdrawal, 
wrongly allocation) 
Page 24 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The study was carried out in 17 centres located in the US. 
Conduct of the study 
Surgery was performed according to standard of care. The Target Bleeding Site (TBS) was identified 
during the retroperitoneal or soft tissue dissection as the first such site in the soft tissue presenting with 
mild to moderate bleeding, where conventional methods of control (i.e. suture, ligature, and cautery) 
were ineffective or impractical, and where an adjunct to achieve haemostasis was required.  
Following identification of the TBS, the patient was randomised, the TBS was treated according to the 
randomisation  schedule  and  TTH  was  observed.  Haemostasis  was  defined  as  no  detectable  bleeding 
from the TBS at the specified time-points: 4, 7 and 10 minutes following randomisation. During the 10 
minutes  observation  period  the  investigator  was  free  to  re-administer  the  allocated  treatment. 
Treatment  failures  were  defined  as  either  the  persistence  of  bleeding  at  10 minutes  following 
randomisation  or  the  occurrence  of  breakthrough  brisk  bleeding  that  required  administration  of 
additional haemostatic measures during the 10-minute observation period. In these cases, the surgeon 
could  apply  further  haemostatic  measures  according  to  his/her  preference,  except  for  the  use  of  any 
fibrin sealants. 
Baseline data 
The  median  age  of  Evicel  group  was  higher  in  comparison  with  the  control  group  (57.3  vs.  53.0 
years). The duration of the surgical procedures was higher in the control (Surgicel) being 213 minutes 
in comparison with the Evicel group 195.1 minutes. Bleeding at the TBS was mild for 61.2% of Evicel 
subjects and for 52.9% of Surgicel subjects. In the remainder of cases it was moderate. Cautery was 
used  initially  to  achieve  haemostasis  at  the  TBS  in  most  cases  (50.7%  for  Evicel  and  72.1%  for 
Surgicel), with sutures and other methods (primarily clips, pressure or argon-beam coagulation) used 
in about 15% of cases and ligation in about 5% of cases. In 32.8% of Evicel subjects and 19.1% of 
Surgicel subjects none of these methods was used. The volume of the used Evicel sealant used ranged 
from 0.5 to 10 ml (median 5 ml). For Surgicel the quantity of product used ranged from 1 to 300 cm2 
(median 187.5 cm2). Reapplication was similar in both groups. 
Numbers analysed 
135  patients  were  randomised,  66  to  Evicel  and  69  to  Surgicel.  This  included  11  paediatric  patients 
aged  16  years  or  less  (4  Evicel,  7  Surgicel).  One  subject  was  randomised  to  Surgicel  but  received 
Evicel in error, and is therefore in the Surgicel group when considering the ITT set (as randomised) 
and in the Evicel group when considering the safety set (as treated). 
All patients were included in the intent to treat (ITT) analysis; 127 subjects were included in the per 
protocol (PP) analysis.   
Outcomes and estimation 
Results for the primary efficacy endpoint, absence of bleeding at the Target Bleeding Site (TBS) at 10 
minutes are shown in Table 8. 
Page 25 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Haemostasis at 10 min 
Variable 
Evicel 
Surgicel 
RR1 
Haemostasis at 10 min: 
ITT set 
PP set 
63/66 (95.5%) 
56/69 (81.2%) 
59/62 (95.2%) 
52/65 (80.0%)
Adult set 
32/32 (100.0%) 
32/40 (80.0%)
Adult65+ set 
27/30 (  90.0%) 
19/22 (86.4%)
Paediatric set 
  4/ 4 (100.0%) 
  5/  7 (71.4%) 
1.18 
1.19 
- 2 
- 2 
- 2 
1 Relative Risk. Figures greater than 1 indicate an advantage for Evicel 
2 Calculation not planned 
95% CI for 
RR 
1.04,1.36 
1.05,1.39 
In addition, the relative proportions of success of haemostasis at 4 and 7 minutes are consistent with 
the 10-minute findings (see Table 9). 
Table 9: Secondary Efficacy Variables (ITT set) 
Variable 
Haemostasis ≤ 4 minutes 
Haemostasis ≤ 7 minutes 
Evicel 
(n=66) 
Surgicel 
(n=69) 
50 (75.8%)
37 (53.6%) 
60 (90.9%)
53 (76.8%) 
RR1 
95% CI for 
1.41 
1.18 
RR 
1.10, 1.86 
1.02, 1.40 
1  Relative Risk. Figures greater than 1 indicate an advantage for Evicel 
2 Potential bleeding related complications were ascertained by medical review of adverse events. 
3 RR calculated for no events, due to 0 Evicel bleeding events. 
4 p value for log rank test for comparison between treatments. 
Analyses  indicate  that  in  subjects  in  whom  TBS  severity  was  mild,  100.0%  (40/40)  of  the  Evicel 
treated  subjects  achieved  haemostasis  by  10  minutes  compared  to  89.2%  (33/37)  of  the  Surgicel 
treated  subjects.  For  the  subjects  with  moderate  bleeding,  88.5%  (23/26)  of  the  Evicel  subjects, 
compared to 71.9% (23/32) of the Surgicel subjects achieved haemostasis at the TBS by 10 minutes.  
Three  (3)  of  66  Evicel  subjects  and  thirteen  (13)  of  69  Surgicel  subjects  experienced  treatment 
failures. Four of these failures were due to brisk bleeding occurring at the TBS, all of which were in 
Surgicel treated subjects.  
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analysis has been performed across trials. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special populations have been performed. 
•  Supportive studies 
Results  from  8  clinical  studies  with  Quixil  were  submitted  in  order  to  support  the  clinical  data  for 
Evicel (see Table 10).  
Page 26 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Supportive clinical studies conducted with Quixil 
Study ID 
No. study 
centres / 
locations/ 
Start year 
Design 
Control 
Q-LIV-
008-US 
15 
US, UK 
1999 
OFI-LIV-
003-B 
4 
Belgium 
France 
1996 
Phase III, single blind, 
standard treatment 
controlled, randomised 
Active control – 
Avitene, Gelfoam, Oxycel, 
Surgicel and Surgicel 
NuKnit, Thrombinar, 
Actifoam 
Phase II, controlled, 
comparative, open 
Active control - Tissucol 
OFI-LIV-
002-UK 
2 
UK 
Phase II, open, non-
comparative  
Q-
THR009-
US 
1996 
US, UK 
1999 
OFI-
TKR001-
IL 
3 
Israel 
1996 
OFI-
TKR004-
US 
OFI-
THR005-
UK 
Q-
CVS015-
UK 
US 
1997 
1 
UK 
1996 
1 
UK 
2001 
No control 
Phase III, single blind, 
standard treatment 
controlled, randomised 
Control- 
Cauterization with 
diathermy or suture ligation 
Phase II, single blind, 
standard treatment 
controlled, randomised 
Control- 
Standard surgical procedures 
Phase III, single blind, 
standard treatment 
controlled, randomised 
Control- 
Ligation & diathermy  
Phase II, open, pilot study 
Historical controls 
Phase II, single blind, 
controlled, randomised 
Active control- 
Kaltostat dressing 
Surgical 
procedure 
Study 
Posology 
Start date 
Subjects 
Total 
 By arm  
Qu/contr 
Liver 
resection 
Quixil up to 
10 mL 
121 
58/63 
Male/Female 
Black/White/
Other 
Age Range 
(Mean) 
69/52 
0/104/17 
19-79 (57.1) 
Quixil  
1-2 mL per 
100 cm² cut 
surface 
34 
17/17 
21/13 
0/34/0 
0-42 (17.5) 
Living 
related 
donor liver 
graft 
transplantati
on 
Liver 
surgery 
Total hip 
replacement 
Quixil 
1-2 mL per 
100 cm² cut 
surface 
Quixil 
Up to 10 mL 
21 
97 
38/43 
12/9 
0/20/1 
2-80 (58.0) 
53/44 
6/89/2 
34-88 (66.3) 
13/46 
0/39/20 
47-83 (69.9) 
24/29 
7/45/1 
41-86 (69.0) 
5/8 
0/13/0 
50-83 (67.7) 
14/6 
0/19/1 
62-89 (71.7) 
Total knee 
replacement  
Quixil 
10-20 mL 
59 
29/30 
Total knee 
replacement  
Quixil 
Up to 10 mL 
53 
25/28 
Total hip 
replacement 
Quixil 
Up to 10 mL 
13 
Carotid 
endarter-
ectomy 
Quixil 
1-5 mL 
20 
10/10 
Page 27 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A clinical study demonstrating haemostasis and suture support was conducted in a total of 147 patients 
(75  with  Evicel,  72  with  control)  undergoing  vascular  surgery  with  PTFE  grafts  and  another  study 
demonstrating haemostasis in soft tissue bleedings in a total of 135 patients (66 with Evicel, 69 with 
control)  undergoing  retroperitoneal  or  intra-abdominal  surgery.  Efficacy  has  been  demonstrated  in 
both surgical settings showing superiority over comparator. 
The  applicant  additionally  sought  marketing  authorisation  for  the  indication  “promotion  of  tissue 
sealing”. Since no clinical studies have been performed to justify this claim, this indication could not 
be granted and the applicant has withdrawn this indication. 
Due to the mechanism of action of a fibrin sealant, the dose solely depends on the size of the tissue to 
be treated and therefore dose-response studies are not applicable. 
Data  are  too  limited  to  support  the  safety  and  effectiveness  of  Evicel  in  children.  Of  135  patients 
undergoing retroperitoneal and intra-abdominal surgery who were included in the controlled study of 
Evicel, 4 patients treated with Evicel were aged 16 years or younger. Of these, 2 were children aged 2 
and 5 years and 2 were adolescents of 16 years. No data are currently available for ages younger than 
2 years. 
Clinical safety 
Two Phase III clinical studies have been performed with Evicel, one in vascular surgery, the other in 
retroperitoneal  or  intra-abdominal  surgery.  In  both  studies,  safety  and  efficacy  of  Evicel  were 
compared to a control group: manual compression in vascular surgery and Surgicel in retroperitoneal 
or intra-abdominal surgery.  
•  Patient exposure 
A total of 282 subjects were included in the two clinical trials with Evicel, 141 of which were treated 
with a single dose of Evicel (between  0.5 and 10 mL of combined product) and 141 of which were 
included in the control groups. 
•  Study 400-05-001 
Adverse events 
The AEs reported are summarised in Tables 11 and 12: 
 Table 11: Number of patients experiencing any AE 
Variable 
Total number of AEs 
Number of patients with at least one 
in the following categories: 
AE 
                                                       SAE 
                                             Severe AE 
AE requiring medical/surgical action 
Related or possibly related AE 
Note: Safety analysis set 
Excludes pre-treatment events 
Evicel 
(n=75) 
113 
MC 
(n=72) 
158 
Total 
(n=147) 
271 
48 (64.0%) 
23 (30.7%) 
13 (17.3%) 
42 (56.0%) 
9 (12.0%) 
51 (70.8%) 
21 (29.2%) 
16 (22.2%) 
45 (62.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
99 (67.3%) 
44 (29.9%) 
29 (19.7%) 
87 (59.2%) 
9 (6.1%) 
Page 28 of 37 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number (%) 
MC 
(n=72) 
5 (6.9) 
Total 
(n=147) 
5 (3.4) 
Evicel 
(n=75) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (6.9) 
5 (3.4) 
Table 12: Adverse events by MEDRA coded term where an event is experienced by ≥ 5% patients on 
any treatment. 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Blood & Lymphatic System 
Disorders 
Cardiac Disorders 
Anaemia 
Cardiac Failure 
Congestive 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Oedema Peripheral 
6 (8.3) 
5 (6.9) 
2 (2.8) 
2 (2.0) 
2 (2.7) 
5 (6.7) 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
General Disorders & Administration 
Site Conditions 
Infections & Infestations 
Infections & Infestations 
Injury, Poisoning & Procedural 
Complications 
Injury, Poisoning & Procedural 
Complications 
Vascular Disorders 
Safety Analysis Set 
1 In addition 4 patients (3 MC, 1 Evicel) had graft occlusion/thrombosis coded to the following MedDRA preferred terms: 
Urinary Tract Infection 
Graft Infection 
Vascular Graft 
Occlusion1 
Graft Thrombosis1 
5 (3.4) 
9 (6.1) 
7 (4.8) 
4 (5.6) 
5 (6.9) 
5 (6.9) 
1 (1.3) 
4 (5.3) 
2 (2.7) 
8 (5.4) 
7 (4.8) 
7 (4.8) 
Hypotension 
5 (6.7) 
5 (3.4) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (6.9) 
6 (4.1) 
1 (1.3) 
Peripheral Vascular Disease (Evicel), AV Fistula Thrombosis, Graft Infection, and Graft Complication 
No  treatment  differences  were  found  when  assessing  measurements  of  vital  signs  (systolic  and 
diastolic BP and heart rate), requirements for blood products post-operatively or wound assessments. 
The  safety  parameters  assessed  in  this  study  were  coagulation  parameters,  full  blood  count  and 
adverse events. None of the clinically significant laboratory abnormalities reported was considered to 
have a causal relationship to the study medication. 
The  adverse  event  profile was  very  much  as  expected  in  this  patient  population  and  only 9  (12.0%) 
patients in the Evicel group experienced adverse events that were considered to have a possible causal 
relationship  to  treatment.  As  the  investigators  considered  MC  to  be  a  standard  surgical  technique  to 
achieve haemostasis, rather than an investigational product, no adverse events were ascribed a causal 
relationship to MC.  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A total of 31 SAEs were reported in 23 patients treated with Evicel and 29 SAEs in 21 patients in the 
MC group. This includes four events with an outcome of death, two in the Evicel group and two in the 
control group. 
The most frequent SAEs, in increasing order of frequency ranging from 2 to 4 patients reporting an 
occurrence, were graft thrombosis, incision site haemorrhage, respiratory failure and graft infection in 
the Evicel patients and vascular graft occlusion, respiratory failure, hypotension, peripheral ischaemia, 
congestive cardiac failure and graft infection in the control patients.  
Seven  SAEs  in  the  Evicel  patients  were  considered  as  possibly  related  to  study  treatment,  whereas 
none of the SAEs in the control group. The control treatment of manual compression was considered 
by the investigators to be a standard surgical technique and not to have a potential causal relationship 
to the adverse events.  
Cardiovascular events 
Some  preferred  terms  have  been  used  interchangeably  by  the  investigators,  but  should  be  taken 
together in order to come to a comparison between the two treatments groups. Table 13 summarizes 
different terms of ‘complications’, ‘haemorrhage’ and ‘thrombosis/occlusion’.  
Page 29 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: Interchangeably used terms of AE. 
Term 
Preferred term 
Complication 
Haemorrhage  
Thrombosis/ 
Occlusion 
All 
Arteriovenous fistula site complication 
Graft complication 
Vascular graft complication 
Total 
Anastomotic haemorrhage 
Arteriovenous fistula haemorrhage 
Graft haemorrhage 
Total 
Arteriovenous fistula thrombosis 
Graft thrombosis 
Vascular graft occlusion 
Total 
Evicel 
 (n=75) 
1 
0 
2 
3 ( 4.0% ) 
0 
1 
0 
1 ( 1.3% ) 
0 
5 
2 
7 ( 9.3% ) 
11 ( 14.7% ) 
MC  
(n=72) 
0 
1 
2 
3 ( 4.2% ) 
1 
0 
1 
2 (2.8% ) 
1 
0 
5 
6 ( 8.3% ) 
11 ( 15.3% ) 
As  reported  6  out  of  75  (8  %)  patients  in  the  Evicel  group  were  found  to  have  graft 
thrombosis/occlusion within the first 12 days after surgery, compared to only one patient out of 72 (1.4 
%) in the MC group. Later, at 5-weeks follow-up, 2 patients in the Evicel group and 5 patients in the 
MC group were further diagnosed with graft thrombosis/occlusion. For resolution of this complication, 
7  patients  (9.3%)  in  the  Evicel  group  and  3  patients  (4.2%)  in  the  MC  group  required  a  surgical 
intervention. 
The applicant provided a thorough evaluation of all cases of early graft thrombosis/occlusion adverse 
events (TOAE). More information on the clinical courses of the events, on the diagnostic procedures 
and on the surgical interventions performed was provided. After this review, four early TOAE have to 
be  taken  into  consideration  for  the  Evicel  group  and  two  patients  with  early  TOAE  in  the  control 
group. 
•  Study 400-05-006 
Adverse events 
The AEs reported are summarised in Tables 14 and 15: 
Table 14: Number of patients experiencing any AE 
Variable 
Total number of AEs 
Number of patients with at least one in the 
following categories: 
Evicel 
(n=67) 
183 
AE
SAE
46 (68.7%) 
12 (17.9%) 
Severe AE
6 (9.0%) 
AE requiring medical/surgical action
42 (62.7%) 
Related or possibly related AE/SAE†
1 (1.5%) 
Control 
(n=68) 
200 
48 (70.6%) 
15 (22.1%) 
10 (14.7%) 
46 (67.6%) 
2 (2.9%) 
Note: Safety set 
† Causality assessment by sponsor; investigators did not consider any AEs to have a potential causal relationship to  
study treatment. 
Page 30 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table 15: Adverse events by MEDRA coded term where an event is experienced by ≥ 5% patients on 
any treatment. 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Number (%) 
Evicel 
(n=67) 
Surgicel  
(n=68) 
Total 
(n=135) 
Blood & Lymphatic System Disorders 
Anaemia 
3 (4.5)
4 (5.9) 
7 (5.2)
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
General Disorders & Administration 
Site Conditions 
Investigations 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Oedema peripheral 
9 (13.4)
6 (8.8) 
15 (11.1)
4 (5.0)
6 (9.0)
1 (1.5) 
5 (3.7)
4 (5.9) 
10 (7.4)
Pyrexia 
7 (10.4)
6 (8.8) 
13 (9.6)
Haematocrit decreased  
Haemoglobin decreased 
Urine output decreased  
Hyperglycaemia 
3 (4.5)
4 (6.0)
3 (4.5)
2 (3.0)
4 (5.9) 
7 (5.2)
4 (5.9) 
8 (5.9)
5 (7.4) 
8 (5.9)
5 (7.4) 
7 (5.2)
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders 
Hypokalaemia 
8 (11.9)
7 (10.3) 
15 (11.1)
Psychiatric Disorders  
Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue 
Disorders 
Vascular Disorders 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Anxiety 
Insomnia 
Pruritis 
3 (4.5)
2 (3.0)
4 (5.9) 
7 (5.2)
4 (5.9) 
6 (4.4)
8 (11.9)
6 (8.8) 
14 (10.4)
5 (7.5)
5 (7.4) 
10 (7.4)
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
2 (3.0)
5 (7.4) 
7 (5.2)
5 (7.5)
9 (13.2) 
14 (10.4)
None of the clinically significant laboratory abnormalities (adverse events) reported was considered to 
be  related  to  the  study  medication  and  there  were  no  apparent  differences  between  groups  in  the 
parameters assessed. 
The  safety  parameters  assessed  in  this  study  were  coagulation  parameters,  full  blood  count  and 
adverse events. No clinically relevant changes in clinical laboratory results were noted from the pre-
operative  to  post-operative  intervals  in  either  of  the  study  groups  and  there  were  no  apparent 
differences between groups. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A total of 34 SAEs were reported during study 400-05-006; 16 SAEs were reported in 12 patients in 
the  Evicel  group  (including  one  event  with  an  outcome  of  death)  and  18  SAEs  were  reported  in  15 
patients in the Surgicel group. All were considered by the investigator to have no relationship to the 
study  treatment.  Three  events  were  ascribed  a  possible  relationship  to  the  study  treatment  by  the 
sponsor following medical review, one of which occurred in the Evicel group (abdominal abscess) and 
2 in the Surgicel group (abdominal abscess and pelvic abscess).   
The most common SAEs were urinary retention (1 Evicel, 1 Surgicel), abdominal abscess (1 Evicel, 1 
Surgicel) and ileus paralytic (1 Evicel, 1 Surgicel). All other events were reported on a single occasion 
only.  The  System  Organ  Class  which  included  the  largest  number  of  SAEs  was  Infections  and 
Infestations with 8 events (3 Evicel, 5 Surgicel). 
Page 31 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
One death occurred during the study. Subject 22008 (Evicel) died due to hepatorenal syndrome. This 
event was not related to study treatment.  
An  internal  review  of  adverse  events  that  could  have  been  potential  bleeding  related  complications 
revealed that 18 patients were affected, with 7/66 (10.6%) in the Evicel group and 11/69 (15.9%) in 
the Surgicel group.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Abnormalities in haematology, coagulation and biochemical parameters (anaemia, low Hb values, low 
haematocrit, thrombocytopenia, increased PTT, electrolyte imbalances, hyperglycemia) were reported 
as  adverse  events.  The  events  were  not  considered  to  be  related  to  study  treatment  and  all  patients 
recovered. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The applicant provided data on group differences in adverse event frequencies  for men and women. 
Adverse events were listed, which showed a difference in frequency of at least 5% between the Evicel 
group and the control group in men and in women. 
Study  400-05-006  included  a  paediatric  sub-group  of  11  patients  aged  ≤  16  years,  of  which  4  were 
treated  with  Evicel  and  7  with  the  control  product,  Surgicel.  The  majority  of  adverse  events  were 
observed in the Surgicel group (27 events affecting 6 out of 7 Surgicel patients [86%]) compared to 
the Evicel group which reported 2 events affecting 1 out of 4 patients [25%].  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Studies were not performed. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
None reported. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Safety  data  from  post-marketing  experience  with  Evicel  in  the  US  market  was  provided.  This  data 
incorporates the exposure and the reported adverse events since product launch (September 2006) and 
up to March 2008.  
For a total of 81,448 kits supplied, three serious adverse drug reactions were reported for Evicel: two 
cases  of  fluid  retention  and  one  cerebrovascular  accident.  The  latter  was  reported  as  hemiparesis 
during a carotid endarterectomy where Evicel was used as spray. Emergent angiography demonstrated 
patency  of  the  carotid  system  and  the  intracranial  circulation  without  evidence  for  thrombus  or 
embolism.  The  surgeon  felt  that  the  most  likely  cause  was  hypoperfusion  during  clamping  for  the 
endarterectomy 
It has to be noted, that the spray tip was held very close to the bleeding surface (about 5 cm instead of 
the recommended 10-15 cm, see SPC) during spraying. A contribution of Evicel to this ADR either by 
a thrombogenic effect or by a falsely used spray device cannot be excluded. The applicant will have to 
instruct the surgeons on the correct use and to report such events according to the RMP. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Rarely antibodies occur after use of fibrin sealant products containing only human proteins. Due to the 
limited patient exposure to Evicel a possible risk for immunogenicity and for allergic reaction cannot 
be assessed. Data gained with the use of Quixil are of only limited value since the composition of the 
Page 32 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
products  is  different.  This  issue  will  be  subject  of  post-approval  surveillance  and  the  applicant  has 
committed to perform follow-up on immunogenicity events as a follow-up measure. 
No  data  have  been  provided  to  substantiate  the  recommendation  regarding  the  optimal  temperature 
range for the use of Evicel. Therefore, the applicant has committed to provide in vitro data covering 
physical  examinations  to  demonstrate  evidence  for  the  optimal  temperature  range.  Temperature  is 
supposed to have relevant impact especially on the viscosity of the components, mainly the fibrinogen 
component.  A  low  viscosity  is  regarded  a  pre-condition  for  successful  mixing  of  both  components, 
and,  therefore,  the  correct  formation  and  quality  of  a  fibrin  clot.  The  applicant  will  p
erform 
m
easurements  of  viscosity  of  the  fibrinogen  and  of  the  thrombin  component  (three  lots  each)  in 
relation to temperature. (e.g. at 20°C, 25°C, 30°C, 33°C, 35°C, 37°C) as a follow-up measure. 
Complications  related  to  graft  occlusion  and/or  graft  infection  and/or  thromboembolic  events  could 
potentially  occur  in  vascular  surgery,  due  to  the  nature  of  the  product  and  warnings  have  been 
included in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC. Since so far the number of patients treated in the critical 
indication of vascular surgery is quite small, the applicant has committed to gain further safety data in 
the context of a post-authorisation safety su
rveillance (PASS). This should be an observational, non-
in
terventional study in vascular surgery, e.g. in 300 patients with submission of safety data every 100 
patients or half-yearly, whatever is sooner. 
The safety of fibrin sealants/haemostatics for use in human pregnancy or during breast-feeding has not 
b
een established in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, the product should be administered to pregnant 
and lactating women only if clearly needed and a warning has been included in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
The product is intended for epilesional use only. Life threatening thromboembolic complications may 
occur  if  the  product  is  unintentionally  applied  intravascularly  and  warnings  have  been  included  in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC. In addition, the applicant has committed to document difficulties with 
administration in a systematic way and to submit an evaluation of these data annually as a follow up 
measure.  It is strongly r
ecommended as well that every time Evicel is administered to a patient, the 
n
ame and batch number of the product are recorded in order to maintain a link between the patient and 
th
e batch of the product. 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
T
le
he CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
gislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk 
Safety issue 
Immunogenicity, 
h
ypersensitivity, allergic 
eaction, anaphylaxis  
r
management plan 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Contraindication in section 4.3 of SPC
stating: Hypersensitivity to the active 
substances or to any of the excipients 
•  Warning  in  section  4.4 of  SPC  stating: 
As  with  any  protein  product,  allergic 
type  hypersensitivity 
reactions  are 
possible.  Signs  of  hypersensitivity 
include  hives,  generalised 
reactions 
Page 33 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypotension 
tightness  of 
the  chest, 
urticaria, 
wheezing, 
and 
anaphylaxis.  If  these  symptoms  occur, 
the 
be 
immediately  discontinued.  In  case  of 
shock,  standard  medical  treatment  for 
shock should be implemented. 
administration 
should 
•  Undesirable  effects  in  section  4.8  of 
SPC  listing  potential  hypersensitivity 
e 
and  allergic  reactions  as  well  as  th
s 
possible  development  of  antibodie
against components of fibrin sealants. 
Thromboembolic events 
d
ue to intravascular 
a
dministration 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
•  Contraindication
 in section 4.3 of SPC 
stating: Evicel must not be applied 
intravascularly 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of SPC
 stating: 
Do not apply intravascularly. Life 
threatening thromboemboli
complications may occur if the produ
is applied intravascularly. 
c 
ct 
Transmission of Infections 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Page 34 of 37 
•  Undesirable effects in se
ction 4.8 of 
SPC listing potential reaction due to 
intravascular injection  
infection  and 
•  Warning  in  section  4.4  of  SPC 
stating:  Standard  measures 
to 
prevent  infections  resulting  from 
the  use  of  medicinal  products 
prepared  from  human  blood  or 
plasma include selection of donors, 
screening  of  individual  donations 
and  plasma  pools  for  specific 
markers  of 
the 
effective 
inclusion 
the 
for 
manufacturing 
inactivation/removal  of  viruses. 
Despite 
this,  when  medicinal 
products  prepared  from  human 
blood  or  plasma  are  administered, 
transmitting 
the  possibility  of 
infections  agents  cannot  be  totally 
to 
excluded.  This 
un
known  or  emerging  viruses  and 
other pathogens.  
of 
steps 
also  applies 
The measures taken are considered 
effective  for  enveloped  viruses 
such  as  HIV,  Hepatitis  C  Virus 
and  Hepatitis  B  Virus  and  for  the 
non-enveloped  virus  Hepatitis  A 
Virus. The measures taken may be 
limited  value  against  non-
of 
enveloped 
as 
viruses 
parvovirus  B19.  Parvovirus  B19 
infection  may  be  serious 
for 
pregnant  women  (foetal  infection) 
and 
with 
for 
increased 
immunodefi
(e.g.  haemolytic 
erythropoeisis 
individuals 
ciency  or 
such 
 
 
anaemia). 
It  is  strongly  recommended  that 
every  time  Evicel  is  administered 
to  a  patient,  the  name  and  batch 
number  of 
are 
recorded  in  order  to  maintain  a 
link  between  the  patient  and  the 
batch of the product. 
the  product 
Complications related to 
graft occlusion, infection or 
thromboembolism, 
particularly in vascular 
surgery. 
Incorrect Product 
Application 
R
outine Pharmacovigilance 
•  Undesirable effects in section 4.8 
Post Authorization Surveillance 
gery
. 
study (PASS) in vascular sur
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
of SPC list vascular graft
occlusion and graft infection as 
potential adverse events 
•  Warning  in  Section  4.4  of  S
stating: For epilesional use only.  
PC 
•  Warning in Section 4.4 of SPC 
stating: Before administration of
Evicel, care is to be taken that pa
of the body outside the desired 
application area are sufficiently 
protected (covered) to prevent 
tissue adhesion at undesired sites.  
rts 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
dditional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
a
2.6 Over
all conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substances  and  drug  products  of 
both components of Evicel, Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin were presented in a satisfactory 
manner.  The  quality  data  submitted  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  important 
product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. Safety with regard to transmissible agents, such as 
human TSE and enveloped and non-enveloped viruses has been demonstrated in compliance with the 
relevant CHMP guidelines. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Studies performed in bacteria to determine mutagenicity were negative for Thrombin alone, Biological 
Active  Component  (containing  fibrinogen,  citrate,  glycine, 
tranexamic  acid,  and  arginine 
hydrochloride), TnBP alone, and Triton X-100 alone at all concentrations tested. All concentrations of 
the  combination  of  TnBP  and  Triton  X-100  also  tested  negative  in  assays  performed  to  determine 
mammalian cell mutagenicity, chromosomal aberration
A
thrombin degradation products which are eliminated. 
fter  local  application,  absorption  of  thrombin  into  the  plasma  is  slow  and  consists  principally  of 
s and micronuclei induction. 
No  toxicological  effects  due  to  the  solvent  detergent  reagents  (TnBP  and  Triton  X-100)  used  in  the 
virus inactivation procedure are expected since the residual levels are less than 5 µg/ml. 
Page 35 of 37 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurotoxicity studies performed with Evicel confirmed that subdural administration in the rabbit was 
not  associated  with  any  evidence  of  neurotoxicity.  Neurobehavioral  observations  for  14±1  days 
howed  no  abnormal  findings.  No  major  macroscopic  signs  of  local  intolerance  and  no  treatment  – 
s
croscopic findings were observed. Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid did not reveal major signs 
related ma
o
f inflammation. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy has been demonstrated showing superiority in two Phase III randomised, controlled clinical 
studies  with  Evicel.  One  study  in  haemostasis  and  suture  support  was  conducted  in  a  total  of  147 
patients  (75  with  Evicel,  72  with  control)  undergoing  vascular  surgery  and  another  study  in 
haemostasis  of  soft  tissue  b
leedings  in  a  total  of  135  patients  (66  with  Evicel,  69  with  control) 
u
ndergoing  retroperitoneal  or  intra-abdominal  surgery.  In  both  studies,  efficacy  of  Evicel  was 
compared to a control group: manual compression in vascular surgery and Surgicel in retroperitoneal 
or intra-abdominal surgery. 
In  study  400-05-001  (vascular  surgery)  85.3  %  of  patients  treated  with  Evicel  had  ceased  suture 
bleedings  four  minutes  after  randomisation,  improving  up  to  96.0%  at  the  end  of  the  observation 
period at 10 minutes after randomisation. For comparison, manual compression was effective in 38.9% 
after 4 minutes and finally in 69.4% of patients. Treatment failures occurred in 8.0% (Evicel) versus 
31.9% (MC) of subjects. Similar efficacy results were found in study 400-05-006
 (retroperitoneal or 
in
traabdominal surgery) on soft tissue bleedings with a success rate of 95.5% haemostasis at the target 
time  point  of  10  minutes  after  randomisation  compared  to  81.2%  in  the  active  control  group. 
Treatment failures occurred in 4.5% (Evicel) versus 18.8% (Surgicel) of subjects. 
he  applicant  additionally  sought  marketing  authorisation  for  the  indication  “promotion  of  sealing”, 
indication could not 
T
however, since no clinical studies have been performed to justify this claim, this 
b
e granted and the applicant withdrew this indication. 
Data are too li
mited to support the safety and effectiveness of Evicel in children.  
Safety 
A
 total of 282 subjects were included in two clinical trials with Evicel, 141 of which were treated with 
a single dose of Evicel (between 0.5 and 10 mL of combined product) and 141 of which were included 
in the control groups.  
In the study in retroperitoneal and intra-abdominal surgery (study 400-05-006) involving 135 patients 
(67  patients  were  treated  with  Evicel  and  68  were  control  group  patient
s)  no  adverse  events  were 
considered to be causally related to the study treatment according to the investigator assessments. The 
sponsor  considered  three  serious  adverse  events  (SAE)  (abdominal  abscess  [2],  pelvic  abscess)  as 
being possibly related to study treatment, one of them in the Evicel group.  
Adverse  reactions  which  may  b
e  reported  in  rare  cases  in  association  with  fibrin  sealants  are 
h
ypersensitivity  or  allergic  reactions.  Section  4.8  of  the  SPC  gives  general  information.  However, 
since  no  such  reactions  have  been  reported  during  clinical  trials  with  Evicel,  the  frequency  of  these 
events with Evicel is not known. 
In  study  400-05-001  in  patients  undergoing  vascular  grafting  procedures  involving  147  patients  (75 
with  Evicel,  72  with  control),  a  total  of  16  subjects  were  reported  to  have  had  a  graft 
thrombosis/occlusion  adverse  event  during  the  study  period  (5-week  observation  period)  being  the 
events  evenly  distributed  across  treatment  arms.  However,  the  risk  was  higher  in  the  firs
t  12  post-
o
perative  days  in  the  Evicel  group  with  an  increased  need  for  surgical  intervention  compared  to  the 
control group. Review of all cases of thrombosis/occlusion adverse events (TOAE) at this time point 
identified four cases of early TOAE in the Evicel group and
 two cases in the control group. 
Page 36 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the
p
roposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
•  User consultation 
The applicant’s request fo
u
ser testing post-authorisation. 
r a waiver is not granted. Therefore, the applicant committed to perform a 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The benefit/risk assessment regarding quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of Evicel is considered 
to be positive in “supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, 
for improvement of haemostasis and as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery” when used 
by  experienced  surgeons.  The  manufacturing  process  of  Evicel  has  been  optimized  and  validated  to 
ensure  consistent  quality  and  safety  of  Evicel’s  Human  Fibrinogen  as  well  as  Human  Thrombin 
component.  The  non-clinical  testing  program  for  Evicel  revealed  no  evidence  for  a  particular 
toxicological  risk  for  the  intended  clinical  use.  The  clinical  development  program  comprised  two 
randomized  clinical  trials,  one  in  retroperitoneal  and  intra-abdominal  surgery,  and  one  in  vascular 
surgery. Efficacy results of both studies indicated superiority of Evicel over the control treatment. No 
safety  concerns  derived  from  the  study  in  retroperitoneal  and  intra-abdominal  surgery.  However, 
thrombotic  events  or  occlusion  of  the  graft  (four  cases  of  early  TOAE  in  the  Evicel  group  and  two 
cases in the control group), became an issue of concern from the study in vascular surgery. Although 
these  findings  were  not  statistically  significant,  it  has  to  be  noted  that  complications  related  to  graft 
occlusion and/or graft infection and/or thromboembolic events could potentially occur in this kind of 
surgery and due to the nature of the product. The CHMP considers that at this point the risk does not 
overcome the benefits of Evicel. Since so far the number of patients treated with Evi
cel in the critical 
in
dication of vascular surgery is quite small and in order to gain better understanding on the safety of 
the  product,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  an  observational,  non-interventional  post-
authorisation safety
 surveillance (PASS) in vascular surgery as a follow-up measure. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, havin
opinion that:  
g considered the data submitted, was of the 
(cid:131)  pharmacovigil
ance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  no additiona
information.  
l risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology, and clinical 
safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus tha
s
upportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement 
o
f haemostasis and as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery was favourable and therefore 
re
commended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
t the risk-benefit balance of Evicel in 
Page 37 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
