Summary of risk management plan for EVICEL, Solutions for 
Sealant (human fibrinogen / human thrombin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for EVICEL. The RMP details important 
risks of EVICEL, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about EVICEL's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
EVICEL's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  the  EVICEL  device  should  be 
prepared for use and the product should be applied.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  EVICEL  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of EVICEL’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
EVICEL is authorised in adults as supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical 
techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis. EVICEL is also indicated in 
adults as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery and for suture line sealing in 
dura mater closure. 
EVICEL contains Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin as the active substances and it is 
given by topical use only. The active substances in EVICEL are natural substances obtained 
from human plasma (the liquid part of the blood) and are involved in the natural blood 
clotting process. When the two active substances are mixed together, thrombin cuts 
fibrinogen up into smaller units called fibrin. The fibrin then aggregates (sticks together) 
and forms a fibrin clot that helps the wound to heal, preventing bleeding. 
Clinical studies have shown EVICEL to be effective for treating patients/individuals 
undergoing surgical procedures where an haemostasis is required under abovementioned 
procedures. Further information about the evaluation of EVICEL benefits can be found in 
EVICEL’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage 
<http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000
898/human_med_000771.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124>. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of EVICEL, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
• 
Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The authorised pack size  – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly 
The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without a prescription) can help to minimise its risks. The instructions for use describe 
an outline how the device should be prepared and how the EVICEL should be applied to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
EVICEL  can  only  be  supplied  and  used  by  a  trained  physician  with  special  training  in 
surgical  techniques  to  stop  bleeding.  EVICEL  can  only  be  used  intraoperatively  by  the 
surgeon and these factors help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of EVICEL, these measures are supplemented with an additional risk minimisation 
measure mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance  activities.  If  important 
information that may affect the safe use of EVICEL is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing 
information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  EVICEL  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of EVICEL. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and 
needs to be collected (e.g. use in women who are pregnant or lactating). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
Air/gas embolism 
risks 
Important potential 
risks 
Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions, including severe 
anaphylaxis 
Graft occlusion complications 
Thromboembolism  
Medication error 
Tissue adhesion  
Important missing 
information 
Use in women who are pregnant or lactating 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risk: Air/Gas Embolism 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk groups or risk factors 
Risk minimisation measures 
The incidence rate based on reported events and spray 
usage during years 2008 – 2012, was calculated to be 
1/12,000 prior to implementation of risk minimization 
activities. 
Eleven (11) reports of Air/Gas Embolism have been 
reported with the MAHs fibrin sealant (Quixil as well as 
EVICEL) between 2008-2012. Three (33.3%) were fatal 
and six (66.6%) of the patients recovered with 
treatment and without sequelae. 
The only cases that have been reported are always 
associated with spray application at closer than 
recommended distance and/or at a higher than 
recommended pressure. There are no cases when 
EVICEL has been applied by drip.  
The risk of air/gas embolism can be prevented by 
administering the spray application at the 
recommended distance and pressure.  In addition, the 
risk can be further mitigated by using CO2 gas for spray 
application since larger volumes of intravascular CO2 
can be tolerated as the gas dissolves much more easily 
than air in blood. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 where advice is given regarding drug 
administration and Section 4.3 Contraindications. 
Section 4.4 Special Warning and Precautions.  Section 
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Package Leaflet Section 4.2, where information 
warnings and precautions is given. 
 
Important Identified Risk: Air/Gas Embolism 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
To mitigate cases of air/gas embolism 
• 
•  EVICEL should be sprayed using carbon dioxide, 
instead of pressurised air, because the greater 
solubility of carbon dioxide in blood reduces the 
risk of embolism; 
the product information for EVICEL is updated 
with clear and consistent advice for healthcare 
professionals regarding recommended pressure 
and distance to use during spraying application; 
•  EVICEL should not be sprayed via an endoscope 
when the recommended minimum safe 
distance from the tissue cannot be observed. 
•  Pressure regulators must not exceed the 
maximum pressure required to deliver the 
EVICEL spray, and that they contain labels 
stating the recommended pressure and 
distance. 
Surgeons and other relevant healthcare professionals 
received a letter explaining these new risk-minimisation 
measures. In addition, they also received updated 
educational material from the manufacturer, reflecting 
the risk minimisation measures listed above. 
Potential Risk: Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions, including severe anaphylaxis 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
There remains a theoretical risk of 
hypersensitivity/allergic reactions to EVICEL due to the 
active substances being proteins. No cases were 
reported during clinical trials and only 2, highly 
confounded spontaneous cases have been reported to 
the MAH to date.  
Rare occurrence of Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions 
(which may include angioedema, burning and stinging at 
the application site, bronchospasm, chills, flushing, 
generalised urticaria, headache, hives, hypotension, 
lethargy, nausea, restlessness, tachycardia, tightness of 
the chest, tingling, vomiting, wheezing).  
Isolated occurrence of severe anaphylaxis (Type I 
hypersensitivity), especially if the preparations is 
applied repeatedly, or administered to patients known 
to be hypersensitive to constituents of the product 
 
 
 
Potential Risk: Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions, including severe anaphylaxis 
Antibodies against components of fibrin 
sealant/haemostatic products may form rarely, due to 
the nature of the product. Adverse events that could be 
attributed to product immunogenicity may include 
allergic reactions, including anaphylactic reaction 
and/or Post-Procedural haemorrhage-lack of efficacy 
events 
Risk groups or risk factors 
Patients know to be hypersensitive to the active 
substances or excipients in EVICEL. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Do not use EVICEL in those patients known to be 
hypersensitive/allergic. Caution is advised when EVICEL 
is used for a second or subsequent surgery. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Potential Risk: Graft occlusion complications 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
There is no evidence from clinical trials or post-
marketing experience that EVICEL results in an 
increased incidence of graft occlusion compared to 
other methods used to reduce bleeding from graft 
anastomoses or the background occurrence of occlusion 
following grafting. 
It is theoretically possible that use of EVICEL around the 
site of a graft anastomosis may cause introduction of 
Human Thrombin and Human Fibrinogen or clot itself to 
enter the graft and either cause occlusion directly or via 
activation of clotting pathways. 
Acute graft occlusion may produce clear cut ischaemic 
symptoms, though these normally subside rapidly 
allowing for an elective approach to treatment, which 
may involve hospitalisation, thrombolytic therapy, and 
anticoagulation. Rarely, ischaemia fails to respond and 
urgent revascularisation with re-grafting is necessary. 
Risk groups or risk factors 
No data available  
Risk minimisation measures 
None  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
 
 
 
 
Potential Risk: Thromboembolism 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
There have been rare case reports of 
thromboembolism, including pulmonary embolism, 
associated with the use of fibrin sealants.  Product 
embolism was not suspected in these cases.  
The background incidence of thromboembolism 
following a range of surgery types is approximately 
0.8%, of which approximately a third were pulmonary 
embolism. 
Risk groups or risk factors 
If product embolism occurred then it could theoretically 
lead to a fatal pulmonary embolism. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Avoid inadvertent intravascular injection 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Potential Risk: Medication error 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
the medicine 
Two types of medication error can be envisaged. Firstly, 
inadvertent intravascular injection, which could  lead to 
product  embolism  (discussed  separately),  or  incorrect 
mixing  of  the  thrombin  and  fibrinogen  components 
leading to lack of or poor clot formation at the desired 
site with resultant lack of efficacy. 
Risk groups or risk factors 
There are no known risk factors. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Clear instructions are given already in the SmPC. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Potential Risk: Tissue Adhesion 
None 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
the medicine 
Theoretically,  application  of  EVICEL  away  from  the 
intended area, particularly in larger quantities, could lead 
to  unwanted  tissue  adhesion.  The  surgeon  should  be 
aware this has occurred and can take remedial action at 
the time and no consequences are likely. However, even 
if  used  at  the  intended  site,  it  is  theoretically  possible 
that  unwanted  adhesion  to  surrounding  tissue  may 
occur.  Again,  given  the  rapidity  of  achieving  sufficient 
adhesion  strength  with  fibrin  sealants  (30  seconds  or 
less), it is likely that adherence of the treated tissue to 
another  will  be  noticed  by  the  surgeon  and  remedial 
action taken. 
Risk groups or risk factors 
No data available 
No data available 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC warns the surgeon to protect 
(by covering) areas outside the intended treatment area 
to avoid unwanted tissue adhesion. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Missing information Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  EVICEL was not studied in women who are 
pregnant  or  lactating.    There  is  no  reason 
to  believe  that  results  in  women  who  are 
pregnant or lactating would be any different 
than in any other adult. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
A risk associated with use cannot be defined 
based on available evidence. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation methods: 
Routine pharmacovigilance via spontaneous 
ADR reporting 
Additional risk minimisation methods: 
No risk minimisation methods 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of EVICEL Solutions for Sealant. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
A non-interventional post-authorisation safety surveillance study was conducted which 
involved 300 patients undergoing vascular surgery during which EVICEL was used. Safety 
monitoring focused on the specific adverse reactions of graft patency, thrombotic events, 
and bleeding events. No adverse reactions were reported during the study. 
 
