07 December 2012 
EMA/66677/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Evicel 
Human Fibrinogen / Human Thrombin 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000898/A-20/0018 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................. 4 
Tab. 1. Evicel - Clinical Studies Summary .................................................... 4 
2.1.2. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................... 7 
2.3. Product information .............................................................................................. 8 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 9 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................... 9 
5. Action plan ............................................................................................ 10 
5.1. Direct Healthcare Professional Communication ....................................................... 10 
6. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................. 10 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The scope of the review was the assessment of the potential association of Evicel with life-threatening 
air embolism. From 2008 until May 2012, four cases of life-threatening air embolism (of which two had 
a fatal outcome) were reported following spray application of Evicel.  
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 21 May 2012 to assess the 
above concerns and its impact on the benefit/risk for Evicel, and to give its opinion on measures 
necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of Evicel, and on whether the marketing authorisation 
for this product should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. Following this, the UK’s 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency triggered a procedure under Article 31 on 24 
May 2012, requesting the CHMP to carry out the same assessment for the other fibrin sealants 
authorised in the EU. 
A further case of air embolism in association with Evicel was received during the Article 20 procedure. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Evicel is a second generation fibrin sealant containing two components, human clottable protein and 
human thrombin and was approved via the centralised procedure in 2008.  
Evicel is indicated as supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are 
insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis. It is also indicated as suture support for haemostasis in 
vascular surgery.  
From 2008 until May 2012, four cases of life-threatening air embolism (of which two had a fatal 
outcome) were reported following spray application of Evicel. A further case of air embolism in 
association with Evicel was received during this review procedure. In the same period, 4 cases were 
associated with the spray application of Quixil, a first generation fibrin sealant, approved via the 
mutual recognition procedure. The thrombin component of Evicel is identical to the thrombin 
component of Quixil but the fibrinogen component of Evicel differs mainly from that of Quixil in the fact 
that it does not contain tranexamic acid. 
Evicel and Quixil can be either dripped onto the tissue or sprayed onto the tissue in short bursts. If 
spraying is required, a pressure regulator has to be used with pressurized CO2 or compressed air. The 
choice of method of application is left to the surgeon depending on the degree and the surface area of 
bleeding expected or encountered and the remoteness of the location of the bleeding surface. When 
applied by spraying, in order to achieve a sufficiently fine and uniform spray, the syringe containing 
the fibrin and thrombin components is connected to a supply of gas (CO2 or compressed air) through a 
pressure regulator. 
Although there are instructions in the current product information regarding the pressure that must be 
used and the distance from the bleeding tissue that must be maintained during the spray application, 
in order to avoid forcing gas into the vasculature, there is a concern that these instructions are not 
always being adhered to, leading to a risk of air embolism. 
Despite risk mitigation activities put in place between August 2010 and early 2011, including: 1) a 
direct healthcare professional communication regarding a change in product labelling, 2) field safety 
notification for the pressure regulator including change in the instructions for use, and 3) updated 
customer training programs, two new cases of air embolism (and a third one during the review 
procedure) have been reported following the use of the spray application of Evicel (one non-fatal case 
in August 2011 and a fatal case in January 2012). 
Based on the above, the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004 on 21 May 2012, requesting the CHMP to assess the above concerns and their 
impact on the benefit-risk for Evicel, to give its opinion on measures necessary to ensure the safe and 
effective use of Evicel and on whether the marketing authorisation for this product should be 
maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn.  
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
2.1.1.  Clinical efficacy 
A  total  of  3  clinical  trials  have  been  conducted  using  Evicel  and  8  clinical  trials  using  Quixil  (first 
generation Omrix fibrin sealant). The majority of studies involved spray application. Four Quixil studies 
and two Evicel studies are randomized.  
The intended benefit of fibrin sealant is the ability to effectively achieve haemostasis when control of 
bleeding  by  standard  surgical  techniques  (such  as  suture,  ligature  or  cautery)  is  ineffective  or 
impractical. This was addressed in clinical trials with Evicel/Quixil in terms of time to haemostasis and 
blood loss (Tab. 1 and 2).  
Tab. 1. Evicel - Clinical Studies Summary  
Study No.  Type of 
Surgery 
Safety 
Analysis 
Set 
Study 
Design 
Main 
Effectiveness 
Parameter 
Fibrin 
Sealant 
Application 
Effectiveness 
Results 
400-05-
006 
400-05-
001 
400-08-
004 
Urological 
Gynecological 
General 
Total 135* 
EVICEL  67  - 
Control 68 
Vascular 
Vascular 
Total: 147 
EVICEL  75  - 
Control 72 
Total 100 
EVICEL  100 
- Control  0 
(vs. 
Randomized  
Controlled 
Trial 
Surigel) 
Randomized  
Controlled 
Trial 
Single  Arm 
Registry 
Time to 
hemostasis 
(within 10 
minutes) 
Time to 
hemostasis 
Drip and 
Spray 
95.5% 
81.2% 
vs. 
Drip 
85.3 
38.9% 
%vs. 
NA 
Drip 
NA 
Surgical:  oxidised,  regenerated  cellulose  haemostat,  Kaltostat:  calcium/  sodium  alginate  dressing,  standard  care: 
ligation/ cautery 
Table 2: Quixil - Clinical Studies Summary  
Study No.  Type of 
Surgery 
Safety 
Analysis Set 
Study Design 
Main 
Effectiveness 
Parameter 
Fibrin 
Sealant 
Application 
Effectiveness 
Results 
Q-LIV-008-
US 
Liver 
OFI-LIV-
003-B 
OFI-LIV-
002-UK 
Liver 
Liver 
Q-THR-
009-US 
Orthopedic  
(THR) 
OFI-TKR-
001-IL 
Orthopedic  
(TKR) 
OFI-TKR-
004-US 
Orthopedic  
(TKR) 
OFI-THR-
005-UK 
Orthopedic  
(THR) 
Total: 121 
QUIXIL 58 - 
Control 63 
Total: 34 
QUIXIL 17 - 
FS Control 17 
Total: 21 
QUIXIL 21 
Control 0 
Total: 97 
QUIXIL 54 
Control 43 
Total: 59 
QUIXIL 29 
Control 30 
Total: 53 
QUIXIL 25 
Control 28 
Total: 13 
QUIXIL 13 
Control 0 
Single blind, 
randomized, 
active-controlled 
(range of other 
haemostatic 
products) 
Open label 
active-controlled 
(Tissucol Kit R) 
Open, non-
controlled 
Single blind, 
randomized, 
controlled 
(standard care) 
Single blind, 
randomized, 
controlled 
(standard care) 
Single-blind 
randomized 
controlled 
(standard care) 
Open pilot 
study, vs. 
historical 
controls 
Time to 
hemostasis 
Spray 
Blood loss 
Spray 
Blood loss 
Spray 
Mean Blood 
loss (total) 
Spray 
Mean Blood 
loss (total) 
Spray 
Mean blood 
loss (post-op) 
Spray 
91.4%  vs. 
69.8% 
5.3 min. vs. 
7.7 min. 
No difference 
(p=0.79) 
Mean: 1300ml 
(SD 739mL) 
698.7 mL vs. 
836.6 mL 
(p=0.007) 
473 mL vs. 
1147 mL 
(p<.001) 
185.9 mL vs. 
452.3 mL 
(p<.001) 
Mean blood 
loss reduction 
(total) of 3 
treatment 
regimen 
Spray 
51% vs. 48% 
vs. 25 %  
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Q-CVS-
015-UK 
Vascular 
Total: 20 
QUIXIL 10 
Control 
(Kaltostat) 10 
AEs to 30 days 
after surgery, 
Hematology, 
Coagulation 
Single blind, 
randomized 
controlled 
--- 
--- 
Surgical:  oxidised,  regenerated  cellulose  haemostat,  Kaltostat:  calcium/  sodium  alginate  dressing,  standard  care: 
ligation/ cautery 
For Evicel there is only 1 study available in which both drip and spray applications were used, the other 
two studies used only drip application. The majority of studies with Quixil have been conducted using 
the  spray  method.  There  is  a  lack  of  data  providing  a  direct  comparison  between  Evicel  and  Quixil 
applied by drip or spray methods within a study.  
In  general,  the  sample  size  of  the  studies  for  Evicel/Quixil  in  different  indications  is  considered  small 
and  only  6  studies  are  randomized  (no  double-blind  study  design).  One  study  compared  Quixil  with 
another  fibrin  sealant.  No  significant  differences  with  regard  to  haemostasis  were  obtained.  All  11 
clinical trials have already been assessed by the CHMP.  
In  order  to  justify  the  use  of  spray  application  rather  than  dripping,  the  MAH  performed  a  literature 
review  which  showed  that  the  spray  application  is  considered  a  valuable  adjunct  to  achieve 
haemostasis  with  the  benefits  of  reduced  blood  loss  and  reduced  need  for  blood  transfusion  in  joint 
replacement  (Levy  et  al,  1999),  in  cardiothoracic  surgery  (Kjaegard,  1996),  and  in  liver  surgery 
(Schwartz et al, 2004). Furthermore, a Cochrane review (Carless et al, 2009) found that, in contrast to 
the  drip  application,  the  spray  application  provides  a  more  uniform  film  and  is  therefore  more 
appropriate  for  diffuse  bleeding  or  bleeding  from  large  tissue  surfaces.  The  spray  technique  is 
considered  to  facilitate  the  application  of  fibrin  sealant  to  remote  surgical  sites  (Spotnitz,  2001),  and 
can improve blood conservation and reduce intra-operative bleeding (Jackson, 2001).  
The MAH also argued that there are surgical situations, e.g. large bleeding surface or remote location 
of  bleeding,  where  the  spray  is  considered  to  be  the  best  option.  The  MAH  provided  three  experts 
statements supporting this view. 
With regard to the efficacy of sprayable fibrin sealants, the CHMP assessed the available information, 
including data submitted by the MAH. The CHMP also noted that there appears to be evidence for the 
need  to  use  the  combination  spray  sealants  in  situations  where  there  is  significant  blood  loss  from  a 
wide surface area and the survival of the patient is threatened. The CHMP therefore concluded that the 
available evidence supports the efficacy and utility of Evicel in the approved indications. 
2.1.2.  Clinical safety 
A comprehensive search for any case or safety issue that might reveal or be symptomatic of gas 
embolism was conducted by the MAH, including product quality complaints or device incident reports.  
The search confirmed the 4 cases of gas embolism previously reported for Evicel. Those cases are 
described below. The cases of air embolism associated with Quixil are described in the CHMP AR on the 
Article 31 referral on fibrinogen-containing solutions for sealant, which was assessed in parallel to this 
procedure. 
A fatal case of air embolism was reported in a patient who underwent an initial hysteroscopy and 
subsequent second hysteroscopy for recurrent bleeding.  Evicel was sprayed to control cervical 
bleeding.  One minute after application there was full cardiac arrest and death.  The post-mortem 
exam showed air within the vasculature including brain and heart. One possible explanation for the 
event under consideration of the reporters was that the gas in the circulatory system was as a result of 
the use of the spray applicator in an enclosed space.  
The pressure regulator was set at 37 psi to spray the Evicel, whereas the IFU indicates that the 
pressure be set at 20-25 psi.   
A second life-threatening case involved a patient who developed air embolism after being treated with 
Evicel via an air pressure device at 2 bars of pressure, during surgery for a laparoscopic partial 
nephrectomy. It was reported that the patient had been very stable throughout the surgery. The renal 
artery had been clamped prior to Evicel application. Within 2-3 minutes of application of Evicel using 
the gas injector to inject medical air (with the tip within 1 cm to the surface of the resected renal 
margin), the patient’s vital signs became very unstable. It was reported that the patient made a full 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and uneventful recovery with no sequelae. The reporter considered the event to be related to the 
excessive pressure introduced to the “air pressure device” during Evicel application. 
A third case of air embolism was reported in a patient who was undergoing an open sacral mass 
resection. During the operation, approximately two to three minutes after Evicel use for haemostasis, 
the patient suddenly lost blood pressure and went into a pulseless electrical activity (PEA) rhythm. The 
patient developed bradycardia, abrupt loss of end-tidal CO2, and severe abrupt hypotension, and was 
placed in the supine position, received cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and several rounds of 
epinephrine. After regaining a pulse five minutes later, the patient was transferred to the intensive 
care unit (ICU). The surgery time was extended by 30 minutes. The patient rapidly improved and was 
extubated the same day. The patient was discharged from the hospital without sequelae. It was noted 
that Evicel was delivered via a spray applicator less than 5 cm, if not closer, from the tissue. The 
pressure regulator was set at 50 psi and was 100 cm from the pressured air source on the wall. The tip 
of the Evicel applicator was very close to a vein. 
Another fatal case involved a patient who was undergoing a revision laminectomy with spinal fusion. 
Approaching the anterior epidural space, the surgeon encountered uncontrollable, excessive bleeding 
which resulted in a drop in haemoglobin from 14 to 8 mg/dl. The patient was transfused with two units 
of blood. After other haemostatic methods failed to stop the bleeding from the anterior epidural space, 
one 5-ml Evicel was dispatched to the operating theatre. A pressure regulator was used to set the 
pressure of the air source. The air pressure was reportedly set within the manufacturer-specified range 
of 15-25 psi. The actual numeric air pressure setting was not available. A "standard 6 cm tip" on the 
applicator device was utilized. The operating surgeon had no prior experience using Evicel or Quixil.   
The actual distance between the applicator tip and the bleeding surface was requested   but was   not 
reported. It was described as "closer than recommended”. The first 1 to 2 ml of Evicel was dripped 
onto the bleeding surface. When the bleeding continued, the remainder of Evicel (approximately 8 ml) 
was sprayed to the target site with "one continuous burst of pressure" in "a matter of seconds" by the 
surgeon using a foot paddle to apply the pressurized air. 
Immediately after the Evicel spray, the patient went into cardiac arrest with pulseless electrical activity 
(PEA). End tidal carbon dioxide rapidly decreased.   
In each case there was a failure to follow at least one of the current guidelines on administration of 
spray application of Evicel using pressurised gas: 
1.  Inappropriate distance from the tissue surface 
2.  Excessive pressure 
3.  Use on open vessels or within a highly vascular cavity e.g. bone marrow. 
In addition, a search for serious and fatal adverse reactions was performed, which identified 28 cases 
with a fatal outcome for Quixil or Evicel. The majority of the adverse reactions were either related to 
underlying disease or reasonably explained by surgical and/or post-operative complications. 
The MAH stated that the spray device does not represent a risk of gas embolism as long as the 
instructions for use are complied with, and that the observed cases gas embolism associated with 
Quixil applied by spray are linked to misuse or unfamiliarity with the proper method of administration. 
The CHMP reviewed all cases of gas embolism reported with the use of sprayable fibrin sealants. The 
analysis of the case reports showed that symptomatic air/gas embolism had occurred only when the 
instructions for use were not followed; in most cases, the spray application was made at pressures 
higher than the recommended pressure and/or at distances to the target tissue surface lower than the 
recommended distance.  
The CHMP therefore concluded that a number of serious incidents with severe patient harm or death 
have occurred in association with sprayable fibrin sealants and that the potential link to the gas system 
cannot be ignored. The CHMP also agreed that there is no risk of gas embolism associated with the 
fibrin sealant itself or when the sealant is applied by the drip method. 
Overall, the concern is regarding the long-term effectiveness of the current educational material and/or 
training program to reduce the risk of air embolism and whether re-training with an assessment 
component to test individuals’ learning would be more appropriate. In the third quarter of 2010, a Dear 
Doctor Letter and a field safety notification were issued, warning of the risk of gas embolism when the 
spray was applied at pressures higher than recommended and/or at distances shorter than 
recommended to the site of bleeding. This was followed up with an updated SmPC with the same 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
warning in the first quarter of 2011. Between August 2010 and the start of this Article 20 review, two 
additional case reports with the spray application of Evicel have been reported (a case of air embolism 
with a fatal cardiac arrest and a case of life-threatening cardiac arrest, severe abrupt hypotension, 
bradycardia and abrupt loss of end-tidal carbon dioxide). These reports demonstrate that the actual 
risk minimization measures are not effective to sufficiently reduce the risk of air embolism. 
During the Article 20 review, the CHMP also noted a new case of gas embolism reported with the use 
of Evicel during laser prostatectomy. Evicel was sprayed antero-laterally via pressure regulator with N2 
(nitrogen) for a single two-second burst at approximately 2½ to 3 centimetres with reduced pressure 
of 8 (eight) PSI. This case occurred during a clinical trial and highlights the problems with the 
application of sprayable fibrin sealants during endoscopic procedures, where it is not always feasible to 
judge distances (such as 4cm) accurately when spraying. As a result, gas embolism may occur even 
with a reduced pressure.  
The CHMP noted that the difference in composition between Quixil and Evicel results in a higher 
viscosity for Quixil, which in turn has the consequence that more force is required to deliver spray 
application of Quixil. The pressure range for Quixil is therefore higher (2.0-2.5 bar) compared with that 
of Evicel (1.0-1.7 bar). The CHMP noted that despite the different recommended pressure regulator 
settings fibrin sealant spray systems may have similar gas velocity. Moreover, the CHMP concluded 
that there was insufficient evidence to substantiate a higher risk of air embolus for Quixil (relative to 
Evicel) because of the different pressure range required for Quixil. 
In conclusion, with regard to safety, the CHMP noted that the main risk with sprayable fibrin sealants is 
the risk of air/gas embolism, due to air/gas entering the vasculature. The CHMP therefore considered 
that correct administration of sprayable fibrin sealants is essential to reduce this risk and focused its 
assessment on this risk and the identification of measures that would be necessary and adequate to 
minimise this risk. 
An ad-hoc expert advisory group meeting was convened in October 2012 at the request of the CHMP, 
during which the experts discussed the benefits of sprayable fibrin sealants as well as potential risk 
minimisation measures, in particular with regard to the risk of air embolism. The experts agreed that 
sprayable fibrin sealants are recommended when there is a large surface area of surgical bleeding, 
generally oozing, and that not using sprayable fibrin sealants in these cases would lead to an increased 
use of other blood products, which would lead to a higher risk of complications. The expert 
unanimously agreed that the risk of air embolism is not related to the medicinal product itself but to 
the device design and its misuse in practice. They were of the opinion that CO2 should be used instead 
of air as a safety precaution because of the markedly lower risk of gas embolism due to the high 
solubility of CO2 in the blood. Furthermore, the device design should have a specific gas pressure 
governor to be used with the spray applicator and with a limit not above the maximal optimal pressure 
recommended. They also recommended that appropriate educational materials and training for 
healthcare professionals to administer the product correctly (at the recommended distance and 
pressure for spray application) is required. 
The MAH was also asked to discuss the merits and feasibility of any risk minimisation measures which 
could be introduced in order to improve the benefit/risk of the Evicel spray application. 
2.2.  Risk minimisation activities 
Based on the safety conclusions, the CHMP requested the submission of an updated Risk Management 
Plan including a risk minimisation plan. 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required: 
The MAH shall ensure that, at the time of the European Commission decision for this procedure 
(EMEA/H/C/000898/A20/0018), all users of the spray application of this product are provided with 
educational material. This material shall inform about the 
• 
• 
• 
• 
risk of life-threatening gas embolism if the product is sprayed incorrectly; 
use of pressurized CO2 only; 
restriction to open surgery and - if the minimum spray distance of 4 cm can be accurately 
judged – laparoscopy; 
correct pressure and distance from tissue depending on kind of surgery (open or 
laparoscopic); 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
requirement to dry the wound using standard techniques (e.g. intermittent application of 
compresses, swabs, use of suction devices) prior to using the product; 
requirement to closely monitor blood pressure, pulse rate, oxygen saturation and end tidal 
CO2 when spraying the product, for the occurrence of gas embolism; 
•  which regulator(s) should be used, in line with manufacturer recommendations and the 
SmPC instructions for use. 
The material shall include the latest Summary of Product Characteristics and the section titled “The 
following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only” of the latest package 
leaflet. 
The MAH shall offer an educational program to all users of the spray application of this product. The 
program shall teach the content of the mentioned educational material.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the exact content and format of the educational 
material and educational program with the national competent authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, within three months of the European Commission decision on this 
procedure (EMEA/H/C/000898/A20/0018), all users of the spray application of this product are 
provided with: 
• 
• 
• 
labels for the pressure regulator that inform about the correct pressures and distances in 
open and laparoscopic procedures; 
a warning card that informs about the correct pressures and distances for the spray 
application for open and laparoscopic procedures; 
a yellow tag, to be placed on the device air hose, which provides instructions for use. If the 
tag is provided as part of the medicinal product, it should be incorporated in the product 
information via a variation procedure. 
The MAH shall ensure that, within 2 years of the European Commission decision on this procedure 
(EMEA/H/C/000898/A20/0018), the product can only be used with a pressure regulator that caps the 
maximum pressure at 1.7 bars. 
Those additional risk minimisation measures have been inserted in the Annex II of the Product 
Information. 
The MAH is requested to submit an updated version of the RMP at time of the next PSUR submission in 
order to properly reflect the above mentioned measures. 
2.3.  Product information 
The CHMP revised the Evicel product information in accordance with the agreed risk minimisation 
measures, to ensure the safe and effective use of Evicel. The major changes to the SmPC was the 
amendment of 
In the SmPC, Section 4.2 was amended, to reflect the fact that the use of Evicel is restricted to 
experienced surgeons who have been trained in the use of Evicel and the Method and Route of 
Administration section was extensively revised, to reflect the risk of air embolism (also in Section 4.4 
and 4.8) and to state that Evicel should be used with carbon dioxide gas only.  
Clarity on the appropriate means of achieving a tissue surface that is as dry as possible were also 
added, together with a sentence reminding users to comply with the recommendations on the required 
pressure and distance from tissue (also in Section 4.4). In Section 4.3, a contra-indication in use in 
endoscopic procedures was added. Section 4.4 was additionally revised to remind users that Evicel 
spray application should only be used if it is possible to accurately judge the spray distance as 
recommended by the manufacturer, especially during laparoscopy. Section 6.6 was amended to add a 
table clarifying the pressure and distance from tissue recommended by the manufacturer and include 
the recommendation that Evicel should only be sprayed using carbon dioxide gas. 
In the Package Leaflet, a sentence was added to Section 2 stating that Evicel should not be used in 
endoscopic surgery or for keyhole surgery and text was also added to inform users of the risk of 
embolism and reminding them to use only carbon dioxide gas and to comply with the 
recommendations for pressure ranges and spraying distance from the tissue surface. In the 
Instructions for use, a sentence restricting the use of Evicel to experienced surgeons who have been 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trained in the use of Evicel was added, together with a table clarifying the pressure and distance from 
tissue recommended by the manufacturer. 
The product information has been amended in line with the latest Annex II QRD template. 
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Having considered the available data, the MAH’s responses and taking into account the ad-hoc advisory 
group recommendations, the CHMP identified and agreed upon a number of risk minimisation 
measures to be implemented by the MAH to reduce the safety concern of air/gas embolism associated 
with sprayable fibrin sealants. In particular, the MAH should ensure that all users of the spray 
application are provided with adequate educational material on the correct use of the product and are 
offered an educational program which teaches the content of the mentioned educational material. In 
addition, the MAH should ensure that all users of the spray application of this product are provided 
with labels for the pressure regulator that inform about the correct pressure and distance in open 
surgery, a warning card that informs about the correct pressure and distance for the spray application 
for open surgery and a yellow tag, to be placed on the device air hose, which provides instructions for 
use. Finally, the product should only be sprayed using pressurised carbon dioxide gas and the MAH 
should ensure that the product can only be used with a pressure regulator that caps the maximum 
pressure at 1.7 bars.  
Regarding the clinical use of the product, the CHMP was of the opinion that spraying Evicel in 
endoscopic procedures should be contra-indicated. 
Regarding the clinical use of the product, the CHMP was of the opinion, based on the last case of air 
embolism that was reported during an endoscopy procedure, where the surgeon has limited visibility of 
the tissue surface that the use of Evicel by spray application should only be considered if it is possible 
to accurately judge the spraying distance. Spraying Evicel in endoscopic procedures should therefore 
be contra-indicated. For laparoscopic procedures, insufflations offers a visual field of down to 4cm and 
the CHMP therefore considered that the benefit-risk profile for the use of sprayable Evicel in 
laparoscopic procedures is the same as open surgical procedures and could be managed through the 
proposed risk minimisation measures. The CHMP recommended a warning to be included in Section 4.4 
to reflect the fact that the Evicel spray application should only be considered if it is possible to 
accurately judge the spraying distance. Clear instructions to surgeons with regard to the distances and 
pressures recommended and the pressurised gas to be used should be provided and that the use of 
Evicel should be restricted to experienced surgeons who have been trained in the use of Evicel. 
Appropriate means of achieving a tissue surface that is as dry as possible should be used and changes 
in blood pressure, pulse, oxygen saturation and end tidal CO2 should be monitored during application 
of Evicel because of the possibility of occurrence of air or gas embolism. The CHMP revised the Evicel 
PI accordingly, to ensure the safe and effective use of Evicel (see Annex I, II and IIIB). 
Benefit/risk balance 
Having considered all the available data, including the MAH responses provided in writing and during 
oral explanations and the conclusions of the ad-hoc expert meeting, the CHMP agreed that the benefit-
risk balance of Evicel as supportive treatment in surgery, improvement of haemostasis and suture 
support for haemostasis in vascular surgery, remains positive under normal conditions of use, subject 
to the changes to the product information, (see Annex I and IIIB), together with the agreed risk 
minimisation measures (see Annex II ) and the agreed Direct Healthcare Professionals Communication. 
4.  Overall conclusion 
The CHMP recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for Evicel for which 
the revised summary of product characteristics and package leaflet are set out respectively in annexes 
I and IIIB of the opinion. 
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of the SmPC, Annex II and package 
leaflet are set out in Annex IV of the opinion. 
This CHMP recommendation is subject to new conditions and requirements of the marketing 
authorisation with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product as set out in Annex II 
of the opinion. 
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Action plan 
5.1.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
The CHMP considered that a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) was needed to 
communicate on the outcome of the present review. The DHPC should be circulated to all Evicel users 
(Operating Room Directors, Materials Managers, surgeons using Evicel and Risk Managers at all Evicel 
Facilities), in all member states where Evicel is currently supplied, no later than 3 December 2012. 
The final version of this DHPC agreed by the CHMP is provided together with the communication plan. 
6.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
Evicel initiated by the European Commission. 
The Committee reviewed all the data provided by the MAH in writing and in the oral explanation 
and the outcome of the ad-hoc expert advisory group meeting; 
The Committee considered all the cases of air embolism associated with the use of Evicel by spray 
application that have been reported and concluded that the risk minimisation measures previously 
implemented were insufficient to mitigate the identified risk of air embolism associated with the 
use of the Evicel spray application; 
The CHMP agreed on a number of additional risk minimisation measures, including changes to the 
product information regarding the use of the product as well as educational materials and training 
to be provided to users of the product, which adequately addressed the identified risk of air 
embolism; 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Evicel as supportive 
treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement of 
haemostasis and as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery, is positive under normal 
conditions of use, subject to the implementation of the agreed risk minimisation measures, 
including changes to the product information. 
The CHMP has therefore recommended the variation of the marketing authorisation for Evicel in 
accordance to the Product Information set out in annexes I and IIIB and the conditions set out in 
Annex II.  
Assessment report  
EMA/66677/2013  
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
