27 June 2013 
EMA/474697/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name Evicel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000898/II/0021 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Omrix Biopharmaceuticals N. V. 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Requested Type II variation................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment ............................................................................. 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Pharmacokinetics .............................................................................................. 7 
2.2.4. Toxicology ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.2.5. Ecotoxicity / Environmental Risk Assessment ........................................................ 9 
2.2.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ....................................................................... 9 
2.2.7. Conclusion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 10 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 11 
2.3.2. Clinical Pharmacology ...................................................................................... 12 
2.3.3. Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology .................................................................. 12 
2.4. Clinical Efficacy .................................................................................................. 12 
2.4.1. Dose Response studies..................................................................................... 12 
2.4.2. Main Study ..................................................................................................... 12 
2.4.3. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 25 
2.4.4. Conclusions .................................................................................................... 26 
2.5. Clinical Safety aspects ........................................................................................ 27 
2.5.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 27 
2.5.2. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 32 
2.5.3. Conclusions .................................................................................................... 33 
2.6. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 34 
2.7. Changes to the Product Information ..................................................................... 41 
3. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ................... 41 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 44 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 2/47 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
AE  
BAC2   
BMI    
CDC 
CHMP  
CI  
CMH    
CSF    
CT  
DHPC   
DVT    
EC  
FAS    
GCP    
ITT  
IU  
IV  
MAH   
MedDRA  
n/a 
NHSH  
OR  
PDCO   
PI 
PIP 
PP  
PRAC   
PSUR   
RMP 
RSI 
SA 
SAE    
SAP    
SD  
SmPC  
SOC    
SSA    
SSI  
SUSAR  
TA 
Adverse event 
Biologically active component 2 
Body Mass Index 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Confidence interval 
Cochran Mantel-Haenszel 
Cerebrospinal fluid 
Computed tomography 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
Deep Vein Thrombosis 
European Commission 
Full Analysis Set 
Good Clinical Practice 
Intent to Treat 
International Units 
Intravenous 
Marketing Authorization Holder 
Medical dictionary for regulatory acitivities 
Not applicable 
National Healthcare Safety Network 
Odds ratio 
Paediatric Committee of the European Medicines Agency 
Product Information 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Per Protocol Set 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Risk Management Plan 
Request for supplementary information 
Scientific Advice 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan 
Standard Deviation 
Summary of product characteristics 
Standard of Care 
Surgical site assessment 
Surgical site infection 
Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Drug Reactions 
tranexamic acid 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 3/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Omrix Biopharmaceuticals N. V. 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 3 October 2012 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
Evicel 
HUMAN FIBRINOGEN / HUMAN 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
THROMBIN 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH applied for an extension of the indication to include use as a tissue glue to promote 
adhesion/sealing, or as suture support in neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with 
cerebro-spinal fluid or dura mater can occur and a modification of the wording of existing indication as 
“as a tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing, or as suture support in vascular surgery.  Consequently, 
the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 of the SmPC and the Package Leaflet 
was proposed to be updated accordingly. Minor modifications to the SmPC, Labelling and Package Leaflet 
have also been proposed.  
Furthermore, the MAH proposed this opportunity to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur: 
Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Co-Rapporteur: Piotr Feodor 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
3 October 2012 
23 November 2012 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
17 January 2013 
circulated on: 
Co-Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
15 January 2013 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur/Co-Rapporteur’s joint assessment 
14 February 2013 
report circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
21 February 2013 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
27 March 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
23 May 2013 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 4/47 
 
 
  
  
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
30 May 2013 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
5 June 2013 
Rapporteur’s final assessment report on the MAH’s 
19 June 2013 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
27 June 2013 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0025/2012 on a PIP and an EMA Decision on a PIP modification P/0193/2012. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 28 September 2009. The Scientific 
Advice pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier (EMEA/H/SA/1377/1/2009).  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
In neurosurgery, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage is considered to be one of the most challenging and 
potentially dangerous complications. Among the envelopes which contain and protect the neural 
structures, the dura mater is the only one that can be surgically repaired. Watertight closure of the dura 
is the first line of protection from postoperative CSF leakage, which can lead to other serious 
complications such as meningitis and delayed wound healing. (1) 
Fibrin sealants -generally containing two major components, fibrinogen and thrombin - manufactured 
from pooled human plasma have been used in surgery since the 1970s both  for haemostatic purposes 
but also for sealing, reinforcement of sutures and tissue adhesion (2, 3). 
Most fibrin sealants also contain an antifibrinolytic agent to stabilise the fibrinogen in vitro by avoiding 
degradation by plasminogen which may be present as an impurity in the fibrinogen concentrate, and/or to 
stabilise the clot in vivo. Commonly used antifibrinolytic agents are bovine aprotinin and tranexamic acid 
(TA) although both have disadvantages. TA has been shown to have neurotoxic potential (ref 4)) and 
thus fibrin sealants incorporating TA are contraindicated for use in neurosurgery and surgical procedures 
where contact with CSF or dura mater can occur. Bovine aprotinin on the other hand is potentially 
antigenic; severe allergic and anaphylactic reactions have been reported (5,6). Such reactions occur more 
frequently in patients who have been exposed previously to aprotinin-containing products, particularly 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 5/47 
 
 
  
  
within the prior 12 months. The development of EVICEL was based on that of a previous product 
manufactured by OMRIX biopharmaceuticals and marketed in the EU/EEA as QUIXIL and in the USA as 
CROSSEAL. In contrast to Quixil, EVICEL does not contain the potentially neurotoxic antifibrinolytic agent 
tranexamic acid (TA).  
EVICEL is a human plasma-derived fibrin sealant product which consists of two biological components, 
Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin, presented as separate solutions. Thrombin is formulated with 
calcium chloride and stabilized with Human Albumin Solution. When the two solutions are combined, 
conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin occurs, replicating the final step of the coagulation cascade. Calcium 
ions are required for the conversion of fibrinogen and the cross linkage of fibrin. As wound healing 
progresses, increased fibrinolytic activity is induced by plasmin and decomposition of fibrin to fibrin 
degradation products is initiated. 
Evicel is approved for the following indication: ‘EVICEL is used as supportive treatment in surgery where 
standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis. EVICEL is also indicated as 
suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery.’ 
The MAH (Omrix/ Ethicon) by this submission is proposing to add a new indication and modify the 
currently approved - as follows: 
“EVICEL is used as supportive treatment where standard surgical techniques are insufficient for 
improvement of haemostasis.  
EVICEL is also indicated as a tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing, or as suture support: 
- In vascular surgery. 
- In neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with cerebro-spinal fluid or dura mater can 
occur” 
EVICEL is only indicated for use in adult subjects and no paediatric indication has been sought with the 
current variation application. 
The claim is based on an additional study (Study No. 400-09-001) investigating the use of EVICEL in 
neurosurgery as an adjunct to sutured dural repair.  
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical information contained in this application summarised data previously submitted for the 
approval of Evicel and included additional primary pharmacology and toxicology data from a Canine 
Durotomy Model (Study No. 08-0002) study as applicable for this extension of indication. The local 
tolerance and neurotoxicity study in white rabbits (Study No 23597) which was assessed as part of the 
original application is re-discussed here as considered relevant. An additional study on a dog model of 
gastrointestinal anastomosis was submitted but not assessed as not relevant to the claimed indication. 
2.2.2.  Pharmacology 
One additional pharmacology study was submitted in support of this indication; Dural Sealing Efficacy of 
Evicel in a Canine Durotomy Model (Study No. 08-0002). 
Study No. 08-0002 was a study in a canine model of durotomy repair with the primary objective to assess 
the efficacy and safety of EVICEL in preventing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage when compared to 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 6/47 
 
  
  
another fibrin sealantand a synthetic surgical sealant marketed in the US as a medical device for use as 
an adjunct to sutured dural repair during cranial surgery.  
Following durotomy, the cut dural edges were approximated with 3 interrupted 6-0 polypropylene 
sutures, placed loosely at equal intervals, leaving a 2 mm x 20 mm gap to ensure there was the potential 
for CSF leakage. An infusion of methylene blue was administered in order to visualize any subsequent 
loss of CSF at intracranial pressures (ICP) of ≥ 15 mmHg. Sealants were applied at a target dose of 1–2 
mL/site, with 2 animals receiving a lower volume (0.5 and 0.8 mL) and 1 receiving a higher volume (3 
mL). Animals in Group 1 received EVICEL, animals in Group 2 received the fibrin sealant, and animals in 
Group 3 received the medical device. The ICP was monitored until it achieved a level of approximately 15 
mmHg. The cisternal catheter was then removed, and the surgical site was closed with suture. 
Physical examinations were performed before surgery. At protocol-specified time points, clinical 
observations and neurological examinations were performed and body weights were recorded. Before 
surgery and again before necropsy, blood samples were collected for hematology and serum chemistry 
analyses. On the day of necropsy, each animal was anesthetized to allow reopening of the craniotomy site 
and to allow scoring of the durotomy site for sealant adherence to the dura. Assessment of CSF leakage 
at the durotomy site was also performed before necropsy by raising the ICP at least 55 mmHg for 
inspection of CSF leakage. Histopathological analysis was performed on selected tissues. 
There were no observations of CSF leakage at the durotomy site before necropsy at baseline and at 
raised ICP (at least 55 mmHg) in all groups, with the exception of one animal treated with the synthetic 
comparator product.  
During the study, there was little intergroup variation in bleeding; a slight increase in EVICEL group 
hemorrhage observed on Day 2 away from the durotomy site was not considered significant and resolved 
during the follow-up period. Similarly, at Day 8, bleeding observed in the EVICEL group was in 2/9 
animals, spatially restricted, and there was minimal variation at the group level. Since the sealant was 
applied to a CSF leak rather than a vascular site, the observation of bleeding is not thought to be related 
to the test article, but rather the surgical approach to the dura. 
At Day 29 following surgery, microscopic tissue changes induced by EVICEL at the durotomy site were 
similar in nature to those induced by the comparator products. There was a less marked histiocytic 
response in the animals treated with EVICEL than in those treated with the synthetic comparator product, 
while the fibrovascular response induced by EVICEL appeared to be slightly greater than that induced by 
the other sealants at this interval. Due to the different absorption rates for the products, transient 
differences at single time points are anticipated; however the long term outcome is considered 
equivalent. 
All animals survived until scheduled euthanasia. There were no sealant-related clinical observations, 
neurological effects, or clinical pathology changes attributed to the sealants tested. Changes in clinical 
signs and clinical pathology parameters which were observed could be attributed to postoperative stress 
and analgesic therapy. 
The study concluded that EVICEL was similarly efficacious in preventing cerebrospinal fluid leakage when 
compared to comparator sealants in this model of neurosurgery. 
2.2.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
No additional pharmacokinetic studies were submitted as part of this extension of indication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 7/47 
  
  
2.2.4.  Toxicology 
Data on local tolerance and neurotoxicity of are presented as relevant to this indication. 
Local Tolerance  
The  local  tolerance  was  evaluated  following  a  single  subdural  application  in  3  groups  of  10  female  New 
Zealand  white  rabbits  (study  23597  –  submitted  within  the  original  application  of  Evicel,  summarised 
here). At sacrifice, macroscopic and microscopic examination of surgical sites was performed and samples 
of cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) were collected for analysis. The results of this study revealed no significant 
difference  in  all  parameters  tested  between  both  batches  of  Evicel.  Clinical  signs  and  neurological 
behaviour  was  comparable  to  sham  operated  control group.  Differences  in  CSF  inflammation  markers in 
both  treatment  compared  to  control  group  were  found.  2  animals  in  each  treatment  group  displayed 
discrete  inflammation  signs,  none  in  the  control  animals.  Macroscopic  observations  at  sacrifice  revealed 
that in all treatment groups fibrin sealant appeared as a thick translucent layer filling the defects and was 
easily detached in most cases. The sham operated defects generally appeared to be filled by tissue. 
Other toxicity studies 
Neurotoxicity  
Neurotoxicity in the Primary Pharmacodynamic Canine Durotomy Model 
In the efficacy study of mongrel dog durotomy sealing clinical and behavioural assessments as well as 
macro- and micro-histologic evaluation of the tissues were included. This study concluded that when used 
for dural sealing, no sealant-related clinical or neurobehavioural effects were observed and the 
microscopic tissue changes at the surgical site were similar to those induced by comparator products. In 
addition, there was a less marked histiocytic response in the animals treated with EVICEL than in those 
treated with the synthetic comparator product, while the fibrovascular response induced by EVICEL 
appeared to be slightly greater than that induced by the other sealants in animals euthanized on Day 29, 
such proliferation reflects continued healing of the dura.  
No major macroscopic signs of local intolerance and no treatment-related abnormal macroscopic findings 
were observed. The fibrin sealant regularly appeared as a thick translucent material filling the defects and 
was easily detached in most cases. 
Neurotoxicity in rabbits (study 23597)  
Neurotoxicity of EVICEL was evaluated in study 23597 using two batches of Evicel (Nabi-cryo/ZLB-cryo) 
following  subdural  administration  0,5ml  fibrin  sealant  in  the  rabbit,  with  sham  operated  animals  serving 
as controls. 10 animals were assigned to each of the three testing groups. Neurobehavioral reactions and 
clinical signs were monitored in a 14 days follow up period.  
The rabbits were anaesthetized and a total dose of 0.5 mL of EVICEL in which the Fibrinogen component 
was derived from different sources of cryoprecipitate intermediate (referred to in this study as BAC2/1 
and BAC2/2) was applied to two standardized surgical sites, following bilateral parasagittal craniotomy 
and creation of defect of the dura mater at each side. Sham operated animals were used as controls but 
no fibrin sealant was applied. The animals were then sutured and neurobehavioral observations were 
made for 14±1 days. At the end of the study, the animals were killed and the surgical sites were subject 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 8/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
to macroscopic and microscopic examination and samples of cerebrospinal fluid were collected for 
analysis. 
There were no abnormal clinical or neurobehavioral signs indicating an adverse effect of EVICEL. The 
defects in the sham operated animals generally appeared to have been filled by tissue. Analysis of the 
cerebrospinal fluid did not reveal major signs of inflammation or any difference between the two EVICEL 
groups and the sham operated control, beyond discrete inflammation observed in 2 animals in each of the 
EVICEL groups. The microscopic tissue response to EVICEL in which the Human Fibrinogen component 
was manufactured from different sources of cryoprecipitate intermediate, was similar and biologically 
significantly different from the tissue response within the sham operated control sites. The two test 
articles were surrounded by fibrous tissue infiltrated by heterophils and macrophages. Both EVICEL 
formulations were associated with accumulations of inflammatory cells, typical for fibrin sealant implants. 
The fibrous tissue response merged with the dura mater. The inflammatory component of the response to 
the test articles decreased as it merged with the dura mater. Adhesions between the fibrous tissue and 
the pia mater generally involved the entire length of the defect and were more severe in the animals 
given EVICEL than were observed for the control animals. The inflammatory responses, as well as the 
observation of adhesions between the fibrous tissue and the pia mater were both expected findings with 
fibrin sealants and were associated with physiological processes of product degradation in the implanted 
tissues. The study concluded that EVICEL did not cause any treatment related local or systemic 
neurotoxicity. 
2.2.5.  Ecotoxicity / Environmental Risk Assessment 
No environmental risk assessment was submitted (see discussion) 
2.2.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The preclinical aspects of human fibrinogen / human thrombin were already documented in the original 
dossier where the preclinical pharmacology and toxicology programme has been considered adequate. 
Additional information relevant to the use of the product as tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing or as 
suture support in neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with CSF or dura mater can occur 
is provided from a new study on dural sealing efficacy in a canine sealing model. Data from a previously 
submitted neurotoxicity and local tolerance study in rabbits are re-discussed in the context of the new 
indication.  
The durotomy repair study in mongrel dogs was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of EVICEL in 
preventing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage in comparison to another fibrin sealant and a synthetic 
surgical sealant marketed as a medical device for use as an adjunct to sutured dural repair during cranial 
surgery. The methodology was described by Preul et al, 2003 who confirmed that this model results in a 
persistent CSF leak if not treated with a sealant. Evicel and the other sealants used in this study have 
been applied by dripping.  
The study concluded that EVICEL was similarly efficacious in preventing cerebrospinal fluid leakage if 
compared to the other two haemostatic products in this model of neurosurgery. However, these findings 
have limited significance in view of the limitations of the study. First of all only a low number of animals 
has been tested (i.e. 3 per group) and no untreated controls have been included, however it can be 
argued that sham operated animals are not necessary as there are historical controls. Furthermore, the 
sealing efficacy of Evicel should have been investigated in a study testing different doses of Evicel as this 
would have been helpful to gain some information on the “dose” to be applied to assure sealing efficacy. 
The provided non-clinical pharmacodynamic data although suggestive of efficacy, are not considered 
indeed relevant for approval of the requested variation. However, further studies using such animal 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 9/47 
  
  
models are not considered useful since they do not reveal further relevant knowledge taken into account 
that clinical experience has already been obtained. 
Certain aspects of animal toxicity testing were not considered applicable to the profile of human 
fibrinogen / human thrombin in animals due to the fact that the components of the product are of human 
origin and stimulation of the immune system when introducing heterologous proteins into animals would 
be expected. Such an immune activation may confound interpretation of results of toxicology studies, 
therefore single and repeated dose toxicity, carcinogenicity and reproduction and developmental studies 
were neither undertaken with Evicel, nor separately with the fibrinogen or thrombin components, which is 
acceptable. 
Effects of Evicel on local tolerance and neurotoxicity have been investigated by using a rabbit model and 
the findings do not provide evidence for a toxicological potential. These results were already included in 
the original dossier. Further, in the durotomy sealing study in the mongrel dog clinical and behavioural 
assessments as well as macro- and micro-histologic evaluation of the tissues were included. In this study 
it was concluded that no sealant-related clinical or neurobehavioural effects were observed and the 
microscopic tissue changes at the surgical site were similar to those induced by the comparator products. 
There were no abnormal clinical or neurobehavioral signs indicating an adverse effect of EVICEL. No 
major macroscopic signs of local intolerance and no treatment-related abnormal macroscopic findings 
were observed. As expected in the Evicel treated animals the degree of inflammatory response was 
increased, as well as the observation of adhesions between the fibrous tissue and the pia mater. The dose 
was chosen to represent a "normal" dose as applied to humans, no further doses have been tested, as 
EVICEL will be applied per thickness and not per dose - as such calculating an overdose in the traditional 
sense would not be possible. 
The type and amount of animal studies on neurotoxicity and local tolerance are in principle considered 
sufficient to support the requested indication expansion; the results provided so far do not reveal 
concerns in terms of neurotoxicity and local tolerance.  
The application of Evicel - as with other fibrin sealants - is associated with the induction of inflammation, 
fibrous tissue response and adhesions. These aspects are discussed in the context of clinical safety and 
considered within the overall benefit risk analysis. 
In accordance with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), EVICEL is exempt from the requirement for an environmental risk 
assessment because its constituents and metabolites are unlikely to result in significant risk to the 
environment. 
2.2.7.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical data are adequate and no further information is needed. The study on local tolerance and 
neurotoxicity in rabbits was already submitted at time of MAA. Thus, the results of this study are already 
stated in the SmPC as follows: 
Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data 
Neurotoxicity studies performed with EVICEL confirmed that subdural administration in the rabbit 
was not associated with any evidence of neurotoxicity. Neurobehavioral observations for 14±1 
days showed no abnormal findings. No major macroscopic signs of local intolerance and no 
treatment-related macroscopic findings were observed. Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid did not 
reveal major signs of inflammation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 10/47 
  
  
This wording is considered adequate and appropriate to reflect the results of this study in view of the 
extension of the indication. No further revisions in the SmPC are warranted on preclinical aspects. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects  
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A pivotal study has been submitted in support of the proposed indication for EVICEL -as a tissue glue to 
promote adhesion/sealing in neurosurgical procedures- evaluating the use of EVICEL as an adjunct to 
dural sutures in elective cranial surgery, providing intra-operative watertight closure (study 400-09-001). 
The proposed extension / modification of the indication:  
EVICEL is also indicated as a tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing, or as suture support: 
- In vascular surgery. 
- In neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with cerebro-spinal fluid or dura mater can 
occur” 
is based on the results of pivotal study (400-09-001 of INN) in the new target population of patients 
undergoing an elective posterior fossa or supratentorial procedure (craniectomy or craniotomy), upon 
completion of the primary sutured dural repair and evaluation of the closure for intra-operative 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage. 
GCP  
The clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. This applies to study 
Protocol Number 400-09-001 which included Australia as Non-EU country.   
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 11/47 
 
 
  
  
Table 1 
Tabular overview of clinical studies with Evicel 
Protocol No/ 
Completion status/ 
Study design/ 
Dose treatment  Study objective 
Start date 
Control type 
Subjects enrolled 
Title/ 
No of 
centres/ 
Location 
400-09-001 
Completed / 
Phase III single – 
Evicel up to 4 mL 
To evaluate safety  - 
Adjunct to 
October 2011/ 
blind, controlled, 
by dripping or 
efficacy of Evicel for 
randomised / 
spraying 
use as an adjunct to 
139 
89/50 
sutures 
dura sutures in 
elective cranial 
surgery to provide 
intra-operative 
watertight closure 
sutured dural 
repair 
14 
UK, Belgium, 
Finland, 
France, 
Germany, 
Netherlands, 
Australia 
2.3.2.  Clinical Pharmacology 
No clinical pharmacology data were submitted. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
Evicel is for epilesional use only and thus pharmacokinetic investigations do not apply. No additional 
clinical pharmacology studies are considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical Efficacy   
The application in support of the indication “as a tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing, or as suture 
support in neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with cerebro-spinal fluid or dura mater 
can occur” was based on the results of study 400-09-001.  
2.4.1.  Dose Response studies 
No dose response studies are submitted (see discussion on Clinical aspects). 
2.4.2.  Main Study  
400-09-001 
This was a randomized, controlled study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of EVICEL as an adjunct 
to sutured dural repair. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 12/47 
 
 
  
  
Methods 
Study participants 
Main inclusion criteria 
Subjects should be ≥ 18 years, undergoing elective craniotomy/craniectomy for pathological processes in 
the posterior fossa (such as benign or malignant tumors, vascular malformation, and Chiari 1 
malformations) or in the supratentorial region and who were demonstrated to have persistent CSF 
leakage following primary attempt at suture closure of the dural incision, they should be administered  
antibiotic prophylaxis perioperative.  
Intra-operative criteria for patients’ eligibility were: 
•  Surgical wound classification Class I. Penetration of mastoid air cells during partial mastoidectomy 
was permitted. 
• 
The cuff of native dura along the craniotomy edge on each side was wide enough based on surgeon
s 
judgment to facilitate suturing and to allow for sufficient surface area for adherence of the 
investigational product. 
Exclusion criteria 
’
Preoperative subjects would be excluded from the study if: 
•  A dura lesion from a recent surgery that had the potential for CSF leakage 
•  Chemotherapy or Radiation therapy to the head was scheduled within 7 days following surgery 
• 
Long-term (6 months) low dose steroid therapy for existing chronic/inflammatory conditions to be 
resumed within 7 days following surgery. However, postoperative tapered high-dose steroids were 
permitted. 
•  Severely altered renal function as confirmed by local laboratory reference ranges for serum creatinine 
and/or hepatic function [alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) > 5 x 
upper limit of normal (ULN)] 
• 
Evidence of an infection indicated by any one of the following: clinical diagnosis of infection, fever, 
positive urine culture, positive blood culture, positive chest X-ray, evidence of infection along the 
planned surgical path. A WBC count of <20000 was permitted if the subject is being treated with 
steroids in the absence of all the other infection parameters. 
•  Conditions or treatments significantly compromising the immune system (such as Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome). 
•  Known hypersensitivity to the components of the investigational product (human fibrinogen, arginine 
hydrochloride, glycine, sodium chloride, sodium citrate, calcium chloride, human thrombin, human 
albumin, mannitol and sodium acetate). 
•  Non-compliant or insufficient treatment of diabetes mellitus in the opinion of the investigator. 
•  Hydrocephalus, except occlusive hydrocephalus caused by posterior fossa pathology to be treated. 
• 
• 
Existing CSF (ventricular, etc.) drains, Cushing/Dandy cannulation or Burr holes which damage the 
dura. 
Female subjects of childbearing potential with a positive urine or serum pregnancy test within 24 
hours prior to surgery. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 13/47 
 
 
  
  
• 
• 
Female subjects who were breastfeeding, pregnant, or intended to become pregnant during the 
clinical study period. 
Participation in another clinical trial with exposure to another investigational drug or device within 30 
days prior to enrollment. 
•  Scheduled or foreseeable surgery within the follow-up period. 
In the intra-operative phase subjects would be excluded if: 
•  Dura injury during craniotomy/craniectomy that could not be eliminated by widening the 
craniotomy/craniectomy to recreate the native dura cuff 
•  Use of implants made of synthetic materials coming into direct contact with dura (e.g., 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) patches, shunts, ventricular and subdural drains) 
• 
• 
• 
Planned use of dural patches after primary suture closure of the dura 
Placement of Gliadel Wafers 
Persistent signs of increased brain turgor 
•  Subject had a gap between durotomy edges of greater than 2mm after primary dural closure 
• 
• 
Intersecting durotomy scars in the surgical path from a previous operation that could not be 
completely removed by the planned dura resection 
Two or more separate dura defects 
•  Major intra-operative complications that require resuscitation or deviation from the planned surgical 
procedure 
Treatments 
For each subject randomized to EVICEL, one kit of EVICEL (total 4 ml) was pre-prepared in the 
applicator kit prior to randomization. For subjects randomized to receive EVICEL, the fibrin sealant 
was to be applied by either dripping or spraying as a thin layer to the entire length of the suture line 
and the adjacent area to at least 5mm away, including all suture holes. If necessary, a second layer 
of EVICEL could be applied. A cure time of 1-2 minutes was to be allotted between layers to allow for 
polymerization.  
After treatment CSF leakage was re-evaluated with the Valsalva maneuver performed to an 
intrathoracic pressure of 20-25 cm H2O for 5-10 seconds. If CSF leakage was still apparent a second 
treatment (up to two layers) with EVICEL could be applied. CSF leakage was re-evaluated with the 
Valsalva maneuver (see study design in figure 1). 
If watertight closure was not evident after this final Valsalva maneuver, the response was to be 
deemed a failure and the surgeon was to revert to standard of care (SOC) for closure including the 
use of other commercially available fibrin sealants (except EVICEL) or an onlay dural patch. If 
watertight closure was achieved, no adjunct was to be used. Closure of the remaining layers of the 
surgical site was to be performed according to the surgeon’s standard of practice. 
Subjects randomized to control received additional dural sutures as deemed necessary by the 
surgeon. CSF leakage was evaluated with the Valsalva maneuver performed to an intrathoracic 
pressure of 20-25 cm H2O for 5-10 seconds.  
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 14/47 
 
 
  
  
Figure 1 
Study design (Study No. 400-09-001) 
Objectives 
The objective of the study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of EVICEL for use as an adjunct to 
dura sutures in elective cranial surgery to provide intraoperative watertight closure. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of successes (intra-operative watertight closure) in the 
treatment of intra-operative CSF leakage. Success was defined as no CSF leakage from dural repair intra-
operatively, during Valsalva maneuver 20-25 cm H2O for 5-10 seconds. 
Secondary endpoints were the following safety variables 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Incidence of CSF leakage within 5 days (± 2) post-operatively (wound healing assessment) 
Incidence of CSF leakage within 30 days (± 3) post-operatively (wound healing assessment) 
Incidence of adverse events (AE) 
Incidence of surgical site infections (SSI) according to National Healthcare Safety Network 
(NHSN) criteria within 30 days (± 3) post-operatively 
Sample size 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 15/47 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Due to the sequential study design no fixed sample size was calculated. The maximum sample size for a 
triangular design with continuous monitoring was contrasted with the sample size for a fixed design. 
Anticipating a success rate of 70% in the control arm, a success rate of 90% in the treatment arm, a 2-
sided type I error of 0.025 and 90% power a maximum sample size of 322 subjects was calculated in 
case of a continuously monitored triangular test and an 2:1 (active: control) allocation . The 
corresponding number of subjects in a fixed sample design was calculated to be about 221 subjects. 
Simulations were performed to assess power and the expected sample size under different assumptions 
on treatment effects  
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomized applying a 2:1 (active: control) ratio stratified by predetermined surgical 
approach (posterior fossa / supratentorial). 
Each site was provided with a computer
generated set of randomization envelopes to be opened once 
intra-operative eligibility was confirmed. In the event that a potential subject failed intra
operative 
‐
criteria, and was not randomized to the study, the unused randomization envelope was to be returned to 
‐
the series, and used for the next subject. 
Blinding (masking) 
Blinding was not performed. 
Statistical methods 
The following analysis sets were to be defined: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Safety Analysis Set was to contain all subjects who were randomized and received treatment. 
The FAS was to contain all randomized subjects (equivalent to the Intent-to-Treat [ITT] set) that 
were analyzed at the interim analysis where the study was stopped by the independent 
statistician. 
The Per Protocol Set was to contain subjects in the FAS who have no major protocol violations 
(these were to be agreed at a pre-database lock meeting). 
If there were any “over-run” subjects (recruited after data that was sent to the independent 
statistician resulted in the study being stopped, then a further analysis set (FAS over-run) was to 
consist all randomized subjects. 
A sequential triangular test was used to analyse the primary endpoint (proportion of subjects achieving 
successful watertight closure) based on the ITT population of all randomized subjects. The triangular test 
for a binary response variable was used (PEST 4.4 software) with a two-sided alpha 0.025 and power 
0.90. 
For this analysis missing endpoint information was considered as treatment failures. The first analysis was 
planned to include the first 135 subjects randomized with further analyses at completion of every 45 
subjects if required. At each interim analysis the value of the appropriate test statistics were calculated 
and compared with the appropriate stopping boundary (adjusted for discrete monitoring). In case the 
upper boundary was crossed, the study was stopped and the superiority of Evicel over control treatment 
was concluded.  
As part of sensitivity analyses the primary analysis was repeated considering missing data as successes, 
as worst-case analysis (missing Evicel data as failure, missing control group data as successes) and as 
best-case analysis (missing Evicel data as success, missing control group data as failure). 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 16/47 
 
 
  
  
Logistic regression with treatment and baseline covariates was used to assess the impact of baseline 
covariates on treatment success and the incidence of CSF leakage.  
In addition all categorical data were summarized by frequencies along with associated percentages for 
each group. Continuous variables were summarized by number of subjects, mean, standard deviation, 
minimum, and maximum for each group.  
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 2  
Subject Disposition 
Thirteen subjects did not complete the study: 1 subject from the suture treatment group (0.7%) 
withdrew from the study 13 days post-surgery; 5 subjects (4 from the Evicel group and 1 from the 
control group, 3.6%) were lost to follow-up; 4 subjects (3 from the Evicel group and 1 from the control 
group, 2.8%) refused to complete the visit; 3 subjects from the Evicel group (2.1%) did not complete for 
some “other” reason.  
Recruitment 
Overall, 194 subjects consented to participate in the study. Of these, 55 subjects were screen failures 
with 37 subjects (67.3%) failing on inclusion/exclusion criteria.  
The study was performed between June 2010 and October 2011 at 14 study sites in UK, Germany, 
Belgium, Finland, The Netherlands, France, and Australia. 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol Amendment 01 (dated 19 March 2010) described a change in intrathoracic pressure to be used 
for the evaluation of intra-operative CSF leakage during the Valsalva maneuver. The pressure to be used 
was changed from between 20-30 mm Hg (27 - 40 cm H2O) to 20 - 25 cm H2O for 5-10 seconds. This 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 17/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
was in order to use the same pressure as a published trial on which the statistical assumptions for the 
current study had been made. Furthermore, pediatric subjects were excluded from the study and only 
subject > 18 years of age could be included.  
Protocol Amendment 02 (dated 01 October 2010) described an increase in the number of potential clinical 
study sites from 15 to 20. Furthermore, it detailed allowing the use of fibrin sealant as a rescue treatment 
in case watertight closure was not evident after final Valsalva maneuver (treatment failure).  
Major protocol deviations are outlined in table 2. 
Table 2 
Major Protocol Deviations (Study No. 400-09-001) 
Baseline data 
Table 3  
Demographic, baseline and medical history data (FAS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 18/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 4 
Indication for surgery (FAS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 19/47 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 5 
Operative parameters (FAS) 
Numbers analysed 
Overall, 139 subjects were included in the FAS: 89 subjects treated with EVICEL and 50 subjects treated 
with sutures. There were 6 major effectiveness protocol deviations in the EVICEL treatment group so the 
PP Set comprised 83 subjects and there were 3 major effectiveness protocol deviations in the suture 
treatment group so the PP Set comprised 47 subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 20/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 6 
Subjects receiving rescue therapies (FAS) 
Ten subjects of the 22 subjects deemed study successes in the suture group (45.5%) did receive further 
adjunctive therapy to provide assurance of the durability of the closure.  
Primary endpoint 
Intraoperative watertight closure (successes) was achieved in 92.1% of EVICEL-treated subjects (82/89 
subjects) versus 38.0% of sutured subjects (19/50 subjects); a treatment difference of 54.1% (p<0.001 
from both the Fisher’s exact test and the Chi-squared test).  
Seven subjects (7.9%) from the EVICEL treatment group were considered failures at the primary 
endpoint as follows: 
•  Subjects 16201 and subject 19212 were failures for the primary endpoint and all further 
sensitivity analysis: 
o  Subject 16201 had CSF leakage after the second EVICEL application and Valsalva. 
o  Subject 19212 had CSF leakage after the first EVICEL application and Valsalva. The 
investigator deemed the subject a failure after the first EVICEL application and did not 
administer a second application (this was optional as per protocol). 
• 
Five subjects had missing data and were thus treated as failures for the primary endpoint: 
o  Subject 14101 did not receive EVICEL due to a syringe failure 
o  Subject 15203 – EVICEL was not used due to an application error 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 21/47 
 
 
 
  
  
o  Subject 23204 – EVICEL was not applied due to device leakage 
o  Subject 24102 – SOC treatment was applied after randomization, and not EVICEL as per 
randomization 
o  Subject 24103 - EVICEL was not available during the procedure 
Table 7 
Primary effectiveness results 
Table 8 
Intra-operative leakage outcome (FAS) 
The results of an exploratory analysis using logistic regression analysis on primary endpoint (FAS with 
missing data considered failures) with treatment and baseline covariates are presented in Table 11. The 
odds ratio for the treatment group comparison with BMI included in the model as covariate was OR: 
17.12, with 95% CI: (6.47, 45.26). Inclusion of the stratification factor (posterior fossa, supratentorial) in 
the model: OR: 22.23, 95% CI: (7.55, 65.47) also presented in Table 11. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 22/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Primary endpoint analysis – logistic regression with treatment and baseline 
covariates (FAS; missing=fail) 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarises the efficacy results from the main study supporting the present 
application. The summary should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as 
the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 9 
 Summary of Efficacy  
Title: A Randomized, Controlled Study to Evaluate the Safety and Effectiveness of EVICEL® as an 
Adjunct to Sutured Dural Repair 
Study identifier 
Protocol Number 400-09-001 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 23/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Design 
Randomized, multi-center, controlled phase 3 study evaluating the safety 
and effectiveness of EVICEL as an adjunct to sutured dural closure compared 
to control.  
Subjects were to undergo an elective cranial surgery of the posterior fossa or 
supratentorial (craniectomy or craniotomy). Upon completion of the primary 
sutured dural repair, the closure was to be evaluated for intra-operative 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage with a baseline Valsalva maneuver 20-25 
cm H2O for 5-10 seconds. Subjects who had an identified CSF leak 
(spontaneous or as identified with the Valsalva) were to be enrolled into the 
study. Subjects were to be randomized to either EVICEL or to additional 
repair sutures (control) in a 2:1 allocation ratio and were to be stratified by 
surgical procedure, posterior fossa or supratentorial. Subjects were to be 
followed post-operatively through discharge and for 30 days (±3 days) post-
surgery. The incidence of CSF leaks was to be assessed within 5 days (±2 
days) and 30 days (±3 days) post-operatively as detected by any of the 
following: clinical observation, diagnostic testing or the need for surgical 
intervention to treat a CSF leak or pseudomeningocele. 
Duration of main phase: 
June 2010 to October 2011  
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatment groups 
EVICEL® group 
EVICEL was to be applied to the surgical site 
by either spraying or dripping onto the dural 
suture line. n=89  
Control group 
Additional sutures as deemed necessary by 
the surgeon. n=50  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
efficacy 
Proportion of successes (intra-operative watertight closure) 
in the treatment of intra-operative CSF leakage. Success 
endpoint 
was defined as no CSF leakage from dural repair intra-
operatively, during Valsalva maneuver 20-25 cm H2O for 5-
10 seconds. 
Safety 
evaluations 
• Incidence of CSF leakage within 5 days (± 2) post-op 
• Incidence of CSF leakage within 30 days (± 3) post-op 
• Incidence of adverse events (AE) 
• Incidence of surgical site infections (SSI) according to 
National Healthcare 
• Safety Network (NHSN) criteria within 30 days (± 3) post-op 
Database lock 
December 7, 2011 
Results and analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis population 
Full Analysis Set (FAS) 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
EVICEL group 
Control group 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subjects 
89 
50 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 24/47 
 
 
  
  
Intra-operative 
82/89 (92.1%) 
19/50 (38.0%) 
watertight closure 
Effect estimate per 
Primary endpoint 
Comparison groups 
EVICEL vs. control 
comparison 
Notes 
Treatment difference 
54.1% 
P-value 
<0.001 
No measures of variability on the original scale are provided with the 
study report. 
2.4.3.  Discussion 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The randomization procedure was comprehensible and sufficiently described. 
Due to the nature of the product and the procedures, the study could not be blinded.  
Control treatment was defined as “additional dural repair sutures as deemed necessary by the surgeon” 
thus surgeons were per protocol free to add sutures or not.  As there is no common standard treatment 
for watertight closure of a dura repair suture line, the CHMP had agreed in a Scientific Advice procedure 
to accept additional sutures as control treatment. Since all the control patients were treated with 
additional sutures to achieve watertight closure and no protocol violations were observed in relation to 
additional suturing in the control arm, the choice of control is not considered as a significant source of 
bias, however there is an uncertainty as to the exact magnitude of the treatment effect, i.e. the 
difference to the efficacy of the control treatment, in view of several available methods including the use 
of medical devices or medicinal products such as haemostatic matrix, fibrin sealants, hydrogels or 
medicated sponges. The fact that there is no consensus on the optimal way to achieve watertight dural 
closure is clearly reflected in the type of products used for rescue therapy in study 400-09-001. 
According to Scientific Advice sought from CHMP in September 2009, it was stated that Evicel would only 
be applied by dripping and not by spraying, however study protocol allowed for both dripping and 
spraying and finally Evicel was sprayed in all but one patient. (See discussion on clinical safety).  
Intra-operative watertight closure was the primary effectiveness parameter. However, a high clinical 
relevance is attributed to the post-operative incidence of CSF leakage. This was evaluated as safety 
parameter within 5 days and within 30 days post-operatively.  
Demographics and indication for surgery as well as operative parameters were similar between the two 
treatment groups. The MAH provided details of discontinued subjects. During their individually shortened 
follow-up periods either no adverse events were reported or no CSF leak / dural sealing related adverse 
events. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Watertight closure as the primary efficacy parameter (successes) was observed in 92.1% of EVICEL-
treated subjects (82/89 subjects) versus 38.0% of subjects in the control group (19/50 subjects); a 
treatment difference of 54.1% (p<0.001 from both the Fisher’s exact test and the Chi-squared test).  
On the basis of the design of the study submitted, the indication as proposed “tissue glue to promote 
adhesion/sealing” cannot be supported, as this kind of clinical use has not been investigated. Clinical 
endpoints from the vascular surgery (data submitted within the original application) and from the 
neurosurgery study are directly related to “suture support” and not to “adhesion/sealing”. “Tissue gluing” 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 25/47 
 
 
 
  
  
would include uses in types of neurosurgical procedures which are not covered by this single pivotal study 
in a strictly defined setting.  
Administration of Evicel for example intracerebrally or in spine surgery has not been investigated and is 
considered to be not covered by the pivotal study. EVICEL is not intended to be used as a glue for the 
fixation of patches or as a sealant when the dura mater cannot be sutured, as for example in 
otoneurosurgical or transsphenoidal procedures. These limitations are reflected in the product information 
as contraindications. 
Only adult patients were included in the pivotal study in neurosurgery. Evicel is not indicated in children.  
The dose to be applied for adjunctive use of Evicel to suture repair of dura mater in neurosurgery was up 
to 8 ml and this is reflected in the posology section. 
Subjects were excluded from the study when implants from synthetic materials or dural patches were 
used for dural repair. The exclusion was made in order to ensure that the target area being evaluated for 
efficacy was as homogeneous as possible within the study setting.  The SmPC reflects that there is no 
experience of such usage by a relevant warning in section 4.4. 
The benefit of a surgical technique or treatment is not only based on the intra-operative performance but 
also on the post-operative course. The higher incidence of post-operative CSF leakage in Evicel-treated 
subjects compared to control is discussed in the clinical safety section.  
Therefore the indication was revised as: EVICEL is also indicated as suture support for haemostasis in 
vascular surgery and for suture line sealing in dura mater closure. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions 
In study 400-09-001, a clear superiority of Evicel over control treatment in terms of the primary endpoint 
has been shown.  
As  available  data  do  not  justify  a  general  indication  to  neurosurgery  as  applied  for,  the  indication  was 
specified to “suture line sealing in dura mater closure”.  
The posology is stated under 4.4 of the SmPC as: “for suture line sealing in dura mater closure, doses of 
up to 8 ml were used”. 
Appropriate  contraindications  were  included  in  the  SmPC  in  order  to  reflect  the  use  in  the  clinical  trial 
setting.  Moreover  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  lack  of  data  on  the  concomitant  use  of  EVICEL  for  dural 
suture line sealing with implants from synthetic materials or dural patches was reflected.  
Information on trial 400-09-01 has been included in section 5.1 as” The efficacy of EVICEL for suture line 
sealing in dura mater closure was demonstrated in 139 patients (89 treated with EVICEL and 50 controls) 
undergoing craniotomy/craniectomy procedures.”  
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 26/47 
 
 
 
  
  
2.5.  Clinical Safety aspects  
2.5.1.  Introduction 
Evicel has first been approved in the EU in October 2008 with the indication as supportive treatment in 
surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis and also as 
suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery. Evicel can be dripped or sprayed with pressurized 
gas.  
Clinical studies to support the above indication were performed in Retroperitoneal or Intra-Abdominal 
Surgery (400-05-006), in Vascular Surgery (400-05-001)and in Neurosurgery (400-09-001). 
As a condition of approval, Omrix committed to conduct a Post-Authorization Safety Study (PASS) in 
vascular surgery. The recommendation was that this should be an observational, non-interventional study 
of approximately 300 patients with submission of safety data at every 100 patients. The first interim 
analysis, conducted after enrolment of 100 patients, has now been completed and does not reveal any 
safety concerns associated with the use of the product in the approved indication (study 400-08-004).  
The most important safety issue during the post-marketing phase was the risk of air embolism associated 
with the spray application of the product, which was assessed through an Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 triggered by the EC on the occurrence of five cases of life-threatening air embolism (of which 
two had a fatal outcome) reported. As a result risk management activities were implemented.  
Patient exposure 
Overall, during the clinical development of Evicel, a total of 421 subjects were included in randomized, 
controlled clinical trials, 230 of which were treated with Evicel and 191 of which were included in the 
control groups. Each subject was exposed to a single dose of Evicel (between 0.5 and 10 mL of combined 
product). 
In the present pivotal study 400-09-001 to support the neurosurgical indication applied for, a total of 139 
subjects were randomized to treatment, thereof 89 to Evicel and 50 to control. 
Safety Endpoints 
Incidence of CSF leakage within 5 days 
One subject (1.1%) in the EVICEL treatment arm, and no subjects in the suture treatment arm had CSF 
leakage within 5 days of the procedure: 
- Subject 10101 had CSF leakage on Day 4. A single additional suture was given the same day and CSF 
leakage resolved within 2 days. 
Incidence of CSF leakage within 30 days 
By 30 days post-procedure, a CSF leakage was reported in a further 6 subjects in the Evicel treated 
group, all assessed as possibly related to the study treatment: 
small CSF leak   
4 days from treatment   
chronic subdural hygroma 
hydrocephalus   
CSF leakage through nose 
21 
1 
2 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 27/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
CSF leak 
CSF nasal leak   
7 
6 
Based on the data from the AE Listings, the post-operative leakage after treatment was 6/89,(6.7%) with 
Evicel and 1 in the control arm (1/50, 2.0%). 
Incidence of surgical site infections (SSI) 
Surgical site infections were defined according to CDC/NHSN criteria described in the protocol. One 
subject from each treatment group experienced a SSI (subject 23202 from the EVICEL treatment group 
and subject 23101 from the control group), both had meningitis. Both SSIs were classified as 
space/organelle infections defined as infections that appeared to be related to the operation. 
Adverse events 
All AEs were to undergo medical review for determination of those considered related to dural-sealing. 
These may include, but are not limited to the following: 
1. If the CSF is leaking externally, it can be: 
•  Otorrhea 
•  Rhinorrhea 
• 
Incisional leaks 
2. If the CSF is collected, it can be: 
•  Subcutaneous collection 
•  Subdural hygroma 
• 
Pseudomeningocele 
3. Others: 
•  Hydrocephalus 
•  Meningitis: a potential consequence of CSF leaks, in particular external leakage. 
The incidence of subjects who experienced at least one AE was comparable between treatment groups: 
176 AEs in 57 subjects (64.0%) who had been treated with EVICEL and 83 AEs in 31 subjects (62.0%) 
who had (additional) suture treatment. 
The most frequent AEs were headache, hypertension, hypotension, nausea, vomiting, respiratory failure 
and swelling, all commonly associated with this type and complexity of surgery. The incidence of these 
AEs was comparable between both treatment groups.  
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 28/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 10  
Number of patients experiencing any AE, SAE, Severe AE or AR requiring 
treatment during Evicel study 400-09-001 in neurosurgery 
Table 11 
Evicel study 400-09-001 in neurosurgery; Adverse Events that occurred in at 
least 5% of patients in a treatment group 
Overall, 7 EVICEL subjects (7.9%) and 2 suture subjects (4.0%) experienced AEs considered possibly 
related to the study product. These included intracranial hypotension (CSF leakage), CSF rhinorrhea, 
meningitis, chemical meningitis, headache, hydrocephalus, subdural hygroma, and hematoma. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 29/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 12 
Adverse events with a causal relationship to product 
Table 13 
Summary of dural-sealing related AEs (Safety Analysis Set) 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 30/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There were no deaths and no suspected unexpected serious adverse drug reactions (SUSAR). 
A total of 17 SAEs were reported during study 400-09-001; 12 SAEs were reported in 10/89 patients in 
the EVICEL group (11.2%) and 5 SAEs were reported in 4/50 patients in the control group (8.0%). The 
only SAE that occurred in more than one subject was meningitis which occurred in one subject in the 
EVICEL group and one in the control group. 
Four events in the EVICEL group (meningitis, subdural hygroma, hydrocephalus, and CSF rhinorrhea) and 
one in the control group (meningitis) were considered by the sponsor to have a potential relationship to 
the study treatment.   
Table 14 
Subjects experiencing SAEs (Safety Analysis Set) 
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory parameters (electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, complete blood count, liver function 
test and any others routinely requested by the investigator) were measured within 24 hours prior to 
surgery, 5 (±2) days post-surgery and at 30 (±3) day follow-up.  
Four EVICEL subjects and one control group subject had clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory 
tests at Day 5 post-surgery. These included hypokalemia (2 subjects), hyponatremia (1 subject), 
increased ALT (1 subject) and elevated liver enzymes (1 subject). They each corresponded with a 
reported AE that was considered non-serious and unrelated to study treatment. All AEs had resolved by 
the end of the study, with the exception of one subject in the EVICEL treatment group who had ongoing 
elevated liver enzymes at last contact. There were no clinically significant abnormalities reported at Day 
30. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 31/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Post marketing experience 
Data from previous studies with Quixil and Evicel, were resubmitted but not discussed in the context of 
this indication. 
The most significant safety issue in the postmarketing setting was the recent issue of life-threatening 
events of air/gas embolism reported associated with spray application with Evicel, including two fatal 
events which was assessed as part of an Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 726/2004.  
Safety in special populations 
No paediatric data are submitted. 
Investigations of safety in other safety populations were not submitted. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No such investigations were submitted. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Reasons for discontinuations were presented in the Clinical efficacy section. No discontinuation was on 
safety grounds. 
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In the present study 89 subjects were randomized to treatment with Evicel and 50 to control. Both 
treatments were adjunctive to primary suture dura repair.  
The most frequent AEs were headache, hypertension, hypotension, nausea, vomiting, respiratory failure 
and swelling, which are all commonly associated with this type of surgery. Nausea, vomiting and 
headache were more frequently reported in the Evicel group. 
A higher incidence of dural-sealing related events was reported in the treatment group: 7 EVICEL 
subjects (7.9%) and 2 suture subjects (4.0%) had dural-sealing related AEs. From the EVICEL treatment 
group these included CSF leakage (2 subjects), CSF rhinorrhea (2 subjects), meningitis (1 subject), 
subdural hygroma (1 subject), and hydrocephalus (1 subject). From the suture treatment group CSF 
leakage plus meningitis (1 subject) and chemical meningitis (1 subject) were reported. Excluding the 
cases of meningitis, which are not necessarily related to a CSF leak, the remaining AEs are explicitly or 
potentially related to a CSF leak in 6/89 (6.7%) subjects in the Evicel group and 1/50 (2%) subject of the 
control group. This difference is considered to be clinically relevant. 
Following analyses of narratives of subjects who had dural-sealing related AEs, it can be concluded that 
the event of subdural hygroma and the hydrocephalus may not have been caused by a cerebrospinal fluid 
leakage, so as far as these two events are concerned, however, there are two cases of nasal leakage of 
CSF (CSF rhinorrhea), for which should be considered to be post-operative CSF leak events. Thus in total, 
four cases of CSF leakage in subjects treated with Evicel (4/89, 4.5%), thereof two as CSF leak with 
impaired wound healing and two as CSF rhinorrhea, in comparison to one case of CSF leak in the suture 
control group  (1/50, 2.0%). Postmarketing pharmacovigilance reporting will be monitoring dural sealing 
related adverse events. 
Subjects with gaps at the durotomy edges were excluded from the trial. A gap that is too large cannot be 
adequately treated using a sealant, it requires additional sutures. In addition there is the risk that gas or 
EVICEL could pass the suture line creating a pneumocephalus (asymptomatic intracranial air). Gaps at the 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 32/47 
 
 
  
  
durotomy edges and holes within the suture line are considered to be a risk when applying Evicel by 
spraying with pressurized gas, as there might be the risk of blowing air/gas or fibrin sealant through such 
holes in the subarachnoidal space. The definition of the maximum gap size as 2 mm was based on 
published information from previous clinical studies2. A risk assessment was made and as a result, the 
existence of gaps and holes of greater than 2 mm after primary dural closure was translated in a 
contraindication in Section 4.3 of the SmPC, stating that EVICEL must not be used when gaps of greater 
than 2 mm remain after dural closure.  
The risk of venous gas embolism, when administering Evicel with pressurized gas in neurosurgery, was 
discussed. As the indication was restricted to suture line sealing in dura mater closure and it is 
contraindicated to use Evicel in the presence of gaps in the dural suture line of greater than 2 mm, 
moreover a warning has been added that complete haemostasis should be achieved before application of 
Evicel to seal the dural suture line; these measures are regarded to adequately eliminate the risk of 
venous gas embolism when using Evicel in this new indication.  
Subjects planned to receive radiation therapy to the head within 7 days after surgery were excluded from 
the study. The reason for this exclusion criterion was that, although radiation therapy 7 days after 
surgery is atypical of surgical practice, there was a concern that radiation therapy could affect the quality 
of the dura. The impact on a dural closure by sealant where the surgical defect is exposed to radiation 
therapy has not been evaluated. The lack of data is reflected as a warning in SmPC section 4.4: 
This is considered to appropriately reflect the lack of knowledge in patients with radiotherapy following 
use of Evicel for dural suture line sealing.  
Nausea, vomiting and headache were more frequently reported in the Evicel group. These events are 
common postoperative events in cranial neurosurgery. In the limited study sample no statistically 
significant difference was found in the frequency of these events compared to control treatment. 
Monitoring of these events in the post-marketing is implemented in the RMP.  
2.5.3.  Conclusions 
In study 400-09-001 involving 139 patients undergoing elective neurosurgical procedures (89 treated 
with EVICEL and 50 controls), a total of 7 subjects treated with EVICEL experienced nine AEs that were 
considered to be possibly related to the study product. These included intracranial hypotension (CSF 
leakage), CSF rhinorrhea, meningitis, headache, hydrocephalus, subdural hygroma, and haematoma.  
Adverse events reported in this study were as expected in this kind of surgical interventions. The 
incidence of CSF leakage and the incidence of Surgical Site Infections were monitored as safety endpoints 
in the study.  At 30 days post-operatively the incidence of SSIs was similar between the two 
treatment groups.  Post-operative CSF leakage occurred within 30 days from treatment in 4/89 (4.5%) 
subjects treated with EVICEL (two cases of CSF leakage with impaired wound healing and two cases of 
rhinorrhoea) and in 1/50 (2.0%) subjects treated with additional sutures. The above information is 
included in section 4.8 of the revised SmPC. 
As the indication was finally restricted to suture line sealing in dura mater closure, the risk of unsafe use 
in neurosurgery settings outside of the studied population is eliminated. For this purpose 
contraindications were agreed under section 4.3 of the SmPC to state that: 
- 
- 
- 
EVICEL must not be used for sealing the suture line in dura mater if there are gaps of greater 
than 2 mm remaining after suturing. 
EVICEL must not be used as a glue for the fixation of dural patches. 
EVICEL must not be used as a sealant when the dura mater cannot be sutured. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 33/47 
  
  
In addition the following warnings under section 4.4 of the SmPC are implemented: 
- 
- 
The  concomitant  use  of  EVICEL  for  dural  suture  line  sealing  with  implants  from  synthetic 
materials or dural patches has not been evaluated in clinical studies.  
The use of EVICEL in patients undergoing radiotherapy within 7 days after surgery has not been 
evaluated.  It  is  not  known  whether  radiation  therapy  could  affect  the  efficacy  of  fibrin  sealant 
when used for suture line sealing in dura mater closure. 
-  Complete  haemostasis  should  be  achieved  before  application  of  EVICEL  to  seal  the  dural  suture 
line. 
- 
The use of EVICEL as a sealant in transphenoidal and otoneurosurgical procedures has not been 
studied. 
The incidence of nausea, vomiting or headache are to be monitored as part of the routine post-marketing 
PhV and reported in PSURs. Post-operative CSF leakage and other dural sealing related AEs are also 
addressed appropriately in the RMP and monitored and reported within pharmacovigilance reporting. 
2.5.4. PSUR cycle 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The next data lock point is on 8 June 2014. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
2.6.1.  PRAC advice 
The CHMP received the following PRAC advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
Based on the PRAC review of the Risk Management Plans version 9 date 8 March 2013, the PRAC 
considers by consensus that the risk management system for the sealant solution on Human 
Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin (EVICEL) as a supportive treatment in surgery or for the proposed 
indications (as a tissue glue to promote adhesion/sealing, or as suture support in vascular surgery and 
in neurosurgery and surgical procedures where contact with cerebro-spinal fluid or dura mater can 
occur) could be acceptable provided an updated risk management plan and satisfactory responses to 
the questions detailed below are submitted: 
Conclusions on the safety specification 
1  “Product embolism” could be misinterpreted and the MAH should use the term of 
“thromboembolism” or “gas embolism” to differentiate between these two types of events.  
2  “Details of important identified and potential risks from clinical development” is missing. The MAH 
is asked to add the clinical studies with their potential risks.  
3  Actions taken by regulatory authorities and/or marketing authorisation holder for safety reasons: 
The attachment should include the DHPC, conditions and other educational measures (labels and 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 34/47 
 
 
 
  
  
tag on regulator and applicator, warning card).  ‘Recommendation for CO2 only…’ should be 
amended to reflect that use of CO2 is mandatory, rather than a recommendation. 
4  The missing information items “risks when applied through a flexible endoscope”,  “risks when used 
for gastrointestinal anastomosis”, “risks in patients intolerant to heparin” and “risks in re-
vascularisation using autologous conduits or prosthetic material other than uncoated or heparin-
coated PTFE” are missing and should be added, given the lack of data. 
5  Study 400-11-002 should be added as PASS. Cumulative review in all PSURs and –as applicable- 
analysis in the PASS should be included as routine pharmacovigilance measure for all safety 
concerns.  
6  Also as routine pharmacovigilance measure the following sentence should be included:  
The MAH continues to monitor and analyze all cases of special interest as follows: 
- off-label ophthalmic use 
- Lack of Efficacy reports 
- Thromboembolic events 
- Air/Gas Embolism 
•  Conclusion of the suggestions which concern the quality of the RMP 
7  Concerning table 1 to 9 an additional table specified by dose should be added. In table 2 and 5 
the last row should be split in rows 75-84 and 85+.(Section 1.2.1) 
8  The MAH has stated that market research has been also conducted by surgical specialty. It would 
be useful to have such information being provided in the RMP and to include it in addition to the 
new Table (Section 1.2.1). 
9  The interim analysis of the study 400-09-001 should be added as annex. 
10  The MAH should add more details concerning study 400-08-004, such as title objectives safety 
concerns addressed, status and date for submission of interim or final reports in a table. In 
addition study 400-11-002 has to be described and added. 
11  “Details of important identified and potential risks from clinical development and post-
authorisation experience”, the percentage 68.7% is not straightforwardly related to the number 
of patients enrolled in clinical trial; instead it might be supposed to be wrongly related to the 
number (183) of adverse events. Maybe it would be useful to write “46 out of [denominator]”. 
12  “Details of important identified and potential risks from clinical development and post-
authorisation experience”: The MAH should present the name and number of the clinical studies 
where the events were observed. The clinical studies in annexes 3 and 4 should be replaced by 
the template tables. It should be described also if the study is completed, ongoing or planned 
with the resp. time-table. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 35/47 
  
  
13   “Important identified risk”: the content concerning the cases of gas/air embolism should be 
replaced by the template table. All cases should be summarized.. Four cases (OMX-2008-00043, 
OMX-2009-00011, OMX-2009-00036 and OMX-2010-00001) were previously assessed and 
formed the basis of the risk mitigation activities (DDL and revised safety warning) executed 
between August and October 2010. To give a complete overview these cases should also be 
described. 
14  According to the recommendation of the CHMP the MAH is requested to change the post-
authorisation development plan by adding a warning card that informs about the correct 
pressures and distances for the spray application for open and laparoscopic procedures. The 
requested time table should be considered and target completion date has to be adopted in 
accordance with the CHMP recommendation.  
Within three months (as of March 2013) the users of the spray application of this product should 
be provided with:  
- labels for the pressure regulator that inform about the correct pressures and distances in open 
and laparoscopic procedures; 
- a warning card that informs about the correct pressures and distances for the spray application 
for open and laparoscopic procedures; 
- a yellow tag, to be placed on the device air hose, which provides instructions for use. If the tag 
is provided as part of the medicinal product, it should be incorporated in the product information 
via a variation procedure. 
Concerning the planned action “Pressure Regulator design change to limit upper spray limit” the 
MAH should add the maximum pressure at 1.7 bars. 
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
Safety concerns 
Summary of the Safety Concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing 
information 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Air/gas embolism 
Lack of efficacy 
Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions, including severe anaphylaxis 
Graft occlusion 
Graft infection 
Product embolism 
Medication error 
Tissue adhesion 
Denaturation in contact with antiseptics 
Off-label use in children and adolescents 
Off-label use of spray application in endoscopic surgery 
Use in children and adolescents 
Use in women who are pregnant or lactating 
Page 36/47 
  
  
Pharmacovigilance plans 
Table 2.2: On-going and planned studies in the PhV development plan 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Type,   title   and 
category (1-3) 
Safety   concerns 
addressed 
Status  (planned, 
started) 
Graft occlusion 
Started 
Quantify 
frequency of graft 
occlusion in 
vascular surgeries 
using Evicel 
A Prospective, 
Single-Arm, 
Observational, 
Non-interventional 
Study for EVICEL 
Fibrin Sealant 
(Human) when 
used as an Adjunct             
to Haemostasis in 
Vascular Surgery 
Date                for 
submission      of 
interim   or   final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Next interim 
reports planned 
July 2013, Final 
study report 
February 2016 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 2.4: Summary table of Risk Minimisation Measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
1. Air or Gas embolism 
•  Use  of CO2 only as 
the gas vehicle during 
spray application of 
Evicel 
•  Direct to Healthcare 
Professional 
Communication 
•  Updated product 
training program 
•  Redesign of pressure 
regulator 
Revised text in SPC as follows: 
Section 4.2 
The use of EVICEL is restricted to 
experienced surgeons who have 
been trained in the use of EVICEL. 
To avoid the risk of potentially life 
threatening air embolism EVICEL 
should be sprayed using 
pressurised CO2 gas only. 
Prior to applying EVICEL the surface 
area of the wound needs to be 
dried by standard techniques (e.g. 
intermittent application of 
compresses, swabs, use of suction 
devices). 
The product should only be 
reconstituted and administered 
according to the instructions and 
with the devices recommended for 
this product. 
See Sections 4.4 and 6.6 for 
specific spray recommendations on 
the required pressure and distance 
from tissue per surgical procedure 
and length of application tip 
Section 4.3 
Spray application of EVICEL should 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 37/47 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
not be used in endoscopic 
procedures. For laparoscopy, see 
Section 4.4 
Section 4.4 
Life threatening air or gas embolism 
has occurred with the use of spray 
devices employing pressure 
regulator to administer EVICEL. 
EVICEL should be applied as a thin 
layer. Excessive clot thickness may 
negatively interfere with the 
product’s efficacy and the wound 
healing process. 
Air or gas embolism has occurred 
with the use of spray devices 
employing pressure regulator to 
administer EVICEL. This event 
appears to be related to the use of 
the spray device at higher than 
recommended pressures and/or in 
close proximity to the tissue 
surface. 
EVICEL spray application should 
only be used if it is possible to 
accurately judge the spray 
distance, especially during 
laparoscopy. Spray distance from 
tissue and pressure should be 
within the ranges recommended by 
the manufacturer (see table in 
Section 6.6 for pressure and 
distance).  
When using accessory tips with this 
product, the instructions for use of 
the tips should be followed EVICEL 
should be applied as a thin layer. 
Excessive clot thickness may 
negatively interfere with the 
product’s efficacy and the wound 
healing process 
Section 6.6 
To avoid the risk of life-threatening 
air embolism EVICEL should only be 
sprayed using pressurized CO2 
When applying EVICEL using a 
spray device, be sure to use a 
pressure and a distance from the 
tissue within the ranges 
recommended by the 
Manufacturer. 
2. Rare occurrence of 
Hypersensitivity/allergic 
reactions 
3. Isolated occurrence of severe 
anaphylaxis, especially if the 
preparation is applied 
repeatedly, or administered to 
patients known to be 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of 
SmPC stating: Hypersensitivity to 
the active substances or to any of 
the excipients 
Warning in section 4.4 of SPC 
stating: As with any protein 
product, allergic type 
hypersensitivity reactions are 
possible. Signs of hypersensitivity 
None 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 38/47 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
hypersensitive to constituents of 
the product. 
4. Complications related to graft 
occlusion and/or graft infection 
and/or thromboembolic events 
could potentially occur, due to 
the nature of the product. This 
should be observed particularly 
in cases of vascular surgery. 
5. Tissue adhesion and 
Associated complications 
6. Incorrect mixing of the 
components that could lead to a 
lack of clotting of the product, 
resulting in lack of efficacy. 
7. Inadvertent intravascular 
injection may also occur and 
could lead to thromboembolic 
event and DIC, and there is also 
a risk of anaphylactic reaction 
reactions include hives, generalized 
urticaria, tightness of the chest, 
wheezing, hypotension 
(anaphylactoid syndrome) and 
anaphylaxis. If these symptoms 
occur, the administration should be 
immediately discontinued. In case 
of shock, standard medical 
treatment for shock should be 
implemented. Since anaphylaxis is 
a rare event without known 
predisposing factors the routine 
surveillance will be through the 
education of all HCP who use the 
product to report any event using 
the PV system. The relationship of 
such an event to the potential 
product immunogenicity will be 
assessed by the HCP. 
HCP will be instructed to report 
immediately any graft occlusion 
and/or graft infection as potential 
adverse events is provided under 
“undesirable effects” in section 4.8 
of the SmPC. The prevalence rate 
of thromboembolic events (TEE) not 
related to intravascular injection is 
unknown; however complications 
related to TEE are common in 
hospitalized surgical patients. Any 
reports of complications related to 
TEE events will be closely 
monitored categorized and 
identified as special interest cases. 
These “special interest cases” will 
be highlighted within the Periodic 
Safety Update Reports (PSURs) 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
stating: Before administration of 
EVICEL, care is to be taken that 
parts of the body outside the 
desired application area are 
sufficiently protected (covered) to 
prevent tissue adhesion at 
undesired sites 
The correct handling and use of the 
product is provided in section 6.6 of 
the SmPC (instructions for use), in 
the instructions for use and the 
applicator device package. 
•  Contraindication in section 4.3 of 
SmPC stating that EVICEL must 
not be applied intravascularly 
and about hypersensitivity to 
active substances 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC 
stating: For epilesional use only. 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC 
stating: Do not apply 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 39/47 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
intravascularly. Life threatening 
or thromboembolic complications 
may occur if the product is 
applied intravascularly. 
•  Undesirable effects in section 4.8 
of SmPC listing potential reaction 
due to intravascular injection and 
hypersensitivity reactions. 
Undesirable effects in section 4.8 of 
None 
SmPC listing potential 
hypersensitivity and allergic 
reactions as well as the possible 
development of antibodies against 
components of fibrin sealants. 
Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC 
stating: Standard measures to 
prevent infections resulting from 
the use of medicinal products 
prepared from human blood or 
plasma include selection of donors, 
screening of individual donations 
and plasma pools for specific 
markers of infection and the 
inclusion of effective manufacturing 
steps for the inactivation/removal 
of viruses. Despite this, when 
medicinal products prepared from 
human blood or plasma are 
administered, the possibility of 
transmitting infections agents 
cannot be totally excluded. This 
also applies to unknown or 
emerging viruses and other 
pathogens. The measures taken are 
considered effective for 
enveloped viruses such as HIV, 
Hepatitis C Virus and 
Hepatitis B Virus and for the non-
enveloped virus Hepatitis A Virus. 
The measures taken may be of 
limited value against non-enveloped 
viruses such as parvovirus B19. 
Parvovirus B19 infection may be 
serious for pregnant women (foetal 
infection) and for individuals with 
immunodeficiency or increased 
erythropoiesis (e.g. haemolytic 
anaemia). 
It is strongly recommended that 
every time EVICEL is administered 
to a patient, the name and batch 
number of the product are recorded 
in order to maintain a link between 
the patient and the batch of the 
product. 
None 
None 
None 
Page 40/47 
8. Antibodies against 
components of fibrin 
sealant/haemostatic products 
may occur rarely. 
9. Transmission of infectious 
agents 
10. Uncommon or rare adverse 
reactions may have not been 
seen because of the small size of 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
population exposed in clinical 
trials. Experience in larger 
populations is currently missing. 
11. Use in paediatrics 
12. Use in pregnant or 
lactating patients 
None 
None 
Section 5.1 Pharmacological 
Properties of the SmPC defines that 
data is too limited to support the 
safety and effectiveness of EVICEL 
in children  
Warnings in section 4.6 pregnancy 
and lactation of the SmPC states 
that the use in human pregnancy or 
during breast feeding has not been 
established in controlled clinical 
trials. Experimental animal studies 
are insufficient to assess the safety 
with respect to reproduction, 
development of the embryo or 
foetus, the course of gestation and 
peri- and post-natal development. 
Therefore, the product should be 
administered to pregnant and 
lactating women only if clearly 
needed 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
2.7.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1 of the SmPC have been 
updated. The new indication was reflected in section 4.1 of the SmPC. Particularly, new contraindications 
have been added to section 4.3 of the SmPC. Posology recommendations and warnings related to the new 
indication  have  been  updated  in  sections  4.2  and  4.4  of  the  SmPC,  accordingly.  The  newly  identified 
ADRs, as well as safety information from the pivotal 400-09-001 study were included in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC. The pivotal efficacy information from the pivotal 400-09-001 study was included in section 5.1 of 
the SmPC.  
In  line  with  the  changes  in  the  SmPC,  changes  to  the  Package  Leaflet  sections  1,  2  and  4  have  been 
applied.  
Changes  were  also  made to the  PI  to  bring  it in  line  with  the  current  QRD  template,  version  9.0,  which 
were reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Beneficial effects 
There is a clear numeric superiority of Evicel over control treatment. Intra-operative watertight closure 
(successes) was achieved in 92.1% of subjects randomized to treatment with Evicel (82/89 subjects) 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 41/47 
 
 
 
  
  
versus 38.0% of control subjects (19/50 subjects); a treatment difference of 54.1% (p<0.001) indicated 
the superiority of EVICEL over control which was additional sutures if deemed necessary.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Subjects who were scheduled to receive radiation therapy of the head within 7 days following the surgery, 
were excluded from the study. It is thus unknown, whether radiation would have an impact on the dura 
closure by the fibrin sealant. However, most of the patients have cranial surgery for a tumor (78% of 
subjects in this study), which may also require radiation therapy. This lack of data is reflected as a 
warning in SmPC section 4.4. 
Subjects were excluded from the study when implants made of synthetic materials or dural patches were 
used, which are part of standard treatment for the closure of durotomies. It has therefore not been 
investigated, whether Evicel and those implants or patches can be used together. At present, it cannot be 
excluded that the polymerized layer of Evicel may negatively interfere with the sealing effect and the 
healing process of such implants and dural patches. The lack of knowledge in these settings is also 
reflected in the SmPC section 4.4. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Adverse events reported in this study were as expected for this kind of surgical interventions.  
Nausea, vomiting and headache were reported in a slightly higher percentage of subjects treated with 
Evicel than with control, but following additional analyses these differences were not considered 
statistically significant.   
Seven subjects randomized to Evicel treatment (7.9%) and 2 subjects randomized to control treatment 
(4.0%) had AEs which were assessed as related to dural sealing. AEs directly or potentially related to a 
CSF leak were more frequently reported in the Evicel group than in the control group: The number of AEs 
of CSF leakage is in the Evicel group and in the control group. In the Evicel treatment group 4/89 (4.5%) 
subjects experienced CSF leakage/CSF rhinorrhea, 1 subject subdural hygroma, and 1 subject a 
hydrocephalus. From the suture treatment group only one event of CSF leakage (1/50; 2.0%) was 
reported. Cases of subdural hygroma and hydrocephalus were confirmed not related to CSF leakage. 
Five of the dural-sealing related AEs in subjects of the Evicel group had to be treated in the post-
operative period by a surgical intervention, compared to only one subject in the control arm requiring a 
surgical intervention for CSF leak.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The small number of patients might not address clinically relevant safety issues.   
In all but one subjects, Evicel application was by spraying which uses pressurized gas. A dura suture, 
which is leaking cerebrospinal fluid, is not watertight in the outer direction, but is also not airtight in the 
inner direction into the CSF space. The application of pressurized gas may be associated with the risk that 
gas could enter the cerebrospinal fluid space. A pneumatocephalus with increased intracranial pressure 
could consequently occur. Gaps and holes in the suture line are considered to bear the risk of insufflation.  
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 42/47 
 
  
  
Similar to a potential risk of insufflation, there may be a risk of spraying fibrin particles or fibrin thrombi 
in the subdural and the CSF space. Subjects having a gap between durotomy edges of greater than 2 mm 
after primary closure were excluded from the study. Under study conditions this was cautiously managed, 
but it is unclear, whether all surgeons will always be aware of this potential risk. 
These risks were reflected in the following contraindications: “EVICEL must not be used for suture line 
sealing in dura mater when gaps of greater than 2 mm remain after dural closure.” and “EVICEL must not 
be used as a sealant when the dura mater cannot be sutured”. In addition, a warning has been added 
stating that “Complete haemostasis should be achieved before application of EVICEL to seal the dural 
suture line.” Other potential risks discussed are addressed in the RMP. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Post-operative cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage may lead to life-threatening complications and it is 
therefore of major clinical importance to reduce the risk of CSF leakage in neurosurgery. It is commonly 
accepted that intra-operative watertight closure of the dura is the optimal prophylaxis against the 
occurrence of post-operative CSF leaks. Clinically more relevant than the immediate intra-operative 
watertight closure is that the closure of the dura is stable and maintained during the healing period, thus 
avoiding the occurrence of a post-operative CSF leakage and associated complications. Evicel treatment 
has demonstrated to be effective in this sense.  
The incidence of post-operative CSF leakage was 4/89 (4.5%) in the Evicel group and 1/50 (2.0%) in 
control. Post-operative CSF leakage and dural-sealing related AEs are addressed appropriately as 
identified risks in the RMP.  
The incidence of adverse reactions was as expected in this neurosurgery setting. Dural-sealing related 
events will be monitored as identified risk within post-marketing pharmacovigilance reporting. 
Benefit-risk balance 
There is a clear beneficial effect with regard to the primary effectiveness parameter in this special setting 
of the pivotal study.  
The favourable effects are considered to more than exceed the unfavourable effects/uncertainties and 
overall the benefit risk profile in the restricted indication of “suture line sealing in dura mater closure” is 
considered to be positive.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The use of a fibrin sealant as a “second line treatment” to tighten the dura after durotomy in elective 
cranial surgery, when primary dura suture repair did not provide a watertight closure is for the intention 
to reach a stable and durable closure of the dura mater, thus preventing the occurrence of a post-
operative CSF leakage, which is a major and potentially life-threatening complication of neurosurgery. 
In this pivotal study, Evicel has demonstrated superiority over additional sutures when applied.  
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 43/47 
 
 
  
  
The incidence of adverse reactions was as expected in this neurosurgery setting. Dural-sealing related 
events will be monitored as identified risk within post-marketing pharmacovigilance reporting. 
4.  Recommendations 
The application for the extension of indication as revised in line with the discussion above is approvable 
since major objections and other concerns have all been resolved. 
Final Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension of indication to include: use for “suture line sealing in dura mater closure” for Evicel. 
As a consequence, update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1 of the SmPC in order to relevant 
posology, contra-indications, warnings, safety information. The Package Leaflet is updated in accordance. 
Furthermore, the PI is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version 9.0. 
Minor editorial amendments were also implemented in the PI. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II, Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list)  provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 44/47 
 
 
 
  
  
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the same 
time. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 45/47 
 
  
  
References 
 (1) Sekhar LM and Fessler RG. Atlas of Neurosurgical Techniques: Brain. Thieme 2006. 
(2) Gibble JW, Ness PM. Fibrin glue: the perfect operative sealant? Transfusion 1990; 30(8):741-747. 
(3) Spotnitz WD, Prabhu R. Fibrin sealant tissue adhesive--review and update. J Long Term Eff Med 
Implants 2005; 15(3):245-270. 
(4) Radosevich M, Goubran HI, Burnouf T. Fibrin sealant: scientific rationale, production methods, 
properties, and current clinical use. Vox Sang 1997; 72(3):133-143. 
(5) Beierlein W, Scheule AM, Dietrich W, Ziemer G. Forty years of clinical aprotinin use: a review of 
124 hypersensitivity reactions. Ann Thorac Surg 2005; 79(2):741-748. 
(6) FDA Public Health Advisory; Aprotinin Injection (marketed as Trasylol) 
http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/PostmarketDrugSafetyInformationforPatientsandProviders/D 
rugSafetyInformationforHeathcareProfessionals/PublicHealthAdvisories/ucm051295.html. 
(8) Canale ST and Beaty J. Campbell’s Operative Orthopedics. Elsevier 2007. 
(9) Berker M, Hazer DB, Yucel T, Guriek A, Aysenur C, Aldur M and Onerci M. Complications of 
endoscopic surgery of the pituitary adenomas: analysis of 570 patients and a review of the literature. 
Pituitary 2011, DOI: 10.1007/s11102-011-0368-2 
(10) Gondim JA, Almeida JP, Albuquerque LA, Schops M, Gomes E, Ferraz T, Sobreira W, Kretzmann 
MT. Endoscopic endonasal approach for pituitary adenoma: surgical complications in 301 patients. 
Pituitary. 2011 Jun;14(2):174-83. 
(11) Gondim JA, Schops, M, de Almeida JPC, de Albuquerque LAF, Gomes, E, Ferraz T and Barroso 
FAC. Endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal surgery: surgical results of 228 pituitary adenomas 
treated in a pituitary center. Pituitary 2009; 13(1): 68-77. 
(12) Rabadan AT, Hernandez D and Ruggeri CS. Pituitary tumors: our experience in the prevention of 
post-operatuve cerebrospinal fluid leaks after transsphenoidal surgery. J Neurooncol 2009; 93:127- 
131. 
(13) Koopman PAR. Confidence Intervals for the ratio of two binomial proportions. Biometrics [ 1984 
40:[513-517] 
(14) Mankad PS, Codispoti M. The role of fibrin sealants in hemostasis. Am J Surg 2001; 182(2 
Suppl):21S-28S. 
(15) Carless PA, Anthony DM, Henry DA. Systematic review of the use of fibrin sealant to minimize 
perioperative allogeneic blood transfusion. Br J Surg 2002; 89(6):695-703. 
(16) Core SPC for Plasma Derived Fibrin Sealant/Haemostatic Products. CPMP/BPWG/153/00.29-7-2004. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 46/47 
 
  
  
(17) Osbun JW, Ellenbogen RG, Chesnut RM, et. al. A multicenter, single-blind, prospective randomized 
trial to evaluate the safety of a polyethylene glycol hydrogel (Duraseal Dural Sealant System) as a dural 
sealant in cranial surgery. (World Neurosurgery 2012;78 [5]:498-504. 
(18) Satapathy GC and Dash HH. Tension pneumocephalus after neurosurgery in the supine position. Br J 
Anaesth. 2000 Jan;84(1):115-7. 
(19) Hernández-Palazón J, Martínez-Lage JF, de la Rosa-Carrillo VN, et.al., Anesthetic technique and 
development of pneumocephalus after posterior fossa surgery in the sitting position. Neurocirugia. 2003 
Jun;14 (3):216-21. 
Assessment report  
EMA/474697/2013 
Page 47/47 
 
  
  
