EMA/403881/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002312 
EPAR summary for the public 
Eviplera 
emtricitabine / rilpivirine / tenofovir disoproxil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Eviplera. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Eviplera. 
What is Eviplera? 
Eviplera is a medicine that contains the active substances emtricitabine (200 mg), rilpivirine (25 mg) 
and tenofovir disoproxil (245 mg). It is available as tablets.   
What is Eviplera used for? 
Eviplera is used to treat adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), a virus that 
causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
It is only used in patients where the virus has not developed resistance to certain anti-HIV medicines 
called non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), tenofovir or emtricitabine, and who 
have HIV levels in the blood (viral load) of no more than 100,000 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Eviplera used? 
Treatment with Eviplera should be started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV 
infection. The recommended dose is one tablet once a day and it must be taken with food. 
If patients need to stop taking one of the active substances or if they need to modify their dose, 
patients should be switched to separate medicines containing emtricitabine, rilpivirine or tenofovir 
disoproxil. If Eviplera is given together with rifabutin, the doctor should prescribe an additional 25 mg 
of rilpivirine per day during rifabutin treatment. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Eviplera work? 
Eviplera contains three active substances: emtricitabine, which is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitor; rilpivirine, which is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI); and tenofovir 
disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active substance 
tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor.  
All three active substances block the activity of reverse transcriptase, a viral enzyme that allows HIV-1 
to replicate in the cells it has infected. By blocking this enzyme, Eviplera reduces the amount of HIV-1 
in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Eviplera does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it may slow 
the damage to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with 
AIDS. 
All three active substances are already available in separate medicines in the EU. 
How has Eviplera been studied? 
Eviplera has been studied in two main studies in patients with HIV-1 who had not received HIV 
treatment before. In the first main study involving 690 patients, Eviplera was compared with a similar 
combination that had efavirenz in place of rilpivirine. The second main study involving 678 patients 
compared rilpivirine with efavirenz, both being taken with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil or two 
other nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors.  
The main measure of effectiveness was based on the reduction in viral load. Patients who attained a 
viral load of less than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml after 48 weeks of treatment were considered to have 
responded to treatment. 
Eviplera has also been evaluated in 532 patients who were switched from their current HIV treatment 
to Eviplera. Patient’s previous treatment consisted either of two nucleotide reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors and another HIV medicine called a boosted protease inhibitor, or the medicine Atripla. The 
main measure of effectiveness was based on the maintained reduction in viral load. 
The company also presented studies showing that the tablet containing all three substances is 
absorbed in the body in the same way as the separate tablets given concurrently under similar 
conditions. 
What benefit has Eviplera shown during the studies? 
The Eviplera combination compared well with combinations containing efavirenz. In the first study in 
previously untreated patients, 83% of the patients taking the Eviplera combination responded to 
treatment compared with 84% of the patients taking a combination with efavirenz. In the second 
study, 87% of the patients in the rilpivirine group (which included patients taking the Eviplera 
combination) responded to treatment. This compared with 83% of patients in the efavirenz group. 
The two studies evaluating the effects of switching patients to Eviplera showed that Eviplera was as 
effective as the previous treatment and maintained the reduction in viral load. 
What is the risk associated with Eviplera? 
The most common side effects with Eviplera in patients who had not received previous HIV treatment 
(seen in more than 5 patients in 100) were nausea (feeling sick), dizziness, abnormal dreams, 
headache, diarrhoea and insomnia. In patients who had received previous HIV treatment, the most 
Eviplera  
EMA/403881/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
common side effects (seen in more than 2 patients in 100) were tiredness, diarrhoea, nausea and 
insomnia. Rarely, kidney problems may occur in patients taking tenofovir disoproxil. Patients who have 
HIV and hepatitis B may see a worsening of their liver problems when stopping Eviplera. 
Eviplera must not be used with the following medicines as they may lead to reduced blood levels of 
rilpivirine, and thereby reduce the effectiveness of Eviplera: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy); 
rifampicin, rifapentine (antibiotics); 
omeprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, rabeprazole (proton pump inhibitors for 
reducing stomach acid); 
systemic dexamethasone (a steroid anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant medicine) except 
when used as a single dose treatment; 
•  St John’s wort (a herbal medicine to treat depression and anxiety). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Eviplera, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Eviplera been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Eviplera was as effective as combinations containing efavirenz. It also causes 
fewer side effects in the early stages of treatment and offers the benefit of being taken as one tablet 
once per day. However, the CHMP noted that there was some risk of HIV-1 developing resistance to 
rilpivirine and that this risk appeared to be lower in patients with a lower viral load. Therefore, the 
CHMP considered that the benefits of Eviplera outweigh its risks in patients with a low HIV-1 viral load, 
and recommended that it be granted marketing authorisation for this group of patients. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Eviplera? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Eviplera have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Eviplera 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Eviplera on 28 November 2011. 
The full EPAR for Eviplera can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Eviplera, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2016.  
Eviplera  
EMA/403881/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
