SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Evista.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  October  2003.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Osteoporosis is recognised as a major public health problem, which is estimated to affect one in three 
postmenopausal women and the majority of the elderly. It is a systemic skeletal disorder characterised 
by low bone mass and micro-architectural deterioration of bone tissue, with a consequent increase in 
bone fragility and susceptibility to fracture. The most common sites of fracture are the vertebrae, distal 
radius (Colles’ fracture), and hip.  
Two distinct phases of bone loss can be recognised: a slow, age-related phase that occurs in both sexes 
beginning  at  about  age  35,  and  an  accelerated  phase  that  occurs  during  the  first  ten  years  after 
menopause  in  women.  During  this  accelerated  phase,  women  experience  a  drastic  increase  in  bone 
turnover with bone resorption becoming predominant over bone formation. This is mainly due to the 
effects of estrogen deficiency on the bone remodelling system. Furthermore, a number of risk factors 
may also contribute to the pathogenesis of osteoporosis, including the ageing process itself, premature 
menopause, genetic factors, physical inactivity, nutritional factors (decrease in calcium intake, vitamin 
D deficiency), smoking and excessive alcohol consumption. 
The diagnosis of postmenopausal osteoporosis is based upon epidemiological data on the relationship 
between fracture risk and bone mineral density (BMD). BMD measurements are expressed by using 
standard  deviation  scores  expressed  in  relation  to  young  adult  BMD  reference  data  (T  score). 
Osteoporosis is defined as a BMD T score below –2.5. Osteopenia may be defined as a BMD T score 
between –1 and –2.5. The term severe or established osteoporosis denotes a T score below –2.5 in the 
presence of one or more fragility fractures.  
Prevention of osteoporosis 
Untreated  postmenopausal  women  may  lose  1  to  3%  of  bone  mass  per  year.  The  most  appropriate 
therapeutic approach to postmenopausal osteoporosis currently is the prevention of skeletal loss during 
the first five years  of the menopause.  Estrogen replacement therapy is the cornerstone of  preventive 
therapy  for  osteoporosis.  Estrogens  effectively  inhibit  postmenopausal  bone  loss,  but  may  be 
associated with an increase in the risks of deep venous thrombosis, endometrial and breast cancer with 
long-term  therapy.  Other  antiresorptive  medicinal  products  may  be  used,  but  they  are  only effective 
when bone turnover is high and they may have other untoward effects. In addition, pharmacological 
doses of calcium and/or vitamin D have been reported to slow down the decrease in BMD.  
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women 
Vertebral  fractures  form  an  integral  component  of  the  osteoporotic  syndrome.  They  often  occur 
spontaneously or as a result of minimal trauma such as during coughing or lifting. Vertebral fractures 
are the most common osteoporotic fractures; 5% of women at 50 and 25% at 80 have had at least one 
vertebral  fracture.  At  age  70,  the  general  population  incidence  is  approximately  1%  per  annum 
(Melton  et  al.  1989).  Therapies  used  in  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  aim  to  reduce 
the incidence of new vertebral fractures.  
Raloxifene  hydrochloride  is  a  new  chemical  entity  characterised  as  a  selective  estrogen  receptor 
modulator (SERM), based on its ability to bind to and activate estrogen receptors, inducing estrogen 
agonist effects in some tissues (bone, lipid metabolism) but not in the uterus or mammary gland. Its 
biological  actions,  like  those  of  estrogens,  are  mediated  through  high-affinity  binding  to  estrogen 
receptors and regulation of gene expression. The binding results in differential expression of multiple 
estrogen receptor-regulated genes in different tissues. 
Raloxifene  hydrochloride  is  intended  for  the  treatment  and  prevention  of  osteoporosis  in 
postmenopausal women. The proposed dose is 60 mg daily (equivalent to 56 mg raloxifene free base).  
1/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Raloxifene  hydrochloride  is  an  orally  active  synthetic  benzothiophene  derivative  characterised  as  a 
SERM. It is presented as Evista white elliptical film coated tablets. Each film coated-tablet contains 60 
mg raloxifene hydrochloride, equivalent to 56 mg raloxifene freebase. Different package sizes are: 14, 
28 and 84 tablets in blisters, and 100 tablets in plastic bottles.  
Composition 
The  film-coated  tablets  are  made  with  standard  core  and  film-coat  excipients.  The  excipients  are 
povidone, polysorbate 80, anhydrous lactose, lactose monohydrate, crospovidone, magnesium stearate, 
hypromellose,  macrogol  400,  carnauba  wax,  modified  pharmaceutical  glaze,  and  propylene  glycol. 
The tablets are coated with a film coat containing titanium dioxide (E171) as a colorant and imprinted 
with edible blue ink containing indigo carmine (E132) as a colorant. 
Many  different  formulations,  dosage  forms  and  strengths  were  used  in  the  clinical  trials.  The 
commercial  scale  tablets  have  been  shown  to  be  bioequivalent  to  the  representative  clinical  batches 
used in pivotal efficacy and safety trials.  
Solubility  and  hydrophobicity  of  the  active  substance  have  been  of  particular  concern  when 
formulating  the  medicinal  product  to  ensure  that  the  drug  substance  dissolves  in  the  gastrointestinal 
tract. Specifications were set for the particle size. An aqueous film coat has been applied to mask the 
taste of the tablet core and provide a smoother surface for ease of swallowing. A 1% overage in the 
formulation has been justified. The selection of excipients and their concentration ranges have all been 
justified. The development pharmaceutics have been adequately described. 
Method of preparation 
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated on 7 batches from the two finished product-
manufacturing sites. The in-process controls and limits proposed are satisfactory.  
Control of starting materials 
The specifications for drug substance include tests for identity, assay, particle size, related substances, 
volatiles, residual solvents,  residue  on ignition  and  heavy  metals.  Most of  the  tests  are  based on the 
general methods of Ph. Eur., USP or JP. All the tests used have been adequately validated. 
Raloxifene hydrochloride is manufactured in a multistep organic synthesis. The structure of the active 
substance  has  been  confirmed  by  X-ray  crystallography;  NMR,  UV,  IR,  and  Raman  spectroscopy; 
mass spectrometry; and elemental analysis. Raloxifene hydrochloride contains no asymmetric centre, 
and does not show optical isomerism.  
Only two process impurities are present at a level greater than 0.1%. All other related substances are 
present  at  a  level  below  0.1%.  Residual  solvents  are  routinely  controlled  within  acceptable  limits. 
Heavy metals are also routinely controlled. 
The active substance batch analytical data are satisfactory. 
All the excipients, except the film coating mixture and the printing ink, comply with the requirements 
of the current version of the PhEur. Additional microbiological tests are performed for carnauba wax.  
The colouring agents are on the list of permitted food colours and comply with the EEC requirements. 
The testing methods and certificates of analysis of the colour mixture and the ink are provided. 
Bulk tablets  are packaged in a  primary and  secondary low-density polyethylene  liner. The  marketed 
containers  proposed  are  PVC/aluminium  blisters,  PVC/Aclar/aluminium  blisters  and  natural  high-
density polyethylene (NHDPE) bottles. The bottles are packed with a cotton pharmaceutical coiler and 
sealed with plastic screw cap closures with heat seal liner. Packaging materials testing is satisfactory; 
certificates of analysis are provided. 
Control tests on the finished product 
The drug product specification includes standard tests for physical appearance, identity, assay, purity, 
water, dissolution, microbial contamination and dye identity. All tests have been adequately validated. 
2/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
The identification test for chlorides is performed only on the active substance batches. Some of the test 
parameters (microbial purity, dye identity) are not routinely controlled, but in acceptable frequency.  
The dissolution specification limits have been set in order to guarantee a dissolution profile similar to 
that of the clinical batches. The release and shelf life specifications for degradation products and total 
related  substances  are  acceptable.  Suitability  criteria  for  the  HPLC  method  guarantee  acceptable 
resolution between raloxifene hydrochloride and the degradation products. 
Batch  analytical  results  provided  for  seven  commercial  batches  from  different  manufacturing  sites 
comply with the specifications. 
Stability 
Active substance 
Three batches of the active substance manufactured at two different sites have been stored for up to 6-
15  months  and  four  production  scale  batches  up  to  3  months  at  different  temperatures  and  relative 
humidity  (30°C/60%RH,  40°C/75%RH).  All  data  from  these  stability  tests  met  the  proposed 
specifications. The packaging materials were intact.  
Long-term  stability  results  of  24  months  from  the  primary  stability  batches  and  9  months  from  the 
production  scale  batches  of  active  substance  have  been  provided  later.  The  updated  results  for  the 
primary  stability  batches  indicate  no  significant  change  in  the  drug  substance  assay  and  related 
substances.  
Finished product 
Seven production scale batches of finished products manufactured at the two different sites, using the 
commercial formulation and containers, have been stored for up to 12 months at different temperature 
and relative humidity (25°C/60%RH, 30°C/60%RH, 40°C/75%RH). The data showed that the finished 
products meet the proposed shelf life specifications during the 12 months storage at the long-term and 
mostly  also  at  accelerated  conditions.  Thermal  stress  and  light  testing  has  shown,  only  at  extremely 
high  temperature  (105°C),  significant  increase  of  two  related  substances.  No  degradation  occurred 
under simulated daylight or at 60°C, which confirms the good stability of the product in solid state. 
Further finished product stability data at the long-term storage conditions (25°C/60%RH) for up to 18-
24 months showed no significant change in the amount of the active substance or related substances. 
All  data  comply  with  the  specifications  for  assay  and  for  total  related  substances.  The  results  for 
tablets  stored  in  the  HDPE  bottles  and  Aclar  blisters  supported  the  proposed  24  months  shelf  life.        
2 years shelf life is therefore recommended for tablets in Aclar blisters, PVC blisters or HDPE bottles, 
stored at room temperature (15-25°C) in a dry place. These conditions are reflected in the SPC. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Effects related to the proposed indication 
The applicant has performed several preclinical animal studies to investigate effects of raloxifene on 
bone. These studies, which have been conducted mainly in rats and cynomolgus monkeys, have used 
ovariectomised  (OVX)  or  sexually  immature  animals  as  a  model  of  estrogen  deficiency.  Several 
analytical  methods  have  been  applied  to  evaluate  different  aspects  of  the  effects  on  bone  including 
analysis of bone mineral density, biomechanical strength, histomorphometry, and biochemical markers 
of bone metabolism.  
The  doses  used  (0.001-30  mg/kg/day  in  rats  and  1-5  mg/kg/day  in  monkeys)  result  in  an  exposure 
consistent with that in women receiving the proposed daily dose of 60 mg. 
The  duration  of  some  studies  (particularly  the  two  chronic  studies  of  12  months  in  OVX  rats  and  2 
years  in  OVX  cynomolgus  monkeys)  is  adequate  to  demonstrate  the  beneficial  effects  on  bone 
turnover. 
3/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
There  is  sufficient  preclinical  evidence  that  raloxifene  has  a  tissue-selective  estrogen-receptor  (ER) 
agonist or antagonist profile. Concerning the mimetic actions, there is sufficient preclinical evidence 
supporting the anti-osteoporotic properties of raloxifene in conditions of estrogen deficiency. 
Furthermore,  the  studies  also  demonstrated  that  raloxifene  lowers  serum  cholesterol  levels  in  OVX 
rats,  rabbits  and  monkeys  mimicking  actions  of  estrogens  (however  raloxifene  is  less  potent  than 
estrogens  in  reducing  cholesterol  levels  and  does  not  prevent  the  development  of  atherosclerotic 
alterations).  
On the other hand, raloxifene behaves in reproductive sites, such as mammary tissue and uterus, like 
an ER antagonist. Its lack of uterine stimulation distinguishes raloxifene from other antiestrogens, like 
tamoxifen, which have partial agonist activity on the endometrium. 
General pharmacodynamics 
A wide range of studies has been performed in vitro and in vivo (rabbit, mouse, guinea pig). At oral 
doses  up  to  600  mg/kg/day  raloxifene  showed  no  marked  cardiovascular,  renal,  gastrointestinal  or 
smooth muscle activity. 
Pharmacokinetics/Toxicokinetics 
The  majority of the  pharmacokinetic  studies were  performed in rats,  mice and  monkeys, with a few 
studies  performed  in  dogs.  Many  studies  relied  on  14C-raloxifene;  authentic  raloxifene  was  also 
measured by HPLC. 
The data have shown good oral absorption, extensive “first-pass” metabolism in the intestinal mucosa 
and liver to form glucuronide conjugates, a high level of plasma protein binding and faecal excretion 
of raloxifene and its metabolites via the bile. 
A wide range of oral doses was used in pharmacology studies (1-5 mg/kg) with much higher doses in 
toxicology studies (up to 600-1700 mg/kg). In general, plasma concentrations of raloxifene increased 
with  dose in  mice,  rats and  monkeys, but increases  were  not always proportional, especially at high 
doses. A similar pattern was observed in postmenopausal women given doses up to 600 mg orally. 
The  results  seen  in  the  animal  models  are  consistent  with  the  higher  exposure  levels  in  animals 
compared  to  humans.  Systemic  exposure  to  raloxifene  after  1  year  or  more  of  daily  dosing  was 
approximately  41,  505  and  13  times  greater  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys,  respectively,  than  in 
postmenopausal  women  given  60  mg/day  for  two  years.  It  can  be  concluded  that  animals  were 
appropriately exposed to the compound in these studies. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity was evaluated in two rodent (mice and rats) and two non-rodent (Beagle dogs and 
rhesus  monkeys)  species,  by  oral  and  intraperitoneal  (in  rats)  route.  Acute  toxicity  was  low.  No 
mortality was observed with doses up to 5000 mg/kg orally to mice and rats. Few rats showed toxicity 
after i.p. injection of a 2000 mg/kg dose of raloxifene.  
Repeated dose toxicity was investigated in mice (3 months), rats (up to 1 year), dogs (6 months) and 
cynomolgus  monkeys  (up  to  1  year)  following  oral  administration.  In  general,  raloxifene  was  well 
tolerated and observations from these studies were considered to reflect the pharmacodynamic actions 
of  raloxifene  on  reproductive  tissues  and  estrous  cycle  due  to  the  SERM-like  activity.  A  no-effect 
level was not determined. 
Reproductive toxicity: The applicant has performed adequate reproductive toxicity studies in rats and 
rabbits. The observed effects were all consistent with the known action of raloxifene on the estrogen 
receptor. At doses of 0.1 to 10 mg/kg/day in female rats, raloxifene disrupted estrous cycles of female 
rats during treatment, but did not delay fertile matings after treatment termination and only marginally 
reduced  litter  size,  increased  gestation  length,  and  altered  the  timing  of  events  in  neonatal 
development. When given during the preimplantation period, raloxifene delayed and disrupted embryo 
implantation resulting in prolonged gestation and reduced litter size but development of offspring to 
weaning was not affected. Teratology studies were conducted in rabbits and rats. In rabbits, abortion 
and 
and  hydrocephaly 
septal  defects 
(≥  10  mg/kg)  were  seen.  In  rats,  retardation  of  foetal  development,  wavy  ribs and  kidney  cavitation 
occurred (≥ 1 mg/kg). 
rate  of  ventricular 
(≥  0.1  mg/kg) 
low 
a 
4/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
These  studies  are  however  of  limited  interest  since  the  proposed  indication  is  limited  to 
postmenopausal women.  
Genotoxicity: Results  from the standard battery of in vitro and  in vivo  mutagenicity tests show  that 
raloxifene is devoid of genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity:  The  oncogenic/carcinogenic  potential  of  raloxifene  has  been  investigated  in  mice 
(21 month study) and in rats (24 month), with appropriate exposure multiples over human doses. An 
increased  incidence  of  ovarian  neoplasias  was  observed  in  both  species,  as  well  as  an  increase  of 
serum  ALT  levels.  Treatment  of  female  rodents  with  raloxifene  throughout  their  lives  produced 
specific  hormonal  imbalances.  Such  imbalances  are  known  to  result  in  ovarian  tumours  in  rodents, 
which have not been observed in women who have received raloxifene. 
Environmental  risk  assessment:  Analysis  was  performed  to  determine  potential  environmental 
issues  associated  with  production,  use,  and  disposal  of  raloxifene.  Factors  considered  were 
physical/chemical  properties  of  the  bulk  drug  substance,  the  proposed  use  pattern  of  raloxifene  as  a 
therapeutic agent, human metabolism and excretion, environmental fate, inert ingredients in the tablets 
and disposal of packaging. The calculation of a variety of safety factors revealed very large margins of 
safety  for  surface  waters  and  soil.  It  can  be  concluded  that  the  use  of  raloxifene  will  not  present  a 
hazard to the environment. 
In  summary,  the  preclinical  documentation  provided  was  overall  of  good  quality.  The  data 
demonstrate the anti-osteoporotic and hypocholesterolemic effects of raloxifene in estrogen-deficient 
animal models of postmenopausal osteoporosis. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Forty-nine clinical studies had been initiated when the first indication was approved; of these, 31 were 
clinical efficacy and safety studies, 15 were completed, 15 were ongoing and 1 was discontinued. The 
majority of the ongoing studies were still blinded. 
The  core  clinical  documentation  for  the  prevention  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women 
indication consisted of three main Phase III studies (randomised, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-
controlled  parallel  groups)  and  several  Phase  II  studies.  The  study  programme  was  conducted  in 
compliance  with  GCP.  All  the  subjects  enrolled  in  these  prevention  studies  received  daily  calcium 
supplement.    The  core  clinical  documentation  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal 
women  indication  was  based  on  3-year  data  from  a  single,  very  large  Phase  III  study  (randomised, 
multicentre,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  parallel  group)  (Study  GGGK)  involving  7705  women 
with osteoporosis.  All the subjects enrolled in this treatment study received daily calcium and vitamin 
D supplementation. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Prevention indication 
Raloxifene belongs to the class of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERM). It acts through the 
induction  of  estrogen  agonistic  effects  on  bone  and  lipid  metabolism  but  not  in  uterine  or  breast 
tissues. Its actions are mediated through high affinity binding to estrogen receptors and regulation of 
gene  expression,  resulting  in  differential  expression  of  multiple-regulated  genes  in  different  tissues. 
Several  randomised  studies,  open-label,  or  double  blind,  or  uncontrolled  have  been  carried-out  in 
healthy postmenopausal women in order to elucidate the mechanism of action in humans. 
(5  mg/day)  on  bone 
The effect of raloxifene (60 mg/day) compared to estrogens (0.625 mg/day) plus medroxyprogesterone 
acetate 
to 
8 months (study GGGR). A shift from negative calcium balance to positive balance was statistically 
significant  compared  to  placebo  in  both  active  treatment  groups.  Calcium  resorption  significantly 
decreased  with  both  treatment  groups.  Both  treatment  groups  suppressed  bone  remodelling  by 
suppressing 
conjugated 
estrogens/medroxyprogesterone acetate group. 
remodelling  kinetics  has  been  evaluated 
effects  were 
clearer  with 
resorption; 
however 
for  up 
the 
the 
5/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation  of  histomorphometry  (study  GGGM)  is  based  on  data  from  bone  biopsies  (22  subjects) 
from  postmenopausal  women  assigned  to  treatment  with  raloxifene  (60  mg/day  for  6  months)  or 
conjugated  estrogens  (0.625  mg/day)  for  6  months.  Overall  the  effects  of  raloxifene  on  bone 
histomorphometry indices were similar to those of estrogens, but of smaller magnitude. Bone quality 
was normal in both groups. Moreover, the changes in biochemical markers of bone formation (bone-
specific  alkaline  phosphatase,  osteocalcin)  and  resorption  (collagen  crosslinks,  hydroxyproline, 
deoxypyridinoline) were consistent with the histomorphometric and BMD data, and were as expected 
from  drugs  with  estrogenic activity. At the  higher  raloxifene  dose (150  mg/day, study GGHI), there 
was  no  evidence  of  compromised  bone  quality  including  no  suggestion  of  woven  bone,  cellular 
toxicity, marrow fibrosis or mineralisation defect. 
Studies  on  the  effects  of  endocrine  function  showed  that  in  women  with  normal  menstrual  cycles, 
raloxifene  (100,  200  or  400  mg/day)  was  weakly  antiestrogenic  (study  GGGJ).  Raloxifene  neither 
markedly affected the gonadotropin levels, nor blocked the actions of estrogen on endometrium.  
In postmenopausal women, no clinical changes in the markers of function of the pituitary adrenal axis 
were seen (raloxifene 200 mg/day, study GGGE). Slightly increased serum cortisol was observed, an 
effect consistent with estrogenic action.  
Typical  estrogenic  effects  (increases  in  TBG,  T3  and  T4)  were  observed  in  postmenopausal  women 
after  4  weeks  of  raloxifene  (150  mg/day,  study  GGHE).  The  increases  in  T3  and  T4  were 
approximately  20%.  A  slight  increase  (20%)  was  observed  in  TSH  in  this  study,  but  not  in  GGGB 
with doses up to 600 mg/day. 
Treatment indication 
Population  pharmacodynamic  analyses  of  lumbar  spine  and  femoral  neck  BMD,  and  serum 
osteocalcin were performed on the 36-month data from Study GGGK.  These analyses confirmed that 
raloxifene-treated  patients  with  the  most  severe  osteoporosis  (e.g.  the  lowest  baseline  lumbar  spine 
BMD,  the  highesst  baseline  osetocalcin  or  total  alkaline  phosphatase)  had  the  largest  increases  in 
lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD and the greatest decreases in serum osteocalcin.  There were no 
differences in the effectiveness of raloxifene 60-mg vs raloxifene 120-mg. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Prevention indication 
The  pharmacokinetics of raloxifene  has been studied in healthy volunteers,  postmenopausal women, 
and patients with hepatic impairment (5 subjects with cirrhosis). 
The  mean  oral  bioavailability  of  raloxifene  was  low,  approximately  2%.  However,  the  median 
estimate  of  absorption  of  total  drug-related  substance  is  much  higher  and  the  absolute  oral 
bioavailability  is  dependent  on  metabolic  interconversion  between  raloxifene  and  its  glucuronides. 
Most  of  the  raloxifene  in  the  systemic  circulation  appears  to  be  derived  from  deconjugation  of  the 
glucuronides. 
Raloxifene  is  a  high  clearance  drug,  with  a  clearance  approximately  equal  to  liver  blood  flow.  It 
undergoes significant enterohepatic circulation.  
Following single oral doses (study GGGI), the Tmax for raloxifene was approximately 6 hours (ranging 
from  1-24  hours),  t1/2  was  33  hours  (23-92  hours).  According  to  a  study  with  14C-raloxifene,  peak 
concentrations  of  total  raloxifene  in  hydrolysed  plasma  (TRHP)  represented  more  than  99%  of  total 
radioactivity in plasma, indicating rapid glucuronidation. The terminal half-lives of raloxifene, TRHP 
and glucuronides were similar, ranging from 15.6 to 21.8 hours. After repeated oral doses, raloxifene 
kinetics (e.g. elimination rate constant, clearance and volume of distribution) was linear with respect 
to time. The raloxifene concentration-dose relationship was linear, but not dose-proportional. 
Raloxifene and its glucuronides are highly bound to plasma proteins, including both albumin (>95%) 
and  alpha-1-glycoprotein  (89%).  Neither  raloxifene  nor  the  glucuronides  are  distributed  into  the 
cellular component of blood. 
The  only  metabolites  detected  in  plasma  and  urine  are  glucuronide  conjugates  (raloxifene-4’-
glucuronide,  -6’-glucuronide  and  –6,4’-diglucuronide.  No  oxidative  metabolites  have  been  found. 
6/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
Raloxifene and its metabolites are primarily excreted in the faeces, less than 6% is recovered in urine. 
The amount of unchanged raloxifene in urine is negligible.  
The effect of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters of raloxifene is not significant. 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  (NONMEM  model)  confirmed  the  results  from  individual 
pharmacokinetic  studies.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  raloxifene  and  TRHP  are  characterised  by  large 
intra- and inter-subject variability. Pharmacokinetics was not affected by age, dose or ethnic factors. 
Self-reported  alcohol  consumption 
raloxifene 
pharmacokinetics.  In  smokers,  raloxifene  clearance  was  approximately  20%  greater  than  in  non-
smokers, but this difference is less than the 30% within-subject variability. 
(>3  drinks  per  week)  did  not 
influence 
A  formal  study  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  has  not  been  performed,  as  renal  excretion  of 
raloxifene is a minor pathway. Dose adjustment does not appear necessary in subjects with mild renal 
impairment on the basis of population pharmacokinetic analysis. In the absence of data, raloxifene is 
contraindicated in severe renal impairment. 
In subjects with hepatic cirrhosis and mild  hepatic  impairment (Child-Pugh  Class A), the Cmax and 
AUC  for  plasma  raloxifene,  TRHP  and  raloxifene-glucuronide  (single  dose  of  raloxifene)  were 
significantly  higher  than  in  healthy  control  subjects.  A  statistically  significant  association  was 
observed  between  raloxifene-glucuronide,  TRHP  and  raloxifene  AUC  versus  serum  total  bilirubin. 
Raloxifene is contraindicated in hepatic impairment, including cholestasis.  
A number of tablet formulations have been used in clinical trials. The different formulations and the 
market-image tablets have been shown to be bioequivalent. 
Treatment indication 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  from  patients  (postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis)  in 
Study  GGGK  demonstrated  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  raloxifene  were  not  clinically  significantly 
affected  by  age,  body  weight  or  BMI,  cigarette  smoking,  chronic  alcohol  use  or  decreased  renal 
function. However, in the absence of data, raloxifene is contraindicated in severe renal impairment. 
Interaction studies 
In  in  vitro  studies,  significant  plasma  protein  binding  interactions  were  not  observed  with  warfarin, 
phenytoin, tamoxifen or testosterone. 
In in vivo studies, an approximately 40% reduction in systemic raloxifene exposure was observed after 
cholestyramine,  therefore  cholestyramine  should  not  be  co-administered  with  raloxifene.  Calcium 
carbonate and aluminium hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide antacid did not modify the absorption and 
exposure  to  raloxifene  and  metabolites.  Oral  ampicillin  therapy  resulted  in  lower  raloxifene 
concentrations,  but  the  interaction  is  probably  not  of  significant  consequence  during  short-term 
antibiotic treatment. Raloxifene reduces the efficacy of warfarin treatment. A significant decrease in 
the peak and AUC of the prothrombin time response to warfarin was observed after multiple doses of 
raloxifene;  careful  monitoring  of  prothrombin  time  is  necessary  over  several  weeks.  Concomitant 
administration of raloxifene resulted in increase in Cmax of digoxin (by less than 5%), but did not affect 
overall exposure. These interactions are referred to in the SPC. 
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analyses,  histamine  H1-receptor  antagonists,  laxatives  and  fibre 
were associated with slight decreases in observed average raloxifene concentrations.  
For  other  frequently  co-administered  drugs  such  as  paracetamol,  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory 
drugs  (e.g.  acetylsalicylic  acid,  ibuprofen  and  naproxen),  oral  antibiotics,  H1  antagonists,  H2 
antagonists  and  benzodiazepines,  no  clinically  relevant  effects  of  co-administration  on  raloxifene 
plasma concentrations were identified. 
The Phase I study GGIP, which assessed the pharmacokinetic interaction of raloxifene after multiple 
administration  of  methilprednisolone  in  postmenopausal  women  with  no  concomitant  hormone 
the  pharmacokinetics  of 
replacement 
methylprednisolone given as a single dose. 
that  raloxifene  has  no  effect  on 
therapy,  showed 
7/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
Efficacy 
Dose-ranging studies 
The  dose-ranging  program  was  mainly  based  on  two  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomised,  short-
term  studies  (GGGB  and  GGGC)  in  a  total  of  491  healthy  postmenopausal  women.  It  documented, 
over 8 weeks, primarily the dose-response relationship of raloxifene as compared to placebo (GGGC) 
and/or  conjugated  estrogen  (GGGB)  on  mineral  homeostasis  and  bone  metabolism,  and  serum  lipid 
profile in healthy postmenopausal women.  
Compared to placebo (GGGB), all active treatment groups (raloxifene 200 and 600 mg, estrogen 0.625 
mg) had significant decreases in biochemical  markers  of  bone  metabolism; no  significant  difference 
between active treatment groups was observed. The two doses of raloxifene demonstrated comparable 
efficacy, but the higher dose (600 mg) resulted in a greater frequency of hot flushes. 
Relative  to  placebo  (GGGC),  serum  osteocalcin  significantly  decreased  only  in  raloxifene  200  mg 
group, serum alkaline phosphatase decreased significantly at raloxifene 50 mg and 200 mg groups. On 
the other hand, biochemical markers were unaffected at 10 mg raloxifene, indicating that this is a no 
effect dose. 
In  addition,  an  early  Phase  II  multicentre,  24-week  Japanese  study  (201J)  was  conducted  in 
postmenopausal patients with a decrease in BMD and osteoporosis (n=112, 104 received medication). 
Statistically significant increase in lumbar spine BMD was observed in both active treatment groups 
(raloxifene  30  and  90  mg)  versus  placebo.  The  difference  between  both  treatment  groups  was  not 
significant. 
The  minimum  effective  dose  was  not  reliably  established  in  these  dose-ranging  studies.  However, 
raloxifene  600  mg/day  was  concluded  to  be  an  unacceptable  dose  and  10  mg/day  did  not  appear  to 
have any significant effects on bone. With respect to effect on lumbar spine BMD, 30 mg appeared to 
be as effective as 90 mg. On the other hand, significant changes were observed at 50 mg and 200 mg 
compared to placebo.  
1. 
Efficacy  package  in  support  of  the  Osteoporosis  Prevention  in  postmenopausal  women 
indication 
1.1.  Main Phase III Efficacy Studies: Prevention of Osteoporosis (GGGF, GGGG and GGGH) 
These  main  studies  enrolled  a  total  of  1754  postmenopausal  women  for  long-term  double-blind 
treatment with placebo or raloxifene (30, 60 or 150 mg/day). Study GGGH enrolled subjects who had 
undergone  hysterectomies,  and 
treatment  arm 
(0.625 mg/day). Two-year interim reports with intention-to-treat and per protocol analyses have been 
provided. 
included  an  unopposed  conjugated  estrogen 
The  study  population  was  women  (mean  age  of  54  years)  who  were  2  to  8  years  postmenopausal, 
except for the study GGGH in which women who were 0 to 15 years postmenopausal were included. 
The inclusion criteria comprised subjects with T-scores for lumbar spine BMD ranging from -2.5  to 
+2.0 inclusive. The osteopenic population, with T-scores from -2.5 to -1, is considered most relevant 
for the claimed indication; approximately 50% of the study population had osteopenia. 
The  primary  efficacy  criteria  in  these  studies  were  change  and  percent  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint in lumbar spine (L1-L4) and total hip BMD. Secondary efficacy criteria included markers of 
bone metabolism (serum osteocalcin, serum total and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, urinary type 
I collagen fragment C-telopeptide), serum lipids, measures of coagulation and fibrinolytic activity and 
assessment of endometrial thickness.  
Effects on bone: 
• 
GGGF was a European study to establish the effects of long-term therapy with three doses of 
raloxifene compared to placebo on BMD of the lumbar spine and total hip. Randomised patients 
received  placebo  (n=150)  or  raloxifene  30  mg  (n=152),  60  mg  (n=152),  or  150  mg  (n=147) 
daily. 
After 24 months of treatment, the mean percentage changes from baseline for lumbar spine BMD were 
–0.8% (placebo), +1.3% (30 mg), +1.6% (60 mg) and +2.2% (150 mg). At the level of the total hip, 
8/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
the changes were –0.8% (placebo), +1.0% (30 mg), +1.6% (60 mg) and +1.5% (150 mg). Increases in 
BMD  were  statistically  significant  compared  to  placebo  at  all  measurements  sites  (except  the  distal 
and  ultradistal  radius)  for  all  doses  of  raloxifene.  The  results  are  clinically  significant  and  relevant 
with  respect  to  the  proposed  indication.  The  biochemical  markers  of  bone  metabolism  decreased 
significantly in all raloxifene groups versus placebo, consistent with decreased bone turnover. 
• 
GGGG  was  a  US  study  to  establish  the  effects  of  long-term  therapy  with  three  doses  of 
raloxifene compared to placebo on BMD of the lumbar spine and total hip. Randomised patients 
received placebo (n=136) or raloxifene 30 mg (n=136), 60 mg (n=134), 150 mg (n=138) o.d. 
Over 24 months of treatment, the mean percentage changes from baseline for lumbar spine BMD were 
–1.2% (placebo), +0.4% (30 mg), +0.8% (60 mg) and +0.8% (150 mg). At the level of the total hip, 
the changes  were  –0.8% (placebo), +1.0% (30  mg),  +1.2% (60  mg)  and +1.6% (150  mg). Although 
the  effects  of  raloxifene  on  lumbar  spine  and  total  hip  BMD  (except  for  the  radius  and  total  body 
BMD) and bone markers (except for the specific alkaline phosphatase in the raloxifene 30 mg group) 
were clearly distinguishable from placebo, the effects on lumbar spine BMD were weaker compared to 
study GGGF. Nevertheless, the effect of raloxifene 60 mg/day was statistically significant compared 
to placebo. Raloxifene 30 mg appeared to be less effective than 60 mg and 150 mg. 
• 
GGGH was a study to establish the effects of long-term therapy with two doses of raloxifene or 
unopposed conjugated estrogen compared to placebo on BMD of the lumbar spine and total hip. 
Randomised patients received placebo (n=152) or raloxifene 60 mg (n=152), 150 mg (n=157), 
or conjugated equine estrogen 0.625 mg (n=158) o.d. 
After 24 months of treatment, the mean percentage changes from baseline for lumbar spine BMD were 
–1.6% (placebo), +0.2% (60 mg), +0.4% (150 mg) and +3.8% (estrogen). At the level of the total hip, 
the changes were –0.5% (placebo), +0.8% (60 mg), +0.5% (150 mg) and +2.4% (estrogen). 
At  both  doses,  raloxifene  had  a  weak,  but  statistically  significant  effect  compared  to  placebo  on 
lumbar and total hip BMD. However, the magnitude of the effect of estrogen was significantly greater. 
The  actual  “mean  benefit”  from  raloxifene  and  estrogen  compared  to  placebo  was  1.8%  and  5.0% 
respectively. A slight downward slope in the lumbar spine and total hip BMD curves was noted during 
the  second  year  of  raloxifene,  but  not  in  the  estrogen  groups.  This  was  only  observed  at  the  
150-mg/day  doses,  not  at  30  mg/day,  60  mg/day  or  in  other  phase  III  studies.  However,  the  mean 
BMD values remained at, or slightly above baseline for up to 24 months. Raloxifene and estrogen had 
similar  effects  on  biochemical  markers  of  bone  metabolism,  but  the  magnitude  of  the  effect  of 
estrogen was also clearly more pronounced than that of raloxifene. 
Raloxifene has a well-documented effect compared with placebo on lumbar spine and total hip BMD. 
Although qualitatively the effects of raloxifene on BMD and biochemical markers of bone metabolism 
are similar to those of estrogen, their magnitude is less. Hence, evidence of fracture benefit in patients 
with osteoporosis was required, even for the proposed osteoporosis prevention claim. 
A  2-year  interim  analysis  of  an  ongoing  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  phase  III  study  in 
osteoporotic  postmenopausal  women  was  provided.  This  study  enrolled  a  total  of  7705  patients 
randomly  assigned  to  one  of  three  treatment  groups:  raloxifene  60  mg,  120  mg  or  placebo.  Both 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and established osteoporosis (prevalent vertebral fractures) 
were included. The diagnostic criteria and evaluation for incident fractures are appropriate. 
Both  raloxifene  doses  significantly  reduced  the  proportion  of  patients  having  at  least  one  incident 
vertebral  fracture  during  24  months  of  treatment  compared  to  vitamin  D  and  calcium  supplemented 
placebo.  The  reduction  in  the  risk  of  experiencing  at  least  one  incident  fracture  was  in  the  range  of 
35%  to  55%  in  patients  with  and  without  prevalent  vertebral  fracture  at  baseline,  showing  the  same 
range  of  figures  as  those  reported  in  observational  studies  evaluating  the  anti-fracture  efficacy  of 
estrogen (HRT). The 3-year analysis of this study was submitted in 1999 to support the extension of 
the indication to  include treatment  of postmenopausal  osteoporosis.  In contrast to estrogen, no  data 
are currently available on the ability of raloxifene to prevent non-vertebral fractures. 
Similar efficacy related subgroup analyses were carried out in studies GGGF and GGGG. Raloxifene 
was observed to improve BMD regardless of BMI (Body mass index). Population pharmacodynamic 
analyses for the main efficacy studies supported the proposed dose of raloxifene 60 mg/day. 
9/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
Effects on serum lipid profile 
Raloxifene  has  clear  effects  on  serum  lipid  profile.  At  60  mg/day,  raloxifene  decreases  total 
cholesterol by approximately 3-6%, LDL cholesterol by 4-10%, HDL cholesterol by 1-4%, LDL/HDL 
ratio  by  7%  and total  cholesterol/HDL ratio  by 5%  over  24  months.  However, HDL cholesterol  has 
decreased slightly more during placebo than raloxifene. Raloxifene does not affect serum triglyceride 
levels,  which  may  increase  during  estrogen  treatment.  It  also  slightly  decreased  lipoprotein  A  and 
apolipoprotein B levels. Overall, the effects of raloxifene (60 mg/day) on serum lipids were similar to 
those of estrogen, but weaker. Raloxifene did not have adverse effects on lipid profile. In contrast to 
estrogen,  no  data  are  yet  available  to  demonstrate  the  benefit  of  raloxifene  on  atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular  disease.  Similar  efficacy  related  subgroup  analyses  carried  out  in  studies  GGGF  and 
GGGG indicated that in smokers, the reduction in LDL cholesterol was less pronounced than in non-
smokers. 
1.2  Supportive studies: Treatment of osteoporosis 
In addition, one Phase II, multicentre, randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled supportive study 
was submitted (GGGN). It evaluated the effect of raloxifene (60 or 120 mg/day) on incident vertebral 
and non-vertebral fractures. The analysis of incident fractures using the protocol-predefined cut-off of 
at least a 15% decrease in vertebral height did not suggest any benefit of raloxifene. Post-hoc analyses 
using more stringent criteria, however, suggested a trend of decreasing incidence of vertebral fractures 
in  favour  of  raloxifene  over  placebo.  Although  it  was  argued  that  by  using  the  15%  cut-off,  the 
number of false positive findings might increase, the mean incident fracture rate was not numerically 
smaller in the raloxifene groups compared to placebo (daily calcium and vitamin D supplementation 
only). However, due to the rather small study population (130 osteoporosis patients completed the 12 
months), the interpretation of these findings is limited.  
Two additional multicentre, double-blind studies were ongoing: a Phase III comparison of raloxifene 
(60  mg  and  120  mg)  versus  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  in  over  7000 
patients (GGGK) and a Phase II comparison of raloxifene (60 mg and 150 mg) versus placebo in the 
treatment of postmenopausal osteopenia (GGGP).  
2. 
Efficacy  package  in  support  of  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women 
indication 
2.1  Main Phase III Osteoporosis Treatment Efficacy Study (GGGK) 
GGGK was a Phase 3, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised clinical study which 
compared  raloxifene  60  mg/day,  raloxifene  120  mg/day  and  placebo  in  the  treatment  of 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis or established osteoporosis.  It was designed as a completed 
36-month core treatment phase and a 12-month extension phase.  It randomly assigned 7705 eligible 
patients  to  one  of  the  three  treatment  groups  (placebo,  N=2576;  raloxifene  60mg,  N-2557  and 
ralozifene 120mg, N=2572).  All patients were supplemented with calcium and vitamin D.  The study 
population was postmenopausal women (mean age 66.5 years) who had osteoporosis. 
GGGK was designed as two separate substudies.  Substudy I included patients with osteoporosis by 
BMD criteria (BMD T-score <-2,5 in either the femoral neck or lumbar spine). Substudy II included 
patients who were were osteoporotic by BMD and   also had at least one moderate or 2 mild prevalent 
vertebral  fractures  or  at  least  2  moderate  prevalent  vertebral  fractures  regardless  of  BMD.  
Approximately  twice  as  many  patients  were  enrolled  into  Substudy  I  (n=5064)  as  into  Substudy  II 
(n=2641). 
Primary  efficacy  objectives  of  this  study  and  each  substudy  were  to  assess  the  effects  of  raloxifene 
60mg  and  120  mg  compared  with  placebo  on  incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures  and  change  and 
percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  (L1-L4)  and  femoral  neck  BMD.  Additional  secondary  efficacy 
objectives included the effects of raloxifene compared with placebo on nonvertebral fractures, on total 
body  and  radial  BMD,  on  biochemical  markers  of  bone  turnover,  and  on  serum  lipids  and  other 
markers of cardiovascular risk. 
10/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Effects on bone 
Based on the three-year analysis of data from Study GGGK, each dose of raloxifene (60 mg and 120 
mg  per  day)  in  each  substudy  statistically  and  clinically  significantly  decreased  the  proportion  of 
women  with  at  least  one  adjudicated  new  incident  vertebral  fracture  vs  placebo.  In  patients  in 
Substudy I, raloxifene 60mg-day was associated with a 47% reduction (RR 0.53, 95% CI 0.35, 0.79) 
in  the  risk  of  new  vertebral  fractures  and  raloxifene  120mg/day  was  associated  with  a  38%  risk 
reduction (RR 0.62, CI 0.44,  0.93).  In patients  in Substudy II, there was a 31% risk reduction (RR 
0.69,  CI  0.56,  0.86)  with  raloxifene  60mg  and  a  49%  risk  reduction  (RR  0.51,  CI  0.40,  0.65)  with 
raloxifene 120mg. The proportion of women with at least one adjudicated incident vertebral fracture 
was statistically significantly lower in the 120-mg group than in the 60-mg group in Substudy II, but 
not  in  Substudy  I.  However,  no  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the 
raloxifene  doses  for  the  reduction  of  new  clinical  or  multiple  vertebral  fractures  in  patients  in 
Substudy  Substudy  II  or  I.  Overall,  raloxifene  60mg/day  was  associated  with  a  41%  reduction  and 
raloxifene  120mg/day  was  associated  with  a  52%  reduction  in  the  risk  of  new  clinically  apparent 
vertebral fractures.  The CPMP has agreed that the overall risk/benefit assessment favours the 60-mg 
dose  over  the  120-mg  dose  for  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  regardless  of  baseline 
disease severity. No effect on hip fractures has been demonstrated and this is clearly stated in the SPC 
Section 4.1. 
Each dose of raloxifene in each substudy statistically significantly increased BMD at the lumbar spine 
and femoral neck by 2-3% vs placebo at 36 months.  Total body and ultradistal radius BMD increased 
1-2% vs placebo at 24 months.  The doses were equivalent in their effects on BMD in both patients 
with  and  without  prevalent  vertebral  fractures.    Raloxifene  treated  patients  had  15  to  25%  greater 
reductions in markers of  bone turnover (osteocalcin, bone specific alkaline phosphatase and Urinary 
Type I Collagen Fragment/Cr) than placebo treated patients who had 10 to 20% reductions.  Each dose 
of raloxifene in each study was effective in reducing skeletal turnover. 
Effects on serum lipids and markers of cardiovascular risk 
In  the  osteoporosis  treatment  population,  raloxifene  also  has  clear  effects  on  serum  lipids  and  other 
markers  of  cardiovascular  risk.    Compared  with  placebo,  raloxifene  treated  patients  had  consistent 
decreases  of  6  to  7%,  10  to  12%,  10  to  13%  and  7  to  9%  in  total  cholesterol,  LDL-cholesterol, 
fibrinogen and Apolipoprotein B, respectively at 36 months.  There were no effects of raloxifene on 
HDL-cholesterol  or  glycosylated  hemoglobin.    While  median  percentage  reductions  in  triglycerides 
were observed in raloxifene treated patients, the reductions were greater for the placebo group.  A 3% 
increase  in  Apolipoprotein  A  was  observed  with  raloxifene  treatment  compared  with  placebo. 
However, no data are available to demonstrate benefit of raloxifene on cardiovascular disease. 
Safety 
As  of  the  cut-off  date  for  the  osteoporosis  prevention  indication  (16  October  1996),  a  total  of  2605 
subjects  had  received  at  least  one  dose  of  raloxifene.  An  additional  5548  subjects  had  received 
raloxifene in seven ongoing-blinded studies. The primary safety database consisted of 12 controlled, 
double  blind  or  open-label  studies,  which  were  pooled  to  comprise  the  placebo-,  estrogen-  and 
hormone replacement therapy (HRT)-controlled databases. The secondary safety database included the 
remaining  clinical  studies.  The  60-mg  dose  had  the  most  patient  years  of  exposure.  In  the  placebo-
controlled primary database, approximately 65% subjects had been exposed to raloxifene for at least 
12 months. 
As of the cut-off date for the osteoporosis treatment indication (1 January 1999) total patient exposure 
was  19,680 patient-years, of which 13,118 patient-years was exposure to raloxifene.  There were  no 
statistically significant treatment group differences in exposure to study drug (placebo, 6562 patient-
years; raloxifene 60-mg, 6519 patient-years and raloxifene 120-mg, 6599 patient-years).  The primary 
safety database for the specific events of death, venous thromboembolic events (VTE), breast cancer, 
endometrial  cancer  and  ovarian  cancer  were  considered  to  be  those  placebo-controlled  trials  which 
were of at least 6 months duration and were fully enrolled as of 13 October 1998. 
11/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
Deaths 
Osteoporosis prevention indication 
A total of 64 deaths had been reported in both completed and ongoing studies as of 28 February 1997. 
An additional update was then requested, it reported 80 deaths overall as of 22 September 1997 across 
all  raloxifene  trials  conducted  in  postmenopausal  women.  This  comprises  7  deaths  in  breast  cancer 
treatment  studies,  4  pre-randomisation  deaths  in  GGGK  study  and  69  deaths  occurred  during  post-
randomisation (46 raloxifene, 22 placebo and 1 HRT; 65 of which were reported during all placebo-
controlled studies). The ratio of therapies was approximately raloxifene 2.2:1 placebo. Relatively few 
patients received HRT (n=568). 
The  majority  of  deaths  occurred  in  the  ongoing  study  GGGK  (59  deaths;  patients’  mean  age  at 
randomisation  =66.5  years).  The  relative  risk  of  death  in  patients  on  combined  raloxifene  compared 
with  placebo  was  estimated  at  1.14  (95%  Cl  0.66;  1.98).  The  relative  risk  of  death  in  patients  on 
raloxifene 60 mg versus placebo was 0.60 (95% CI 0.30; 1.22).  
In  all  placebo-controlled  studies,  6  deaths  were  categorised  as  accidental  injuries,  16  were  due  to 
cancer,  4  were  suicidal  deaths,  39  were  unknown/sudden  or  miscellaneous.  High  numbers  of  cancer 
deaths were reported in the raloxifene high dose category. In breast cancer treatment studies, 5 patients 
died of study disease (metastatic breast cancer), 3 after discontinuation of raloxifene and 1 was due to 
myocardial  infarction.  None  of  the  deaths  were  considered  causally  related  to  study  drug,  but  its 
relationship  could  not  be  ruled  out  with  absolute  certainty.  The  relative  risk  of  death  in  patients  on 
combined  raloxifene  versus  placebo  was  1.08  (95%  Cl  0.64;  1.83).  High  mortality  hazard  ratio  of 
raloxifene  versus  placebo  was  observed  during  the  initial  6  months  of  treatment.  However,  further 
evaluation of the data suggests that in the majority of cases of early death, a causal relationship with 
raloxifene appears unlikely. 
Osteoporosis treatment indication 
As  of  1  February  1999,  a  total  of  95  deaths  had  been  reported  in  patients  participating  in  the  
11  placebo-controlled  raloxifene  studies,  which  are  included  in  the  primary  safety  database.    An 
additional 26 deaths were reported in raloxifene clinical studies including 10 GGGK patients who died 
following  discontinuation  from  the  study:  11  patients  in  non-placebo-controlled  trials;  2  patients  in 
Study GGGN who died after reassignment of study drug and following discontinuation from the study; 
and  3  patients  in  placebo-controlled  studies  who  died  after  discontinuation  from  the  studies.    There 
was no increased risk for death in each raloxifene group or in pooled raloxifene groups compared with 
placebo.    For  each  cause  of  death,  each  dose  of  raloxifene  and  pooled  raloxifene  groups  were  not 
different  from  placebo.    There  was  no  evidence  that  chronic  raloxifene  administration  adversely 
affected mortality. 
In  Study  GGGK  alone,  as  of  the  36-month  visit,  64  deaths  were  reported  (placebo,  n-23;  raloxifene 
60-mg.  n=13;  raloxifene  120-mg.  n=28;  overall  p=0.07).    Neither  raloxifene  group  was  statistically 
significantly different from placebo.  However, there were statistically fewer deaths in raloxifene 60-
mg group compared with the 120-mg group.  Consistent with this, there were statistically significantly 
fewer  cardiovascular  body  system  death  events  in  the  raloxifene  60-mg  group  compared  with  both 
placebo and raloxifene 120-mg groups. 
Discontinuation rates 
Osteoporosis prevention indication 
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  discontinued  treatment  due  to  adverse  events  was  similar  in  the 
placebo,  estrogen  and  raloxifene  groups.  Vasodilatation  (2-3%  of  subjects)  and  weight  gain  (<1%) 
were  the  most  frequent  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  of  raloxifene.  However, 
vasodilatation  and  weight  gain  did  not  lead  to  discontinuation  of  raloxifene  more  often  than  to 
discontinuation of placebo. 
Osteoporosis treatment indication 
In  the  7705-patient  treatment  study,  25.3%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  discontinued  from  the 
study before the 36-month visit, compared with 22.9% in the raloxifene 60-mg group and 22.0% in the 
120-mg group.  Only two reasons for discontinuation had statistically significant treatment differences 
12/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
in discontinuation rates: early completion due to rapid bone loss or  > 2 new vertebral fractures (3.9% 
for  the  placebo  group,  1.1%  for  the  raloxifene  60-mg  group,  and  1.0%  for  the  120-mg  group; 
p<0.001), and adverse event (8.8% for the placebo group, 10.9% for the raloxifene 60-mg group, and 
9.6%  for  the  120-mg  group;  p-0.41).    Two  adverse  events,  which  most  frequently  led  to 
discontinuation  from  study  drug,  were  breast  carcinoma  (greater  incidence  with  placebo)  and 
vasodilatation (greater incidence with raloxifene). 
Serious adverse events 
Osteoporosis prevention indication 
The frequency of accidental injuries (graded as mild to moderate fractures or ligament injuries in the 
extremities)  was  higher  in  raloxifene-treated  subjects  compared  to  placebo.  It  was  unclear  whether 
raloxifene  impairs  postural  balance  and  predisposes  to  accidental  injuries.  The  possible  effects  of 
raloxifene  on  central  nervous  system  estrogen  receptors  had  not  been  considered.  Although  the 
updated data showed that statistically significant linear dose-response was no longer observed, a high 
proportion  of  subjects  treated  with  raloxifene  dose  150  mg/day  reported  accidental  injuries.  At  the 
proposed dose of 60 mg/day, the frequency was not higher than in the placebo group.  
Other serious adverse events were not clearly more frequent during raloxifene treatment compared to 
placebo.  
Osteoporosis treatment indication  
The  only  serious  adverse  event  reported  more  frequently  with  raloxifene,  which  is  thought  to  be 
causally associated with raloxifene treatment, is deep thrombophlebitis.  In the GGGK osteoporosis 
treatment  study,  the  relative  risk  was  comparable  between  the  raloxifene  60-mg  and  the  120-mg 
doses.  Analysis  of  reports  by  visit  interval  indicates  that  the  magnitude  of  the  risk  of  deep 
thrombophlebitis was greatest during the first 4 months of therapy. 
Other treatment-emergent adverse events  
Osteoporosis prevention indication 
The majority (over 80%) of subjects in all treatment arms reported at least one adverse event during 
the  long-term  studies.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  overall  frequency  of 
reports.  
The following adverse events were more frequent during raloxifene treatment compared to placebo: 
vasodilatation,  accidental  injury,  leg  cramps,  peripheral  edema,  increased  appetite,  herpes  simplex, 
contact  dermatitis,  uterine  fibroids  enlarged,  sinusitis.  Vasodilatation  (raloxifene  24.3%,  placebo 
18.2%)  was  most  frequently  reported  during  the  first  6  months  of  treatment,  thereafter  the 
frequencies were not statistically significantly different between the groups. Accidental injuries, leg 
cramps (placebo 1.9%, raloxifene 5.5%) and peripheral edema (placebo 1.9%, raloxifene 3.1%) were 
more  frequent  after  the  initial  6  months.  The  mechanisms  for  raloxifene-associated  leg  cramps, 
peripheral  edema  and  enlarged  uterine  fibroids  are  unknown.  These  were  infrequent  causes  of 
discontinuation. The growth  of rat  fibroid cells and guinea  pig leiomyomas  were not stimulated by 
raloxifene in the preclinical studies. 
The  following  adverse  events  were  more  common  compared  to  estrogen:  vasodilatation,  infection, 
accidental injury, pharyngitis, arthritis, leg cramps, flatulence, sweating and sleep disorder. However, 
breast pain, breast enlargement and urinary incontinence were more common with estrogen, and the 
incidence of breast symptoms and uterine bleeding in raloxifene group was significantly lower than 
in either form of HRT groups. 
Sleep  disturbances  may  be  associated  with  vasodilatation  and  increased  sweating,  but  the 
mechanisms  are  not  clear.  No  dose-dependent  trend  was  observed  for  terms  of  infections  (e.g. 
sinusitis,  herpes  simplex).  The  increased  incidence  of  sinusitis  in  raloxifene-treated  subjects  is 
probably a chance finding. No cognitive function related adverse effects were observed after 6 and 12 
months  of  raloxifene  or  placebo  treatment.  Treatment-emergent  affect-  and  anxiety-related  adverse 
event analysis did not suggest adverse effects on mood and affective symptoms. 
13/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
Osteoporosis treatment indication 
From  Study  GGGK,  five  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  were  common  (>1%  incidence)  and 
reported  statistically  significantly  more  frequently  with  raloxifene  treatment  vs  placebo;  flu 
syndrome,  vasodilatation,  leg  cramps,  peripheral  edema,  “uterine  disorder”  (a  classification  term 
more often associated with fluid in the endometrial cavity), and diabetes mellitus.  Vasodilatation and 
leg  cramps  were  minor  adverse  events  associated  with  raloxifene.    The  increased  reporting  of 
diabetes mellitus as a treatment-emergent adverse event is likely a spurious finding due to imbalances 
in the treatment groups at baseline.  There is no evidence that raloxifene has any deleterious effect on 
glucose metabolism.  The increased reporting of flu syndrome and “uterine disorder” with raloxifene 
therapy  is  not  considered  clinically  important.    Peripheral  edema  was  associated  only  with  the 
raloxifene 120-mg dose. 
Vital signs and laboratory abnormalities 
No statistically significant differences between raloxifene and placebo in mean change from baseline 
to  endpoint  were  observed  for  blood  pressure,  pulse,  weight  and  height.  Slight  decreases  in  serum 
inorganic  phosphorus,  calcium,  albumin,  total  protein,  alkaline  phosphatase  and  bilirubin  were 
observed during raloxifene (as well as for estrogen) treatment. Consistent decrease (6-10%) in platelet 
count  was  observed,  but  this  was  similarly  decreased  during  estrogen  treatment.  There  were  no 
clinically  significant  shifts  from  baseline  in  the  other  mean  hematology  variables.  Clinically 
significant changes in serum parathyroid hormone, 25-OH or 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D levels, and in 
mean fasting blood glucose, BUN, creatinine and CK have not been reported. However, several cases 
of moderate increases in serum AST and/or ALT have been reported where a causal relationship with 
raloxifene can not be excluded. A similar frequency of increases was noted among placebo patients. 
In  Study  GGGK  similar  decreases  in  serum  calcium,  inorganic  phosphorus,  albumin,  total  protein, 
platelet  count,  and  alkaline  phosphatase  were  observed.    The  change  in  fasting  glucose  over  the  36 
month  study  period  was  not  different  for  placebo  vs  raloxifene  60-mg  or  raloxifene  120-mg.    The 
proportion of patients who had increases in fasting glucose >20%, >40% and >60% were not different 
for raloxifene vs placebo.  No effect of raloxifene was observed on serum AST.  Significant decreases 
in  ALT,  GGT  and  bilirubin  were  demonstrated  with  raloxifene  treatment.    Despite  its  extensive 
hepatic metabolism, raloxifene does not appear to be associated with hepatic abnormalities. 
In the osteoporosis treatment population, no clinically significant changes in blood pressure, pulse or 
height were observed.  A small weight gain in raloxifene groups was observed for those in the lowest 
weight tertile at baseline. 
Treatment-emergent cardiovascular adverse events 
In  the  prevention  studies,  a  total  of  2  subjects  experienced  acute  myocardial  infarction  and  7 
subjectsexperienced a stroke (3 received raloxifene). The incidence is not higher than expected.  In 
the osteoporosis treatment study there was no increased risk of myocardial infarction or stroke.  Fifty 
one  patients  experienced  a  myocardial  infarction  (placebo,  16  [0.6%];  raloxifene  60-mg.  20[0.8%]; 
raloxifene  120-mg  15[0.6%]}.    Sixty  patients  experienced  a  stroke  (placebo,  26  [1.0%];  raloxifene 
60-mg, 16 [0.6%]; raloxifene 120-mg 18 [0.7%]). 
Venous  thromboembolic  events  (VTE)  were  defined  as  any  acute  venous  thrombosis  involving  a 
deep peripheral vein, acute pulmonary embolism, or other acute serious vein thrombosis (including 
mesenteric,  intracerebral  and  retinal  veins).  Idiopathic  cases  were  identified  by  excluding  cases 
associated with either major (established) or minor predisposing factors (e.g. hypertension, varicose 
veins, bilateral oophorectomy, obesity, current smoking). 
As  of  1  January  1999,  a  total  of  84  cases  of  VTE  (idiopathic  and  non-idiopathic)  were  reported  in 
patients  across  all  raloxifene  clinical  studies.    Seventy-five  (75)  of  these  were  ported  in  patients 
participating in the 11 raloxifene placebo-controlled clinical studies.  Nine additional cases were also 
reported  (5  patients  in  non-placebo-controlled  trials;  and  4  patients  who  experienced  VTE  after 
reassignment of study drug).   The majority of cases (68) were reported in the osteoporosis treatment 
study (GGGK), which included older subjects than the prevention studies. The estimates of relative 
risk in all raloxifene treated subjects compared with placebo varied from 2.13 to 3.43, with Category 
1  (defined  as  all  VTE)  and  Category  2  (defined  as  all  VTE  except  RVT)  significantly  greater  than 
1.0.    There  was  not  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  all  raloxifene  treated  patients  and 
14/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
placebo in Category 3 (defined as PE with or without DVT), although the magnitude of the risk was 
similar to Category 1 and Category 2.  There was no difference in risk between the raloxifene doses 
in  any  category.    Altogether  22  cases  of  pulmonary  embolism  were  reported  during  raloxifene 
treatment.  
No controlled, randomised, prospective head-to-head studies are available for comparison of the risk 
of VTE in HRT versus raloxifene users. There has been an attempt to compare the risk of idiopathic 
VTE  between  raloxifene  and  HRT  in  women  below  the  median  age  of  72  years.  The  raloxifene-
attributable annual risk estimate was 45 per 100,000 compared to HRT-attributable risk of 16-32 per 
100,000.  However,  the  risk  associated  with  HRT  may  be  underestimated  in  uncontrolled 
observational studies. The incidence of VTE during raloxifene treatment was highest during the first 
year and did not appear to increase thereafter.  
Raloxifene treatment confers a risk of venous thromboembolic complications independently of other 
risk  factors.  The  relative  risk  of  these  complications  with  estrogen  (HRT)  is  approximately  2  to  4. 
Across  all  placebo-controlled  clinical  trials,  VTE  including  deep-vein  thrombosis,  pulmonary 
embolism  and  retinal  vein  thrombosis  occurred  in  a  frequency  of  0.7%.  A  relative  risk  of  2.13  (CI 
1.21,3.75) was observed in raloxifene  treated patients  compared to placebo.  The relative  risk  of all 
VTE  for  raloxifene-treated  versus  estrogen  and  HRT  patients  was  1.0  (CI  0.3,  6.2).  According  to 
analysis  of  updated  data,  the  risk  of  all  VTEs  during  raloxifene  treatment  is  similar  to  that  during 
estrogen/HRT. 
Raloxifene may have slightly different effects on coagulation and fibrinolysis than estrogen, but the 
clinical significance  of these  differences is  doubtful. In study GGGH, both raloxifene and  estrogen 
slightly  increased  prothrombin  fragment  (F1+2)  and  slightly  reduced  plasmin-alpha-2-antiplasmin 
complex.  Active  or  past  histories  of  venous  thromboembolic  events  are  contraindications  of 
raloxifene. 
Breast related adverse events 
In clinical trials with EVISTA involving over 12,000 patients, most of whom have been exposed to at 
least  42  months  therapy,  the  relative  risk  of  newly  diagnosed  breast  cancer  was  significantly  lower, 
64 % reduction (RR 0.36, CI 0.20,  0.65) in EVISTA treated  than in placebo treated postmenopausal 
women  in  a  combined  analysis  of  several  studies.  Overall  the  risk  of  an  invasive  estrogen  receptor 
(ER) positive breast cancer was reduced by 80 % (RR 0.20, CI 0.09, 0.41). EVISTA has no effect on 
the risk of ER negative breast cancers. These observations support the conclusion that raloxifene has 
no intrinsic estrogen agonist activity in breast tissue. The long-term effect of EVISTA on breast cancer 
is unknown.  
Endometrial and uterine surveillance 
Cases of endometrial carcinoma have been reported and were reviewed by an independent board. In 
all  cases,  pre-existing  disease  was  suggested.  Updated  endometrial  data  do  not  suggest  that  the 
incidence  of  endometrial  cancinoma  is  higher  during  raloxifene  than  placebo  treatment.  Due  to  the 
short  treatment  time  (study  GGGB)  and  the  high  raloxifene  dose  used,  which  is  higher  than  the 
intended  recommended  dose  (study  GGGB  and  GGGZ),  a  conclusion  could  not  be  drawn  that 
raloxifene protects from endometrial cancer. 
Uterine  surveillance  algorithm  was  introduced  late  in  to  the  clinical  trials.  This  monitoring 
programme investigated subjects who experienced episodes of vaginal bleeding and/or development 
of  a  thickened  endometrium  (>  5  mm)  by  means  of  transvaginal  ultrasound.  Overall,  the  analysis 
suggests  that  in  postmenopausal  women,  raloxifene  does  not  have  clinically  meaningful  estrogenic 
effect on the uterus, but does have antiestrogenic effect on the uterus at doses exceeding that intended 
for osteoporosis prevention. There are no sufficient data based on paired biopsies (histomorphology, 
estrogenicity  grades) 
raloxifene  has  a  clinically 
meaningfulantiestrogenic  effect  on  the  uterus  at  60  mg/day.  The  mean  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint  (24  months)  in  endometrial  thickness  (studies  GGGN,  GGGF  and  GGGG)  did  not  reveal 
statistically significant differences within raloxifene (30 mg, 60 mg, 150 mg) or between raloxifene 
and  placebo  groups.  However,  statistically  significant  increases  in  endometrial  thickness  were 
observed in estrogen treated subjects. 
that  would  allow  a  conclusion 
that 
Based on the three-year analysis of data from the study GGGK, the CPMP considered the argument 
15/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
presented by the applicant that benign endometrial polyps are a frequent finding in postmenopausal 
women  with  bleeding.  In  postmenopausal  women  who  received  raloxifene  treatment  for  3  years, 
benign endometrial polyps were reported in 0.7% compared to 0.2% in women who received placebo 
treatment.   The frequency of endometrial polyps was higher in raloxifene groups vs. placebo only in 
the subgroup of patients who underwent blind endometrial sampling due to bleeding but had normal 
endometrial thickness. This difference was not statistically significantly different and the finding was 
not reproduced in other analyses.  
No increase in the risk of endometrial carcinoma has been observed so far in postmenopausal women 
who  have  been  treated  with  raloxifene.  Although  routine  endometrial  screening  in  asymptomatic 
patients  was  not  consider  necessary  by  the  CPMP,  any  uterine  bleeding  must  be  evaluated  by  a 
specialist and the current warning in Section 4.4 was strengthened. 
Compared  to  placebo,  raloxifene  was  not  associated  with  spotting  or  vaginal  bleeding.  Vaginal 
dryness, vaginitis or dyspareunia were not reported more frequently than during placebo treatment. 
In September 1999, the section 4.8 of the SPC and the Package Leaflet were updated following first 
Periodic  Safety  Update  Report,  including  information  on  cases  of  rash  very  rarely  reported  and 
gastrointestinal  symptoms  such  as  nausea,  vomiting,  abdominal  pain  and  dyspepsia  very  rarely 
(<1/10,000) reported in postmarketing experience. 
Overall benefit/risk assessment 
The  clinical  pharmacology  of  raloxifene  has  been  adequately  studied.  The  minimum  effective  dose 
was not reliably established by the short-term dose ranging studies. 
In  3  well  conducted,  double  blind  clinical  trials,  the  primary  and  secondary  criteria  of  efficacy  are 
relevant. Raloxifene was statistically significantly superior to placebo (calcium supplementation only) 
with respect to the primary efficacy criteria. Although the three-raloxifene doses examined (30, 60 and 
150 mg) were not statistically different and the dose response relationship was weak, the population 
pharmacodynamic  analyses  support  the  proposed  raloxifene  dose  of  60  mg/day.  Qualitatively  the 
effects  of  raloxifene  on  bone  mineral  density  and  resorption  are  similar  to  those  of  estrogen,  but  of 
lesser  magnitude.  Moreover,  a  reduction  in  the  risk  of  incident  vertebral  fractures  has  been 
demonstrated in women with osteoporosis compared to placebo. 
In  studies  involving  over  2000  women  with  a  treatment  duration  ranging  from  2-24  months,  the 
majority of undesirable effects did not usually require cessation of therapy. Discontinuation of therapy 
due to any clinical adverse experience occurred in 10.7% of 581 raloxifene-treated patients and 11.1% 
of 584 placebo-treated patients. The treatment-emergent events associated with the use of raloxifene 
that  occurred  with  a  significant  difference  between  raloxifene  and  placebo  treatment  were:  venous 
thromboembolic events (occurred in a frequency of 0.8%), superficial vein thrombophlebitis, modest 
increase of vasodilatation (hot flushes), leg cramps and peripheral oedema.  
When comparing raloxifene patients (n=317) with continuous combined HRT (n=110) or cyclic HRT 
(n=205)  patients  in  some  clinical  trials,  the  incidence  of  breast  symptoms  and  uterine  bleeding  in 
raloxifene  treated  women  was  significantly  lower  than  in  women  treated  with  either  form  of  HRT. 
Raloxifene does not have adverse effects on the lipid profile. No clinically significant changes in vital 
signs and safety laboratory tests have been seen. 
The  Phase  III  study  GGGK  showed  that  at  36  months  raloxifene  60mg/day  and  120mg/day 
statistically  and  clinically  significantly  decreased  the  proportion  of  women  with  at  least  one 
adjudicated  new  incident  vertebral  fracture  vs  placebo  regardless  of  baseline  disease  severity.    Both 
raloxifene  60mg  and  120mg  effectively  increased  lumbar  spine,  femoral  neck  and  total  body  BMD 
and  decreased  markers  of  bone  turnover.    Raloxifene  significantly  decreased  LDL  cholesterol  and 
other intermediate markers of cardiovascular disease (fibrinogen) without a concomitant rise in serum 
triglycerides. 
Raloxifene,  in  the  osteoporosis  treatment  population,  did  not  induce  endometrial  proliferation  or 
vaginal bleeding and was not associated with an increased risk of uterine or endometrial malignancy.  
Raloxifene did not cause breast pain and was associated with a reduction in the risk of breast cancer 
(median duration 40 months).  Vasodilatation and leg cramps were side effects also observed in this 
16/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
population.  The only serious risk was that of VTE and the risk continues to be similar to that reported 
for estrogen use.  Current or past history of VTE is a contraindication to raloxifene therapy. 
The  CPMP  agreed  that  the  benefit/risk  was  positive  for  the  proposed  indications.  It  was  also 
concluded  that  the  overall  risk/benefit  assessment  favours  the  60mg  dose  over  the  120mg  dose.  
Therefore  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  data  presented  were  sufficient  to  recommend  that  the 
indications prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis should be granted. 
In March 2003, the sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SPC were updated on the basis of the cumulative four 
years  results  on  new  clinical  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  MORE  (Comparison  of  Raloxifene 
Hydrochloride  and  Placebo  in  the  Treatment  of  Postmenopausal  Women  With  Osteoporosis)  study. 
The  study  confirmed  that  treatment  with  raloxifene  for  4  years  decreased  the  rate  of  new  vertebral 
fractures by 46% in osteoporotic patients. In addition, in the 4th year alone, EVISTA reduced the new 
vertebral  fracture  risk  by  39%  (during  the  4th  year,  patients  were  permitted  the  concomitant  use  of 
bisphosphonates, calcitonin and fluorides). There was no significant difference in the number of non-
vertebral fractures. A cumulative analysis also showed a reduction of clinical vertebral fractures.  
No indicators for an increased risk of malignant endometrial tumours were shown. The overall rate of 
breast  cancer  was  reduced  in  the  raloxifene  groups  as  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  EVISTA 
treatment  compared  to  placebo  reduced  the  risk  of  total  breast  cancer  by  62%,  the  risk  of  invasive 
breast cancer by 71% and the risk of invasive estrogen receptor (ER) positive breast cancer by 79%. 
The decrease was explained by the decrease of ER-positive (invasive) tumours.A significant increase 
in the number of venous thromboembolic events was seen in the raloxifene groups, especially in the 
early phase of the treatment. However, this risk is already acknowledged in the SPC. No significant 
differences  between  the  groups  were  seen  in  the  ECG  and  in  the  reporting  of  clinical  cardiac  and 
cerebrovascular events. There were favourable changes in the lipid profile, except for a small increase 
in serum triglycerides.  
Hormone replacement therapy aggravates certain complications of pelvic floor relaxation, but safety 
information  following  3  years  of  raloxifene  treatment  supported  that  raloxifene  treatment  did  not 
increase pelvic floor relaxation and pelvic floor surgery.  
5. 
Conclusions 
The  quality  of  raloxifene  hydrochloride  60-mg  film  coated  tablets,  as  demonstrated  in  the  chemical 
and pharmaceutical documentation is acceptable. 
The  pharmacological  activity  of  raloxifene  has  been  demonstrated  in  ovariectomised  and  sexually 
immature animal  models and  postmenopausal women. Raloxifene  exhibits  estrogen agonistic effects 
on bone and lipid metabolism but not in uterine or breast tissues. 
The clinical data provided showed that the effect of raloxifene on bone mineral density and resorption 
is qualitatively similar to that of estrogen although of lesser magnitude, and clearly superior to placebo 
(calcium supplementation only). Raloxifene 60 mg/day prevents bone loss in postmenopausal women, 
who  are  at  increased  risk  of  developing  osteoporosis  and  decreases  the  risk  of  incident  vertebral 
fractures. 
Based  on the three-year analysis  of data from study GGGK, raloxifene (60  mg per  day)  statistically 
and  clinically  significantly  decreased  the  proportion  of  women  with  at  least  one  new  adjudicated 
incident  vertebral  fracture  vs  placebo  both  in  postmenopausal  women  with  and  without  prevalent 
vertebral  fractures.    It  is  concluded  that  raloxifene  60  mg  treats  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal 
women.  No effect on hip fractures has been demonstrated 
Raloxifene does not appear to have estrogenic effects on the breast or on the uterus, but the frequency 
of  postmenopausal  symptoms  may  be  increased.  The  relative  risk  of  venous  thromboembolic  events 
observed during raloxifene treatment was 2.13 (CI 1.21, 3.75) when compared to placebo, and was 1.0 
(CI  0.3,  6.2)  when  compared  to  estrogen  or  hormonal  replacement  therapy.  With  respect  to  the 
incidence of reported uterine bleeding, there were no differences between the raloxifene and placebo 
groups.  After  3 years,  raloxifene  did  not  increase  the  risk  of  endometrial  cancer.  With  regard  to  the 
17/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
occurrence of breast cancer, although the relative risk of newly diagnosed breast cancer is found to be 
lower during relatively short-term raloxifene treatment (median 40 months), the longer-term effect of 
raloxifene on the risk of breast cancer is unknown. 
The  overall  safety  issues  have  been  addressed  and  appropriate  warnings  and  precautions  have  been 
included in the relevant sections of the SPC. When determining the choice of raloxifene or estrogen 
(hormonal  replacement  therapy)  for  an  individual  postmenopausal  woman,  consideration  should  be 
given to menopausal symptoms, effects on breast tissue, and cardiovascular risks and benefits.  
Based on these data, the CPMP considered the benefit to risk assessment positive and the granting of a 
Marketing  Authorisation  was  recommended  for  this  medicinal  product.  At  the  time  of  the  5-year 
renewal, the CPMP considered that the benefit/risk profile of EVISTA continued to be favourable and 
recommended the renewal of the Community Marketing Authorisation on 22 May 2003. 
18/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
