European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/H/C/184 
EUROPEAN PUBLIC ASSESSMENT REPORT (EPAR) 
EVISTA 
EPAR summary for the public 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Evista? 
Evista is a medicine containing the active substance raloxifene hydrochloride. It is available as white, 
oval tablets (60 mg). 
What is Evista used for? 
Evista is used for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis (a disease that makes bones fragile) in 
women who have been through the menopause. Evista has been shown to significantly reduce 
vertebral fractures (breaks in the spine), but not hip fractures. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Evista used? 
The recommended dose for adults and the elderly is one tablet taken once a day, with or without food. 
Patients may also receive calcium and vitamin D supplements if they do not get enough from their 
diet. Evista is intended for long-term use. 
How does Evista work? 
Osteoporosis happens when not enough new bone grows to replace the bone that is naturally broken 
down. Gradually, the bones become thin and fragile, and more likely to break (fracture). Osteoporosis 
is more common in women after the menopause, when the levels of the female hormone oestrogen 
fall: oestrogen slows down bone breakdown and makes the bones less likely to fracture. 
The active substance in Evista, raloxifene, is a selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM). 
Raloxifene acts as an ‘agonist’ of the oestrogen receptor (a substance that stimulates the receptor for 
oestrogen) in some tissues in the body. Raloxifene has the same effect as oestrogen in the bone, but it 
does not have an effect in the breast or the womb. 
How has Evista been studied? 
Evista has been studied in the treatment and the prevention of osteoporosis in four main studies. 
Three studies looked at the prevention of osteoporosis in 1,764 women who took either Evista or 
placebo (a dummy treatment) for two years. The studies measured the density of the bones. 
The fourth study compared the effects of Evista with those of placebo in the treatment of osteoporosis 
in 7,705 women over four years. The main measure of effectiveness was how many women had 
vertebral fractures during the study. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefit has Evista shown during the studies? 
Evista was more effective than placebo in preventing and treating osteoporosis. 
In the prevention of osteoporosis, women receiving Evista had an increase in bone density in the hip 
or spine of 1.6% over two years, and those receiving placebo had a decrease of 0.8%. 
When used to treat osteoporosis, Evista was more effective than placebo in reducing the number of 
vertebral fractures. Over four years, in comparison with placebo, Evista decreased the number of new 
vertebral fractures by 46% in women who had osteoporosis and by 32% in women who had 
osteoporosis and an existing fracture. There was no effect of Evista on hip fractures. 
What is the risk associated with Evista? 
The most common side effects with Evista (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are vasodilation (hot 
flushes) and flu-like symptoms. For the full list of side effects reported with Evista, see the Package 
Leaflet. 
Evista should not be used in women who: 
• 
• 
could become pregnant; 
have or have had any blood clot disorders, including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism (a blood clot in the lungs); 
have liver disease, severe kidney disease, unexplained bleeding from the womb or endometrial 
cancer (cancer of the lining of the womb). 
• 
Evista should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to raloxifene or any of the 
other ingredients. 
Why has Evista been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Evista had shown its 
effectiveness in preventing and treating osteoporosis, and had no effects on the breast or womb. The 
Committee decided that Evista’s benefits are greater than its risks for the treatment and prevention of 
osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. The Committee recommended that Evista be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Evista: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Evista on 5 August 1998. The marketing authorisation was renewed on 5 August 2003 and on 5 
August 2008. The marketing authorisation holder is Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH. 
The full EPAR for Evista is available here. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
