EMA/571156/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005449
Evkeeza (evinacumab)
An overview of Evkeeza and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Evkeeza and what is it used for?
Evkeeza is a medicine used together with low-fat diet and other medicines to reduce levels of 
cholesterol in the blood. It is used in adults, adolescents and children aged 5 years and older with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. This is an inherited disease that increases the levels of 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL cholesterol or ‘bad cholesterol’) in the blood, which is a known 
risk factor for cardiovascular disease. 
Evkeeza contains the active substance evinacumab.
How is Evkeeza used?
Evkeeza can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the treatment of lipid disorders (altered fat levels in the blood). Patients should 
be on stable doses of other cholesterol-lowering treatments before they can start treatment with 
Evkeeza. 
Evkeeza is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein for 60 minutes every four weeks.
For more information about using Evkeeza, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Evkeeza work?
The active substance in Evkeeza, evinacumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to attach to ANGPTL3, a protein that blocks certain lipases (enzymes that break down 
fats) in the body. Once evinacumab attaches to ANGPTL3, the lipases can function again, which lowers 
the blood levels of fats and reduces cholesterol. 
What benefits of Evkeeza have been shown in studies?
A main study showed that Evkeeza effectively reduced LDL cholesterol levels in adults and adolescents 
aged 12 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. The participants received 
Evkeeza or placebo (a dummy treatment) while also taking other cholesterol-lowering therapies. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
The study involved 65 patients who received either Evkeeza or placebo once every four weeks. After 
24 weeks, the average LDL cholesterol levels in the blood of patients receiving Evkeeza had reduced by 
around 47% from the start of the treatment, compared with about a 2% increase in patients receiving 
placebo. The improvement in LDL cholesterol levels with Evkeeza was maintained when treatment was 
given for 24 additional weeks. 
An additional main study looked at the effectiveness of Evkeeza in 14 children aged 5 to 11 years with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. In this study, Evkeeza was not compared with another 
treatment or placebo. After 24 weeks of treatment, Evkeeza lowered LDL cholesterol levels by 48%. 
A study in 6 children aged 5 to 11 years showed that Evkeeza acts in the same way in the body of 
younger children as in that of adolescents and adults.
What are the risks associated with Evkeeza?
The most common side effect with Evkeeza (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
inflammation of the nose and throat. Other side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are flu-
like illness, dizziness, back pain and nausea (feeling sick). The most frequent serious side effect (which 
may affect up to 1 in 100 people) is anaphylaxis (sudden severe allergic reaction). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Evkeeza, see the package leaflet.
Why is Evkeeza authorised in the EU?
Two studies showed that adding Evkeeza to other cholesterol-lowering treatments effectively reduced 
LDL cholesterol levels in the blood of adults and adolescents with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia. A third study in children aged 5 to 11 years showed comparable results. 
However, the long-term benefits for the heart and circulatory system still need to be studied. Side 
effects with Evkeeza were acceptable, and most patients could receive prolonged treatment (at least 
one year) without needing to stop. 
Although uncertainties remain, the European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Evkeeza’s 
benefits are greater than its risks, and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
Evkeeza has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Evkeeza due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available, and this overview will be updated as 
necessary.
What information is still awaited for Evkeeza?
Since Evkeeza has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Evkeeza will provide results every year, highlighting the medicine’s long-term safety, outcomes of any 
pregnancies that occur, and the effect on fatty deposits in the arteries (atherosclerosis). The company 
that markets Evkeeza will collect these results from an ongoing registry (a collection of information) of 
patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Evkeeza?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Evkeeza have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
Evkeeza (evinacumab) 
EMA/571156/2023
Page 2/3
As for all medicines, data on the use of Evkeeza are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Evkeeza are carefully evaluated, and any necessary action is taken to protect patients.
Other information about Evkeeza
Evkeeza received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 June 2021.
Further information on Evkeeza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/evkeeza. 
This overview was last updated in 12-2023.
Evkeeza (evinacumab) 
EMA/571156/2023
Page 3/3
