ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Evkeeza 150 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 150 mg of evinacumab. 
One vial of 2.3 ml of concentrate contains 345 mg of evinacumab. 
One vial of 8 ml of concentrate contains 1 200 mg of evinacumab. 
Evinacumab is produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow sterile solution with a pH of 6.0 and an 
osmolality of approximately 500 mmol/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Evkeeza is indicated as an adjunct to diet and other low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) 
lowering therapies for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 5 years and older with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Before treatment initiation of evinacumab the patient should be on an optimal LDL-C lowering 
regimen. 
Treatment with evinacumab should be initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in the 
treatment of lipid disorders. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 15 mg/kg administered by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes once 
monthly (every 4 weeks). 
If a dose is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible. Thereafter, treatment with 
evinacumab should be scheduled monthly from the date of the last dose. 
The rate of infusion may be slowed, interrupted, or discontinued if the patient develops any signs of 
adverse reactions, including infusion-associated symptoms. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evkeeza can be administered without regard to lipoprotein apheresis. 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is required for paediatric patients aged 5 to 17 years (see sections 4.8, 5.1 and 
5.2). The safety and efficacy of Evkeeza in children aged less than 5 years have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Evkeeza is for intravenous infusion use only.  
Administration 
• 
If refrigerated, allow the solution to come to room temperature (up to 25 ºC) prior to 
administration. 
Evinacumab should be administered over 60 minutes by intravenous infusion through an 
intravenous line containing a sterile, in-line or add-on 0.2-micron to 5-micron filter. Do not 
administer evinacumab as an intravenous push or bolus. 
Do not mix other medicinal products with evinacumab or administer concomitantly via the same 
infusion line. 
• 
• 
The rate of infusion may be slowed, interrupted, or discontinued if the patient develops any signs of 
adverse reactions, including infusion-associated symptoms. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, and infusion reactions have been reported with 
evinacumab (see section 4.8). If signs or symptoms of serious hypersensitivity or serious infusion 
reactions occur, discontinue treatment with evinacumab, treat according to the standard-of-care, and 
monitor until signs and symptoms resolve. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. No interacting mechanisms between evinacumab and 
other lipid-lowering medications have been observed. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with evinacumab 
and for at least 5 months after the last dose of evinacumab. 
Pregnancy 
There is a limited amount of data from the use of evinacumab in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Human IgG antibodies are known to cross the 
placenta barrier; therefore, evinacumab has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the 
developing foetus. Evinacumab may cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and it 
is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using effective 
contraception unless the expected benefit to the patient outweighs the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether evinacumab is excreted in human milk. Human IgGs are known to be excreted 
in breast milk during the first few days after birth, which decrease to low concentrations soon 
afterwards; consequently, a risk to the breast-fed infant cannot be excluded during this short period. 
Afterwards, Evkeeza could be used during breast-feeding if clinically needed. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of evinacumab on fertility are available. Animal studies do not indicate 
harmful effects with respect to male and female fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Evkeeza has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The  most  frequently  occurring  adverse  reactions  are  nasopharyngitis  (13.7%),  influenza  like  illness 
(7.7%), dizziness (6.0%), back pain (5.1%) and nausea (5.1%). The most serious adverse reaction is 
anaphylaxis (0.9%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 lists the incidence of adverse reactions in clinical trials of evinacumab therapy involving 137 
treated patients (117 adult and adolescent patients with HoFH and persistent hypercholesterolaemia 
from pooled controlled clinical trials and 20 paediatric patients aged >5 to 11 years with HoFH from 
Study R1500-CL-17100). Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
MedDRA System organ class 
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
* See section Paediatric population, below. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Preferred term 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection 
Anaphylaxis 
Dizziness 
Rhinorrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain 
Constipation 
Back pain 
Frequency 
categories 
Very Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Pain in extremity 
Fatigue* 
Influenza like illness  Common 
Common 
Very Common 
Common 
Asthenia 
Infusion related 
reaction 
Infusion site reactions  Common 
Common 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Anaphylaxis was reported in 1 (0.9%) patient treated with evinacumab (see section 4.4). 
Infusion reactions 
Infusion reactions (e.g., infusion site pruritus) were reported in 9 (7.7%) patients treated with 
evinacumab and in 2 (3.7%) patients treated with placebo. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile observed in 14 adolescent patients with HoFH aged 12 to 17 years treated with 
evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks was consistent with the safety profile of adult patients with 
HoFH.  
The safety of evinacumab was assessed in 20 paediatric patients aged ≥ 5 to 11 years. The safety 
profile of evinacumab observed in these patients was consistent with the safety profile observed in 
adult and adolescent patients aged 12 years and older, with the additional adverse reaction of fatigue. 
Fatigue was reported in 3 (15%) patients (See section 5.1). 
The safety of evinacumab in paediatric patients aged less than 5 years has not been established (see 
section 5.1).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific treatment for evinacumab overdose. In the event of an overdose, the patient should 
be treated symptomatically, and supportive measures instituted as required. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other lipid modifying agents, ATC code: C10AX17  
Mechanism of action 
Evinacumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody, which specifically binds to and inhibits 
ANGPTL3. ANGPTL3 is a member of the angiopoietin-like protein family that is expressed primarily 
in the liver and plays a role in the regulation of lipid metabolism by inhibiting lipoprotein lipase (LPL) 
and endothelial lipase (EL). 
Evinacumab blockade of ANGPTL3 lowers TG and HDL-C by releasing LPL and EL activities from 
ANGPTL3 inhibition, respectively. Evinacumab reduces LDL-C independent of the presence of LDL 
receptor (LDLR) by promoting very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) processing and VLDL remnants 
clearance upstream of LDL formation through EL-dependent mechanism. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH) 
Study ELIPSE-HoFH 
This was a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and 
safety of evinacumab compared to placebo in 65 patients with HoFH. The trial consisted of a 24-week 
double-blind treatment period and a 24-week open-label treatment period. In the double-blind 
treatment period, 43 patients were randomised to receive evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks and 
22 patients to receive placebo. Patients were on a background of other lipid-lowering therapies 
(e.g. statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitor antibodies, lomitapide, and lipoprotein apheresis). The 
diagnosis of HoFH was determined by genetic testing or by the presence of the following clinical 
criteria: history of an untreated TC > 500 mg/dl (13 mmol/l) together with either xanthoma before 
10 years of age or evidence of TC > 250 mg/dl (6.47 mmol/l) in both parents. Patients regardless of 
mutation status were included in the trial. Patients were defined as having null/null or 
negative/negative variants if the variations resulted in little to no residual LDLR function; null/null 
variants were defined as having < 15% LDLR function based on in vitro assays and negative/negative 
variants were defined as having premature termination codons, splice site variations, frame shifts, 
insertion/deletions or copy number variations. In this trial, 32.3% (21 of 65) of patients had null/null 
variants and 18.5% (12 of 65) of patients had negative/negative variants. 
The mean LDL-C at baseline was 255.1 mg/dl (6.61 mmol/l) and in the subset of patients with 
null/null variants was 311.5 mg/dl (8.07 mmol/l) and with negative/negative variants was 289.4 mg/dl 
(7.50 mmol/l). At baseline, 93.8% of patients were on statins, 75.4% on ezetimibe, 76.9% on a PCSK9 
inhibitor antibodies, 21.5% on lomitapide, and 33.8% were receiving lipoprotein apheresis. The mean 
age at baseline was 42 years (range 12 to 75) with 12.3% ≥65 years old; 53.8% women, 73.8% White, 
15.4% Asian, 3.1% Black and 7.7% Other or not reported. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was percent change in LDL-C from baseline to Week 24. At Week 24, 
the LS mean treatment difference between evinacumab and placebo in mean percent change in LDL-C 
from baseline, was -49.0% (95% CI: -65.0% to -33.1%; p < 0.0001). For efficacy results see Table 2. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: 
Effect of evinacumab on lipid parameters in patients with HoFH in study 
ELIPSE-HoFH 
Baseline 
(mean), 
mmol/l 
(N = 65) 
LS mean percent change or 
change from baseline at 
Week 24 
evinacumab 
(N = 43) 
placebo 
(N = 22) 
Difference 
from placebo 
(95% CI) 
P-value 
6.6 
-47.1% 
+1.9% 
-49% 
(-65.0 to -33.1) 
< 0.0001 
6.6 
1.7 
7.2 
8.3 
1.4 
-3.5 
-0.1 
-3.4 
(-4.5 to -2.3) 
< 0.0001 
-41.4% 
-4.5% 
-49.7% 
+2.0% 
-47.4% 
+1.0% 
-55.0% 
-4.6% 
-36.9% 
(-48.6 to -25.2) 
-51.7% 
(-64.8 to -38.5) 
-48.4% 
(-58.7 to -38.1) 
-50.4% 
(-65.6 to -35.2) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001a 
LDL-C 
(percent 
change) 
LDL-C 
(absolute 
change) 
(mmol/l) 
ApoB (g/l) 
Non-HDL-C 
TC 
TG 
1.2 
HDL-Cb 
anominal p-value since TG is not a key secondary endpoint 
bMean percent change at Week 24 results are presented based on the actual treatment received in safety 
population (evinacumab, n=44; placebo, n=20); there is no formal statistical testing in safety population 
-29.6% 
+0.8% 
- 
- 
After the double-blind treatment period, 64 of the 65 randomised patients who entered the open-label 
treatment period received evinacumab. The mean percent change in LDL-C from baseline to Week 48 
ranged from -42.7% to -55.8%. Figure 1 shows the LDL-C mean percent change from baseline for the 
double-blind and observed mean percent change for the open-label treatment periods across patients 
who were on evinacumab or placebo during the double-blind treatment period. 
7 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: 
Calculated LDL-C LS mean percent change from baseline over time through 
Week 24, and observed mean percent change from Week 28 through Week 48 in 
study ELIPSE-HoFH 
At Week 24, the observed reduction in LDL-C with evinacumab was similar across predefined 
subgroups, including age, sex, null/null or negative/negative variants, concomitant treatment with 
lipoprotein apheresis, and concomitant background lipid-lowering medications (statins, ezetimibe, 
PCSK9 inhibitor antibodies, and lomitapide). The effect of evinacumab on cardiovascular morbidity 
and mortality has not been determined. 
Study ELIPSE-OLE 
In an ongoing multicentre, open-label extension study in 116 patients with HoFH, data available from 
86 patients at 24 weeks showed a 43.6% decrease in LDL-C following evinacumab treatment 
15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks on top of other lipid-lowering therapies (e.g., statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 
inhibitor antibodies, lomitapide, and lipoprotein apheresis). Reductions from baseline in LDL-C were 
consistent at 48 and 96 weeks; the mean percent change from baseline in calculated LDL-C at 
48 weeks (n=95) was -43.9% and at 96 weeks (n=63) was -37.2%. Patients regardless of mutation 
status were included in the trial, including patients with null/null or negative/negative variants. 
Paediatric population 
ELIPSE-HoFH 
In ELIPSE-HoFH, 1 adolescent patient received 15 mg/kg IV of evinacumab every 4 weeks and 
1 adolescent patient received placebo, as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering therapies (e.g., statins, 
ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitor antibodies and lipoprotein apheresis). Both adolescent patients had 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
null/null variants in the LDLR. At Week 24, the percent change in LDL-C with evinacumab was 
- 73.3% and with placebo +60%. 
ELIPSE-OLE 
In ELIPSE-OLE, 14 adolescent patients received 15 mg/kg IV of evinacumab every 4 weeks as an 
adjunct to other lipid-lowering therapies (e.g., statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitor antibodies and 
lipoprotein apheresis). Two patients entered after completing the ELIPSE-HoFH study and 12 patients 
were evinacumab-naïve. The mean baseline LDL-C in these adolescent patients was 300.4 mg/dl 
(7.88 mmol). The mean age was 14.4 years (range: 12 to 17 years), with 64.3% males and 35.7% 
females. At baseline, all patients were on a statin, 71.4% on ezetimibe, 42.9% on PCSK9 inhibitor, 
and 64.3% were receiving lipoprotein apheresis. Four (28.6%) patients had null/null variants and 
4 (28.6%) patients had negative/negative variants for LDLR mutations. At Week 24, the percent 
change in LDL-C with evinacumab was -55.4% (n=12). 
Study R1500-CL-17100 
This is an ongoing multicenter, three-part, single-arm, open-label study evaluating the efficacy, safety, 
and tolerability of evinacumab in paediatric patients aged ≥ 5 to 11 years with HoFH. The study 
includes three parts: Part A, Part B, and Part C. Part A was a single-dose, open-label study to assess 
the safety, PK, and PD of evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV in 6 patients with HoFH followed by a 16--week 
observational period to determine the dose for the rest of the study. Part B was a single-arm, 24--week, 
open-label treatment period evaluating the efficacy and safety of evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV every 
4 weeks in 14 patients with HoFH. Part C is an extension study from Part A and Part B evaluating the 
long-term safety of evinacumab 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks in 20 patients with HoFH. It consists of a 
48-week treatment period and a 24-week follow-up period (ongoing). Patients in Part C entered 
directly from Part A or Part B. 
Patients were on any combination of lipid-lowering therapies, including maximally tolerated statins, 
ezetimibe, lomitapide, and lipoprotein apheresis. 
The diagnosis of HoFH was determined by genetic testing or by the presence of the following clinical 
criteria: history of untreated total cholesterol (TC) > 13 mmol/l (> 500 mg/dl) and TG < 7.8 mmol/l 
(< 690 mg/dl) AND either tendinous xanthoma before 10 years of age or evidence of TC 
> 6.47 mmol/l (> 250 mg/dl) in both parents; LDL-C > 3.36 mmol/l (> 130 mg/dl); body weight 
≥ 15 kg.  
Overall, for patients in Part A and Part B, the mean LDL-C at baseline was 7.8 mmol/l (301.9 mg/dl).  
At baseline, 90% of patients were on statins, 95% were on ezetimibe, and 60% were receiving 
lipoprotein apheresis. 
The mean age at baseline was 9.0 years (range ≥ 5 to < 12); 40% males and 60% females; 70% White, 
5% Black, 10% Asian, 5% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 10% Other. Mean body weight was 
37.9 kg, and body mass index (BMI) was 18.8 kg/m2. 
In Part B, the primary efficacy endpoint was percent change in calculated LDL-C from baseline to 
week 24. At week 24, the mean percent change in calculated LDL-C from baseline was −48.3% (95% 
confidence interval: −68.8% to −27.8%). For efficacy results, see Table 3. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: 
Lipid parameters in paediatric patients (≥ 5 to 11 years) with HoFH on other 
lipid-lowering therapies at week 24 
LDL-C 
ApoB 
Non-HDL-C 
TC 
Lp(a) 
Baseline 
(mean)  
(N = 14) 
Percent 
change from 
baseline 
(95% CI) 
6.8 mmol/l 
(263.7 mg/dl) 
168.2 mg/dl 
(1.682 g/l) 
7.3 mmol/l 
(282.2 mg/dl) 
8.1 mmol/l 
(315.5 mg/dl) 
158.6 nmol/L 
-48.3 
(-68.8 to  
-27.8) 
-41.3 
(-58.9 to  
-23.8) 
-48.9 
(-68.1 to  
-29.7) 
-49.1 
(-64.9 to  
-33.2) 
-37.3 
(-42.2 to  
-32.3) 
At week 24, the reduction in LDL-C with evinacumab was similar across baseline characteristics, 
including age, sex, limited LDL-R activity, concomitant treatment with lipoprotein apheresis, and 
concomitant background lipid-lowering medications (statins, ezetimibe, and lomitapide).  
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to the 
rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal product. 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become available every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Evinacumab is administered intravenously to patients with HoFH. Based on population PK modelling, 
at the end of infusion at steady-state, mean ± SD Cmax is 681 ± 185 mg/l in adult patients following a 
dose of 15 mg/kg every 4 weeks. The accumulation ratio is approximately 2. The mean ± SD steady-
state trough concentration is 230 ± 81.3 mg/l in adult patients. 
Distribution 
The  steady-state volume of distribution estimated by population PK analysis in a typical individual 
weighing 72 kg was approximately 4.9 L in adult patients , indicating that evinacumab is distributed 
primarily in the vascular system. 
Biotransformation 
Specific metabolism studies were not conducted because evinacumab is a protein. As a human 
monoclonal IgG4 antibody, evinacumab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino 
acids via catabolic pathways in the same manner as endogenous IgG. 
Elimination 
Evinacumab elimination is mediated by parallel linear and nonlinear pathways. At higher 
concentrations, evinacumab elimination is primarily through a non-saturable proteolytic pathway, 
while at lower concentrations, the non-linear saturable ANGPTL3 target-mediated elimination 
predominates. Elimination half-life is a function of evinacumab concentrations in serum and is not a 
constant. 
After the last steady-state dose of 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks, the median time for evinacumab 
concentrations to decrease below the lower limit of detection (78 ng/ml) is approximately 21 weeks. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to nonlinear clearance, a slightly greater than dose proportional increase was observed, with a 
4.3- fold increase in area under the concentration-time curve at steady-state (AUCtau.ss) for a 3-fold 
increase in dose from 5 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg IV every 4 weeks. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
The pharmacodynamic effect of evinacumab in lowering LDL-C is indirect and mediated through the 
binding to ANGPTL3. Concentration of total ANGPTL3 increases from baseline upon administration 
of evinacumab and the increases plateau when target saturation is approached. When target is 
saturated, further increase in evinacumab concentrations is not expected to result in a further LDL-C 
reduction. 
Special populations 
A population PK analysis conducted on data from 183 healthy adult participants and 139 patients with 
HoFH, suggests that the following factors have no clinically significant effect on the exposure of 
evinacumab: age (5 to 75 years), gender, body weight (19.7 to 152 kg), race. Apheresis did not appear 
to substantially influence the pharmacokinetics of evinacumab. 
Paediatric population 
There were 14 patients aged 12 to 17 years with HoFH receiving evinacumab at 15 mg/kg IV every 
4 weeks, steady-state trough and maximum concentrations were generally within the range of those in 
adult patients. The mean steady-state Cmax was 566 ± 206 mg/l in patients aged 12 to < 18 years with 
HoFH. 
For the 20 patients aged 5 to 11 years with HoFH receiving evinacumab at 15 mg/kg IV every 
4 weeks, the mean (SD) steady-state trough evinacumab concentration based on population PK 
analyses was 160 ± 57.6 mg/l and the mean (SD) steady-state Cmax was 419 ± 99.4 mg/l in patients 
aged 5 to 11 years with HoFH. 
The pharmacokinetics of evinacumab in paediatric patients less than 5 years of age with HoFH have 
not been established. 
Renal impairment 
Evinacumab is not expected to undergo significant renal elimination. Observed trough concentrations 
at steady-state were comparable between patients with mild or moderate renal impairment and patients 
with normal renal function. No data are available in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Evinacumab is not expected to undergo significant hepatic elimination. No data are available in 
patients with hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology and repeated dose toxicity. 
Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity 
Carcinogenicity and genotoxicity studies have not been conducted with evinacumab. Monoclonal 
antibodies are not expected to alter DNA or chromosomes. 
Reproductive toxicology 
No effects on surrogate markers of fertility in male and female reproductive organs were observed in a 
6-month chronic toxicology study with sexually mature cynomolgus monkeys. In animal reproduction 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies, evinacumab was administered subcutaneously to pregnant rabbits every 3 days from gestation 
day 7 until gestation day 19 during organogenesis. Maternal toxicity (premature neonatal death, foetal 
loss and/or premature delivery) was observed at all doses and foetal findings (soft tissues and skeletal 
malformations) were observed at all but the lowest dose (1 mg/kg). Mean systemic exposure measured 
during the gestation period in rabbits was below that measured at maximum recommended human 
dose (MRHD) of 15 mg/kg every 4 weeks. Because the lipid profile of rabbits differs significantly 
from that of humans, particularly during pregnancy, the clinical relevance of these results is uncertain. 
There were no effects on embryo-foetal development when rats were subcutaneously administered 
evinacumab every 3 days from gestation day 6 to gestation day 18 during organogenesis. Mean 
systemic exposure measured during the gestation period in rats was below that measured at MRHD of 
15 mg/kg every 4 weeks. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Proline 
Arginine hydrochloride 
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Polysorbate 80 
Histidine 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years 
After dilution 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, it is the responsibility of the user to follow the in-use storage times and conditions prior 
to use. 
If the diluted solution is not administered immediately, it may be stored temporarily either: 
• 
or 
• 
under refrigeration at 2 ºC to 8 ºC for no more than 24 hours from the time of infusion 
preparation to the end of the infusion 
at room temperature up to 25 ºC for no more than 6 hours from the time of infusion preparation 
to the end of the infusion. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Unopened vial 
Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC - 8 ºC). 
Store in the original carton to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not shake. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2.3 ml of concentrate in a 3 ml clear Type 1 glass vial with a grey chlorobutyl stopper with coating 
and a seal cap with a flip-off button containing 345 mg of evinacumab. 
Pack size of 1 vial. 
8 ml of concentrate in a 20 ml clear Type 1 glass vial, with a grey chlorobutyl stopper with coating 
and a seal cap with a flip-off button containing 1 200 mg of evinacumab. 
Pack size of 1 vial. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation of solution 
Evkeeza is supplied as a single use vial only. During preparation and reconstitution a strictly aseptic 
technique should be used. 
• 
Visually inspect the medicinal product for cloudiness, discolouration or particulate matter prior 
to administration. 
Discard the vial if the solution is cloudy or discoloured or contains particulate matter. 
Do not shake the vial. 
• 
• 
•  Withdraw the required volume of evinacumab from the vial(s) based on patient’s weight and 
transfer into an intravenous infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) or 
dextrose 50 mg/ml (5%) for infusion. Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion. 
The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 0.5 mg/ml to 20 mg/ml. 
Do not freeze or shake the solution. 
Discard any unused portion left in the vial. 
• 
• 
• 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH  
Rahel-Hirsch-Str. 10  
10557 Berlin  
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1551/001 
EU/1/21/1551/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 June 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
81 Columbia Turnpike 
Rensselaer, NY 12144 
United States 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Ultragenyx Netherlands B. V. 
Evert van de Beekstraat 1, Unit 104 
1118 CL Schiphol 
Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicine’s web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In 
order to evaluate the long term safety outcomes in patients with 
Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH ) who are 
≥ 5 years old and treated with evinacumab as well as the 
frequency and outcomes of pregnancy in female patients with 
HoFH treated with evinacumab and to evaluate the 
atherosclerosis process over time in patients with HoFH who are 
treated with evinacumab and undergo cardiac imaging, the MAH 
should conduct and submit the results of a study based on data 
from a registry in patients with HoFH. 
Due date 
Annual study reports will be 
submitted with the annual 
reassessment. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Evkeeza 150 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
evinacumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 150 mg of evinacumab. 
One vial of 2.3 ml of concentrate contains 345 mg of evinacumab. 
One vial of 8 ml of concentrate contains 1 200 mg of evinacumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: proline, arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
polysorbate 80 and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
345 mg/2.3 ml 
1 200 mg/8 ml 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original carton to protect from light. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze. 
Do not shake. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH  
Rahel-Hirsch-Str. 10  
10557 Berlin  
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1551/001 
EU/1/21/1551/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Evkeeza 150 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
evinacumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
345 mg/2.3 ml 
1 200 mg/8 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Evkeeza 150 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
evinacumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine - because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Evkeeza is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Evkeeza 
3.  How Evkeeza is given  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Evkeeza 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Evkeeza is and what it is used for 
What Evkeeza is 
Evkeeza contains the active substance evinacumab. It is a type of medicine called a ‘monoclonal 
antibody’. Monoclonal antibodies are proteins that attach to other substances in the body. 
What Evkeeza is used for 
Evkeeza is used to treat adults and children aged 5 years and older with very high cholesterol caused 
by a condition called ‘homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia’. Evkeeza is used with a low-fat 
diet and other medicines to bring down cholesterol levels. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia runs in families and it is usually passed down by both 
father and mother. 
People with this condition have extremely high levels of LDL-cholesterol (‘bad cholesterol’) from 
birth. Such high levels can lead to heart attacks, heart valve disease or other problems at an early age. 
How does Evkeeza work? 
Evinacumab, the active substance in Evkeeza, attaches to a protein in the body called ANGPTL3 and 
blocks its effects. ANGPTL3 is involved in controlling the production of cholesterol, and blocking its 
effect reduces the production of cholesterol. In this way, Evkeeza can lower blood levels of 
LDL-cholesterol and so prevent problems caused by high LDL-cholesterol levels. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Evkeeza  
You should not be given Evkeeza if: 
• 
you are allergic to evinacumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Evkeeza. 
Look out for serious side effects  
Evkeeza can cause serious allergic reactions. 
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately if you get any symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 
The symptoms are listed in “Serious side effects” in section 4. 
Children  
Evkeeza is not recommended for children below the age of 5 because there is not yet enough 
information on its use in this group of patients. 
Other medicines and Evkeeza 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and contraception 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice before taking this medicine. 
• 
• 
Evkeeza may harm your unborn baby. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you become pregnant while you are being treated with Evkeeza. 
If you are able to become pregnant, you should use effective contraception to avoid becoming 
pregnant. 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor about the best contraception method for you during this time. 
use effective contraception while you are being treated with Evkeeza and 
use effective contraception for at least 5 months after the last dose of Evkeeza. 
Breast-feeding 
• 
If you are breast-feeding or plan to breast-feed, ask your doctor for advice before you are given 
this medicine. 
It is not known if Evkeeza passes into the breast milk. 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Evkeeza is not likely to affect you being able to drive, or use any tools or machines. 
3. 
How Evkeeza is given 
How much Evkeeza is given 
Your doctor will work out how much of the medicine to give you. The amount will depend on your 
weight. 
• 
• 
The recommended dose is 15 milligrams for every kilogram you weigh. 
You will be given the medicine around once a month. 
How Evkeeza is given 
Evkeeza is usually given by a doctor or nurse. It is given as a drip into a vein (‘intravenous infusion’) 
over 60 minutes. 
If you miss your dose of Evkeeza 
If you have missed an appointment to receive Evkeeza, talk to your doctor or nurse as soon as 
possible. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Severe allergic reactions (uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately if you get any of the following symptoms of a severe allergic 
reaction (anaphylactic reaction). The drip will be stopped immediately and you may need to take other 
medicines to control the reaction: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling – mainly of the lips, tongue or throat, which makes it difficult to swallow or breathe 
breathing problems or wheezing 
feeling dizzy or fainting 
rash, hives 
itching. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
symptoms of the common cold, such as runny nose (nasopharyngitis). 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
feeling dizzy 
sore throat or sinus infection (upper respiratory tract infection) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
stomach pain 
constipation 
back pain 
pain in your hands or feet (pain in extremity) 
symptoms of flu 
feeling tired or weary (asthenia) 
infusion reaction, such as itching where the drip is given. 
Additional side effects in children aged 5 to 11 years 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
feeling tired (fatigue). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Evkeeza 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC to 8 ºC). 
Do not freeze. Do not shake. 
Store in the original carton to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy, discoloured or contains particulate matter. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for re-use. Any unused portion of the infusion 
solution should not be re-used and should be disposed in accordance with local requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Evkeeza contains 
• 
Each 1 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 150 mg of evinacumab. 
The active substance is evinacumab. 
Each vial contains either 345 mg of evinacumab in 2.3 ml of concentrate or 1 200 mg of evinacumab 
in 8 ml of concentrate. 
• 
The other ingredients are proline, arginine hydrochloride, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
polysorbate 80, histidine and water for injections. 
What Evkeeza looks like and contents of the pack 
Evkeeza concentrate for solution for infusion is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow 
solution.  
It is available in packs containing either 1 glass vial of 2.3 ml of concentrate or 1 glass vial of 8 ml of 
concentrate. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH  
Rahel-Hirsch-Str. 10  
10557 Berlin  
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Ultragenyx Netherlands B. V. 
Evert van de Beekstraat 1, Unit 104 
1118 CL Schiphol 
Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
BE, BG, CZ, DK, DE, EE, IE, EL, ES, HR, IT, CY, LV, LT, LU, HU, MT, NL, AT, PL, PT, RO, 
SI, SK, FI, SE, XI  
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH, DE  
Tel/Tél/Teл./Tlf/Τηλ/Puh/Sími : + 49 30 20179810  
FR  
Ultragenyx France SAS, FR  
Tél: + 33 1 85 65 37 61 ou 0800 917 924 (numéro vert) 
This leaflet was last revised in <month year>. 
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to the 
rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal product. 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become available every 
year and this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Instructions for use 
Preparation of solution 
Evkeeza is supplied as a single use vial only. During preparation and reconstitution a strictly aseptic 
technique should be used. 
• 
Visually inspect the medicinal product for cloudiness, discolouration or particulate matter prior 
to administration. 
Discard the vial if the solution is cloudy or discoloured or contains particulate matter. 
Do not shake the vial. 
• 
• 
•  Withdraw the required volume of evinacumab from the vial(s) based on patient’s weight and 
transfer into an intravenous infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) or 
dextrose 50 mg/ml (5%) for infusion. Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion. 
The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 0.5 mg/ml to 20 mg/ml. 
Do not freeze or shake the solution. 
Discard any unused portion left in the vial. 
• 
• 
• 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
After dilution 
Once prepared, administer the diluted solution immediately. If the diluted solution is not administered 
immediately, it may be stored temporarily either: 
• 
or 
• 
under refrigeration at 2 ºC to 8 ºC for no more than 24 hours from the time of infusion 
preparation to the end of the infusion 
at room temperature up to 25 ºC for no more than 6 hours from the time of infusion preparation 
to the end of the infusion. 
Administration 
• 
If refrigerated, allow the solution to come to room temperature (up to 25 ºC) prior to 
administration. 
Evinacumab should be administered over 60 minutes by intravenous infusion through an 
intravenous line containing a sterile, in-line or add-on 0.2-micron to 5-micron filter. Do not 
administer evinacumab as an intravenous push or bolus. 
Do not mix other medicinal products with evinacumab or administer concomitantly via the same 
infusion line. 
• 
• 
The rate of infusion may be slowed, interrupted or discontinued if the patient develops any signs of 
adverse reactions, including infusion-associated symptoms. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
