25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/754679/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Evoltra 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: CLOFARABINE 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000613/PSUV/0044 
Period covered by the PSUR:  29 December 2012 – 28 December 2013
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Evoltra, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
In clinical practice, clofarabine is widely used in combined regimen, especially in association with 
etoposide and cyclophosphamide, according to guidelines for treatment of ALL. This is an off-labelled 
use that is clinically justified by the fact that treatment with multidrug regimens, including clofarabine 
containing regimen, in paediatric patients with second relapse, is the only way to allow them to be 
eligible for allogeneic HSCT. This off-label use with clofarabine is an important identified risk, for which 
product labelling represents the risk minimization tool. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding Evoltra, the PRAC considers that the following changes 
to the Evoltra SmPC are warranted: 
in section 4.2 “Posology and method of administration”, it should be specified that recommended dose 
of  52 mg/m2 should be used as monotherapy, in order to avoid using this dose in combination, 
in section 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use”, a warning should be added regarding higher 
toxicity of clofarabine in association with other agents.  
In addition, the PRAC agrees with the MAH’s proposal to add hyponatremia as a new ADR in section 4.8 
“Undesirable effects” of the EU SPC, under the SOC “Metabolism and nutrition disorders” with a 
frequency “not known”. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding Evoltra and coadministration, as well as post marketing 
reports on hyponatraemia, the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were 
warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Evoltra, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance clofarabine is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
