1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1  Problem statement 
Acute leukemia is the most common form of cancer in children, comprising approximately 30 percent 
of  all  childhood  malignancies.  The  two  most  common  types of acute leukemia in children are acute 
lymphoblastic  leukemia  (ALL)  and  acute  myeloid  leukemia  (AML).  ALL  is  characterised  by 
malignant  transformation  of  lymphoid  progenitor  cells  and  is  the  most  common  of  the  paediatric 
leukaemias. It occurs about 5 times more commonly than does AML. In the UK, it has been estimated 
that around 450 new cases of leukemia are diagnosed each year.  
Over the years, a large number of antineoplastic agents have been evaluated in standardized research 
protocols. Survival rates for ALL and AML have improved dramatically during the past 20 years, due 
to  the  development  of  new  combination  regimens.  However,  approximately  20-25%  of  ALL  in 
remission  still  relapse.  Children  with  ALL  at  high  risk  of  relapse  are  those  with  T-cell  phenotype, 
older  than  10  years  or  younger  than  1  year  of  age,  with  white  blood  cell  count  (WBC)  larger  than 
50,000/µl, and with unfavourable cytogenetics (like the Philadelphia chromosome). In spite of efforts 
to develop new therapeutic agents and novel treatments for relapsed leukemia, there are still limited 
therapeutic  options  for  these  patients  and  their  prognosis  is  very  poor.  In  some  cases,  remission 
induction is attempted with an intensive chemotherapy and/or a stem cell transplantation. In general, 
given the intensity and number of previous chemotherapeutic regimens, patients with ALL in relapse 
have  a  broad  resistance  to  many  currently  used  agents  and  have  concurrent  conditions  and 
accumulated organ toxicity, making it difficult to induce a second or third complete remission. 
1.2  About the product 
Background 
Clofarabine is a novel, next-generation, halogenated-adenosine analogue. Based upon its mechanism 
of  action  as  an  inhibitor  of  both  ribonucleotide  reductase  and  DNA  polymerase  α,  clofarabine  is  a 
member  of  the  class  of  nucleoside  analogue  anti-metabolite  anticancer  agents  that  includes 
gemcitabine, fludarabine, and cladribine.  
Clofarabine has several distinguishing features compared to other drugs in its class including greater 
resistance to cellular degradation by adenosine deaminase, increased stability in gastric acid, decreased 
susceptibility  to  phosphorolytic  cleavage,  more  efficiency  as  a  substrate  for  deoxycytidine  kinase 
(exceeding cladribine and the natural substrate deoxycytidine), and, unlike fludarabine, clofarabine is 
active in non-dividing cells and in cells with a low proliferation rate by inducing apoptosis through its 
direct and indirect action on mitochondrial function.  
Orphan designation in the EU 
The European Commission, following the favourable opinion of the EMEA adopted by the Committee 
for  Orphan  Medicinal  Products  (COMP),  granted  two  separate  orphan  designations  for  a  medicinal 
product  containing  2-chloro-9-[2-deoxy-2-fluoro-ß-D-arabinofuranosyl]adenine  (clofarabine)  for  the 
treatment  of  ALL  (5  February  2002)  and  for  the  treatment  of  AML  (8  May  2003)  according  to 
Regulation (EC) No 141/2000. 2-chloro-9-[2-deoxy-2-fluoro-ß-D-arabinofuranosyl] adenine has been 
entered  in  the  Community  Register  of  Orphan  Medicinal  Products  under  the  numbers  EU/3/01/082 
and EU/3/03/141. 
Marketing authorisation application in the EU 
The  current  application  seeks  approval  for  the  use  of  clofarabine  for  the  treatment  of  acute 
lymphoblastic  leukaemia  (ALL)  in  paediatric  patients  who  have  relapsed  or  are  refractory  after 
receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result 
in a durable response.  Safety and efficacy have been assessed in studies of patients ≤ 21 years old at 
initial  diagnosis.  The  recommended  dose  for  paediatric  patients  is  52  mg/m2  of  body  surface  area 
administered  by  intravenous  infusion  over  2  hours  daily  for  5  consecutive  days.  Treatment  cycles 
should  be  repeated  every  2  to  6  weeks  following  recovery  of  normal  haematopoiesis  and  return  to 
baseline organ function.  
1/35  
©EMEA 2006 
The original submission also sought approval for the treatment of paediatric patients (≤ 21 years old) 
with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) who are in first or subsequent relapse or are refractory. During 
the scientific assessment procedure, the applicant withdrew the claim for this indication as the CHMP 
considered that the clinical documentation provided was not sufficient to establish the clinical efficacy 
of  clofarabine  in  this  patient  population.  In  particular,  although  one  patient  achieved  a  complete 
response  in  the  absence  of  total  platelet  recovery  (CRp),  no  complete  response  (CR)  was  observed 
with  clofarabine  in  the  interim  results  submitted  for  the  non-randomised  study  CLO-222.  The 
applicant decided to withdraw the paediatric AML indication from this application after further review 
of the efficacy data collected from study CLO-222, but informed the CHMP that they are planning a 
future submission for the treatment of AML pending the results of an ongoing study in adult patients. 
1.3  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Evoltra is a sterile concentrate for solution for infusion, which is presented in 20 ml vials containing 1 
mg/ml of clofarabine as active substance in unbuffered normal saline (comprising water for injections 
and  sodium  chloride).  The  solution  is  filled  in  type  I  glass  vials  with  rubber  stoppers,  sealed  with 
aluminium bands and polypropylene flip off caps. 
Active Substance  
Clofarabine has the chemical name 2-chloro-9-(2’-deoxy-2’-fluoro-β-D-arabinofuranosyl)-9H-purine-
6-amine. It is an off-white to white solid, and its solubility in saline solution at room temperature is 
sufficient for the manufacturing process and concentration of the drug product.  
The chemical structure of clofarabine is well characterised. There are two possible polymorphic forms 
of  clofarabine  (form  A  and  form  B).  Control  of  the  crystallization  and  drying  steps  ensures  the 
manufacturing process yields only form A. There is potential isomerism at the anomeric carbon of the 
arabinofuranose ring and the desired form for clofarabine is the ß anomer. 
•  Manufacture 
The  synthesis  of  clofarabine  is  carried  out  in  three  steps.  Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied 
during  the  synthesis.  Satisfactory  control  methods  for  starting  materials,  reagents  and  intermediate 
products have been presented. 
Batch analysis data presented confirm consistency and uniformity of the manufacturing process. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification for clofarabine includes tests for: appearance, identity (IR, HPLC), 
assay  (HPLC,  97.0%  -  103.0%),  related  substances  (HPLC),  pH,  water  content,  residue  on  ignition, 
residual solvents, bacterial endotoxins and microbial limits. 
Batch  data  for  eight  batches  showing  compliance  with  the  specifications  have  been  presented.  The 
batches include three full scale production batches manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site.  
•  Stability 
The  following  parameters  have  been  tested:  appearance,  identity,  assay,  impurities,  water 
determination, and microbial quality. 
Stability studies were performed on a number of batches of the active substance. Samples were stored 
at 25°C/60%RH and 40°C/75%RH. The results justify the retest period requested. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  finished  product  is  formulated  as  a  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion.  Since  the  active 
substance  is  soluble  in  the  vehicle  used,  aspects  like  particle  size  and  polymorphic  form  are  not 
relevant. The formulation is simple, excipients are commonly used for this kind of formulation, and 
compatibility is demonstrated in the stability studies. 
2/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
The  chosen  commercial  formulation  is  a  solution  in  unbuffered  0.9  %  NaCl,  which  is  terminally 
sterilised in its final container. The impact of this final step has been adequately tested by controlling 
the product after double terminal sterilisation. The same formulation has been used in all non-clinical 
and clinical studies. 
The  suitability  of  the  container/closure  system  (type  I  glass  vials)  was  evaluated  with  respect  to 
protection, safety, compatibility, physico-chemical testing, performance and stability. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturing  consists  of  preparation  of  the  bulk  solution,  followed  by  double  sterile  filtration  and 
filling  into  vials.  The  vials  are  sealed  with  stoppers,  capped  and  then  terminally  sterilised  by 
autoclaving. 
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated by a number of studies for the main steps of 
the manufacturing process. 
The batch analysis data showed that the finished product can be repeatedly manufactured according to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this preparation. 
•  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for:  physical  examination,  identity 
(HPLC, UV), assay (HPLC, 95.0-105.0%), purity (HPLC), pH, particulate matter, extractable volume, 
sterility endotoxin and osmolarity. 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  of  the  finished  product  packed  in  the  intended  commercial  vial  are  available  for  six 
batches  (3  primary  and  3  supportive  batches)  stored  under  long-term  (25°C/60%RH)  and  under 
accelerated (40°C/75%RH) ICH conditions. The samples were stored in the inverted position. Stability 
data  provided  include  results  at  24,  18  and  6  months  obtained  under  long  term  conditions  for  the  3 
primary batches and results at 24 and 18 months obtained under long term conditions for 2 of the 3 
supportive batches. Accelerated study results over 6 months were also provided. 
The specifications applied at the end of shelf-life are those described at release and the same analytical 
methods were used. 
Photostability testing was conducted on 1 batch by exposure of 3 samples in a horizontal position at 
room temperature to: 1.2, 2.4, 3.6 and 4.8 million lux hours. The drug product has been assessed for 
appearance, assay and impurities. There were no significant changes observed. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product 
have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  committed  to  resolve  these  as  follow-up 
measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
1.4  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The safety pharmacology studies, two pharmacokinetics studies and the pivotal toxicological studies 
were stated to be GLP-compliant. 
3/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Clofarabine  is  a  purine  nucleoside  anti-metabolite.    Its  antitumour  activity  is  believed  to  be  due  to 
3 mechanisms: DNA polymerase α inhibition resulting in termination of DNA chain elongation and/or 
DNA synthesis / repair, ribonucleotide reductase inhibition with reduction of cellular deoxynucleotide 
triphosphate  (dNTP)  pools,  and  disruption  of  mitochondrial  membrane  integrity  with  the  release  of 
cytochrome C and other proapoptotic factors leading to programmed cell death even in non-dividing 
lymphocytes. Clofarabine must first diffuse or be transported into target cells where it is sequentially 
phosphorylated to the mono- and bi-phosphate by intracellular kinases, and then finally to the active 
conjugate,  clofarabine 5’-triphosphate.    Clofarabine  has  high  affinity  for  one  of  the  activating 
phosphorylating  enzymes,  deoxycytidine  kinase,  which  exceeds  that  of  the  natural  substrate, 
deoxycytidine.  In  addition,  clofarabine  possesses  greater  resistance  to  cellular  degradation  by 
adenosine  deaminase  and  decreased  susceptibility  to  phosphorolytic  cleavage  than  other  active 
substances  in  its  class  whilst  the  affinity  of  clofarabine  triphosphate  for  DNA  polymerase  α  and 
ribonucleotide reductase is similar to or greater than that of deoxyadenosine triphosphate. 
In vitro studies have demonstrated that clofarabine inhibits cell growth in and is cytotoxic to a variety 
of rapidly proliferating haematological and solid tumour cell lines.  It was also active against quiescent 
lymphocytes and macrophages.   
Clofarabine  was  evaluated  in  vivo  in  mice  implanted  IP  with  106  parental  or  drug-resistant  P388 
murine  leukemia  cells.  Treatment  of  ADR-,  Taxol-  and  MTX-resistant  murine  leukemias  with 
clofarabine resulted in net cell kills comparable to those obtained in the sensitive parental leukaemia 
cells. Marginal cross-resistance was observed with the VP-16-resistant murine leukemia, whereas the 
ara-C-resistant  murine  leukemia  showed  marked  resistance  to  clofarabine.  The  in  vivo  efficacy  of 
clofarabine  was  assessed  in  the  SC  implanted  CCRF-CEM  leukemia  model  in  male  SCID  mice 
following  once  daily  IP  administration  of  clofarabine  or  ara-C  for  either  5  or  14  days,  the  response 
with ara-C was more effective than clofarabine administration. A further study was conducted in male 
SCID mice to evaluate the combined use of clofarabine and ara-C on in vivo anti-leukemic activity. 
Clofarabine and ara-C exhibited antitumor activity against the CCRF-CEM leukemia model, with the 
combination treatments of 20 mg/kg clofarabine / 6.25 mg/kg ara-C exhibiting greater activity to that 
observed for either agent alone at these dose levels. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamics studies have been submitted. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
A  core  battery  of  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  in  the  rat  to  assess  the  effects  of 
clofarabine on the CNS, cardiovascular (including an in vitro hERG channel assay in transfected HEK 
cells), respiratory and renal/urinary systems.  Dose levels for the CNS, respiratory and renal/urinary 
systems studies were 6.25, 25 and 50 mg/kg as a single IV injection and plasma levels at these dose 
levels  were  established.    The  cardiovascular  study  utilised  dose  levels  of  10  and  25  mg/kg/day 
administered  IV  for  5  days.    The  maximum  concentration  in  the  hERG  assay  was  300  µM.  
Clofarabine  showed  little  or  no  effect  in  these  studies,  except  at  the  highest  dose  level  or 
concentration. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The antitumor efficacy of clofarabine in combination with other cytotoxic drugs (ara-C, oxaliplatin, 5-
fluorouracil,  taxotere,  irinotecan  and  camptosar)  has  been  investigated  in  human  tumor  models  in 
mice.    Although  some  of  these  drugs  were  toxic  when  administered  alone,  this  toxicity  was  not 
enhanced  by  combination  therapy  with  clofarabine.    In  general,  antitumor  efficacy  with  combined 
drug treatment was similar to or only moderately better than that seen with clofarabine alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
4/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of clofarabine has been studied in vivo in mice, rats, and dogs. No nonclinical 
pharmacokinetic  data  in  animals  have  been  submitted  on  the  phosphorylated  metabolites  of 
clofarabine.    However,  one  published  report  in  the  literature  on  the  metabolism  of  clofarabine  by 
cultured human CCRF-CEM T-lymphoblastic cells has been provided. 
Absorption 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of clofarabine have been determined in mice, rats and in dogs following 
IV  administration.  Clofarabine  was  shown  to  have  a  relatively  short  plasma  half-life  in  all  species 
studied (generally <3 hours).  In the mass balance study, there was evidence for a third-γ phase in the 
plasma  concentration-time  profile  with  a  half-life  of  approximately  18  hours.  Linear  plasma 
pharmacokinetics were observed for mice at doses up to 13.3 mg/kg (39.9 mg/m2), rats at doses up to 
12.5  mg/kg  (75  mg/m2),  and  dogs  at  doses  up  to  3  mg/kg  (60  mg/m2).  Nonlinear  plasma 
pharmacokinetics  (as  evidenced  by  a  decrease  in  clearance  and  an  increase  in  Cmax)  were  observed 
between 12.5 and 25 mg/kg/day (75 and 150 mg/m2/day) in female rats in the 6-month study, in male 
rats dosed between 10 and 25 mg/kg (60 and 150 mg/m2) in a pharmacokinetic study, and in male rats 
dosed between 25 and 50 mg/kg (150 and 300 mg/m2) in a mass balance study. 
Distribution 
Clofarabine has moderate protein binding in humans (~47%), but much lower protein binding in rats 
(~13%). The volume of distribution was about 1.4 to 2.6 L/kg in mice, 3.2 to 3.6 L/kg in rats, and 0.9 
to 1.2 L/kg in dogs. 
In  tissue  distribution  studies  in  mice  and  rats,  clofarabine  was  rapidly  distributed  to  most  tissues, 
except those with special barriers (e.g., eye, brain, and testes). Tissues with the highest concentrations 
were  generally  the  highly  perfused  organs,  such as spleen, liver, kidney, thymus, bone marrow, and 
skin in mice and the excretory/metabolic organs (e.g., kidney and liver) and gastrointestinal tract (e.g., 
small  intestine  and  colon)  in  rats.  The  concentration  of  clofarabine  in  these  tissues  was  generally 
greater than 2-fold higher than plasma. Tissue to plasma ratios in myocardium were greater than unity 
but  less  than  those  seen  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract  and  kidney.  In  contrast,  tissues  with  special 
barriers had clofarabine concentrations that were lower than in plasma.   
Metabolism 
In  order  to  exert  its  activity,  clofarabine  must  be  metabolized  within  tumor  cells  -  firstly  to  the  5’-
monophosphate  metabolite  by  deoxycytidine  kinase  followed  by  sequential  formation  of  the  5’-
diphosphate  and  ultimately  the  5’-triphosphate  metabolite.    Studies  in  cultured  T-lymphoblasts 
indicated that the predominant metabolite was the monophosphate metabolite and that formation of the 
diphosphate metabolite from the monophosphate metabolite was the rate-limiting step in the formation 
of  clofarabine  triphosphate.  The  monophosphate  metabolite  within  cells  may  act  as  a  pool  for  the 
formation of the triphosphate metabolite.   
Clofarabine was very stable when incubated for 6 hours with dog, rat, or human hepatocytes with 95, 
96,  and  99.8%  of parent clofarabine, respectively, unmetabolized. The largest metabolite which was 
found in the dog, was either carboxy- or methoxy-clofarabine. Each of the other metabolites was less 
than  1.25%  of  the  total  radioactivity  in  the  sample.    Only  1  metabolite  (clofarabine  sulfate)  was 
observed in human hepatocytes.  Clofarabine glucuronide (2 positional isomers) and 2-chloroadenine 
were seen in rat and dog hepatocytes. 
In a mass balance study in rats, 6-ketoclofarabine was the metabolite having the greatest concentration 
in plasma, urine, feces, heart, and liver. The enzyme responsible for the metabolism of clofarabine to 
6-ketoclofarabine  is  unknown,  but  is  probably  not  cytochrome  P450.    Given  the  close  structural 
similarity of clofarabine to adenosine, a likely possible enzyme is adenosine deaminase, an enzyme of 
purine  metabolism  that  catalyzes  the  irreversible  deamination  of  adenosine  and  deoxyadenosine  to 
inosine and deoxyinosine, respectively. 
5/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Excretion 
Clofarabine  was  primarily  excreted  unchanged  through  renal  elimination  in  an  in  vivo  mass  balance 
study in rats.  Using radiolabeled clofarabine, 77%, 11%, 6% of the administered dose was found in 
the urine, feces, and cage wash, respectively.  Of the radioactivity in urine, 87% was parent drug and 
in the feces 7% was parent drug.  Based on mass balance, 76% of the dose was excreted through renal 
clearance,  22%  by  metabolic  clearance,  and  <1%  by  biliary  clearance.    For  clofarabine  metabolites, 
clearance  was  split  equally  among  renal  (50%)  and  biliary  (50%)  mechanisms.  Comparison  of  the 
unbound renal clearance to the glomerular filtration rate in rats suggests that clofarabine was actively 
secreted into urine. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No pharmacokinetics drug interaction studies have been conducted with clofarabine. 
In vitro studies investigating clofarabine metabolism in rat and human hepatocytes (described above) 
and microsomes were conducted and the data demonstrated little or no involvement of the cytochrome 
P450 system in the metabolism of clofarabine. Two in vitro studies to assess the potential inhibitory 
effect  of  clofarabine  on  cytochrome  P450  isozyme  activity  were  performed.  Clofarabine  did  not 
inhibit  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9,  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A4.  However,  a  weak  inhibition  was  observed  for 
CYP2C19 in one study at an IC50 value 18-25 fold higher than the Cmax value seen clinically making it 
unlikely that any clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions would result. 
The  potential  inducing  effect  of  clofarabine  on  the  activity  of  two  major  human  cytochrome  P450 
isozymes was investigated in vitro.  Clofarabine had no statistically significant effect on the activities 
of  CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4  at  concentrations  of  500,  4000  and  12000  ng/mL.    The  clofarabine 
concentrations used were approximately 20-30 times higher than the Cmax reached in the clinic after a 
dose  of  52 mg/m2,  making  it  therefore,  highly  unlikely  that  any  clinically  relevant  induction  of 
cytochromes would result. 
Toxicology 
A comprehensive toxicology program has been conducted for clofarabine. Pivotal studies are defined 
as  GLP  compliant  studies  utilizing  the  intended  intravenous  clinical  route.    Non-GLP  compliant 
studies and studies utilizing other routes of administration (intraperitoneal and oral) are deemed non-
pivotal. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
A  single  dose  study  was  conducted  in  Balb/c  mice  at  75  mg/kg  IP  and  there  were  no  unscheduled 
deaths.  Histopathological  findings  included  changes  to  male  and  female  reproductive  organs, 
lymphoid  tissues  and  liver.  Additional  information  on single dose toxicity were derived from repeat 
dose  toxicity  studies,  in  male  Fischer  344  rats  and  the  mammalian  erythrocyte  micronucleus  test  in 
Sprague Dawley rats of both sexes.  In all these studies, a single dose of 100 mg/kg was lethal to all 
rats dosed. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Studies in mice 
Three repeat-dose studies were conducted with clofarabine in Balb/C mice.  
The toxicity of clofarabine appeared to be greater when given twice daily as compared to once daily. 
The  target  organs  of  toxicity  were  found  to  be  the  proliferating  tissues/organs  such  as  the  bone 
marrow, lymphoid tissue, gastrointestinal tract, and reproductive organs.  Gastrointestinal toxicity was 
determined to be the dose limiting toxicity (DLT). 
Studies in rats 
Five repeat-dose studies were conducted with clofarabine in Fischer 344 rats.   
The target organs of toxicity were the bone marrow, GI tract, heart, kidney, liver, lymphoid tissue and 
testes.    The  heart  was  the  primary  target  of  toxicity  and  the  cardiotoxic  effects  of  clofarabine  were 
responsible for the deaths occurring in the studies.   
6/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
The incidence of cardiotoxicity was dependent on both the dose of clofarabine administered and the 
duration of treatment.  They were reported at exposure levels (Cmax) approximately 7 to 13 fold (after 3 
or  more  dosing  cycles)  or  16 to 35 fold  (after  one  or  more  dosing  cycles)  higher  than  clinical 
exposures.  The minimal effects seen at lower doses suggest that there is a threshold for toxicities on 
the  heart  and  nonlinear  plasma  pharmacokinetics  in  the  rat  may  play  a  role  in  the  observed  effects.  
The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Studies in dogs 
Five repeat-dose studies were conducted with clofarabine in Beagle dogs. 
Gastrointestinal toxicity was the DLT.   
Histopathological changes were essentially limited to rapidly proliferating tissues (i.e., gastrointestinal 
tract, lymphoid tissue, bone marrow, and testes).  In general, there was evidence of recovery from the 
dose-dependent  toxicity  associated  with  the  rapidly  proliferating  tissues  and  an  absence  of 
deterioration  with  repeated  exposure  in  the  surviving  animals  indicating  no  cumulative  effects.  The 
induction of toxicity and single cell necrosis in rapidly proliferating tissues is an expected reaction to 
the administration of cytotoxic compounds. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Clofarabine did not show evidence of mutagenic activity in the bacterial gene mutation assay (Ames 
test),  but did show clastogenic activity in the in vitro mammalian cell chromosome aberration assay 
(CHO cells) in a nonactivated test system and in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay. The reason for the 
negative finding in the bacterial gene mutation assay is not known, but is probably related to a lack of 
the activating enzyme dCK in Salmonella typhimurum and Escherichia coli. The absence of dCK in 
Escherichia  coli  and  Salmonella  typhimurium  has  been  documented  in  the  literature.  In  view  of  the 
clastogenic activity, the inhibitory activity in DNA synthesis, and the known genotoxic effects of other 
anticancer nucleoside anti-metabolites, clofarabine is assumed to have genotoxic potential.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
for  Guidance  on 
No carcinogenicity studies have been submitted. The applicant has justified this based on the CPMP 
Note 
the  Preclinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products 
[CPMP/SWP/997/96]. 
•  Reproductive toxicity 
Repeat  dose toxicity studies with clofarabine clearly showed toxic effects on reproductive organs in 
both male and female animals, as might be expected of a cytotoxic agent.  Effects on fertility would 
thus  be  expected,  although  specific  studies  to  investigate  this  have  not  been  performed.    Adverse 
effects on neonates of mothers treated with clofarabine could also be expected but as treatment of this 
population  could  be  clearly  identified  and  thus  contra-indicated,  pre-post  natal  toxicity  studies  have 
not  been  performed.  This  approach  is  in  agreement  with  CPMP  guidance  [CPMP/SWP/997/96]. 
Studies to investigate potential embryotoxicity, in the rat and rabbit, have been performed. 
Clofarabine  was  teratogenic  in  rats  and  rabbits.    Increases  in  postimplantation  loss,  reduced  foetal 
body weights and decreased litter sizes together with increases in the number of malformations (gross 
external,  soft  tissue)  and  skeletal  alterations  (including  retarded  ossification)  were  reported  in  rats 
receiving doses which produced approximately 2 to 3 fold the clinical exposure (54 mg/m2/day) and in 
rabbits receiving 1 mg/kg/day (12 mg/m2/day) clofarabine.  There are no exposure data in rabbits.  The 
threshold for developmental toxicity was considered to be 1 mg/kg/day (6 mg/m2/day) in rats and 0.1 
mg/kg/day (1.2 mg/m2/day) in rabbits. The no-observable effect level for maternal toxicity in rats was 
3 mg/kg/day (18 mg/m2/day) and in rabbits was more than 1 mg/kg/day (12 mg/m2/day). No studies in 
juvenile animals have been conducted. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Chronic studies, with toxicokinetics, were conducted with clofarabine in Fisher 344 rats and in Beagle 
dogs with once daily IV dosing for 5 days followed by 23 days observation; each cycle repeated over 
a 6 month period. 
7/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
In  the  chronic  rat  study,  with  up  to  6  treatment/recovery  cycles,  the  MTD  was  12.5  mg/kg/day 
(75 mg/m2/day) corresponding to an AUC(0-10) of 10585 to 11240 on Day 145 (end of the sixth period 
of  dosing).  In  the  chronic  dog  study,  with  up  to  6  treatment/recovery  cycles,  the  MTD  was  0.75 
mg/kg/day  (15  mg/m2/day)  corresponding  to  an  AUC(0-12)  of  1484  to  1370  on  Day  145  (end  of  the 
sixth period of dosing).   
Interspecies comparison 
Species differences were noted in the toxicity induced in mice, rats, and dogs following administration 
of  clofarabine.  Based  upon  a  comparison  of  their  respective  MTD  values,  the  rank  order  of  species 
sensitivity to clofarabine-induced toxicity is as follows: Dog>Rat>Mouse. Based upon their respective 
MTD values, clofarabine produces dose-limiting toxicity in the dog at doses approximately 5- to 17-
fold  lower  (mg/m2/day  and  mg/kg/day  basis,  respectively)  than  the  rat.    Similarly,  the  rat  is 
approximately  3-  to  8-fold  more  sensitive  to  the  toxic  effects  of  clofarabine  than  the  mouse. 
Gastrointestinal  toxicity  was  dose  limiting  and  the  cause  of  death  for  mice  and  dogs,  whilst 
cardiotoxicity  was  considered  to  be  responsible  for  the  deaths  of  most  rats.  Clofarabine-induced 
cardiotoxicity was not seen in the dog. One possible explanation for the absence of cardiotoxicity in 
the dog may be related to the lower systemic exposure of clofarabine in dogs when compared to rats 
(i.e.,  the  gastrointestinal  toxicity  in  dogs  prevented  administration  of  higher  doses  and  systemic 
exposure).  When  compared  across  all  studies,  the  rapidly  proliferating  organs  (bone  marrow, 
lymphoid  organs,  gastrointestinal  tract,  and  testes)  were  target  organs  of  toxicity  for  clofarabine  in 
mice, rats, and dogs.  The heart, liver, and kidney were additional target organs of toxicity in the rat, 
but not in mice or dogs. 
•  Local tolerance  
No  local  tolerance  studies  have  been  conducted  with  clofarabine.  As  expected,  some  injection  site 
reactions were observed following intravenous administration. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  potential  environmental  impact  of  clofarabine  has  been  assessed  in  line  with  the  draft  Note  for 
for  Human  Use 
Guidance  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products 
(CPMP/SWP/4447/00 draft). Regarding the environmental risk assessment, no adverse environmental 
effects are expected with clofarabine. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
A core battery of safety pharmacology studies have been conducted in the rat comprising assessment 
of  the  effects  of  clofarabine  on  the  CNS,  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and  renal/urinary  systems. 
Clofarabine  showed  little  or  no  effect  in  these  studies,  except  at  the  highest  dose  level  or 
concentration. 
Preclinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs  after  intravenous 
administration.  In  addition,  the  metabolism  of  clofarabine  was  investigated  in  isolated  hepatocytes 
from rats, dogs, and humans as well as in human T-lymphoblast leukemia CCRF-CEM cells.  
Clofarabine was shown to have a relatively short plasma half-life in all species studied (generally <3 
hours). In the mass balance study, there was evidence for a third-γ phase in the plasma concentration-
time profile with a half-life of approximately 18 hours. 
Clofarabine  has  low  protein  binding  in  rats  (~13%).  The  volume  of  distribution  was  about  1.4  to 
2.6 L/kg  in  mice,  3.2  to  3.6 L/kg  in  rats,  and  0.9  to  1.2 L/kg  in  dogs.  Tissues  with  the  highest 
concentrations of clofarabine were generally the highly perfused organs, such as spleen, liver, kidney, 
thymus,  bone  marrow,  and  skin  in  mice  and  the  excretory/metabolic  organs  (kidney  and  liver)  and 
gastrointestinal tract (small intestine and colon) in rats. Tissue to plasma ratios in myocardium were 
greater than unity but less than those seen in the gastrointestinal tract and kidney.  
In  order  to  exert  its  activity,  clofarabine  must  be  metabolized  within  tumor  cells  -  firstly  to  the  5’-
monophosphate  metabolite  by  deoxycytidine  kinase  followed  by  sequential  formation  of  the  5’-
diphosphate and ultimately the 5’-triphosphate metabolite.  The largest metabolite which was found in 
the dog, was either carboxy- or methoxy-clofarabine. Clofarabine glucuronide (2 positional isomers) 
and  2-chloroadenine  were  seen  in  rat  and  dog  hepatocytes.  In  a  mass  balance  study  in  rats,  6-
8/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
ketoclofarabine was the metabolite having the greatest concentration in plasma, urine, feces, heart, and 
liver.   
Clofarabine  was  primarily  excreted  unchanged  through  renal  elimination  in  an  in  vivo  mass  balance 
study in rats. Using radiolabeled clofarabine, 77%, 11% and 6% of the administered dose was found in 
the urine, feces and cage wash, respectively. 
No  pharmacokinetics  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted  with  clofarabine.  Clofarabine  is 
not detectably metabolised by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system.  Therefore, it is unlikely to 
interact  with  active  substances  which  inhibit  or  induce  cytochrome  P450  enzymes.    In  addition, 
clofarabine is unlikely to inhibit any of the major 5 human CYP isoforms (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 
3A4) or to induce 2 of these isoforms (1A2 and 3A4) at the plasma concentrations achieved following 
intravenous infusion of 52 mg/m2/day.  As a result, it is not expected to affect the metabolism of active 
substances which are known substrates for these enzymes.  
Toxicology studies of clofarabine in mice, rats and dogs showed that rapidly proliferating tissues were 
the primary target organs of toxicity. 
The heart was the primary target of toxicity and the cardiotoxic effects of clofarabine were responsible 
for the deaths of most rats.  The cardiac effects observed in rats were consistent with cardiomyopathy 
and contributed to signs of cardiac failure after repeated cycles of treatment.  The incidence of these 
toxicities was dependent on both the dose of clofarabine administered and the duration of treatment.  
They  were  reported  at  exposure  levels  (Cmax)  approximately  7 to 13 fold  (after  3  or  more  dosing 
cycles) or 16 to 35 fold (after one or more dosing cycles) higher than clinical exposures.  The minimal 
effects  seen  at  lower doses suggest that there is  a threshold for toxicities on the heart and nonlinear 
plasma  pharmacokinetics  in  the  rat  may  play  a  role  in  the  observed  effects.    The  potential  risk  for 
humans is unknown. A 5 day repeat dose toxicity study was conducted in rats to evaluate the use of 
troponin I and creatine kinase MB isoenzyme (CK-MB) as cardiac biomarkers. CK-MB appears to be 
a biomarker for the observed cardiotoxicity (data not shown).  
Glomerulonephropathy was reported in rats at exposure levels 3 to 5 fold higher than the clinical AUC 
after  6 dosing  cycles  of  clofarabine.    It  was  characterised  by  minor  thickening  of  the  glomerular 
basement  membrane  with  only  slight  tubular  damage  and was not associated with changes in serum 
chemistry. 
Hepatic  toxicity  was  observed  in  rats  following  chronic  administration  of  clofarabine.    These  likely 
represent the superimposition of degenerative and regenerative changes as a result of treatment cycles, 
and  were  not  associated  with  changes  in  serum  chemistry.    Histological  evidence  of  hepatic  effects 
was  seen  in  dogs  following  acute  administration  of  high  doses,  but  was  also  not  accompanied  by 
changes in serum chemistry. 
Dose  related  toxicities  on  male  reproductive  organs  were  observed  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs.    These 
effects  included  bilateral  degeneration  of  the  seminiferous  epithelium  with  retained  spermatids  and 
atrophy  of  interstitial  cells  in  rats  at  exaggerated  exposure  levels  (150 mg/m2/day),  and  cell 
degeneration of the epididymis and degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium in dogs at clinically 
relevant exposure levels (> 7.5 mg/m2/day clofarabine). Delayed ovarian atrophy or degeneration and 
uterine  mucosal  apoptosis  were  observed  in  female  mice  at  the  only  dose  used  of  225 mg/m2/day 
clofarabine. 
Clofarabine did not show evidence of mutagenic activity in the bacterial gene mutation assay (Ames 
test),  but did show clastogenic activity in the in vitro mammalian cell chromosome aberration assay 
(CHO cells) in a nonactivated test system and in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay. 
for  Guidance  on 
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with clofarabine. This is in agreement with the CPMP 
Note 
the  Preclinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products 
[CPMP/SWP/997/96].    Taking  into  account  the  short  life-expectancy  of  patients  with  relapsed  or 
refractory ALL, the lack of such studies can be considered justified. 
No studies to investigate the effects on fertility and pre-post natal developmental toxicity have been 
performed.  Embryo-foetal  developmental  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits. 
Clofarabine  was  teratogenic  in  rats  and  rabbits.  The  threshold  for  developmental  toxicity  was 
considered to be 1 mg/kg/day (6 mg/m2/day) in rats and 0.1 mg/kg/day (1.2 mg/m2/day) in rabbits. The 
9/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
no-observable effect level for maternal toxicity in rats was 3 mg/kg/day (18 mg/m2/day) and in rabbits 
was more than 1 mg/kg/day (12 mg/m2/day). No studies in juvenile animals have been conducted. 
There  are  no  data  on  the  use  of  clofarabine  in  pregnant  women.    Studies  in  animals  have  shown 
reproductive  toxicity  including  teratogenicity.    Clofarabine  may  cause  serious  birth  defects  when 
administered during pregnancy.  Therefore, Evoltra should not be used during pregnancy, especially 
not during the first trimester, unless clearly necessary (i.e. only if the potential benefit to the mother 
outweighs  the  risk  to  the  foetus).    If  a  patient  becomes  pregnant  during  treatment  with  clofarabine, 
they should be informed of the possible hazard to the foetus. 
It is unknown whether clofarabine or its metabolites are excreted in human breast milk.  The excretion 
of clofarabine in milk has not been studied in animals.  Because of the potential for serious adverse 
reactions  in  nursing  infants,  breastfeeding  should  be  discontinued  prior  to,  during  and  following 
treatment with Evoltra. 
Females  of  childbearing  potential  and  sexually  active  males  must  use  effective  methods  of 
contraception  during  treatment.    Dose  related  toxicities  on  male  reproductive  organs  have  been 
observed in mice, rats and dogs, and toxicities on female reproductive organs have been observed in 
mice.    As  the  effect  of  clofarabine  treatment  on  human  fertility  is  unknown,  reproductive  planning 
should be discussed with patients as appropriate. 
No local tolerance studies have been conducted with clofarabine. 
1.5  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Evoltra  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  acute  lymphoblastic  leukaemia  (ALL)  in  paediatric  patients 
who have relapsed or are refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no 
other  treatment  option  anticipated  to  result  in  a  durable  response.  Safety  and  efficacy  have  been 
assessed in studies of patients ≤ 21 years old at initial diagnosis (see SPC section 5.1). Therapy must 
be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  management  of  patients  with  acute 
leukaemias. 
For  paediatric  patients,  the  recommended  dose  is  52 mg/m2  of  body  surface  area  administered  by 
intravenous infusion over 2 hours daily for 5 consecutive days.  Body surface area must be calculated 
using  the  actual  height  and  weight  of  the  patient  before  the  start  of  each  cycle.    Treatment  cycles 
should be repeated every 2 to 6 weeks (from the starting day of the previous cycle) following recovery 
of  normal  haematopoiesis  (i.e.  ANC  ≥ 0.75  ×  109/l)  and  return  to  baseline  organ  function.    A  25% 
dose reduction may be warranted in patients experiencing significant toxicities.   
Evoltra 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion must be diluted prior to administration (see SPC 
section 6.6).    The  recommended  dosage  should  be  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  although  it 
has  been  administered  via  a  central  venous  catheter  in  ongoing  clinical  trials.    Evoltra  must  not  be 
mixed with or concomitantly administered using the same intravenous line as other medicinal products 
(see SPC section 6.2). 
The  applicant  originally  filed  in  July  2004  using  interim  data  from  study  CLO-212  to  support  the 
claim for efficacy in ALL.  The data cut-off date for this interim report was 21 November 2003 and at 
that time 40 patients had been enrolled in the study.  A second interim report was generated using a 
data cut-off date of 30 September 2004.  At this time, recruitment was complete and 61 patients had 
received clofarabine in study CLO-212.  The applicant submitted further updated efficacy data using a 
data cut-off date of 30 September 2005, which included longer follow-up of the 61 patients in study 
CLO-212. 
Likewise,  the  original  submission  included  an  interim  report  for  study  CLO-222  (AML)  with  a 
database  cut-off  date of 21 November 2003; 30 patients had received clofarabine at this time.  Two 
further  updates  for  study  CLO-222  were  generated  to  expand  the  safety  data.    The  first  update  was 
based  on  data  collected  up  to  30  September  2004,  at  this  time  recruitment  was  complete  with  42 
patients treated; the second update (data cut-off date 30 September 2005) provided additional safety 
data on the ongoing patients. 
10/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Protocol 
number 
Patients 
DM93-036 
Adults 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  clofarabine  have  been  studied  in  five  of  the  clinical  trials  (see  table  PK1). 
Clofarabine  was  initially  studied  in  a  phase  I  dose  escalating  study  in  adults  with  haematologic  and 
solid  tumors  (DM93-06).  Significant  efficacy  in  heavily  pre-treated  patients  with  relapsed  or 
refractory  leukemia  in  this  study  led  to  a  dose  escalating  study  in  paediatric  patients  with    either 
relapsed or refractory ALL or relapsed or refractory AML (study ID99-383), which is in accordance 
with  NfG  CPMP/EWP/569/02.  Pharmacokinetic  data  from  these  two  dose  escalating  studies  was 
sparse.  
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  from  some  patients  in  the  pivotal  study  CLO-212  and 
study  CLO-222  in  paediatric  patients.    Study  CLO-221  in  adult  patients  provided  supportive 
pharmacokinetic information.  
In  addition  to  non-parametric  evaluation  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  clofarabine  in  CLO-212  and 
CLO-222,  data  obtained  in  studies  ID99-383,  CLO-212  and  CLO-222  have  been  combined  and 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  estimated  by  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  the  data. 
Nonlinear  mixed  effects  modeling  using  NONMEM  (Version  5)  was  used  to  characterize  the 
pharmacokinetics of clofarabine in plasma and intracellular clofarabine triphosphate in the paediatric 
patient population. 
Table PK1. Clinical studies in which pharmacokinetic data were obtained. 
Regimen 
Cancer type 
Doses 
n1 
Objective(s) of 
the study 
Maximum 
tolerated dose 
Solid and 
hematologic 
malignancies 
51/40 
1.5 to 55 
mg/m2 
ID99-383 
Paediatrics 
Maximum 
tolerated dose 
Hematologic 
malignancies 
25/12  
11 to 70 
mg/m2 
CLO-212 
Paediatrics 
(Nov 2003 
cut-off) 
CLO-222 
Paediatrics 
(Nov 2003 
cut-off) 
CLO-221 
Adults 
Efficacy / safety  ALL 
40/14 
52 mg/m2 
Efficacy / safety   AML 
30/14 
52 mg/m2 
Efficacy / safety  AML 
40/13 
40 mg/m2 
IV for 1 hour every 
day for 5 days 
every 3 to 4 weeks 
IV for 1 to 3 hours 
every day for 5 
days every 2 to 6 
weeks 
IV for 2 hours 
every day for 5 
days every 2 to 6 
weeks 
IV for 2 hours 
every day for 5 
days every 2 to 6 
weeks 
IV for 1 hour every 
day for 5 days 
every 28 days 
1 Denotes the number of patients enrolled who received study drug and the number of patients for 
whom pharmacokinetic data were obtained.  
Study DM93-036 was a phase I, open-label, dose escalating study of clofarabine administered to adult 
patients  with  solid  tumors  or  hematologic  malignancies  who  failed  standard  therapy.  The  primary 
objective of this study was to determine the MTD and toxicity profile of clofarabine administered IV 
over 1 hour each day for 5 consecutive days in adult patients. Dose range of clofarabine administered 
was  1.5  to  55  mg/m2.  Of  the  51  patients  enrolled  in  the  study,  pharmacokinetic  data  were  available 
from 40 patients. Blood samples were not drawn at specific times.  Blood samples were analysed for 
clofarabine, intracellular clofarabine triphosphate and 2-chloroadenine (at the two highest doses). The 
data were insufficient to characterize the pharmacokinetics using non-compartmental methods and too 
sparse for the use of population-based pharmacokinetic methods.  
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  clofarabine  were  evaluated  in  a  phase  I,  open-label,  non-comparative, 
dose-escalation  study  in  25 paediatric  patients  with  relapsed  or  refractory  leukaemia  (17 ALL; 
11/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 AML)  who  had  failed  standard  therapy  or  for  whom  no  other  therapy  existed  (Study  ID99-383).  
Dosing  commenced  at  11.25  with  escalation  to  15,  30,  40,  52  and  70 mg/m2/day  by  intravenous 
infusion for 5 days every 2 to 6 weeks depending on toxicity and response.  Thirteen of these patients 
(9 ALL, 4 AML) were treated with the 52 mg/m2/day clofarabine regimen.  Of the 17 ALL patients, 4 
achieved  a  complete  remission  (24%;  CR)  and  1  a  partial  remission  (6%;  PR)  at  varying  doses.  
Dose-limiting  toxicities  in  this  study  were  hyperbilirubinaemia,  elevated  transaminase  levels  and 
maculo-papular rash experienced at 70 mg/m2/day (2 ALL patients; see SPC section 4.9). 
The design of study CLO-212 (ALL) is described in the section on Clinical Efficacy. Study CLO-222 
was  a  phase  II,  non-randomised,  open-label,  single  arm  study  of  clofarabine  at  52  mg/m2/day  iv 
administered  over  2  hours  daily  for  5  consecutive  days  and  repeated  every  2  to  6  weeks  in  patients 
with  refractory  or  relapsed  AML.  Of  the  40  patients  initially  enrolled  in  study  CLO-212, 
pharmacokinetics were available from 14 patients (mean age of 11.4 years; range from 2 to 17 years). 
Of    the  30  patients  initially  enrolled  in  study  CLO-222,  pharmacokinetics  were  available  from  14 
patients (mean age of 12.3 years; range from 2 to 19 years). In both CLO-212 and CLO-222 studies, 
blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were taken predose and at 2 (end of infusion), 3, 4, 5, 10 
(or just prior to leaving clinic), and 24 hours. The same sampling schedule was used on day 5 with the 
exception that a 24 hour sample was not collected. Urine samples were collected prior to infusion on 
day 1 and at 0 to 8 hours and 8 to 24 hours on days 1 and 5.  
Study CLO-221 was a phase II, open label, single-arm study with clofarabine 40 mg/m2 administered 
by 1 hour intravenous infusion once daily for 5 days every 28 days in adult patients with refractory or 
relapsed AML. Of the 40 patients enrolled, pharmacokinetics were available from 13 patients. Blood 
samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were drawn predose, at 0.5, 1 (end of infusion), 2, 3, and 7 (or 
just prior to leaving clinic), and 24 hours (pre-dose on day 2) on day 1 and predose (0 hours), at the 
end  of  infusion  (1  hour)  and  7  hours  (or  just  prior  to  leaving  clinic)  on  day  5.  Urine  samples  were 
collected prior to infusion on day 1 and at 0 to 6 hours and 6 to 24 hours on days 1 and 5. 
•  Absorption  
To date, clofarabine has only been administered by intravenous infusion. Bioavailability of clofarabine 
is 100% and no studies regarding bioequivalence or influence of food have been conducted. 
Plasma  clofarabine  concentrations  were  generally  maximal  at  the  end  of  infusion.  Plasma 
concentrations declined rapidly thereafter and exhibited biphasic kinetics. Table PK2 summarises the 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  determined  in  two  paediatric  studies  (CLO-212  and  CLO-222)  and  in a 
study in adult patients with AML (CLO-221). Clofarabine showed similar pharmacokinetic behavior 
both  in  children  with  ALL  (CLO-212)  and  in  those  with  AML  (CLO-222).  Clofarabine  showed 
comparable  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  in  adult  patients  after  administration  of  clofarabine  at  40 
mg/m2  as  in  paediatric  patients  after  administration  of  52  mg/m2  clofarabine.  Clofarabine  plasma 
terminal half-life was approximately 5 to 6 hours in paediatric and adult patients. 
•  Distribution 
Clofarabine  had  a  relatively  large  volume  of  distribution  of  about  260  L  in  paediatric  patients 
suggesting extensive tissue distribution. Using equilibrium dialysis, clofarabine was 27% ± 2% (mean 
±  SD)  bound  to  human  serum  albumin  and  47.1%  ±  7.6%  bound  to  human  plasma  proteins  at  a 
concentration of 304 ng/ml (1µM) [Reichelova et al. 1995]. 
12/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
Table PK2: Summary statistics for pharmacokinetic parameters for paediatric patients in 
studies CLO-212 and CLO-222 receiving a single dose of 52 mg/m2 clofarabine over 2 hours by 
intravenous infusion or for adult patients in study CLO-221 receiving a single dose of 40 mg/m2 
clofarabine over 1 hour by intravenous infusion. 
CLO-212 
Paediatric: 52 mg/m2 
Mean  ± SD 
1726 ± 586 
CLO-222 
Paediatric: 52 mg/m2 
Mean ± SD 
2044 ± 480 
CLO-221 
Adult: 40 mg/m2 
Mean ± SD 
2618 ± 826 
n 
10 
n 
11 
n 
7 
AUC(0-∞) 
(ng*h/mL) 
AUC(0-8h) 
day 1 
day 5 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
day 1 
day 5 
CL (L/h) 
Half-life (h) 
Vdss (L) 
Renal CL (L/h) 
Day 1 
Day 5 
% dose 
excreted in 
urine 
11 
10 
11 
12 
11 
11 
11 
7 
7 
7 
7 
1224 ± 351 
1757 ± 1043 
403 ± 171 
559 ± 302 
43 ± 19 
4.7 ± 1.8 
251 ± 142 
29 ± 28 
21 ± 17 
49 ± 21 
47 ± 32 
13 
9 
13 
11 
10 
10 
10 
10 
6 
11 
7 
1358 ± 417 
1606 ± 407 
418 ± 229 
471 ± 128 
39 ± 16 
5.7 ± 2.0 
274 ± 156 
27 ± 21 
35 ± 25 
61 ± 37 
69 ± 30 
13 
621 ± 468 
7 
7 
7 
11 
11 
11 
11 
31 ± 16 
6.2 ± 1.6 
173 ± 77 
18 ± 12 
25 ± 19 
58 ± 33 
53 ± 13 
•  Elimination 
Based on preclinical studies and previous experience with nucleoside analogs there are four possible 
major  metabolic  routes  that  could  be  responsible  for  the  biotransformation  of  clofarabine  in  man: 
intracellular  metabolism  to  the  phosphate  derivatives,  metabolism  by  cytochrome  P450  enzymes, 
metabolism to 2-chloroadenine, and metabolism to 6-ketoclofarabine.  
Clofarabine  is  absorbed  via  diffusion into peripheral mononuclear cells whereupon it is sequentially 
metabolized to its mono-, di-, and ultimately active triphosphorylated form. Non-renal clearance may 
represent metabolism to the mono-, di-, and triphosphate metabolites, although it seems unlikely that 
this route of metabolism is responsible for the major biotransformation of clofarabine. 
In  isolated  human  hepatocytes,  clofarabine  showed  metabolic  stability  with  <  0.2%  of  the  drug 
metabolized after 6 hours suggesting that clofarabine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes  
and as such would not be expected to be affected by other drugs that are metabolized by this enzyme 
system or by drugs that induce or inhibit the metabolism by this class of enzymes.  
Clofarabine  did  not  appear  to  be  metabolized  to  2-chloroadenine  in  humans  as  all  clinical  samples 
analyzed  (Study  DM93-036)  were  below  the  detection  limit  of  10  ng/mL.  6-ketoclofarabine 
concentrations  were  not  monitored  in  clinical  studies  as  preclinical  data  suggested  that  this  was  a 
minor metabolite.  
In  study  ID99-383,  from  10  paediatric  patients,  29  quantifiable  samples  of  clofarabine  triphosphate 
were  measured.  Intracellular  triphosphate  concentrations  ranged  from  2990  to  10329  ng/mL  1  hour 
after the end of infusion of 52 mg/m2 clofarabine. No clear correlation between the administered dose 
of  clofarabine  and  cellular  clofarabine  triphosphate  concentration  nor  between  cellular  triphosphate 
concentration  and  time  was  observed.  At  24  hours  post-dose,  all  five  paired  samples  at  the  end  of 
infusion and 24 hours later had retained more than half their initial triphosphate concentration.  
Estimation  of  clofarabine  triphosphate  concentrations  in  the  mononuclear  cell  fraction  isolated  from 
blood  samples  taken  from  26  adult  patients  with  hematologic  malignancies  in  study  DM93-036 
revealed  wide  between-subject  variability  with  variability  increasing  with  increasing  dose.  At  40 
mg/m2, the maximum tolerated dose, intracellular clofarabine triphosphate concentrations ranged from 
706 to 30986 ng/mL at the end of infusion on day 1. At 24 hours post-dose, 15 of 24 patients who had 
paired  samples  at  the  end  of  infusion  and  24  hours  later  had  retained  more  than  half  their  initial 
triphosphate concentration.  
13/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About  57% of the clofarabine dose was excreted unchanged in urine in a 24 hour period (CLO-212 
and CLO-222) resulting in a renal clearance of 28 L/h (Table PK2). Renal clearance was not affected 
after repeated dosing (comparison day 5 vs day 1). 
Given  an  unbound  fraction  of  0.53  in  human  plasma  [Reichelova  et  al.  1995],  the  unbound  renal 
clearance  of  clofarabine  was  estimated  at  about  20.4  L/h/m2,  which  was  much  greater  than  the 
glomerular filtration rate in humans (4.1 L/h/m2) suggesting filtration and tubular secretion as kidney 
elimination mechanisms. It is difficult to speculate the nature of the active transport site or what other 
substrates may inhibit the secretion of clofarabine but the human organic acid transporter 1 (hOAT1) 
may  be  a  likely  candidate  as  it  is  responsible  for  the  transport  of  other  types of nucleoside analogs, 
like acyclovir and ganciclovir [Takeda et al. 2002].  
Table PK3: Pharmacokinetics in patients aged between 2 to 19 years old with relapsed or 
refractory ALL or AML following administration of multiple doses of clofarabine by 
intravenous infusion 
Estimates based on 
non-compartmental analysis 
(n = 14 / n = 14) 
Estimates based on other 
analysis 
Parameter 
Distribution: 
Volume of distribution (steady state) 
Plasma protein binding 
Serum albumin 
Elimination: 
β half-life of clofarabine 
Half-life of clofarabine triphosphate 
Systemic clearance 
Renal clearance 
Dose excreted in urine 
•  Special populations 
172 l/m2 
5.2 hours 
28.8 l/h/m2 
10.8 l/h/m2 
57% 
47.1% 
27.0% 
> 24 hours 
There are currently insufficient data to establish the safety and efficacy of clofarabine in adult patients 
(> 21 years old including the elderly). 
Multivariate  analysis  showed  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  clofarabine  are  weight  dependent  and 
although  white  blood  cell  (WBC)  count  was  identified  as  having  an  impact  on  clofarabine 
pharmacokinetics, this did not appear sufficient to individualise a patient’s dosage regimen based on 
their WBC count.  Intravenous infusion of 52 mg/m2 clofarabine produced equivalent exposure across 
a  wide  range  of  weights.    However,  Cmax  is  inversely  proportional  to  patient  weight  and,  therefore, 
small children may have a higher Cmax at the end of infusion than a typical 40 kg child given the same 
dose  of  clofarabine  per  m2.    Accordingly,  longer  infusion  times  should  be  considered  in  children 
weighing < 20 kg. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  clofarabine  have  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic 
dysfunction. However, based on limited data, clofarabine may accumulate in patients with decreased 
creatinine clearance (see figure 1).   
14/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Clofarabine AUC0-24 hours by baseline estimated creatinine clearance in patients aged 
between 2 to 19 years old with relapsed or refractory ALL or AML (n = 11 / n = 12) following 
administration of multiple doses of clofarabine by intravenous infusion (Creatinine clearance 
estimated using Schwartz formula) 
3000
Clofarabine
2500
AUC 0-24 hours
(ng*h/ml)
2000
1500
1000
500
0
0
50
100
150
200
250
Estimated creatinine clearance (ml/min)
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted.  
Pharmacodynamics 
No clinical pharmacodynamic studies were submitted.  
Discussion on Clinical pharmacology 
Population  kinetic  modelling  indicated  that  children  weighing  <20  kg  may  have  higher  maximum 
concentrations of clofarabine at the end of infusion. Therefore, the applicant has recommended a dose 
adjustment  in  children  weighing  <20  kg  in  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  to  avoid  unduly  high  maximum 
concentrations of clofarabine, which is acceptable.  
There  is  currently  limited  experience  of  patients  receiving  more  than  3  treatment  cycles  (see  SPC 
section 4.4).  The  majority  of  patients  who  respond  to  clofarabine  achieve  a  response  after 
1 or 2 treatment  cycles  (see  SPC  section  5.1).    Therefore,  the  potential  benefit  and  risks  associated 
with continued therapy in patients who do not show haematological and/or clinical improvement after 
2 treatment cycles should be assessed by the treating physician (see SPC section 4.4). 
There  are  no  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics,  safety  or  efficacy  of  clofarabine  in  infants  (children 
< 1 year old).  Therefore, a safe and effective dosage recommendation for patients (< 1 year old) has 
yet to be established. 
There is no experience in patients with renal insufficiency (serum creatinine ≥ 2 x ULN for age) and 
clofarabine  is  predominately  excreted  via  the  kidneys.    Therefore,  clofarabine  is  contraindicated  in 
patients  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  (see  SPC  section 4.3)  and  should  be  used  with  caution  in 
patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal  insufficiency  (see  SPC  section 4.4).    To  date,  there  are 
insufficient data on the pharmacokinetics of clofarabine in patients with decreased creatinine clearance 
to advise a dose reduction in such patients.  However, these limited data indicate that clofarabine may 
accumulate in patients with decreased creatinine clearance (see SPC sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
There  is  no  experience  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  (serum  bilirubin  > 1.5  x  ULN  plus  AST 
and ALT > 5 x ULN) and the liver is a potential target organ for toxicity.  Therefore, clofarabine is 
contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see SPC section 4.3) and should be used 
with caution in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (see SPC section 4.4). 
15/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
No clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted. On the basis of the limited metabolism 
seen  in  isolated  human  hepatocytes,  cytochrome  P450  inhibitors  or  inducers  are  not  likely  to  affect 
clofarabine’s metabolism. In addition, clofarabine is unlikely to inhibit any of the major 5 human CYP 
isoforms  (1A2,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6  and  3A4)  or  to  induce  2  of  these  isoforms  (1A2  and  3A4)  at  the 
plasma concentrations achieved following intravenous infusion of 52 mg/m2/day.  As a result, it is not 
expected to affect the metabolism of active substances which are known substrates for these enzymes.  
Clofarabine  is  predominately  excreted  via  the  kidneys  and  the  liver  is  a  potential  target  organ  for 
toxicity.    Hence,  the  concomitant  use  of  medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with  renal 
toxicity  and  those  eliminated  by  tubular  secretion  should  be  avoided  particularly  during  the  5 day 
clofarabine administration period (see SPC sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2).  In addition, the concomitant use 
of  medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with  hepatic  toxicity  should  be  avoided  wherever 
possible  (see  SPC  sections 4.4  and  4.8).  Patients  taking  medicinal  products  known  to  affect  blood 
pressure or cardiac function should be closely monitored during treatment with clofarabine (see SPC 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Clinical efficacy  
One  non-comparative  phase  II  study  in  paediatric  patients  has  been  submitted  in  children  with 
refractory  or  relapsed  ALL  (CLO-212).  Currently  clofarabine  is  being  studied  in  adults  with  solid 
tumors  and  AML,  and  in  combination  with  Ara-C  in  adults  with  acute  leukaemias.  The  applicant  is 
currently conducting an uncontrolled Phase II study in paediatric patients with refractory or relapsed 
ALL and a study in elderly adults with AML who are not suitable for intensive chemotherapy. 
•  Dose response studies 
Clofarabine was initially studied in an exploratory, dose-finding study in adults with hematologic and 
solid tumours (DM93-036). Activity was observed in patients with acute leukaemia at 40 mg/m2. The 
dose  limiting  toxicity  in  patients  with  acute  leukaemia  was  hepatotoxicity  and  the  MTD  was 
determined  to  be  40  mg/m2.  This  study  led  to  a  dose-ranging  study  (ID99-383)  in  children  with  a 
diagnosis of either relapsed or refractory ALL or relapsed or refractory AML. 
Study ID99-383 has been described under clinical pharmacokinetics. A total of 25 patients (17 with 
ALL  and  8  with  AML)  were  included.  The  DLT  was  grade  4  hyperbilirubinaemia  and  grade  3 
maculopapular rash, and the MTD for this patient population was 52 mg/m2. All patients received at 
least  one  cycle  of  clofarabine  and  more  than  half  of  the  patients  received  52  mg/m2.  Overall,  8/25 
(32%)  of  the  patients  achieved  either  a  CR  (5/25,  20%)  or  PR  (3/25,  12%).  Of  the  5  complete 
responders,  1  ALL  patient  had  received  30  mg/m2,  two  ALL  patients  had  received  40  mg/m2,  one 
AML  patient  had  received  52  mg/m2,  and  one  ALL  patient  had  received  70  mg/m2  clofarabine.  No 
clear  correlation  between  the  administered  dose  of  clofarabine  and  cellular  clofarabine  triphosphate 
concentration nor between cellular triphosphate concentration and time was observed.  
•  Main study 
Study CLO-212 
METHODS 
Study  CLO-212  was  a  phase  II,  non-randomized,  open-label,  single-arm  study  of  clofarabine  in 
paediatric patients with ALL who were not eligible for therapy of higher curative potential, and who 
were in second or subsequent relapse and/or refractory. 
Study Participants  
Inclusion  criteria  for  study  CLO-212  required  paediatric  patients  with  a  diagnosis  ALL  who  were 
ineligible  for  therapy  of  higher  curative  potential,  and  who  were  in  second  or  subsequent  relapse 
and/or refractory. The definition of paediatric included all patients who were ≤ 21 years of age at the 
time of initial diagnosis. The diagnosis of ALL was according to the French American British (FAB) 
classification with ≥ 25% blasts in the bone marrow and was confirmed by an independent pathologist. 
Patients with a Karnofsky Performance Status ≥ 50 with adequate renal (serum creatinine < 2 x upper 
limit of normal for age [ULN]) and liver function (serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN; AST and ALT ≤ 5 x 
ULN) measured within 2 weeks before registration were eligible to enrol. 
16/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Treatments 
Patients  received  clofarabine  52  mg/m2  day  for  5  consecutive  days  as  an  iv  infusion  over  2  hours. 
Treatment cycles could be repeated every 2 to 6 weeks following recovery of normal haematopoiesis 
(i.e. ANC ≥ 0.75 × 109/l) and return to baseline organ function. Treatment was continued until disease 
relapse for a potential maximum of 12 cycles. Patients who achieved a CR were eligible to receive a 
haematologic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Doses were reduced by 25% in case of non-haematologic 
or haematologic toxicities. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study was to determine overall remission (OR) rate. The OR rate was 
defined  as  the  sum  of  the  number  of  patients  with  either  complete  remission  (CR)  or  complete 
remission  in  the  absence  of  total  platelet  recovery  (CRp)  divided  by  the  total  number  of  eligible 
patients. 
Secondary objectives included documentation of CR, CRp, and of partial response (PR) rates, as well 
as duration of remission and overall survival (OS), and the safety profile and tolerability of clofarabine 
for this dosing regimen in this population. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  number  of  patients  achieving  disease  remission.  Remission  has  been 
categorized  as  complete  remission  (CR),  complete  remission  without  platelet  recovery  (CRp)  and 
partial remission (PR). To enable systematic evaluation of the responses seen in patients, an unblinded 
Independent Response Review Panel (IRRP) was convened in March 2003. 
The  IRRP  produced  the  following  definitions  of  response  rates  in  leukaemic  patients  based  on 
definitions produced by the Children’s Oncology Group (Table 4). 
Table 4. Response criteria for trial 
Complete remission 
(CR):  
Patients who met each of the following criteria: 
•  No evidence of circulating blasts or extramedullary disease 
•  An M1 bone marrow (≤ 5% blasts) 
•  Recovery of peripheral counts (platelets ≥ 100 x 109/L and ANC ≥ 
1.0 x 109/L) 
Complete remission in 
the absence of total 
platelet recovery 
(CRp): 
•  Patients who have met all of the criteria for a CR except for 
recovery of platelet counts to > 100 x 109/L 
Partial remission (PR): 
Patients who met each of the following criteria: 
•  Complete disappearance of circulating blasts 
•  An M2 bone marrow (≥ 5% and ≤ 25% blasts) and appearance of 
normal progenitor cells  
•  An M1 marrow that does not qualify for CR or CRp 
In addition to evaluating the overall remission rate (CR+CRp), the partial remission rate (PR) has also 
been assessed. Partial remission is considered to afford significant clinical benefit in acute paediatric 
leukaemias in as much as a PR can provide an opportunity to proceed to bone marrow transplant. PR 
may  also  provide  prolongation  and  improved  quality  of  life  by  controlling  the  leukaemia  and  its 
associated symptoms. 
Sample size 
Sixty eligible patients were enrolled in a Fleming 2-stage sequential study design 1. The sample size 
of this study was based on overall remission (CR or CRp). The targeted OR rate was 40%. Under the 
17/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
original study design, by enrolling 40 eligible patients, an observed remission rate of 40% would have 
a 95% confidence interval of 25% to 55%. 
Under  the  original  study  design,  20  eligible  patients  were  to  be  enrolled  into  the  first  stage  of  the 
study.  If  <4  patients  achieved  a  CR  or  CRp  following  clofarabine  therapy,  the  accrual  was  to  be 
stopped. If ≥4 patients achieved a CR or CRp, another 20 eligible patients were to be enrolled into the 
second  stage  of  the  study.  If  <14  patients  exhibited  a  CR  or  CRp  by  the  end  of  the  second  accrual 
stage, by which time 40 eligible patients would have been enrolled in the study, the conclusion would 
be drawn that a 40% OR rate was not likely in this indication. If ≥14 of 40 patients achieved a CR or 
CRp after the second accrual stage, the conclusion would be drawn that the treatment was promising. 
Under Amendment 5, the stopping rule was not to be applied. Interim analysis of the first 20 patients 
demonstrated 1 CRp and 3 PR. Accrual of up to 40 patients was to continue in the second stage of the 
study in an effort to better estimate the response rate and gather additional safety information in this 
patient population. 
After discussions with the FDA, Amendment 6 increased the total number of patients enrolled to 60 to 
obtain additional efficacy and safety information. 
Randomisation 
All studies in the clinical development program were of an open-label, non-randomized design. Due to 
the  nature  of  the  patients  included  in  the  clinical  development  program,  active  comparator  studies 
were  not considered to be appropriate as standard chemotherapy had already failed in these patients 
and  there  were  no  other  recognised  therapeutic  options  available  for  them.  Furthermore,  given  the 
efficacy of clofarabine observed early on in the clinical program, studies using a placebo comparator 
were considered to be clinically unethical.  
Blinding (masking) 
Not applicable. 
Statistical methods 
Given the non-comparator design of the study, efficacy outcomes cannot be compared with response 
in  a  placebo  or  active  arm.  Furthermore,  comparison  of  efficacy  results  with  published  data  is 
considered  to  be  inappropriate  as  there  does  not  appear  to  be  any  published  data  from  comparable 
studies.  A  review  of  the  literature  indicates  that  published  studies  are  usually  very  small,  do  not 
involve  an  independent  review  of  response  nor  a  consistent  definition  of  CR.  Also,  the  patients 
enrolled  in  published  studies  appear  to  be  much  less  heavily  pretreated,  with  many  patients  in  first 
relapse and very few studies appear to have enrolled any patients who had undergone prior transplant.  
Consequently, efficacy has been assessed on the basis of response rates in comparison to what would 
be expected by expert clinical evaluation and by comparison with previous experience in this type of 
patient.  This  approach  is  considered  to  be  scientifically  acceptable  for  the  evaluation  of  clinical 
efficacy in the patient population under investigation and is considered to provide the most ethically 
acceptable method of investigation for the patients under study.  
Data cut-off dates 
First interim study report (21 November 2003): 41 patients.   
Second interim study report (30 September 2004): 61 patients (recruitment complete). 
Third interim analysis (30 September 2005): longer follow-up of the 61 patients. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
At the first data cut-off date (November 2003), forty patients had entered the study. A total of 17/40 
(43%) patients discontinued because of failure to respond after 2 cycles of treatment and 7/40 (18%) 
discontinued due to disease progression; 3 (8%) were discontinued by investigator, 2 of which so they 
could receive transplant; 3 (8%) refused further treatment; 3 (8%) were discontinued due to death; 2 
(5%) were listed as discontinued to receive transplant; 1 (3%) discontinued due to an AE; and 4 (10%) 
18/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
were  still  on  study  at  the  time  of  the  data  cut-off.  Therefore,  a  total  of  4  (10%)  patients  were 
discontinued to receive transplant. 
The most recent update (September 2005) indicates that 27/61 (44%) patients discontinued because of 
failure to respond after 2 cycles of treatment and 10/61 (16%) discontinued due to disease progression; 
3 (5%) were discontinued by investigator, 2 of which so they could receive transplant; 3 (5%) refused 
further  treatment;  9  (16%)  were  discontinued  due  to  death;  6  (10%)  were  listed  as  discontinued  to 
receive transplant; and 1 (2%) discontinued due to an AE.  Therefore, a total of 7 (11%) patients were 
discontinued to receive transplant. 
Recruitment 
Eighteen sites in the US participated in the study. However, at the first data cut-off date, only 14 sites 
had enrolled 41 patients in the study. One of the patients did not receive study drug due to insufficient 
hepatic  function  and  was  not  included  in  the  efficacy  analyses.  When  recruitment  was complete, 16 
sites in the US had treated 61 patients. 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol violations were present in 40% of the patients in the first interim study report. The diagnosis 
of  ALL  was  confirmed  by  an independent pathologist for 36/40 patients in this study. Four patients 
did not meet all eligibility criteria and were enrolled with waivers. Subsequent analyses showed that 
multiple  patients  (30/40)  received  steroids  as  per  investigator  decision,  while  steroid  use  was  an 
exclusion  criterion.  Patients  who  achieved  a  CR  were  eligible  to  receive  a  HSCT.  However,  in 
practice, because the patient population under investigation was at high risk of relapse, and because of 
HSCT scheduling logistics, many investigators had patients proceed to transplant as soon as there was 
complete  or  even  substantial  clearance  of bone marrow blasts without allowing for peripheral blood 
count  recovery.  The  implication  of  this  practice  pattern  is  that  some  of  these  patients  could  have 
become  a  CRp  or  CR  given  sufficient  time  for  recovery  of  blood  counts  or  additional  cycles  of 
clofarabine. The most recent update indicates 40% of patients had protocol violations. 
Baseline data 
The demographic and baseline characteristics for patients enrolled in CLO-212 are summarized in 
Table 5. 
Table 5: Summary of Baseline Characteristics for Study CLO-212 
Males 
Females 
Median age (range) (years) 
Subtype of haematological malignancy 
L1 
L2 
Unknown 
Number of prior regimens 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Number of prior transplants 
1 
2 
Exposure 
First data cut-off 
date (Nov 03) 
25 (63%) 
15 (38%) 
12.5 (1-20) 
Most recent 
update (Sept 05) 
37 (61%) 
24 (39%) 
12.0 (1-20) 
N=16/40 (40%) 
N=10/40 (25%) 
N=14/40 (35%) 
N=27/61 (44%) 
N=13/61 (21%) 
N=21/61 (34%) 
N=12/40 (30%) 
N=12/40 (30%) 
N=12/40 (30%) 
N=1/40 (2.5%) 
N=3/40 (7.5%) 
N=21/61 (34%) 
N=23/61 (38%) 
N=14/61 (23%) 
N=1/61 (1.6%) 
N=2/61 (3.3%) 
N=11/40 (28%) 
N=2/40 (5%) 
N=15/61 (25%) 
N=3/61 (4.9%) 
median cumulative dose 
range of doses 
median cycles 
range of cycles 
520mg 
29 to 1355 mg 
2 
1 to 5 
530 mg 
29 to 2815 mg 
2 
1 to 12 
Number of cycles 
1 
17/40 (43%) 
25/61 (41%) 
19/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
3 or more 
16/40 (40%) 
7/40 (18%) 
27/61 (44%) 
9/61 (15%) 
At the first data cut-off date (November 2003), the median age of the treated patients was 12.5 years. 
Three patients were ≤ 2 years, 17/40 were between 2 and 12 years and the remainder was above 12 
years  of  age.  There  were  more  males  (63%)  enrolled  than  females  (38%).  In  addition,  most  of  the 
patients were either Caucasian (n=17, 43%) or Hispanic (n=15, 38%) with only 15% Black (n=6), and 
5%  other  race  (n=2).  Most  patients  (83%)  received  1  or  2  cycles  of  clofarabine  with  a  median 
cumulative dose of 520 mg. Patients had subtypes of L1 (40%) and L2 (25%) ALL, and 35% had an 
unknown subtype. Analysis of immuno-phenotype showed that 27/40 (68%) patients had a pre-B cell 
phenotype, 6/40 (15%) had B cell phenotype, 4/40 (10%) had T cell/pre-T cell phenotype, 1 (3%) had 
a mixed phenotype, and 2 (5%) had an unknown phenotype. All patients had received prior induction 
regimens; most patients (36/40, 90%) had received 2 to 4 prior regimens. Before enrolling in the trial, 
33% of patients had undergone at least 1 prior transplant. 
In  the  most  recent  update  (September  2005),  the  median  age  of  the  treated  patients  was  12.0  years. 
Three patients were ≤ 2 years, 30/61 were between 2 and 12 years and the remainder was above 12 
years  of  age.  There  were  more  males  (61%)  enrolled  than  females  (39%).  In  addition,  most  of  the 
patients were either Caucasian (n=26, 44%) or Hispanic (n=23, 38%) with only 12% Black (n=7), and 
7%  other  race  (n=4).  Most  patients  (85%)  received  1  or  2  cycles  of  clofarabine  with  a  median 
cumulative dose of 530 mg. Patients had subtypes of L1 (44%) and L2 (21%) ALL, and 34% had an 
unknown subtype. Analysis of immuno-phenotype showed that 41/61 (62%) patients had a pre-B cell 
phenotype, 9/61 (15%) had B cell phenotype, 6/61 (9.8%) had T cell/pre-T cell phenotype, 2 (3.3%) 
had  a  mixed  phenotype,  and  3  (5%)  had  an  unknown  phenotype.  All  patients  had  received  prior 
induction regimens; most patients (58/61, 95%) had received 2 to 4 prior regimens. Before enrolling in 
the trial, 30% of patients had undergone at least 1 prior transplant. 
Numbers analysed 
First interim study report (November 2003) 
Eligible  patient  population:  All  40  patients  that  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug  (partial  or 
complete  dose)  and  that  had  a  centrally  confirmed  diagnosis  of  ALL  were  included  in  the  eligible 
patient analyses. 
Intention-to-treat  (ITT)  population:  All  40  patients  that  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug 
(partial or complete dose) were included in the ITT analyses. 
Third interim analysis (September 2005) 
Eligible  patient  population:  All  61  patients  that  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug  (partial  or 
complete  dose)  and  that  had  a  centrally  confirmed  diagnosis  of  ALL  were  included  in  the  eligible 
patient analyses. 
Intention-to-treat  (ITT)  population:  All  61  patients  that  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug 
(partial or complete dose) were included in the ITT analyses. 
Outcomes and estimation 
First interim study report (November 2003) 
Seven patients (18%) achieved overall remission (4 CR and 3 CRp), and 4 additional patients (10%) 
achieved a PR. The median duration of remission was 9.7 weeks for CR (duration of remission was 
1.1+,  6.1,  9.3+  and  9.7  weeks)  and  33.5  weeks  for  CRp  (duration  of  remission  was  1.6+,  28.6,  and 
38.3  weeks).  The  duration  of  PR  tended  to  be  shorter  at  2.5,  5.0,  7.6  and  14.3  weeks.  Ten  patients 
(25%) were still alive at the time of data cut-off. These included the patients who achieved a CR, with 
survival  times  of  4.9+,  17.6+,  18.0+,  and  46.0+  weeks.  Two  of  the  3  patients  who  achieved  a  CRp 
were still alive, with survival times of 6.1+ and 37.0+ weeks. One CRp patient died at 42 weeks. No 
patient who achieved a PR was still alive at the time of data cut-off. The median survival of patients 
who achieved PR was 23.9 weeks. The median survival of patients classified as treatment failures or 
not  evaluable  was  7.1  weeks.  There  were  5  patients  who  went  on  to  receive  an  HSCT:  1  after 
achieving  CR,  2  after  CRp,  1  after  PR  as  well  as  1  patient  who  was  not  evaluable  due  to  the  poor 
quality of his bone marrow sample but who the investigator considered a PR. Three of these patients 
20/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
were still alive at data cut-off, with survival times of 18.0+ weeks (CR), 37.0+ weeks (CRp) and 16.1+ 
weeks (non-evaluable patient). Karnofsky Performance Scores worsened in 53%, stayed the same in 
29% and improved in 18%.  A summary of the main efficacy variables of study CLO-212 is given in 
Table 6. 
Table 6:  Summary of Efficacy Variables for Patients included in study CLO-212 
Overall Remission n (%) 
CR 
CRp 
Number (%) of Patients with PR 
Number (%) of Patients with at least PR 
Number (%) of Patients Not Evaluable 
Treatment Failure 
Median duration of remission 
7/40 (18%) 
4/40 (10%) 
3/40 (8%) 
4/40 (10%) 
11/40 (28%) 
5/40 (13%) 
24/40 (60%) 
95% CI: 7% to 33% 
95% CI: 15% to 44% 
Patients with at least PR (n=11) 
Patients with CR (n=4) 
Patients with CRp (n=3) 
Patients with OR [CR+CRp] (n=7) 
Patients with PR (n=4) 
9.7 weeks 
9.7 weeks 
33.5 weeks 
28.6 weeks 
6.3 weeks 
95% CI: 6.1 to 28.6 weeks 
95% CI: 6.1 to 9.7 weeks 
95% CI: 28.6 to 38.3 weeks 
95% CI: 6.1 to 38.3 weeks 
95% CI: 2.3 to 14.3 weeks 
Median time to progression 
All patients (n=40) 
Patients with at least PR (n=11) 
Patients with CR (n=4) 
Patients with CRp (n=3) 
Patients with OR (n=7) 
Patients with PR (n=4) 
Treatment Failure/Not Eval (n=29) 
Median time for survival 
5.1 weeks 
18.1 weeks 
20.4 weeks 
39.5 weeks 
37.0 weeks 
8.8 weeks 
4.0 weeks 
95% CI: 3.9 to 6.1 weeks 
95% CI: 10.6 to 37.0 weeks 
95% CI: 13.7 to 20.4 weeks 
95% CI: 37.0 to 42.0 weeks 
95% CI: 13.7 to 42.0 weeks 
95% CI: 6.3 to 18.1 weeks 
95% CI: 3.4 to 5.1 weeks 
All patients (n=40) 
Patients with at least PR (n=11) 
Patients with CR (n=4) 
Patients with CRp (n=3) 
Patients with OR (n=7) 
Patients with PR (n=4) 
Treatment Failure/Not Eval (n=29) 
95% CI: 7.0 to 18.4 weeks 
95% CI: 18.1 to . weeks (range=4.9+ to 46.0+) 
8.0 weeks 
36.3 weeks 
4 still alive as of cut-off date: 4.9+, 17.6+, 18.0+, 46.0+ 
2 of 3 still alive; 6.1+, 37.0+, one died at 42.0 weeks  
6 of 7 still alive (range 4.9+ to 46.0+ weeks) 
95% CI: 7.0 to 36.3 weeks 
23.9 weeks 
95% CI: 6.3 to 9.6 weeks 
7.1 weeks 
Clinical Benefit 
Transplant (HSCT) 
Best On-Study Karnofsky scores 
Improved 
Stayed the Same 
Worsened 
Not assessed 
5/40 (13%) 
6/34 (18%) 
10/34 (29%) 
18/34 (53%) 
6  
CR=complete remission, CRp=complete remission without platelet recovery, OR=overall remission, PR=partial 
remission, PBSCT=peripheral blood stem cell transplant 
Second interim study report (September 2004) 
This first update included efficacy data for 21 additional patients. Before enrolling in the trial, 58 of 
the  61 patients  (95%)  had  received  2 to 4 different  induction  regimens  and  18/61  (30%)  of  these 
patients  had  undergone  at  least  1 prior  HSCT.  The  median  age  of  treated  patients  (37 males, 
24 females) was 12 years old. Administration of clofarabine resulted in a dramatic and rapid reduction 
in peripheral leukaemia cells in 31 of the 33 patients (94%) who had a measurable absolute blast count 
at baseline. The overall remission rate was 20% (12/61) for the enlarged 61 patient data set with the 
following  median  durations  of  remission:  patients  with  CR  28.8  weeks  (95%  CI:  6.1  -  47.9  weeks), 
patients with CRp 28.6 weeks (95% CI: 4.6 - 28.6 weeks), patients with PR 5.2 weeks (95% CI: 2.3 - 
7.6  weeks).  Responses  were  seen  in  different  immunophenotypes  of  ALL,  including  pre-B cell  and 
21/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T-cell.  Nine  patients  (9/61)  were  transplanted  after  clofarabine  treatment.  Median  survival  time  of 
patients with overall remission (CR + CRp) was 58.6 weeks (53.7 weeks for patients with CRp and not 
reached for patients with CR as most (6/7) were still alive at the time of data cut-off).  
Third interim analysis (September 2005) 
A second update with a data cut-off date of 30 September 2005 was submitted (Table 7).  
Table 7. Efficacy results from the pivotal study in patients (≤ 21 years old at initial diagnosis) 
with relapsed or refractory ALL after at least two prior regimens 
Response 
category 
Overall 
remission 
(CR + CRp) 
CR 
CRp 
PR 
CR + CRp + PR 
Treatment 
failure 
Not evaluable 
All patients 
ITT* 
patients 
(n = 61) 
12 
(20%) 
Median duration 
of remission 
(weeks) 
28.6 
(95% CI: 9.7 to 58.6) 
Median time to 
progression 
(weeks)** 
37.0 
(95% CI: 15.4 to 61.9) 
Median overall 
survival (weeks) 
66.6 
(95% CI: 53.7 to 89.4) 
7 
(12%) 
5 
(8%) 
6 
(10%) 
18 
(30%) 
33 
(54%) 
10 
(16%) 
61 
(100%) 
47.9 
(95% CI: 6.1 to -) 
28.6 
(95% CI: 4.6 to 35.4) 
5.2 
(95% CI: 2.3 to -) 
11.7 
(95% CI: 6.1 to 47.9) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
56.1 
(95% CI: 13.7 to -) 
37.0 
(95% CI: 9.1 to 39.4) 
8.6 
(95% CI: 6.3 to -) 
20.4 
(95% CI: 10.6 to 56.1) 
66.6 
(95% CI: 66.6 to 89.4) 
53.7 
(95% CI: 9.1 to -) 
33.0 
(95% CI: 18.1 to -) 
66.6 
(95% CI: 42.0 to 89.4) 
4.0 
(95% CI: 3.4 to 5.1) 
7.6 
(95% CI: 6.7 to 12.6) 
5.4 
(95% CI: 4.0 to 6.1) 
12.9 
(95% CI: 7.9 to 18.1) 
*ITT = intention to treat.  
**Patients alive and in remission at the time of last follow up were censored at that time point for the 
analysis. 
Although transplantation rate was not a study endpoint, a total of 10 children treated with clofarabine 
subsequently underwent a HSCT, including 8/18 patients who achieved a response (3 after achieving a 
CR,  2 after  a  CRp,  3 after  a  PR,  1 patient  that  was  considered  a  treatment  failure  by  the  IRRP  and 
1 that was considered not evaluable by the IRRP).  Response durations are confounded in patients who 
received  a  HSCT.  None  of  the  patients  who  proceeded  to  transplant  post-clofarabine  treatment  in 
study  CLO-212  for  whom  data  is  available  (9/10  patients)  have  developed  veno-occlusive  disease 
(VOD).  Regarding  responding  patients  who  did  not  receive  a  HSCT  (10  out  of  18),  2  patients  are 
known to be alive. According to the applicant, multifactorial reasons probably explain why these 10 
patients did not undergo transplant including lack of donor availability, patient/parental withdrawal of 
consent,  and  institutional/physician  standard  practice.  None  of  the  10  patients  had  any  clofarabine-
related  or  clinically  significant  toxicity  that  would  have  prevented  HSCT.  In  particular,  no 
hepatotoxicity that would have precluded HSCT was reported in any of these patients. 
Ancillary analyses 
Examination of response by subgroups in the first data cut (November 2003) showed that 6 out of the 
33  pre-B  cell/B-cell  immunophenotypes  achieved  CR  or  CRp  and  1  out  of  the  4  pre-T-cell/T-cell 
immunophenotypes  achieved  CR  or  CRp.  One  of  the  2  Philadelphia  (t[9;22])  positive  patients 
achieved a PR. Only one of the 12 patients with 2 prior treatment regimens showed a response, while 
2 out of 12 patients for each group having received 3 or 4 prior regimens achieved a CR or CRp. Two 
out of 3 patients who received 6 prior regimens achieved a CR or CRp. 
Analysis of the most recent update showed that 8 out of the 41 pre-B cell/B-cell immunophenotypes 
achieved  CR  or  CRp  and  2  out  of  the  6  pre-T-cell/T-cell  immunophenotypes  achieved  CR  or  CRp. 
Two of the 3 Philadelphia (t[9;22]) positive patients achieved a PR. Three of the 23 patients with 2 
prior  treatment  regimens  showed  a  response,  while  4  out  of  22  patients  having  received  3  prior 
22/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
regimens and 4 out of 13 patients having received 4 prior regimens achieved a CR or CRp. One out of 
3 patients who received 5 or 6 prior regimens achieved a CR or CRp. 
•  Supportive studies 
Phase II study in adults with CLL (DM99-225). This was a phase II, open-label, single-site study of 
clofarabine  administered  to  patients  with  CLL  who  had  failed  fludarabine  and  alkylator  therapy. 
Patients were treated with clofarabine 4 mg/m2 ivi over 1 hour for 5 days every 4 weeks. Eleven adults 
were treated. This study was closed to further enrolment by the investigator due to apparent lack of 
clinical efficacy. 
Phase  II  study  in  adults  with  haematological  tumors  (ID00-038).  This  was  a  single-center,  non-
randomised, open-label, phase II study of clofarabine in patients 12 years or older with ALL, AML, 
MDS, or CML in transformation that was refractory to therapy, or in relapse for patients who were not 
candidates for treatment of higher efficacy or priority. Patients received clofarabine 40 mg/m2 ivi over 
1 hour for 5 days every 2 to 6 weeks. A total of 64 patients were enrolled in this study, 62 of whom 
were treated. This was a non-registration investigator initiated trial and after the study was transferred 
to  ILEX,  case  record  forms  were  designed  to  retrieve  and  verify  the  data  collected  by  MDACC. 
Efficacy  and  safety  data  were  collected  for  8  responders.  SAE  data  were  collected  by  ILEX  for  31 
patients, none of whom were paediatric patients. ILEX discontinued data retrieval due to the initiation 
of an ILEX sponsored phase II adult AML study with clofarabine (CLO-221). The results of this study 
have  been  published  by  the  study  investigators  [Kantarjian,  Gandhi  et  al.  2003].  They  reported  that 
20/62  (32%)  patients  achieved  complete  response  (CR),  1  had  a  partial  response  (PR),  and  9  (15%) 
achieved  CR  but  without  platelet  recovery  (CRp),  for  an  overall  response  rate  of  48%.  In  AML, 
responses were noted in 2 (18%) of 11 patients in first salvage with short first CR (< 12 months), in 7 
(87%)  of  8  patients  with  longer  first  CR,  and  in  8  (67%)  of  12  patients  in  second  or  subsequent 
salvage. Responses were observed in 4 of 8 patients with high-risk MDS (50%), in 7 (64%) of 11 with 
CML-BP, and in 2 (17%) of 12 with ALL. Severe reversible liver dysfunction was noted in 15% to 
25% of patients. 
Phase II study in adults with AML (CLO-221). This was a phase II, open-label, single-arm study of 
clofarabine administered to adult patients with refractory or relapsed AML who were not eligible for 
therapy of higher curative potential. In the Induction phase, patients were treated with clofarabine 40 
mg/m2/day by ivi over one hour for 5 consecutive days every 28 days for up to 2 cycles. Patients who 
achieved a CR or CRp during Induction therapy were treated with clofarabine 30 mg/m2/day for up to 
3 cycles (for a maximum of up to 4 total treatment cycles). Forty adults and 1 paediatric patient were 
treated. The majority of patients in this population of heavily pre-treated refractory adults with AML 
did not respond to treatment with clofarabine. One patient achieved a CR (duration 20.4 weeks) and 
one failed to respond but benefited from treatment and was able to receive an allogeneic transplant 137 
days after starting treatment with clofarabine. 
Phase  I  study  in  adults  with  AML  or  ALL  receiving  clofarabine  in  combination  with  Ara-C  (CLO-
141).  This  was  an  open-label,  single-arm  study  of  clofarabine  administered  with  Ara-C  in  adult 
patients in first relapse or first salvage of primary refractory AML or ALL; with high-risk MDS; or 
with  CML  blast  phase  as  front  line  therapy  or  in  first  salvage.  No  efficacy  analysis  is  currently 
available for this study as it is ongoing. 
Current and planned studies 
Two open-label Phase II studies are ongoing (studies BIOV 111 and BIOV 121).  Study BIOV-111 is 
a study of clofarabine in pediatric patients with refractory / relapsed ALL and study BIOV-121 is in 
older patients (≥65 years) with untreated AML who are unsuitable for intensive chemotherapy. Based 
on  an  interim  status  report  of  study  BIOV-111,  in  total,  12/23  patients  treated  with  two  courses  of 
clofarabine  were  evaluable  for  response  (no  IRRP  assessment  was  available).  Of  the  12  patients,  2 
patients reached complete remission (CR) and 3 patients reached complete remission in the absence of 
total platelet recovery (CRp).  
A programme of further clinical studies investigating the use of clofarabine in the treatment of ALL is 
planned. Two phase I/II studies investigating the activity of clofarabine as a combination therapy in 
patients with pediatric leukemias are being initiated in the US.  
23/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The demonstration of efficacy in ALL is based on the non-comparative, phase II study CLO-212. No 
randomized controlled trials with clofarabine in ALL have been submitted. Lack of a comprehensive 
clinical development program has been justified in view of the small size of the population of patients 
in second relapse.  
Patients  recruited  into  study  CLO-212  were heavily pre-treated (2-6 prior intensive treatments) with 
two thirds of patients having received three or more prior treatments and were required by the protocol 
to not be eligible for ‘therapy of a high curative potential’ than anticipated with clofarabine. Just over 
half of patients had characteristics at diagnosis that would predict that they were at a high or very high 
risk  of  relapse  after  their  first  treatment  (i.e.  were  considered  to  be  difficult  to  treat).  Most  of  the 
remaining  patients  were  considered  to  have  a  standard  risk  whilst  only  7%  had  a  low  risk  based  on 
their characteristics at diagnosis. Around a half of patients were refractory to their last prior treatment, 
the remainder had relapsed.  
The results obtained from interim analysis of CLO-212 demonstrate that treatment with clofarabine at 
the dose of 52 mg/m2/day for 5 days can induce remissions in relapsed or refractory paediatric patients 
with ALL. Updated results of study CLO-212 showed that treatment with clofarabine was associated 
with an overall remission rate of 20% and facilitated HSCT in 8 of the 18 responding patients in an 
otherwise extremely poor prognostic relapsed or refractory ALL population.  
Clofarabine can induce remission both in patients who had relapsed after intensive treatment and also, 
importantly, in patients who had been refractory to their prior treatments.  Indeed, a response was seen 
in  one  patient  who  had  been  refractory  to  all  four  of  their  prior  treatments.  Responses  were  seen  in 
patients regardless of whether they were classified as standard, high or very high risk at diagnosis.  
Attempts  have  been  made  to  compare  survival  following  clofarabine  treatment  with  that  seen  after 
other  treatment  of  multiply  relapsed  pediatric  ALL  by  analysing  the  data  held  in  the  German  and 
Dutch cancer registries. The data indicate that patients with multiply relapsed ALL have an estimated 
median  survival  of  9-10  weeks  without  further  intervention.  Although  historical  comparisons  are 
notoriously difficult and prone to bias, median survival following clofarabine treatment (all patients) 
was 17.7 weeks, and was greater than one year in patients who respond to clofarabine treatment. 
The majority of patients who respond to clofarabine achieve a response after 1 or 2 treatment cycles.  
Therefore,  the  potential  benefit  and  risks  associated  with  continued  therapy  in  patients  who  do  not 
show haematological and/or clinical improvement after 2 treatment cycles should be assessed by the 
treating physician. 
There are currently insufficient data to establish the safety and efficacy of clofarabine in adult patients 
(> 21 years old including the elderly).  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
As of 30 September 2005, a total of 132 patients (> 1 and < 21 years old) with either ALL or AML 
received at least one dose of clofarabine (79 ALL and 53 AML); they were defined as paediatrics on 
the basis of their age being ≤ 21 years at the time of initial diagnosis.  
Studies  ID99-383,  CLO-212  and  CLO-222  were  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  clofarabine  in  a 
paediatric population and provided 128 patients. Two patients aged 19 and 18 years at diagnosis took 
part  in  adult  trials  (CLO-221;  Patient 221-004-0010  and  CLO-141;  Patient  141-001-0013).  (Study 
CLO-221  was  similar  to  the  paediatric  AML  protocol  although  the  highest  dose  of  clofarabine 
permitted  was  40 mg/m2/day.  Study  CLO-141  examined  clofarabine  up  to  40  mg/m2/day  in 
combination  with  cytarabine  in  first  relapse  or  first  salvage  of  primary  refractory  AML  or  ALL 
patients.) Finally, two children were included in the safety database from study DM93-036, the Phase 
I dose escalation study. 
The  safety  data  collected  from  these  132  patients  has  been  combined  and  the  overall  incidence  of 
adverse events in ALL and AML paediatric patients has been assessed. One hundred and fifteen (87%) 
patients received the recommended clofarabine dose of 52 mg/m2/day unless the dose was adjusted in 
response  to  safety  considerations  with  14 patients  receiving  less  than  52 mg/m2/day  and  3 patients 
24/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
receiving  more  than  52 mg/m2/day.  Most  of  the  132  paediatric  leukaemia  patients  in  the  integrated 
safety database received clofarabine for two treatment cycles although 25 patients received treatment 
for three or more cycles. 
The safety data from paediatric patients recruited into the emergency expanded access/compassionate 
use  program  or  recruited  into  studies  where  the  protocol  differed  significantly  from  that  of  the 
paediatric ALL and AML studies and those generated in adult patients with a variety of malignancies, 
both haematological and solid, have not been integrated but have been considered on a study-by-study 
basis. 
•  Adverse events  
One hundred and thirty one patients in the integrated database experienced at least one adverse event 
and, almost all, a drug-related adverse event. The most common toxicities observed during exposure to 
clofarabine were gastrointestinal system AEs (vomiting, nausea, and diarrhoea), adverse haematologic 
effects  (febrile  neutropenia  and  neutropenia),  pruritus,  headache  and  pyrexia  (Table  8).  A  similar 
spectrum of common adverse events was observed in studies in adult patients. 
Most patients who entered the studies already had a wide spectrum of concomitant medical conditions, 
many as a consequence of prior regimen toxicity. Furthermore, many patients were receiving therapies 
to  ameliorate  the  effects  of  these  prior  toxic  effects.  This  complicated  background  of  pre-existing 
medical conditions makes the interpretation of adverse event data difficult and potentially predisposes 
patients to a higher likelihood of experiencing toxicity whilst on any drug. In particular, it is difficult 
to  distinguish  disease  progression  from  drug  toxicity  and  to  assess  whether  toxicity  is  related  to the 
study medication or to toxicity from prior therapies or from concomitantly administered medications. 
Table 8: ALL and AML Pediatric Patients Combined: Number (≥ 5%) with Incidence of 
Adverse Events Regardless of Relationship to Study Drug by Preferred Term and Maximum 
Grade (NCI CTC Toxicity Grade) 
MedDRA Version 3.3 
Preferred Term¹ 
Total Patients with Adverse 
Events 
ALL/AML (n=132) 
Total 
Grade 1 Grade 2  Grade 3 Grade 4  Grade 5
n  %  n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
131  99.2
1
0.8
6
4.5 70 53.0 30 
22.7  24  18.2
Vomiting NOS 
104  78.8 29 22.0
63 47.7 11
8.3
Nausea 
94  71.2 16 12.1
58 43.9 19 14.4
Febrile Neutropenia 
75  56.8
.
.
1
0.8 69 52.3
Diarrhoea NOS 
Pruritus NOS 
Headache NOS 
Dermatitis NOS 
Pyrexia 
68  51.5 34 25.8
19 14.4 15 11.4
61  46.2 25 18.9
35 26.5
59  44.7 26 19.7
25 18.9
50  37.9 17 12.9
25 18.9
1
8
8
0.8
6.1
6.1
50  37.9 12
9.1
20 15.2 18 13.6
Abdominal Pain NOS 
47  35.6 22 16.7
16 12.1
Fatigue 
Rigors 
Tachycardia NOS 
Anorexia 
Pain in Limb 
Petechiae 
Hypotension NOS 
46  34.8 25 18.9
17 12.9
45  34.1 27 20.5
15 11.4
43  32.6 25 18.9
38  28.8 12
38  28.8 12
9.1
9.1
38  28.8 19 14.4
36  27.3
2
1.5
12
12
9.1
9.1
19 14.4
7.6
10
11
9
3
3
6
6
7
9
6.8
2.3
2.3
4.5
4.5
5.3
6.8
1 
1 
5 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1 
. 
. 
8 
. 
. 
0.8 
0.8 
3.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
0.8 
. 
. 
6.1 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
8.3 13
9.8 10 
7.6 
25/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Mucosal Inflammation NOS 
26  19.7 13
MedDRA Version 3.3 
Preferred Term¹ 
Epistaxis 
Anxiety NEC 
Cough 
Constipation 
Erythema NEC 
Flushing 
Oedema NOS 
Pain NOS 
Arthralgia 
Sore Throat NOS 
Depression NEC 
Gingival Bleeding 
Hypertension NOS 
Sepsis NOS 
Appetite Decreased NOS 
18  13.6 12
Dyspnoea NOS 
Haematuria 
Myalgia 
17  12.9
3
17  12.9 11
17  12.9
8
Dizziness (Exc Vertigo) 
16  12.1 12
Pleural Effusion 
Back Pain 
Bacteraemia 
Contusion 
Herpes Simplex 
Injection Site Pain 
Insomnia NEC 
Jaundice NOS 
Transfusion Reaction 
Weight Decreased 
Hepatomegaly 
Irritability 
Oral Candidiasis 
Abdominal Distension 
Bone Pain 
16  12.1
15  11.4
15  11.4
7
4
.
15  11.4 11
15  11.4
15  11.4
3
7
15  11.4 10
15  11.4
15  11.4
15  11.4
14  10.6
8
4
7
6
14  10.6 10
14  10.6
13  9.8
13  9.8
5
6
2
ALL/AML (n=132) 
Total 
Grade 1 Grade 2  Grade 3 Grade 4  Grade 5
n  %  n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
34  25.8 16 12.1
1
0.8 17 12.9
29  22.0 11
8.3
16 12.1
7
10
5.3
7.6
14 10.6
7
.
5.3
.
15 11.4
29  22.0 22 16.7
9.8
8.3
25  18.9 11
25  18.9 18 13.6
24  18.2 24 18.2
23  17.4
22  16.7
21  15.9
4
2
6
3.0
1.5
4.5
20  15.2 16 12.1
19  14.4
19  14.4
19  14.4
19  14.4
7
9
6
.
2
.
3
.
.
.
2
8
4
.
1
7
8
8.3
8.3
3.0
8.3
1.5
3.8
. 10
4.5
3.0
3.0
6.1
3.0
2.3
6.1
.
6
2
1
.
4
3
1.5
.
2.3
.
.
.
1.5
6.1
3.0
.
0.8
5.3
6.1
7.6
.
4.5
1.5
0.8
.
3.0
2.3
. 15 11.4
2.3
4.5
5.3
3.8
3.8
4.5
5.3
.
2.3
5.3
3.0
5.3
1
6
1
.
2
5
1
8
1
2
3
4
0.8
4.5
0.8
.
1.5
3.8
0.8
6.1
0.8
1.5
2.3
3.0
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
2 
1 
. 
. 
. 
1 
. 
4 
. 
4 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1.5 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
3.0 
5 
3.8
. 
3.0 
. 
. 
. 
2 
1.5 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
11
11
4
11
2
5
.
6
4
4
8
4
3
8
.
3
6
7
5
5
6
7
.
3
7
4
7
5.3
6.8
4.5
.
9.1
2.3
8.3
6.1
9.1
5.3
3.0
.
8.3
2.3
5.3
7.6
6.1
3.0
5.3
4.5
7.6
3.8
4.5
1.5
26/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
ALL/AML (n=132) 
Total 
Grade 1 Grade 2  Grade 3 Grade 4  Grade 5
n  %  n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
MedDRA Version 3.3 
Preferred Term¹ 
Cellulitis 
Face Oedema 
Palmar-Plantar 
Erythrodysaesthesia 
Syndrome 
Rash Pruritic 
13  9.8
13  9.8
13  9.8
13  9.8
1
7
3
4
Cardiac Murmur NOS 
12  9.1 12
Lethargy 
Neutropenia 
Pneumonia NOS 
Respiratory Distress 
Somnolence 
Weakness 
Dry Skin 
Haematoma NOS 
Hallucination NOS 
Nasal Congestion 
Tremor NEC 
Agitation 
Dehydration 
Ecchymosis 
Tachypnoea 
Chest Pain NEC 
Lip Dry 
Pericardial Effusion 
Proctalgia 
Renal Failure Acute 
Septic Shock 
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Candidal Infection NOS 
Conjunctival Haemorrhage 
Dyspepsia 
Fungal Infection NOS 
Herpes Zoster 
Hypersensitivity NOS 
Implant Infection 
12  9.1
12  9.1
12  9.1
12  9.1
12  9.1
12  9.1
11  8.3
11  8.3
11  8.3
8
.
3
.
8
4
8
8
3
11  8.3 10
11  8.3 10
10  7.6
10  7.6
10  7.6
10  7.6
9  6.8
9  6.8
9  6.8
9  6.8
9  6.8
9  6.8
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
2
2
6
3
4
9
6
2
1
.
5
3
5
7
1
.
1
1
0.8
5.3
2.3
3.0
9.1
6.1
.
2.3
.
6.1
3.0
6.1
6.1
2.3
7.6
7.6
1.5
1.5
4.5
2.3
3.0
6.8
4.5
1.5
0.8
.
3.8
2.3
3.8
5.3
0.8
.
0.8
0.8
2
6
6
7
.
3
.
.
2
3
5
3
2
.
1
1
6
7
1
2
4
.
2
5
3
.
3
4
2
1
.
2
3
2
1.5 10
7.6
4.5
.
.
4.5
5.3
.
2.3
.
.
1.5
2.3
3.8
2.3
1.5
.
0.8
0.8
4.5
5.3
0.8
1.5
3.0
.
1.5
3.8
2.3
.
2.3
3.0
1.5
0.8
.
1.5
2.3
1.5
4
2
.
1
3
6
5
1
2
.
1
8
.
.
2
1
2
4
1
.
.
2
3
1
.
1
1
.
5
6
4
4
3.0
1.5
.
0.8
2.3
4.5
3.8
0.8
1.5
.
0.8
6.1
.
.
1.5
0.8
1.5
3.0
0.8
.
.
1.5
2.3
0.8
.
0.8
0.8
.
3.8
4.5
3.0
3.0
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
9 
2 
4 
. 
1 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1 
1 
. 
. 
1 
. 
2 
4 
. 
. 
. 
. 
2 
. 
. 
1 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
6.8 
1.5 
3.0 
. 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
0.8 
0.8 
. 
. 
0.8 
. 
1.5 
3.0 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1.5 
. 
. 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1 
1 
0.8
0.8
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
4 
3.0
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
27/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
MedDRA Version 3.3 
Preferred Term¹ 
Loose Stools 
Mouth Ulceration 
Neck Pain 
Proteinuria Present 
Rash Maculo-Papular 
Skin Hyperpigmentation 
Splenomegaly 
Staphylococcal Infection 
NOS 
Tumour Lysis Syndrome 
Abdominal Tenderness 
Colitis Pseudomembranous 
Haematemesis 
Multi-Organ Failure 
Oedema Peripheral 
Rhinorrhoea 
Skin Disorder NOS 
Skin Lesion NOS 
Staphylococcal Bacteraemia 
ALL/AML (n=132) 
Total 
Grade 1 Grade 2  Grade 3 Grade 4  Grade 5
n  %  n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
n  % 
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
8  6.1
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
7  5.3
6
4
4
4
2
8
3
.
.
4
.
2
.
3
7
2
5
.
4.5
3.0
3.0
3.0
1.5
6.1
2.3
.
.
3.0
.
1.5
.
2.3
5.3
1.5
3.8
.
2
3
3
2
3
.
1
1
.
2
3
1
.
4
.
2
2
.
1.5
2.3
2.3
1.5
2.3
.
0.8
0.8
.
1.5
2.3
0.8
.
3.0
.
1.5
1.5
.
.
1
1
2
2
.
4
7
8
.
4
4
.
.
.
3
.
6
.
0.8
0.8
1.5
1.5
.
3.0
5.3
6.1
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
1 
0.8 
3.0
3.0
.
.
.
2.3
.
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
4.5
1 
0.8 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
7 
5.3
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
Urticaria NOS 
. 
1.5
¹ Patients with more than one occurrence of the same preferred term are counted only once. 
7  5.3
3.8
. 
2
5
.
.
The  information  provided  in  the  SPC  is  based  on  the  integrated  database  of  132 patients,  but  only 
relates to those adverse events reported as drug-related. 
One hundred and twenty nine patients (98% of the total population) experienced at least one adverse 
event considered by the study investigator to be related to clofarabine.  Those most frequently reported 
were  nausea  (61%  of  patients),  vomiting  (61%),  febrile  neutropenia  (32%),  headache  (24%), 
pyrexia (21%), pruritus (21%) and dermatitis (20%).  Although 76 patients (58%) experienced at least 
one  serious  clofarabine-related  adverse  event,  only  2 patients  discontinued  treatment  because  of  an 
adverse  reaction;  both  with  hyperbilirubinaemia,  one  after  receiving  52 mg/m2/day  and  one  after 
70 mg/m2/day  clofarabine.    However,  the  deaths  of  4 patients  were  considered  by  the  study 
investigator  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  clofarabine:  one  patient  experienced  clofarabine-related 
acute  vascular  leak  syndrome  that  contributed  to  cardiac  arrest;  one  patient  died  from  respiratory 
distress  and  hepatocellular  damage;  one  patient  from  septic  shock  and  multi-organ  failure;  and  one 
patient from multi-organ failure (see below). 
Adverse events considered by the study investigator to be related to clofarabine that are specifically 
discussed in section 4.8 of the SPC are: infections and infestations adverse events, SIRS or capillary 
leak syndrome, cardiac disorders adverse events, vascular disorders adverse events, renal and urinary 
disorders adverse events and hepato-biliary disorders adverse events. Further details of the incidences 
of drug-related adverse events are given in the adopted SPC text. 
•  Serious adverse events/deaths/other significant events 
28/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Serious adverse events were common with 107 (81%) patients experiencing a serious adverse event. 
The spectrum of events reported was febrile neutropenia, pyrexia, infections, hypotension and sepsis. 
More than half of the serious adverse events reported were considered by the investigator to be related 
to treatment with the study drug (76 patients, 58%).  
A total of 22% of paediatric patients exposed to clofarabine died on-study or within 30 days of the last 
dose of clofarabine. 
Four  of  the  deaths  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  clofarabine: 
acute vascular leak syndrome that contributed to cardiac arrest, respiratory failure and liver damage, 
septic shock and multi-organ failure, and multi-organ failure (see above). These events may be related 
to  cytokine  release.  Typically  SIRS  is  manifested  by  the  rapid  development  of  tachypnoea, 
tachycardia and hypotension that contributed to cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, liver damage, septic 
shock  and  multi-organ  failure.  According  to  the  applicant,  it  is  possible  that  release  of  cytokines 
contributes to the development of SIRS/capillary leak syndrome.   
As of February 2004, there were six deaths in the adult studies that were considered to be related to 
treatment with the study drug: infection (2 patients), renal failure (1 patient), cardiac failure (1 patient) 
and hepato-renal failure (1 patient) in study DM93-036, and sepsis NOS (1 patient) in study CLO-221. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Virtually  all  patients  had  pre-existing  haematologic  abnormalities  at  the  start  of  treatment. 
Haematologic  toxicity  was  frequently  observed  during  exposure  to  clofarabine  and  was  not 
unexpected. 
Febrile neutropenia was the most common grade 3 AE that the investigators considered to be related to 
study  drug.  The  incidence  of  febrile  neutropenia  remained  constant  with  each  successive  cycle  of 
clofarabine.  The  infusion  and/or  the  dose  of  clofarabine  was  temporarily  interrupted  and/or  reduced 
when grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Headache, fatigue and constipation showed a trend for increasing incidence with increasing age, while 
the incidence of dermatitis and cough trended to decrease with increasing age. 
The  incidence  of  hypotension  was  greatest  in  the  oldest  group  of  patients  (42%),  and  16%  to  42% 
greater than the incidence in the 3 younger groups of patients.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No drug-drug interactions studies or other interactions studies have been submitted. Based on a review 
of  available  clinical  cases,  no  obvious  drug-drug  interactions  have  been  identified.  Non-clofarabine 
chemotherapy was specifically prohibited in the pediatric clinical trials although there were no specific 
restrictions  on  other  types  of  concomitant  medications  that  could  be  administered.  The  pediatric 
patients  in  this  safety  population  were  exposed  to  many  concomitant  medications  during  treatment 
with clofarabine. All or nearly all pediatric patients received at least one anti-infective (100% overall), 
gastrointestinal  tract  agent  (100%  overall),  analgesic/NSAID  (99%  overall)  or  antihistamine  (98% 
overall).  Other 
frequent  concomitant  medications  were  anti-fungals,  narcotic  analgesics, 
benzodiazepines,  vitamins/minerals/electrolytes,  antiseptics  and  topical  agents,  corticosteroids, 
anesthetics, hypouricemics, diuretics and antivirals. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Of the 132 patients who had either ALL or AML and were defined as pediatrics on the basis of age 
≤ 21  years  at  the  time  of  initial  diagnosis,  4  patients  withdrew  from  protocol  treatment  due  to  an 
adverse event. Two patients due to hyperbilirubinaemia (considered by the investigator to be treatment 
related, see above), one patient due to a ventricular arrhythmia (not considered by the investigator to 
be treatment related) and one patient due to disease progression (not considered by the investigator to 
be treatment related). 
•  Post marketing experience 
29/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
Some limited post-marketing data have been submitted for clofarabine following the product’s launch 
in the US in January 2005. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  interpretation  of  safety  data  from  uncontrolled  studies  is  notoriously  difficult  in  heavily  pre-
treated  patients.  Most  patients  who  entered  the  studies  already  had  a  wide  spectrum  of  concomitant 
medical  conditions,  many  as  a  consequence  of  prior  regimen  toxicity.  Furthermore,  many  patients 
were  receiving  therapies  to  decrease  ongoing  toxicity.  The  cumulative  toxicity  with  clofarabine  has 
not been studied in CLO-212 and CLO-222 since there is limited experience of patients exceeding a 
total of 3 cycles with most patients receiving one or two cycles of treatment. 
It  must  be  pointed  out  that  clofarabine  shares  chemical  and  pharmacodynamic  properties  with 
fludarabine,  a  drug  that  is  known  to  induce  infections  as  a  severe  side-effect.  Some  adverse  events 
reported  in  this  dossier  might  have  been  explained  by  septic  events  (e.g.,  hypotension,  liver 
dysfunction) in addition to documented sepsis. 
Clofarabine contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to clofarabine or to any of the excipients 
(see  SPC  section  6.1),  patients  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  or  severe  hepatic  impairment,  and 
breastfeeding should be discontinued prior to, during and following treatment with Evoltra (see SPC 
section 4.6). 
Evoltra 
is  a  potent  antineoplastic  agent  with  potentially  significant  haematological  and 
non-haematological  adverse  reactions  (see  SPC  section  4.8).    The  following  parameters  should, 
therefore, be closely monitored in patients undergoing treatment with clofarabine: 
−  Complete  blood  and  platelet  counts  should  be  obtained  at  regular  intervals,  more  frequently  in 
patients who develop cytopenias. 
−  Renal and hepatic function prior to, during active treatment and following therapy.  Clofarabine 
should be discontinued immediately if substantial increases in creatinine or bilirubin are observed. 
−  Respiratory status, blood pressure, fluid balance and weight throughout and immediately after the 
5 day clofarabine administration period. 
There  is  a  serious  concern  about  SIRS  / capillary leak syndrome. Six cases of SIRS / capillary leak 
syndrome were reported in total: 3 cases of treatment-related capillary leak syndrome were reported in 
study CLO-212; two of which were fatal. One patient had treatment-related SIRS in study CLO-212 as 
did another in study CLO-222. One further case of capillary leak syndrome was reported for a patient 
in  study  CLO-212  that  was  not  considered  related  to  clofarabine.  The  applicant  reported  that  the 
pathophysiology of SIRS / capillary leak syndrome is not entirely understood. It may result from the 
release  of  cytokines  and  may  also  reflect  either  direct  or  indirect  damage  to  endothelial  cells.  In 
general, the tumour lysis mechanism induced by chemotherapy is not accompanied by capillary leak 
syndrome.  In  a  review  of  all  cases,  more  subtle  signs  and/or  symptoms  of  SIRS  /  capillary  leak 
syndrome  may  have  occurred,  such  as  respiratory  difficulty  or  effusion  (pleural  and  pericardial)  in 
other patients who developed septic shock.  
The applicant has committed to monitor SIRS. Patients undergoing treatment with clofarabine should 
be  evaluated  and  monitored  for  signs  and  symptoms  of  tumour  lysis syndrome and cytokine release 
(e.g. tachypnoea,  tachycardia,  hypotension,  pulmonary  oedema)  that  could  develop  into  SIRS  / 
capillary  leak  syndrome  or  organ  dysfunction  (see  SPC  section 4.8).  Clofarabine  should  be 
discontinued immediately if patients show early signs or symptoms of SIRS / capillary leak syndrome 
or  substantial  organ  dysfunction  and  appropriate  supportive  measures  should  then  be  instituted.  
Further  treatment  with  clofarabine,  generally  at  a  lower  dose,  can  be  considered  when  patients  are 
stabilised and organ function has returned to baseline. 
The majority of patients who respond to clofarabine achieve a response after 1 or 2 treatment cycles.  
Therefore,  the  potential  benefit  and  risks  associated  with  continued  therapy  in  patients  who  do  not 
show haematological and/or clinical improvement after 2 treatment cycles should be assessed by the 
treating physician. 
In  rats  receiving  clofarabine,  myocardial  degeneration  shown  by  measuring  the  creatine  kinase  MB 
isozyme  has  been  noted.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  monitor  cardiac  toxicity  in  humans,  since 
30/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
cardiac  AEs  have  been  reported.  Patients  with  cardiac  disease  and  those  taking  medicinal  products 
known to affect blood pressure or cardiac function should be closely monitored during treatment with 
clofarabine (see SPC sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
There is no experience in patients with renal insufficiency (serum creatinine ≥ 2 x ULN for age) and 
clofarabine  is  predominately  excreted  via  the  kidneys.    Therefore,  clofarabine  is  contraindicated  in 
patients  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  and  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate renal insufficiency (see SPC sections 4.2 and 4.3). To date, there are insufficient data on the 
pharmacokinetics  of  clofarabine  in  patients  with  decreased  creatinine  clearance  to  advise  a  dose 
reduction in such patients.  However, these limited data indicate that clofarabine may accumulate in 
patients with decreased creatinine clearance (see SPC sections 4.2 and 5.2).   The concomitant use of 
medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with  renal  toxicity  and  those  eliminated  by  tubular 
secretion should be avoided particularly during the 5 day clofarabine administration period (see SPC 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
There  is  no  experience  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  (serum  bilirubin  > 1.5  x  ULN  plus  AST 
and ALT > 5 x ULN) and the liver is a potential target organ for toxicity.  Therefore, clofarabine is 
contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment and should be used with caution in patients 
with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (see  SPC  sections 4.2 and 4.3).  The  concomitant  use  of 
medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with  hepatic  toxicity  should  be  avoided  wherever 
possible (see SPC sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Hepatic toxicities reported were cytolysis and hyperbilirubinaemia. As reported by the applicant, one 
death  due  to  severe  hepatic  toxicity  was  observed.  One  case  of  grade  4  hyperbilirubinaemia  was 
reported in study CLO-212.  As most responding patients undergo BMT when a donor is identified, 
the  use  of  clofarabine  should  be  monitored  carefully  since  BMT  conditioning  can  cause  VOD.  The 
applicant  has  committed  to  ensure  that  monitoring  hepatic  function  be  part  of  the  daily  survey  in 
transplanted patients. 
There are currently limited data on the safety and efficacy of clofarabine when administered for more 
than 3 treatment cycles. 
Each  vial  of  Evoltra  contains  180 mg  of  sodium  chloride.    This  is  equivalent  to  3.08 mmol  (or 
70.77 mg) of sodium and should be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
No studies on the effects of clofarabine on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.  
However, patients should be advised that they may experience undesirable effects such as dizziness, 
light-headedness or fainting spells during treatment and told not to drive or operate machines in such 
circumstances. 
No  case  of  overdose  has  been  reported.    However,  possible  symptoms  of  overdose  are  expected  to 
include  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea  and  severe  bone  marrow  depression.    To date, the highest daily 
dose  administered  to  human  beings  is  70 mg/m2  for  5 consecutive  days  (2 paediatric  ALL patients).  
The 
included  vomiting,  hyperbilirubinaemia,  elevated 
transaminase  levels  and  maculo-papular  rash.  No  specific  antidotal  therapy  exists.    Immediate 
discontinuation  of  therapy,  careful  observation  and  initiation  of  appropriate  supportive  measures  are 
recommended. 
toxicities  observed 
these  patients 
in 
Concerning  dose  reduction  for  patients  experiencing  haematological  toxicities,  if  the  ANC  does  not 
recover  by  6 weeks  from  the  start  of  a  treatment  cycle,  a  bone  marrow  aspirate  /  biopsy  should  be 
performed  to  determine  possible  refractory  disease.    If  persistent  leukaemia  is  not  evident,  it  is 
recommended  that  the  dose  for  the  next  cycle  be  reduced  by  25%  of  the  previous  dose  following 
recovery  of  ANC to ≥ 0.75 × 109/l.    Should  patients  experience  an  ANC < 0.5 × 109/l  for  more  than 
4 weeks from the start of the last cycle, it is recommended that the dose for the next cycle be reduced 
by 25%. 
The  following  recommendations  have  been  provided  in  the  SPC  for  patients  experiencing 
non-haematological toxicities: 
Infectious events: If a patient develops a clinically significant infection, clofarabine treatment may be 
withheld until the infection is clinically controlled.  At this time, treatment may be reinitiated at the 
31/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
full  dose.    In  the  event  of  a  second  clinically  significant  infection,  clofarabine  treatment  should  be 
withheld until the infection is clinically controlled and may be reinitiated at a 25% dose reduction. 
Non-infectious  events:    If  a  patient  experiences  one  or  more  severe  toxicities  (US  National  Cancer 
Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Grade 3 toxicities excluding nausea and vomiting), 
treatment  should  be  delayed  until  the  toxicities  resolve  to  baseline  parameters  or  to  the  point  where 
they are no longer severe and the potential benefit of continued treatment with clofarabine outweighs 
the risk of such continuation.  It is then recommended that clofarabine be administered at a 25% dose 
reduction. 
Should  a  patient  experience  the  same  severe  toxicity  on  a  second  occasion,  treatment  should  be 
delayed until the toxicity resolves to baseline parameters or to the point where it is no longer severe 
and  the  potential  benefit  of  continued  treatment  with  clofarabine  outweighs  the  risk  of  such 
continuation.    It  is  then  recommended  that  clofarabine  be  administered  at  a  further  25%  dose 
reduction.   
Any  patient  who  experiences  a  severe  toxicity  on  a  third  occasion,  a  severe  toxicity  that  does  not 
recover within 14 days (see above for exclusions), or a life-threatening or disabling toxicity (US NCI 
CTC Grade 4 toxicity) should be withdrawn from treatment with clofarabine (see SPC section 4.4). 
1.6  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
A  Risk  Management  Plan  for clofarabine has been provided in accordance with the requirements of 
ICH  E2E  Pharmacovigilance  Planning,  the  ICH  Step  4  Note  for  Guidance  on  Planning 
Pharmacovigilance  Activities  (CPMP/ICH/5716/03),  and  the  draft  'CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk 
Management Systems for Medicinal Products for Human Use'.  
Table 9. Summary of the risk management plan 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Enhanced post-marketing 
surveillance using suspected 
adverse event reporting forms and 
guidelines for completion. 
Safety issue 
Hepatic toxicity 
Cardiac toxicity 
Tumour lysis 
syndrome, SIRS and 
capillary-leak 
syndrome 
Renal toxicity 
Safety ≥ 3 cycles 
Drug interactions 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Set up a voluntary adverse event reporting 
system to collect information for all 
registered patients on any serious 
(especially unexpected) treatment-
emergent possibly drug-related events, 
any emergent CTC grade 3 or higher 
renal, hepatic, or cardiac events, all 
possibly drug-related deaths, all cases of 
suspected tumour lysis syndrome, SIRS 
and capillary-leak syndrome, all cases 
with a suspected drug interaction, all 
grade 3 or higher possibly drug-related 
events occurring after 3 or more cycles of 
use, and any suspected cases of VOD. 
The  applicant  has  planned  to  produce  educational  material  for  physicians  and  patients,  and  an 
enhanced  adverse  event  reporting  system  which  is  aimed  at  risk  minimisation  and  monitoring  the 
safety of clofarabine in the setting of normal use. The educational material for physicians and patients 
is planned to include:  
(cid:131)  Information  on  what  is  clofarabine,  pharmacy  /  administration  guidelines  (storage  and 
preparation  instructions,  body  surface  area  calculation  etc),  therapeutic  indication,  toxicity 
management  (information  on  how  to  proceed  should  patients  develop  certain  toxicities),  and 
dosage recommendations. 
(cid:131)  Patient medication guide. 
32/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  A description of the enhanced adverse event reporting scheme and a request to register. 
(cid:131)  Specified suspected adverse event reporting forms and guidelines for completion to encourage 
reporting  of  any  serious  drug-related,  hepatic,  cardiac,  SIRS-like,  renal  and  suspected  drug 
interaction  adverse  events,  and  those  adverse  events  occurring  after  3  or  more  cycles  of 
treatment.  
The  applicant  committed  to  update  the  RMP  as  recommended  in  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk 
Management Systems for Medicinal Products for Human use, namely: to submit the RMP at the same 
time  as  PSURs,  when  new  information  is  received,  within  60  days  of  an  important  milestone  being 
reached or the results of a study become available (see specific obligations timelines), and upon the 
request of a Competent Authority. 
1.7  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the benefit/risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave Letters of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as follow-up measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Clofarabine is a purine nucleoside anti-metabolite. In vitro studies have demonstrated that clofarabine 
inhibits cell growth in and is cytotoxic to a variety of rapidly proliferating haematological and solid 
tumour  cell  lines.    It  was  also  active  against  quiescent  lymphocytes  and  macrophages.    In  addition, 
clofarabine delayed tumour growth and, in some cases, caused tumour regression in an assortment of 
human and murine tumour xenografts implanted in mice. 
Toxicology studies of clofarabine in mice, rats and dogs showed that rapidly proliferating tissues were 
the  primary  target  organs  of  toxicity.  Cardiac  effects  were  observed  in  rats  consistent  with 
cardiomyopathy  and  contributed  to  signs  of  cardiac  failure  after  repeated  cycles  of  treatment.    The 
incidence  of  these  toxicities  was  dependent  on  both  the  dose  of  clofarabine  administered  and  the 
duration of treatment. The potential risk for humans is unknown.  
Glomerulonephropathy was reported in rats at exposure levels 3 to 5 fold higher than the clinical AUC 
after 6 dosing cycles of clofarabine.   
Hepatic  toxicity  was  observed  in  rats  following  chronic  administration  of  clofarabine.    Histological 
evidence  of  hepatic  effects  was  seen  in  dogs  following  acute  administration  of  high  doses.  These 
effects were not accompanied by changes in serum chemistry. 
Dose  related  toxicities  on  male  reproductive  organs  were  observed  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs.  Delayed 
ovarian atrophy or degeneration and uterine mucosal apoptosis were observed in female mice. 
Clofarabine was teratogenic in rats and rabbits. No fertility studies have been conducted. 
Clofarabine induced clastogenic effects in the non-activated chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese 
Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells and in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay. No carcinogenicity studies have 
been performed. 
Efficacy 
The demonstration of efficacy in ALL is based on the non-comparative phase II study CLO-212. No 
randomized controlled trials with clofarabine in ALL have been submitted. Lack of a comprehensive 
clinical development program has been justified in view of the small size of the population of patients 
in second relapse. Study CLO-212 was a multi-centre, phase II, open-label, non-comparative study of 
clofarabine  and  was  conducted  to  determine  the  overall  remission  (CR  +  CRp)  rate  in  heavily  pre-
treated  patients  (≤ 21 years  old  at  initial  diagnosis)  with  relapsed  or  refractory  ALL  (N=61). 
Clofarabine  52 mg/m2/day  was  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  for  5 consecutive  days  every 
2 to 6 weeks.  Patients  must  not  have  been  eligible  for  therapy  of  higher  curative  potential  and  must 
have  been  in  second  or  subsequent  relapse  and/or  refractory  i.e.  failed  to  achieve  remission  after  at 
33/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
least  two  prior  regimens  (95%  of  patients  had  received  2 to 4 different  induction  regimens).  The 
overall  remission  rate  was  20%.  The  12 patients  who  achieved  an  overall  remission  had  a  median 
survival  time  of  66.6 weeks  as  of  the  data  collection  cut-off  date.  10/61 patients  (16%)  went  on  to 
receive a HSCT after treatment with clofarabine.  
Safety 
One  hundred  and  twenty  nine  patients  (98%  of  the  total  paediatric  safety  population,  N=132) 
experienced  at  least  one  adverse  event  considered  by  the  study  investigator  to  be  related  to 
clofarabine.  Those most frequently reported were nausea (61% of patients), vomiting (61%), febrile 
neutropenia (32%), headache (24%), pyrexia (21%), pruritus (21%) and dermatitis (20%).  Although 
76 patients  (58%)  experienced  at  least  one  serious  clofarabine-related  adverse  event,  only  2 patients 
discontinued  treatment  because  of  an  adverse  reaction;  both  with  hyperbilirubinaemia,  one  after 
receiving  52 mg/m2/day  and  one  after  70 mg/m2/day  clofarabine.    However,  the  deaths  of  4 patients 
were  considered  by  the  study  investigator  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  clofarabine:  one  patient 
experienced  clofarabine-related  acute  vascular  leak  syndrome  that  contributed  to  cardiac  arrest;  one 
patient  died  from  respiratory  distress  and  hepatocellular  damage;  one  patient  from  septic  shock  and 
multi-organ  failure;  and  one  patient  from  multi-organ  failure.  Important  identified  risks  with 
clofarabine are hepatic and cardiac toxicity, tumour lysis syndrome / SIRS / capillary-leak syndrome, 
and, potentially, renal toxicity. Important missing information is safety of use for more than 3 cycles, 
and drug interactions with commonly used co-medication. Adequate information has been provided in 
the  SPC  to  help  treating  physicians  minimize  potential  clofarabine  toxicity,  and  to  minimise  the 
incidence  and  severity  of  hepatic,  cardiac  and  renal  toxicities.  The  risk  management  plan  submitted 
was considered adequate. 
The applicant committed to conduct user testing and to submit the results as a follow-up measure. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
According  to  CHMP  guidelines,  this  full  application  should  have  been  based  on  data  generated  by 
randomised, controlled clinical trials rather than by open-label, non-comparator studies. However, the 
lack of a randomized trial in this very heavily treated population is justified in view of the small size 
of  the  population  of  patients  in  second  relapse.  Furthermore,  even  in  the  absence  of  adequately 
controlled trials, clofarabine treatment achieved a meaningful remission rate and facilitated HSCT in a 
significant  proportion  of  patients  that  before  treatment  were  considered  not  eligible  for  therapy  of 
higher curative potential. In the context of an invariably poor prognosis with a median survival in the 
order  of  9-10  weeks,  facilitating  HSCT  constitutes  a  meaningful  clinical  effect  that  may  have  an 
impact on duration of survival.  
Important  identified  risks  with  clofarabine  are  hepatic  and  cardiac toxicity, tumour lysis syndrome / 
SIRS  /  capillary-leak  syndrome,  and,  potentially,  renal  toxicity.  Important  missing  information  is 
safety  of  use  for  more  than  3  cycles,  and  drug  interactions  with  commonly  used  co-medication. 
Adequate  information  has  been  provided  in  the  SPC  to  help  treating  physicians  minimize  potential 
clofarabine toxicity, and to minimise the incidence and severity of hepatic, cardiac and renal toxicities. 
However,  regarding  the  safety  profile  of  clofarabine  there  are  still  many  uncertainties  due  to  the 
limited  size  of  the  safety  database.  This  is  justified in  view  of  the  small  size  of  the  population  of 
patients in second relapse, but required the applicant to introduce specific procedures concerning the 
safety of the product. A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP agreed that the following 
additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
(cid:131)  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  is  required  to  implement  specific  strategies  to  minimize 
cardiac, hepatic, and renal toxicity with clofarabine use, including a recommendation that treating 
physicians assess the potential benefit and risks associated with continued therapy in patients who 
do not show haematological and/or clinical improvement after two clofarabine treatment cycles.  
To this end, the holder will ensure that prescribers receive a clofarabine user’s information pack 
including recommendations for safe use of the drug. 
(cid:131)  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  is  required  to  encourage  prescribers  to  participate  in  a 
voluntary  adverse  event  reporting  system.  The  system  will  seek  to  collect  relevant  information 
about patient and disease characteristics, and treatment (including concomitant medications) for 
all registered patients together with information on any serious (especially unexpected) treatment-
34/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
emergent  possibly  drug-related  events,  any  emergent  CTC  grade  3  or  higher  renal,  hepatic,  or 
cardiac  events,  all  possibly  drug-related  deaths,  all  cases  of  suspected  tumour  lysis  syndrome, 
SIRS  and  capillary-leak  syndrome,  all  cases  with  a  suspected  drug  interaction,  all  grade  3  or 
higher  possibly  drug-related  events  occurring  after  3  or  more  cycles  of  use,  and  any  suspected 
cases of VOD in patients receiving clofarabine treatment. 
In conclusion, the effect of clofarabine in terms of remission and facilitating HSCT is considered to be 
clinically significant effect that may have a significant impact on long-term treatment outcome. There 
are still many uncertainties due to the limited size of the safety database and the lack of a randomized, 
controlled,  efficacy  trial  to  demonstrate  the  effect  of  clofarabine  on  overall  survival.  However,  it  is 
acknowledged that the indication for which the medicinal product is intended is encountered so rarely 
that  the  applicant  cannot  reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  data  on  the  clinical 
efficacy and safety of the medicinal product. Therefore, the marketing authorisation should be granted 
under exceptional circumstances.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered,  by 
consensus, that the risk-benefit balance of Evoltra in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
(ALL)  in  paediatric  patients  who  have  relapsed  or  are  refractory  after  receiving  at  least  two  prior 
regimens and where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result in a durable response was 
favourable and, therefore, recommended the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances. Safety and efficacy have been assessed in studies of patients ≤ 21 years old at initial 
diagnosis. 
35/35   
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
