EMA/391330/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Evotaz 
(atazanavir/cobicistat) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Evotaz, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Evotaz is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Evotaz, which can be found on Evotaz’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Evotaz is an antiviral medicine used in combination with other medicines to treat adults infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS). HIV attacks the immune system (the body’s natural defences against infection) and 
weakens it by destroying a type of white blood cells called CD4 T-cells, which protect the body against 
infection caused by bacteria, viruses and other germs. If left untreated, the HIV virus multiplies and 
the body starts losing its ability to fight infection and disease. 
In 2012 over 35 million people were living with HIV, increased from 34 million in 2011 (including 
900,000 in Western and Central Europe and 1.4 million in Eastern Europe and Central Asia). In 2012, 
about 2.3 million people were newly infected with HIV. In 2011, 1.7 million people died of AIDS, 
including 7,900 in Western and Central Europe and 92,000 in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. 
There is no cure for HIV, but early and effective treatment can reduce HIV in the blood and keep it at a 
low level. This allows people to stay healthier and live longer. Resistance to HIV medicines can be a 
problem. So, over time, a particular combination of medicines may not be able to control the HIV virus 
properly, and treatment may need to be changed; treatment may also be changed because of side 
effects. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Evotaz is available as a tablet containing the two active substances atazanavir and cobicistat. Evotaz is 
for use, in combination with other medicines, to treat HIV-1 infection in patients whose infection is not 
expected to be resistant to atazanavir. 
Because atazanavir and cobicistat have both previously been shown to be effective and are authorised 
for use in the treatment of HIV infection, studies were mainly carried out to show that Evotaz produced 
similar levels of atazanavir in the blood to the two active substances taken together, and to atazanavir 
given with a different booster medicine, ritonavir (an established combination). 
In addition, the use of atazanavir with cobicistat has been evaluated in one main study in 698 HIV 
patients who had not been treated previously. Atazanavir and cobicistat were compared with 
atazanavir and ritonavir; all patients also received the HIV medicines emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil. The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients in whom the HIV-1 count 
in the blood was reduced to less than 50 copies/ml after 48 weeks of treatment. Overall, 85% of 
Page 1/11 
 
 
patients (293 out of 344) treated with atazanavir and cobicistat achieved this reduction. This was 
comparable to a reduction in 87% of patients (304 of 348) treated with atazanavir and ritonavir. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is limited information from clinical studies on the use of Evotaz in elderly patients or pregnant 
women. 
Evotaz has not been studied in children or patients with liver disease, and it is not recommended in 
patients with liver problems. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
The electrical activity 
Electrocardiography (ECG) is a 
Evotaz should be used with caution in 
that controls the 
technique for recording the electrical 
patients who already have problems 
heart is affected (PR 
activity of the heart. Sometimes 
with electrical activity in the heart. 
interval prolongation)  
people with changes to the heart’s 
Evotaz should be used cautiously with 
electrical activity have symptoms that 
medicines that affect the electrical 
include feeling dizzy, a slow pulse, 
activity of the heart. 
getting tired easily, shortness of 
breath with exercise, and fainting. 
The patient can be monitored with 
ECG if Evotaz is given with other 
Laboratory and animal studies have 
medicines that affect heart rhythm.  
suggested that both atazanavir and 
cobicistat might affect the electrical 
activity of the heart in humans.  
In studies of atazanavir (without 
cobicistat), about 1 in 20 adults and 1 
in 4 children had ECG changes. These 
changes were not associated with any 
symptoms. 
In three other clinical trials, the 
electrical activity of the heart was not 
affected in any individual receiving 
atazanavir and cobicistat (either 
separately or together as a single 
tablet). 
Increased bilirubin 
Bilirubin is a breakdown product of 
If yellowing of the skin or eyes is 
level in the blood 
red blood cells and high levels of 
troublesome, a different medication 
(hyperbilirubinaemia) 
bilirubin (hyperbilirubinaemia) can 
can be considered instead of Evotaz.  
cause yellowing of the skin and the 
eyes (jaundice) in a few people.  
Raised bilirubin is the most common 
blood abnormality among patients 
taking atazanavir. Any yellowing of 
the eyes and the skin rapidly 
Women being treated with Evotaz 
should not breastfeed. 
Atazanavir is not recommended for 
children aged less than 3 months 
because it could possibly raise 
Page 2/11 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
disappears when atazanavir 
bilirubin to harmful levels. 
treatment is stopped. 
In studies with atazanavir alone, 
bilirubin was raised in around 8 
patients in 10, but few developed 
jaundice. 
In 3 clinical trials with atazanavir and 
cobicistat (given separately or 
together as a single tablet), bilirubin 
level was raised in between 1 and 5 
patients in 10. 
No evidence has been discovered to 
link cobicistat alone with raised 
bilirubin. 
See below for potential risk of 
kernicterus (brain damage resulting 
from excessive bilirubin levels). 
Kidney stones 
If the kidney stones are large, they 
If the patient has any signs or 
(nephrolithiasis) 
may cause symptoms like flank pain, 
symptoms of kidney stones, the 
frequent urination, blood in the urine, 
doctor may consider either temporary 
and even block the flow of urine and 
interruption or discontinuation of 
lead to kidney failure.  
Evotaz.  
People treated with HIV medicines 
The management of kidney stones in 
get kidney stones slightly more often 
people taking atazanavir is the same 
than people without HIV. Kidney 
as for any other kidney stones, and 
stones have been reported in people 
medical care or surgery may be 
taking atazanavir, and some of these 
involved.  
stones are composed partly or 
entirely of atazanavir. The risk of 
kidney stones while taking atazanavir 
may be increased in people who drink 
less water or who had kidney stones 
previously. 
In 3 clinical studies of patients 
receiving atazanavir and cobicistat 
(either separately or together as a 
single tablet), no kidney stones had 
been reported. One patient had pain 
in the flank area but there was no 
evidence of a kidney stone. 
There is no evidence to link the use of 
cobicistat alone with the occurrence 
of kidney stones. 
Page 3/11 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Severe skin reactions   Skin reactions are among the most 
It is important to watch for a skin 
common side effects of HIV 
reaction and to identify it early. 
medicines. The severity of reactions 
Patients who develop a rash should 
can range from mild to serious and 
contact their doctor promptly. An 
life threatening. HIV patients are at 
allergy medicine (antihistamine) with 
higher risk of skin reactions because 
or without a steroid can be 
of their lower immunity.  
recommended by the doctor if 
necessary to help relieve the 
symptoms. 
In 3 clinical studies, up to 1 patient in 
5 receiving atazanavir and cobicistat 
(either separately or together as a 
single tablet), had a rash or skin 
irritation. Severe skin reactions were 
not reported.. 
There is no evidence of a link 
between cobicistat alone and severe 
skin reactions. 
Gallstones 
Gallstones may occur in patients not 
If the patient has any signs or 
(cholelithiasis) 
taking atazanavir and in those on 
symptoms of gallstones, the doctor 
atazanavir. Symptoms include pain in 
may consider either temporarily 
the right or middle upper abdomen, 
interrupting treatment with Evotaz or 
fever, nausea, vomiting, yellowing of 
discontinuing it. 
the skin and of the eyes. Some 
patients who developed gallstones on 
atazanavir were in hospital for a long 
time and required surgery to remove 
the gallstones. Other complications 
including pancreatitis and death have 
been reported. 
In 3 clinical studies of atazanavir and 
cobicistat (either separately or 
together as a single tablet), no 
patient had gallstones. 
There is no evidence of a link 
between cobicistat alone and 
gallstones. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known 
A change in the electrical activity 
Prolonged QT interval can cause events like sudden death, death 
of the heart (Prolonged QT 
from heart disorders and torsades de pointes (an irregular 
interval)  
heartbeat that can lead to death), and all have been reported 
rarely with atazanavir. Prolonged QT interval and complications 
Page 4/11 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
can occur in people on other medicines or no medicines. 
In studies on atazanavir involving 1,793 HIV patients, the QT 
interval was prolonged very infrequently, and at rates similar to 
patients receiving other HIV medicines. 
In 3 clinical studies on patients receiving atazanavir and cobicistat 
(either separately or together as a single tablet), QT interval 
prolongation was recorded in one subject but this did not affect 
the patient in any other way. 
In 2 studies with atazanavir and cobicistat given separately, the 
QT interval was not prolonged in any patient. In some people the 
QT interval is prolonged for unknown reasons and atazanavir may 
not be the best HIV medicine for these people. 
In patients already with problems with the heart’s electrical 
activity, Evotaz should be used cautiously with medicines that 
prolong the QT interval. Evotaz should also be used with caution 
in patients who are prone to QT interval prolongation (such as 
those with abnormal levels of substances such as sodium, 
potassium and calcium in their blood). 
Brain damage resulting from 
Bilirubin is a breakdown product of red blood cells. Because 
excessive bilirubin in the blood 
bilirubin is removed more slowly in newborn babies than in adults 
(kernicterus) 
and it is produced faster than in adults, newborn babies are at 
higher risk of increased bilirubin. Breastfeeding may also increase 
the baby’s bilirubin level. The high level of bilirubin in babies with 
or without HIV infection can cause mild jaundice (called 
physiological jaundice of the newborn). 
Kernicterus, a serious and life-threatening condition in infants 
may develop if the bilirubin level is very high. Although no case of 
kernicterus has been identified from clinical trials on atazanavir, 
kernicterus is a potential risk because of the effects of atazanavir 
on bilirubin levels. Atazanavir affects an enzyme involved with the 
removal of bilirubin. 
Atazanavir given to the mother during pregnancy has not been 
reported to cause kernicterus in the newborn baby.  
There is no evidence of a link between cobicistat alone and 
kernicterus.  
It is not known if either atazanavir or cobicistat gets into human 
milk. 
It is recommended that a mother being treated with Evotaz not 
breastfeed her infant. 
Rapid decline in the kidneys’ 
In clinical trials on adults receiving atazanavir, acute renal failure 
ability to work properly (acute 
was rarely seen (occurring in less than 10 patients in every 
renal failure)  
10,000). 
Page 5/11 
 
Risk 
What is known 
One large study reported that the HIV medicines tenofovir 
disoproxil, atazanavir (with ritonavir as a booster), and lopinavir 
(with ritonavir as a booster) were associated with rapidly 
worsening kidney function. Most cases of patients with kidney 
failure had additional reasons for kidney failure other than the 
use of atazanavir. Risk factors for acute kidney failure in HIV 
patients receiving atazanavir include older age, therapy with 
tenofovir disoproxil, and HIV-associated kidney disease. Other 
protease inhibitors are also associated with deteriorating renal 
function. 
Cobicistat can increase creatinine in the blood. Creatinine level is 
commonly measured to check how well the kidneys are working 
and an increase can indicate worsening health of the kidneys. 
However, this may not be the case in patients taking cobicistat. 
Close monitoring of renal function is recommended in patients on 
Evotaz, especially if given with tenofovir disoproxil. Evotaz should 
not be started in patients with creatinine clearance (a measure of 
kidney function) of less than 70 mL/minute. 
The effect of cobicistat on creatinine measurement should be 
considered when creatinine is used to measure kidney function of 
patients on Evotaz to guide management and dose adjustment of 
other medications.  
Rapid swelling of deeper skin 
Angioedema can be life threatening and affect a person’s ability 
tissues, mostly around the eyes 
to breathe properly.  
and lips, and also in the throat 
(angioedema)  
In 3 clinical studies of patients receiving atazanavir and cobicistat 
(either separately or together as a single tablet), one patient had 
angioedema. 
In clinical trials on adults receiving atazanavir, angioedema 
occurred uncommonly (in less than 10 patients in 1,000). Since 
atazanavir has been on the market, there have been 2 cases of 
angioedema that are most likely associated with atazanavir. Skin 
rash occurred in both cases but there were no effects on 
breathing and the reaction was not life threatening. Symptoms of 
angioedema resolved when atazanavir was stopped. In a further 
15 cases, angioedema may have been associated with atazanavir.  
There is no evidence of a link between cobicistat and 
angioedema. 
If there is swelling around the lips and eyes, it is important to get 
medical help immediately so that Evotaz can be stopped if it is 
suspected to have caused an allergic reaction. 
Kidney inflammation (interstitial 
Interstitial nephritis can lead to kidney failure and possibly the 
nephritis) 
need for dialysis. 
In clinical trials on adults receiving atazanavir, interstitial 
Page 6/11 
 
Risk 
What is known 
nephritis occurred uncommonly (in less than 10 patients in 
1,000). Two cases of adults with interstitial nephritis and long-
term kidney failure potentially associated with atazanavir have 
been reported. 
There is no evidence of a link between cobicistat alone and 
interstitial nephritis. 
Close monitoring of renal function is recommended in patients on 
Evotaz. 
Symptoms of infection caused by 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome occurs when HIV 
the recovering immune system 
patients are treated with HIV medicines. As the  immunity 
(immune reconstitution 
recovers, the patient’s body can start fighting infections, such as 
inflammatory syndrome) 
tuberculosis, that the patient may have had before starting HIV 
treatment. This recovery of immunity makes the symptoms of 
infection much more severe. 
Autoimmune disorders (when the immune system attacks the 
body’s own tissue, such as in Graves’ disease) have also been 
reported as part of the syndrome. The symptoms can occur 
months after the start of treatment.  
In 3 clinical studies of patients receiving atazanavir and cobicistat 
(either separately or together as a single tablet), no patient 
suffered immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. 
In clinical trials on atazanavir, immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome occurred rarely (in less than10 cases in 
10,000). No case of the syndrome has been reported in patients 
taking atazanavir since atazanavir entered the market.  
At present no measure is available to prevent immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.  
In the short term, doctors may need to watch patients more 
closely and patients may have more invasive procedures, such as 
a needle in the back to check for infection in the spinal cord and 
brain. 
In the longer term, there may be an increased risk of 
autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease). 
Concurrent use of medicines 
Some medicines and herbal remedies taken during treatment with 
whose use with cobicistat is 
cobicistat may decrease the amount of cobicistat in the blood and 
contraindicated 
reduce its boosting effect on atazanavir, thereby risking 
ineffective HIV treatment and promoting the development of 
resistance. Alternatively, cobicistat may increase the level of 
certain medicines and increase the risk of side effects. 
A number of medicines can interact with cobicistat and therefore 
must not be used together with Evotaz. 
Warnings on interactions have been included in the Evotaz 
Page 7/11 
 
Risk 
What is known 
summary of product characteristics (information for health 
professionals) and in the package leaflet (information for 
patients) to inform the doctor and patient. 
Unintentional use of other 
Information from clinical trials on overdose of atazanavir and 
medicines that contain atazanavir 
cobicistat is limited. The main risks arise from excessive amount 
or cobicistat while on Evotaz 
of atazanavir and include prolongation of PR interval (see above) 
leading to overdose (Medication 
or of QT interval (see above), and high bilirubin levels (see 
error leading to overdose in case 
above). 
of concurrent use of Evotaz with 
any components including 
atazanavir, cobicistat or with 
fixed-dose combination products 
that contain cobicistat) 
Warnings about inadvertent use of atazanavir products while 
taking Evotaz have been included in the Evotaz summary of 
product characteristics (information for health professionals) and 
in the package leaflets (information for patients) to inform the 
doctor and patient. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known 
Long term safety of Evotaz  
There is no long-term safety data for Evotaz. 
Elderly people  
Clinical studies of cobicistat did not include enough patients aged 
over 65 years to determine if elderly patients respond differently 
than younger patients. 
Women who are breastfeeding  
It is not known whether atazanavir or cobicistat are found in 
human milk. In animal studies, both atazanavir and cobicistat 
were found in milk. Mothers should not breast feed if they are 
receiving Evotaz because of the risk of passing on HIV to the 
breastfeeding infant and the risk of serious reactions in the infant. 
Hepatic impairment (severely 
Evotaz has not been studied in people with moderate to severe 
decreased liver function) 
liver disease and it is not recommended for such people.   
Atazanavir has been studied in adults with moderate to severe 
liver disease using a single 400-mg dose. Increased blood 
concentrations of atazanavir are expected in patients with 
moderate or severe liver disease.  
Cobicistat has not been studied in patients with severe liver 
disease. 
Pregnancy 
Evotaz has not been studied in pregnant women. Evotaz should 
only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit outweighs 
the risk. 
An ongoing study to collect information about birth defects in 
children of women who were exposed to HIV medicines during 
pregnancy has a large enough group of women who have taken 
atazanavir to detect a 2-fold increase in birth defects. No such 
Page 8/11 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
increase has been detected to date. The use of atazanavir may be 
considered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies 
the potential risk. 
There is limited information about cobicistat in pregnant women. 
Limited safety data in children 
The safety of Evotaz and its effectiveness against HIV infection 
and adolescents aged under 18 
has not been established in patients aged less than 18 years.  
years 
The safety of cobicistat and its effectiveness against HIV has not 
been established in children aged less than 18 years. 
Limited information on use in 
Evotaz should not be started in patients with creatinine clearance 
patients with kidney impairment 
(a measure of kidney function) of less than 70 mL/minute and it 
should also not be used in patients on kidney dialysis. 
Evotaz should not be used with medicines that contain 
emtricitabine, lamivudine, tenofovir disoproxil, or adefovir in 
patients with severe kidney disease. 
Limited information on use in 
Evotaz should be used with caution in patients with disorders in 
patients with heart rhythm 
the electrical activity in the heart. Caution should be used when 
problems 
giving Evotaz with medicines that affect the electrical activity of 
the heart, such as verapamil or most medicines known as beta-
blockers. 
Disorders with the electrical activity of the heart are a known risk 
with atazanavir (see above). 
Cobicistat has not been studied in patients who had significant 
heart-rhythm problems. 
Limited information on drug-drug 
Drug interactions have not been specifically studied with Evotaz. 
interactions 
However, drug interactions are anticipated with Evotaz on the 
basis of drug-interaction studies with the individual components 
(atazanavir and cobicistat), as well as the known effect of 
atazanavir and cobicistat on enzymes. 
Atazanavir has many drug interactions; the levels of medicines in 
the blood can be affected by atazanavir and levels of atazanavir 
can be affected by other medicines. More information is included 
in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Cobicistat has the potential to affect the levels in the blood of 
some other medicines and levels of cobicistat can be affected by 
other medicines. Studies are ongoing to provide further 
information on various drug interactions with cobicistat. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics which provides physicians, pharmacists and 
other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also describes the risks 
Page 9/11 
 
 
and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in plain language in 
the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk minimisation 
measures’. 
The summary of product information and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product 
information. The product information for Evotaz can be found on Evotaz’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
Status  
Planned date for 
(including study 
number)  
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
submission of 
(interim and) final 
GS-US-216-0105: A 
To evaluate the 
Missing information  
Ongoing 
Phase 2, 
efficacy, safety 
randomized, double-
and tolerability 
blinded study of the 
of 
safety and efficacy 
ATV/COBI+TVD 
of GS-9350-boosted 
versus 
atazanavir (ATV/GS-
ATV/RTV+TVD 
Long-term safety of 
ATV/COBI in HIV-1 
infected patients 
results  
Final report 
(Week 192) 
Q1 2016 
9350) compared to 
ritonavir-boosted 
atazanavir (ATV/r) 
in combination with 
emtricitabine/tenofo
vir disoproxil 
fumarate (FTC/TDF) 
in HIV-1 infected, 
antiretroviral 
treatment naïve 
adults 
GS-US-216-0114: A 
To evaluate the 
Missing information 
Ongoing 
Phase 3, 
efficacy, safety 
randomized, double-
and tolerability 
blind study to 
of 
evaluate the safety 
ATV/COBI+TVD 
and efficacy of GS-
versus 
9350-boosted 
ATV/RTV+TVD 
Long-term safety of 
ATV/COBI in HIV-1 
infected patients 
Final report 
(Week 192) 
Q1 2016 
atazanavir versus 
ritonavir-boosted 
atazanavir each 
administered with 
emtricitabine/tenofo
vir disoproxil 
fumarate in HIV-1 
infected, 
Page 10/11 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
Status  
Planned date for 
(including study 
number)  
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
submission of 
(interim and) final 
results  
antiretroviral 
treatment-naive 
adults 
Antiretroviral 
To detect any 
Missing information 
Ongoing 
Interim reports are 
Pregnancy (ATV and 
COBI) 
Pregnancy Registry: 
major 
(to detect any major 
teratogenic 
teratogenic effects 
effects involving 
involving any of the 
any of the 
Registry drugs, 
Registry drugs, 
including ATV/COBI, 
including 
to which pregnant 
ATV/COBI, to 
women are 
exposed) 
which pregnant 
women are 
exposed) 
issued by the APR in 
June and December 
each year and the 
most current data 
available are 
included in 
PSUR/PBRER 
submissions 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None of the studies above are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in MM-YYYY. 
Page 11/11 
 
 
