EMA/355388/2021  
EMEA/H/C/003904 
Evotaz (atazanavir / cobicistat) 
An overview of Evotaz and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Evotaz and what is it used for? 
Evotaz is an antiviral medicine used in combination with other medicines to treat human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in adults and in adolescents aged 12 years and above 
weighing at least 35 kg. HIV-1 is a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Evotaz contains the active substances atazanavir and cobicistat. The medicine is for use only in 
patients whose infection is not expected to be resistant to atazanavir. 
How is Evotaz used? 
Evotaz can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in managing HIV infection. Evotaz is available as tablets that contain atazanavir and 
cobicistat. The recommended dose is one tablet a day, taken with food.  
How does Evotaz work? 
Evotaz contains two active substances: atazanavir and cobicistat. Atazanavir is a protease inhibitor 
that blocks an HIV enzyme, called HIV protease, from working. The virus needs HIV protease to make 
more viruses. When the enzyme is blocked, the virus cannot reproduce and its spread in the body 
slows down. Cobicistat acts as a ‘booster’ that increases the level of atazanavir in the blood by slowing 
its breakdown, which boosts atazanavir’s antiviral effect.  
Evotaz, taken with other HIV medicines, reduces HIV-1 in the blood and keeps the virus at a low level. 
It does not cure HIV infection, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and avoid the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
The active substances in Evotaz are also available in the EU as individual medicines: atazanavir is 
available as Reyataz and cobicistat as Tybost. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Evotaz have been shown in studies? 
Because atazanavir and cobicistat have both previously been shown to be effective and are authorised 
for use in the treatment of HIV-1 infection, studies were mainly carried out to show that Evotaz 
produced levels of atazanavir in the blood similar to those produced by the two active substances given 
separately or by atazanavir given with a different booster medicine, ritonavir (an established 
combination). 
In addition, the use of atazanavir with cobicistat has been evaluated in one main study in 698 HIV 
patients who had not been treated previously. Atazanavir and cobicistat were compared with 
atazanavir and ritonavir; all patients also received the HIV medicines emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil. The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients in whom the HIV-1 count 
in the blood (known as viral load) was reduced to less than 50 copies/ml after 48 weeks of treatment. 
Overall, 85% of patients (293 out of 344) treated with atazanavir and cobicistat achieved this 
reduction, which was comparable to 87% of patients (304 of 348) who achieved it with atazanavir and 
ritonavir. 
The use of atazanavir with cobicistat has also been evaluated in a study involving 14 adolescents aged 
12 to 17 years old and weighing at least 35 kg, whose HIV infection was well controlled on a 
combination of three HIV medicines that included two from the class of nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI). The patients received atazanavir with cobicistat in addition to the two 
existing NRTIs. After 48 weeks, HIV infection remained well controlled (meaning the viral load was 
below 50 copies/ml) in 93% of patients (13 out of 14 patients).  
What are the risks associated with Evotaz? 
The most common side effects with Evotaz (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are jaundice, 
which may show as yellow discoloration of the eye, and nausea (feeling sick). 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Evotaz, see the package leaflet. 
Evotaz must not be taken by patients who have moderately or severely reduced liver function. It must 
also not be taken by patients using certain medicines because of the possibility of interactions that 
could be harmful. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Evotaz authorised in the EU? 
Both active substances have already been shown to be effective and Evotaz may be a useful substitute 
for atazanavir accompanied by ritonavir as a booster. Combining atazanavir and cobicistat in a single 
tablet has the potential of simplifying the dosing regimen. Evotaz has also been shown to be effective 
in adolescents whose HIV infection is well controlled on existing treatment. Evotaz’s side effects were 
similar to those that occur with the individual medicines.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Evotaz’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Evotaz? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Evotaz have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Evotaz (atazanavir / cobicistat)  
EMA/355388/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Evotaz are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Evotaz are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Evotaz 
Evotaz received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 13 July 2015.  
Further information on Evotaz can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/evotaz.  
This summary was last updated in 06-2021. 
Evotaz (atazanavir / cobicistat)  
EMA/355388/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
