EMA/77344/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000410 
EPAR summary for the public 
Evra 
norelgestromin / ethinylestradiol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Evra. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Evra. 
For practical information about using Evra, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Evra and what is it used for? 
Evra is a contraceptive used to prevent pregnancy. Its safety and effectiveness have been studied in 
women aged 18 to 45 years. 
It contains two active substances: norelgestromin (6 mg) and ethinylestradiol (600 micrograms). 
How is Evra used? 
Evra is a transdermal patch (a patch that delivers a medicine across the skin). For the first three weeks 
of the menstrual cycle a new patch should be applied every week, followed by a fourth week, which is 
patch-free. The patch-free interval must not be longer than seven days; otherwise, additional non-
hormonal contraceptive methods must be used, such as condoms. Transdermal patches must always 
be applied on the same day of the week to the buttock, abdomen (belly), upper arm or upper back. 
The same area of skin should not be used for two consecutive patches. Evra may work less well in 
women weighing 90 kg or more. 
For full instructions on how to use Evra, see the package leaflet. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Evra work? 
Evra is a transdermal patch version of ‘the pill’ (combined oral contraceptive tablet). Using a weekly 
transdermal patch instead of a daily pill may help the woman to stick to using her contraception 
appropriately. The active substances in Evra are two hormones, ethinylestradiol (an oestrogen) and 
norelgestromin (a progestogen). Ethinylestradiol has been in use extensively in oral contraceptives for 
many years, and norelgestromin is very similar to another progestogen, which is also used in some 
oral contraceptives. Evra works like the pill by changing the body’s hormonal balance to prevent 
ovulation, by altering the cervical mucus and by thinning the endometrium (the lining of the womb). 
What benefit of Evra has been shown in studies? 
Evra has been shown to be an effective contraceptive. It was studied in three main studies in over 
3,000 women, which determined the number of women who became pregnant while taking the 
medicine. In two studies, Evra was compared with combined oral contraceptives: in one study, the 
comparator was a ‘monophasic’ contraceptive (pill containing the same amounts of active substances 
over the first three weeks of the treatment cycle) and in the other study, they were ‘triphasic’ (with the 
amount of the active substances in the pills varying through the treatment cycle). The third study did 
not compare Evra with any other medicine. All of the studies lasted for a year (13 four-week cycles).  
Overall in the three studies, 15 pregnancies occurred in women taking Evra, 12 of which were the 
result of a ‘method failure’ (when a pregnancy occurs despite the contraceptive being used correctly). 
Five of the pregnancies were in women weighing over 90 kg. This gives Evra a ‘Pearl Index’ of 0.90. 
The Pearl Index is a standard way of measuring the effectiveness of contraceptives, which measures 
how many unwanted pregnancies occur in 100 woman-years (corresponding to 1,300 cycles), with 
lower values indicating more effective contraception. The Pearl Indices for the oral contraceptives were 
0.57 (monophasic) and 1.28 (triphasic).  
What are the risks associated with Evra? 
The most common side effects with Evra (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) were headache, nausea 
(feeling sick) and breast tenderness.  
Evra must not be used when a woman has, or has had blood clots in the veins or arteries including a 
stroke or a heart attack or when a woman has risk factors for blood clots (such as severe high blood 
pressure, diabetes with damage to the blood vessels, high cholesterol levels, or a family history of 
thrombosis). It must not be used in women who have migraine with aura (unusual visual or other 
sensory experiences), severe liver problems, liver tumours or a history of liver tumours, some types of 
cancer or abnormal bleeding from the genital area whose cause has not been diagnosed. It must also 
not be used together with certain antiviral medicines containing the active substances ombitasvir, 
paritaprevir, ritonavir and dasabuvir. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Evra approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Evra’s benefits are greater than its risks for female 
contraception and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Evra  
EMA/378330/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Evra? 
The company that markets Evra will perform a study to further investigate the risk of blood clots. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Evra have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Evra 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Evra on 22 August 2002. 
The full EPAR for Evra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Evra, read 
the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017.  
Evra  
EMA/378330/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
