ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
EVRA 203 micrograms/24 hours + 33.9 micrograms/24 hours transdermal patch 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each 20 cm2 transdermal patch contains 6 mg norelgestromin (NGMN) and 600 micrograms ethinyl 
estradiol (EE). 
Each transdermal patch releases an average of 203 micrograms of NGMN and 33.9 micrograms of EE 
per 24 hours. Medicinal product exposure is more appropriately characterised by the pharmacokinetic 
profile (see section 5.2). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Transdermal patch. 
Thin, matrix-type transdermal patch consisting of three layers. 
The outside of the backing layer is beige and heat-stamped “EVRA”. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Female contraception 
EVRA is intended for women of fertile age. The safety and efficacy has been established in women 
aged 18 to 45 years. 
The decision to prescribe EVRA should take into consideration the individual woman’s current risk 
factors, particularly those for venous thromboembolism (VTE), and how the risk of VTE with EVRA 
compares with other CHCs (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, patients must be advised to use EVRA exactly as 
directed. For initiation instructions see ‘How to start EVRA’ below. 
Only one transdermal patch is to be worn at a time. 
Each used transdermal patch is removed and immediately replaced with a new one on the same day of 
the week (Change Day) on Day 8 and Day 15 of the cycle. Transdermal patch changes may occur at 
any time on the scheduled Change Day. The fourth week is transdermal patch-free starting on Day 22. 
A new contraceptive cycle begins on the next day following transdermal patch-free week; the next 
EVRA transdermal patch should be applied even if there has been no withdrawal bleeding or if 
withdrawal bleeding has not yet stopped. 
Under no circumstances should there be more than a 7-day transdermal patch-free interval between 
dosing cycles. If there are more than 7 transdermal patch-free days, the user may not be protected 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
against pregnancy. A non-hormonal contraceptive must then be used concurrently for 7 days. The risk 
of ovulation increases with each day beyond the recommended contraceptive-free period. If 
intercourse has occurred during such an extended transdermal patch-free interval, the possibility of 
pregnancy should be considered. 
Special populations 
Body weight equal or greater than 90 kg 
Contraceptive efficacy may be decreased in women weighing equal or greater than 90 kg. 
Renal impairment 
EVRA has not been studied in women with renal impairment. No dose adjustment is necessary but as 
there is a suggestion in the literature that the unbound fraction of ethinyl estradiol is higher, EVRA 
should be used with supervision in this population. 
Hepatic impairment 
EVRA has not been studied in women with hepatic impairment. EVRA is contraindicated in women 
with hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Post-menopausal women 
EVRA is not indicated for post-menopausal women and is not intended for use as hormonal 
replacement therapy. 
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in adolescents under 18 years of age. There is no 
relevant use of EVRA in children and pre-menarchal adolescents. 
Method of administration 
EVRA should be applied to clean, dry, hairless, intact healthy skin on the buttock, abdomen, upper 
outer arm or upper torso, in a place where it will not be rubbed by tight clothing. EVRA should not be 
placed on the breasts or on skin that is red, irritated or cut. Each consecutive transdermal patch should 
be applied to a different place on the skin to help avoid potential irritation, although they may be kept 
within the same anatomic site. 
The transdermal patch should be pressed down firmly until the edges stick well. 
To prevent interference with the adhesive properties of the transdermal patch, no make-up, creams, 
lotions, powders or other topical products should be applied to the skin area where the transdermal 
patch is placed or where it will be applied shortly. 
It is recommended that users visually check their transdermal patch daily to ensure continued proper 
adhesion. 
The EVRA transdermal patch should not be cut, damaged or altered in any way as this may 
compromise contraceptive effectiveness. 
Used transdermal patches should be discarded carefully in accordance with the instructions given in 
section 6.6. 
How to start EVRA 
When there has been no hormonal contraceptive use in the preceding cycle 
Contraception with EVRA begins on the first day of menses. A single transdermal patch is applied and 
worn for one full week (7 days). The day the first transdermal patch is applied (Day 1/Start Day) 
determines the subsequent Change Days. The transdermal patch Change Day will be on this day every 
week (cycle Days 8, 15, 22 and Day 1 of the next cycle). The fourth week is transdermal patch-free 
starting on Day 22. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If Cycle 1 therapy starts after first day of the menstrual cycle, a non-hormonal contraceptive should be 
used concurrently for the first 7 consecutive days of the first treatment cycle only. 
When switching from an oral combined contraceptive 
Treatment with EVRA should begin on the first day of withdrawal bleeding. If there is no withdrawal 
bleeding within 5 days of the last active (hormone containing) tablet, pregnancy must be ruled out 
prior to the start of treatment with EVRA. If therapy starts after the first day of withdrawal bleeding, a 
non-hormonal contraceptive must be used concurrently for 7 days. 
If more than 7 days elapse after taking the last active oral contraceptive tablet, the woman may have 
ovulated and should, therefore, be advised to consult a physician before initiating treatment with 
EVRA. If intercourse has occurred during such an extended pill-free interval, the possibility of 
pregnancy should be considered. 
When changing from a progestogen-only-method 
The woman may switch any day from the progestogen-only pill (from an implant on the day of its 
removal, from an injectable when the next injection would be due), but a back-up barrier method of 
birth control must be used during the first 7 days. 
Following abortion or miscarriage 
After an abortion or miscarriage that occurs before 20 weeks gestation, EVRA may be started 
immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if EVRA is started immediately. Be 
advised that ovulation may occur within 10 days of an abortion or miscarriage. 
After an abortion or miscarriage that occurs at or after 20 weeks gestation, EVRA may be started 
either on Day 21 post-abortion or on the first day of the first spontaneous menstruation, whichever 
comes first. The incidence of ovulation on Day 21 post abortion (at 20 weeks gestation) is not known. 
Following delivery 
Users who choose not to breast-feed should start contraceptive therapy with EVRA no sooner than 
4 weeks after child-birth. When starting later, the woman should be advised to additionally use a 
barrier method for the first 7 days. However, if intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be 
excluded before the actual start of EVRA or the woman has to wait for her first menstrual period. 
For breast-feeding women, see section 4.6. 
What to do if the transdermal patch comes off or partly detaches 
If the EVRA transdermal patch partly or completely detaches and remains detached, insufficient 
medicinal product delivery occurs. 
If EVRA remains even partly detached: 
- 
- 
for less than one day (up to 24 hours): it should be re-applied to the same place or replaced with 
a new EVRA transdermal patch immediately. No additional contraceptive is needed. The next 
EVRA transdermal patch should be applied on the usual “Change Day”. 
for more than one day (24 hours or more) or if the user is not aware when the transdermal patch 
has lifted or become detached: the user may not be protected from pregnancy: The user should 
stop the current contraceptive cycle and start a new cycle immediately by applying a new 
EVRA transdermal patch. There is now a new “Day 1” and a new “Change Day”. A 
non-hormonal contraceptive must be used concurrently for the first 7 days of the new cycle 
only. 
A transdermal patch should not be re-applied if it is no longer sticky; a new transdermal patch should 
be applied immediately. Supplemental adhesives or bandages should not be used to hold the EVRA 
transdermal patch in place. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If subsequent EVRA transdermal patch change days are delayed 
At the start of any transdermal patch cycle (Week One/Day 1) 
The user may not be protected from pregnancy. The user should apply the first transdermal patch of 
the new cycle as soon as remembered. There is now a new transdermal patch “Change Day” and a new 
“Day 1”. A non-hormonal contraceptive must be used concurrently for the first 7 days of the new 
cycle. If intercourse has occurred during such an extended transdermal patch-free interval, the 
possibility of pregnancy should be considered. 
In the middle of the cycle (Week Two/Day 8 or Week Three/Day 15) 
- 
for one or two days (up to 48 hours): The user should apply a new EVRA transdermal patch 
immediately. The next EVRA transdermal patch should be applied on the usual “Change Day”. 
If during the 7 days preceding the first skipped day of transdermal patch application, the 
transdermal patch was worn correctly, no additional contraceptive use is required. 
for more than two days (48 hours or more): The user may not be protected from pregnancy. The 
user should stop the current contraceptive cycle and start a new four-week cycle immediately by 
putting on a new EVRA transdermal patch. There is now a new “Day 1” and a new “Change 
Day”. A non-hormonal contraceptive must be used concurrently for the first 7 consecutive days 
of the new cycle. 
- 
At the end of the cycle (Week Four/Day 22) 
- 
If the EVRA transdermal patch is not removed at the beginning of Week 4 (Day 22), it should 
be removed as soon as possible. The next cycle should begin on the usual “Change Day”, which 
is the day after Day 28. No additional contraceptive use is required. 
Change day adjustment 
In order to postpone a menstrual period for one cycle, the woman must apply another transdermal 
patch at the beginning of Week 4 (Day 22) thus not observing the transdermal patch-free interval. 
Breakthrough bleeding or spotting may occur. After 6 consecutive weeks of transdermal patch wear, 
there should be a transdermal patch-free interval of 7 days. Following this, the regular application of 
EVRA is resumed. 
If the user wishes to move the Change Day the current cycle should be completed, removing the third 
EVRA transdermal patch on the correct day. During the transdermal patch-free week a new Change 
Day may be selected by applying the first EVRA transdermal patch of the next cycle on the first 
occurrence of the desired day. In no case should there be more than 7 consecutive transdermal 
patch-free days. The shorter the transdermal patch-free interval, the higher the risk that the user does 
not have a withdrawal bleed and may experience breakthrough bleeding and spotting during the 
subsequent treatment cycle. 
In case of minor skin irritation 
If transdermal patch use results in uncomfortable irritation, a new transdermal patch may be applied to 
a new location until the next Change Day. Only one transdermal patch should be worn at a time. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs) should not be used in the following conditions. If one of 
these disorders occurs during the use of EVRA, EVRA must be discontinued immediately. 
• 
Presence or risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
• 
Venous thromboembolism – current VTE (on anticoagulants) or history of (e.g. deep 
venous thrombosis [DVT] or pulmonary embolism [PE]); 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for venous thromboembolism, such as 
APC-resistance, (including Factor V Leiden), antithrombin-III-deficiency, protein C 
deficiency, protein S deficiency; 
Major surgery with prolonged immobilisation (see section 4.4); 
A high risk of venous thromboembolism due to the presence of multiple risk factors (see 
section 4.4); 
• 
• 
• 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Presence or risk of arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Arterial thromboembolism – current arterial thromboembolism, history of arterial 
thromboembolism (e.g. myocardial infarction) or prodromal condition (e.g. angina 
pectoris); 
Cerebrovascular disease – current stroke, history of stroke or prodromal condition 
(e.g. transient ischaemic attack, TIA); 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for arterial thromboembolism, such as 
hyperhomocysteinaemia and antiphospholipid-antibodies (anticardiolipin-antibodies, 
lupus anticoagulant); 
History of migraine with focal neurological symptoms; 
A high risk of arterial thromboembolism due to multiple risk factors (see section 4.4) or 
to the presence of one serious risk factor such as: 
diabetes mellitus with vascular symptoms 
- 
severe hypertension 
- 
severe dyslipoproteinaemia 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Known or suspected carcinoma of the breast 
Carcinoma of the endometrium or other known or suspected oestrogen-dependent neoplasia 
Abnormal liver function related to acute or chronic hepatocellular disease 
Hepatic adenomas or carcinomas 
Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding 
Concomitant use with the medicinal products containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and 
dasabuvir, medicinal products containing glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Warnings 
If any of the conditions/risk factors mentioned below is present, the suitability of EVRA should be 
discussed with the woman. 
In the event of aggravation, or first appearance of any of the conditions or risk factors, the woman 
should be advised to contact her doctor to determine whether the use of EVRA should be 
discontinued. 
There is no clinical evidence indicating that a transdermal patch is, in any aspect, safer than combined 
oral contraceptives. 
EVRA is not indicated during pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
Risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
The use of any combined hormonal contraceptive (CHC) increases the risk of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) compared with no use. Products that contain levonorgestrel, 
norgestimate or norethisterone are associated with the lowest risk of VTE. Other products such 
as EVRA may have up to twice this level of risk. The decision to use any product other than one 
with the lowest VTE risk should be taken only after a discussion with the woman to ensure she 
understands the risk of VTE with EVRA, how her current risk factors influence this risk, and 
that her VTE risk is highest in the first ever year of use. There is also some evidence that the risk 
is increased when a CHC is re-started after a break in use of 4 weeks or more. 
In women who do not use a CHC and are not pregnant about 2 out of 10,000 will develop a VTE over 
the period of one year. However, in any individual woman the risk may be far higher, depending on 
her underlying risk factors (see below). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is estimated that out of 10,000 women who use a low dose CHC that contains levonorgestrel, about 
61 will develop a VTE in one year. Studies have suggested that the incidence of VTE in women who 
used EVRA is up to 2-fold higher than in users of CHCs that contain levonorgestrel. This corresponds 
to between about 6 and 12 VTEs in a year out of 10,000 women who use EVRA. 
In both cases, the number of VTEs per year is fewer than the number expected in women during 
pregnancy or in the postpartum period. 
VTE may be fatal in 1-2% of cases. 
Number of VTE events per 10,000 women in one year 
Extremely rarely, thrombosis has been reported to occur in CHC users in other blood vessels, 
e.g. hepatic, mesenteric, renal or retinal veins and arteries. 
Risk factors for VTE 
The risk for venous thromboembolic complications in CHC users may increase substantially in a 
woman with additional risk factors, particularly if there are multiple risk factors (see table). 
EVRA is contraindicated if a woman has multiple risk factors that put her at high risk of venous 
thrombosis (see section 4.3). If a woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase 
in risk is greater than the sum of the individual factors – in this case her total risk of VTE should be 
considered. If the balance of benefits and risks is considered to be negative a CHC should not be 
prescribed (see section 4.3). 
Table: Risk factors for VTE 
Risk factor 
Obesity (body mass index over 
30 kg/m²) 
Comment 
Risk increases substantially as BMI rises. 
Particularly important to consider if other risk factors 
also present. 
1 Mid-point of range of 5-7 per 10,000 WY, based on a relative risk for CHCs containing 
levonorgestrel versus non-use of approximately 2.3 to 3.6 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prolonged immobilisation, major 
surgery, any surgery to the legs or pelvis, 
neurosurgery, or major trauma 
Note: temporary immobilisation 
including air travel > 4 hours can also be 
a risk factor for VTE, particularly in 
women with other risk factors 
Positive family history (venous 
thromboembolism ever in a sibling or 
parent at relatively early age) 
Other medical conditions associated with 
VTE 
Increasing age 
In these situations it is advisable to discontinue the use 
of the patch (in the case of elective surgery at least four 
weeks in advance) and not resume until two weeks after 
complete remobilisation. Another method of 
contraception should be used to avoid unintentional 
pregnancy. 
Antithrombotic treatment should be considered if EVRA 
has not been discontinued in advance. 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the woman 
should be referred to a specialist for advice before 
deciding about any CHC use. 
Cancer, systemic lupus erythematosus, haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome, chronic inflammatory bowel disease 
(Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis) and sickle cell 
disease. 
Particularly above 35 years. 
There is no consensus about the possible role of varicose veins and superficial thrombophlebitis in the 
onset or progression of venous thrombosis. 
The increased risk of thromboembolism in pregnancy, and particularly the 6 week period of the 
puerperium, must be considered (for information on "Pregnancy and lactation" see section 4.6). 
Symptoms of VTE (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) 
In the event of symptoms women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) can include: 
- 
- 
- 
unilateral swelling of the leg and/or foot or along a vein in the leg; 
pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only when standing or walking; 
increased warmth in the affected leg; red or discoloured skin on the leg. 
Symptoms of pulmonary embolism (PE) can include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sudden onset of unexplained shortness of breath or rapid breathing; 
sudden coughing which may associated with haemoptysis; 
sharp chest pain; 
severe light headedness or dizziness; 
rapid or irregular heartbeat. 
Some of these symptoms (e.g. “shortness of breath”, “coughing”) are non-specific and might be 
misinterpreted as more common or less severe events (e.g. respiratory tract infections). 
Other signs of vascular occlusion can include: sudden pain, swelling and slight blue discoloration of 
an extremity. 
If the occlusion occurs in the eye symptoms can range from painless blurring of vision which can 
progress to loss of vision. Sometimes loss of vision can occur almost immediately. 
Risk of arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
Epidemiological studies have associated the use of CHCs with an increased risk for arterial 
thromboembolism (myocardial infarction) or for cerebrovascular accident (e.g. transient ischaemic 
attack, stroke). Arterial thromboembolic events may be fatal. 
Risk factors for ATE 
The risk of arterial thromboembolic complications or of a cerebrovascular accident in CHC users 
increases in women with risk factors (see table). EVRA is contraindicated if a woman has one serious 
or multiple risk factors for ATE that puts her at high risk of arterial thrombosis (see section 4.3). If a 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase in risk is greater than the sum of 
the individual factors - in this case her total risk should be considered. If the balance of benefits and 
risks is considered to be negative a CHC should not be prescribed (see section 4.3). 
Table: Risk factors for ATE 
Risk factor 
Increasing age 
Smoking 
Hypertension 
Obesity (body mass index over 30 kg/m2) 
Positive family history (arterial 
thromboembolism ever in a sibling or parent at 
relatively early age e.g. below 50) 
Migraine 
Other medical conditions associated with 
adverse vascular events 
Comment 
Particularly above 35 years 
Women should be advised not to smoke if they 
wish to use a CHC. Women over 35 who 
continue to smoke should be strongly advised to 
use a different method of contraception. 
Risk increases substantially as BMI rises. 
Particularly important in women with additional 
risk factors. 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the 
woman should be referred to a specialist for 
advice before deciding about any CHC use. 
An increase in frequency or severity of migraine 
during CHC use (which may be prodromal of a 
cerebrovascular event) may be a reason for 
immediate discontinuation. 
Diabetes mellitus, hyperhomocysteinaemia, 
valvular heart disease and atrial fibrillation, 
dyslipoproteinaemia, systemic lupus 
erythematosus. 
Symptoms of ATE 
In the event of symptoms women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of a cerebrovascular accident can include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg, especially on one side of the body; 
sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known cause; 
loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure. 
Temporary symptoms suggest the event is a transient ischaemic attack (TIA). 
Symptoms of myocardial infarction (MI) can include: 
- 
pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness, sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm, or 
below the breastbone; 
discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm, stomach; 
feeling of being full, having indigestion or choking; 
sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
rapid or irregular heartbeats. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Women using combined contraceptives should be emphatically advised to contact their physician in 
case of possible symptoms of thrombosis. In case of suspected or confirmed thrombosis, hormonal 
contraceptive use should be discontinued. Adequate contraception should be initiated because of the 
teratogenicity of anti-coagulant therapy (coumarins). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tumours 
An increased risk of cervical cancer in long-term users of COCs has been reported in some 
epidemiological studies, but there continues to be controversy about the extent to which this finding is 
attributable to the confounding effects of sexual behaviour and other factors such as human papilloma 
virus (HPV). 
A meta-analysis of 54 epidemiological studies reported that there is a slightly increased risk 
(RR = 1.24) of having breast cancer diagnosed in women who are currently using COCs. The excess 
risk gradually disappears during the course of the 10 years after cessation of COC use. Because breast 
cancer is rare in women under 40 years of age, the excess number of breast cancer diagnoses in current 
and recent COC users is small in relation to the overall risk of breast cancer. The breast cancers 
diagnosed in ever-users tend to be less advanced clinically than the cancers diagnosed in never-users. 
The observed pattern of increased risk may be due to an earlier diagnosis of breast cancer in COC 
users, the biological effects of COCs or a combination of both. 
In rare cases, benign liver tumours, and even more rarely, malignant liver tumours have been reported 
in users of COCs. In isolated cases, these tumours have led to life-threatening intra-abdominal 
haemorrhages. Therefore a hepatic tumour should be considered in the differential diagnosis when 
severe upper abdominal pain, liver enlargement or signs of intra-abdominal haemorrhage occur in 
women using EVRA. 
Psychiatric Disorders 
Depressed mood and depression are well-known undesirable effects of hormonal contraceptive use 
(see section 4.8). Depression can be serious and is a well-known risk factor for suicidal behaviour and 
suicide. Women should be advised to contact their physician in case of mood changes and depressive 
symptoms, including shortly after initiating the treatment. 
Other conditions 
- 
Contraceptive efficacy may be reduced in women weighing equal or greater than 90 kg (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Women with hypertriglyceridaemia, or a family history thereof, may be at an increased risk of 
pancreatitis when using combined hormonal contraceptives. 
Although small increases of blood pressure have been reported in many women using hormonal 
contraceptives, clinically relevant increases are rare. A definitive relationship between hormonal 
contraceptive use and clinical hypertension has not been established. If, during the use of 
combined hormonal contraceptives in pre-existing hypertension, constantly elevated blood 
pressure values or a significant increase in blood pressure do not respond adequately to 
antihypertensive treatment, the combined hormonal contraceptive must be withdrawn. 
Combined hormonal contraceptive use may be resumed if normotensive values can be achieved 
with antihypertensive therapy. 
The following conditions have been reported to occur or deteriorate with both pregnancy and 
COC use, but the evidence of an association with COC use is inconclusive: Jaundice and/or 
pruritus related to cholestasis; gallbladder disease including cholecystitis and cholelithiasis; 
porphyria; systemic lupus erythematosus; haemolytic ureamic syndrome; Sydenham’s chorea; 
herpes gestationis; otosclerosis-related hearing loss. 
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of combined 
hormonal contraceptives until markers of liver function return to normal. Recurrence of 
cholestatic-related pruritus, which occurred during a previous pregnancy or previous use of sex 
steroids necessitates the discontinuation of combined hormonal contraceptives. 
Although combined hormonal contraceptives may have an effect on peripheral insulin resistance 
and glucose tolerance, there is no evidence for a need to alter the therapeutic regimen in 
diabetes during use of combined hormonal contraceptives. However, diabetic women should be 
carefully observed, particularly in the early stage of EVRA use. 
Worsening of endogenous depression, of epilepsy, of Crohn’s disease and of ulcerative colitis 
has been reported during COC use.  
Exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary and acquired 
angioedema. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10 
 
 
 
 
- 
Chloasma may occasionally occur with the use of hormonal contraception, especially in users 
with a history of chloasma gravidarum. Users with a tendency to chloasma should avoid 
exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using EVRA. Chloasma is often not fully 
reversible. 
Medical examination/consultation 
Prior to the initiation or reinstitution of EVRA a complete medical history (including family history) 
should be taken and pregnancy should be ruled out. Blood pressure should be measured and a physical 
examination should be performed guided by the contra-indications (see section 4.3) and warnings (see 
section 4.4). It is important to draw a woman’s attention to the information on venous and arterial 
thrombosis, including the risk of EVRA compared with other CHCs, the symptoms of VTE and ATE, 
the known risk factors and what to do in the event of a suspected thrombosis. 
The woman should also be instructed to carefully read the user leaflet and to adhere to the advice 
given. The frequency and nature of examinations should be based on established practice guidelines 
and be adapted to the individual woman. 
Women should be advised that hormonal contraceptives do not protect against HIV infections (AIDS) 
and other sexually transmissible diseases. 
Bleeding irregularities 
With all combined hormonal contraceptives, irregular blood loss (spotting or breakthrough bleeding) 
can occur, especially during the initial months of usage. For this reason, a medical opinion on irregular 
blood loss will only be useful after an adjustment period of approximately three cycles. If 
breakthrough bleeding persists, or breakthrough bleeding occurs after previously regular cycles, while 
EVRA has been used according to the recommended regimen, a cause other than EVRA should be 
considered. Non-hormonal causes should be considered and, if necessary, adequate diagnostic 
measures taken to rule out organic disease or pregnancy. This may include curettage. In some women 
withdrawal bleeding may not occur during this transdermal patch free period. If EVRA has been taken 
according to the directions described in section 4.2, it is unlikely that the woman is pregnant. 
However, if EVRA has not been taken according to these directions prior to the first missed 
withdrawal bleed or if two withdrawal bleeds are missed, pregnancy must be ruled out before EVRA 
use is continued. 
Some users may experience amenorrhoea or oligomenorrhoea after discontinuing hormonal 
contraception, especially when such a condition was pre-existent. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Note: The prescribing information of concomitant medicinal products should be consulted to identify 
potential interactions. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
During clinical trials with patients treated for hepatitis C virus infections (HCV) with medicinal 
products containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir with or without ribavirin, 
transaminase (ALT) elevations higher than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred 
significantly more frequently in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as 
combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs). Additionally, also in patients treated with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, ALT elevations were observed in 
women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as CHCs (see section 4.3).  
Therefore, EVRA-users must switch to an alternative method of contraception (e.g., progestagen-only 
contraception or non-hormonal methods) prior to starting therapy with these combination drug 
regimens. EVRA can be restarted 2 weeks following completion of treatment with these combination 
drug regimens. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of other medicinal products on EVRA 
Interactions can occur with drugs that induce microsomal enzymes which can result in increased 
clearance of sex hormones and which may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. 
The following interactions have been reported in the literature. 
Substances increasing the clearance of CHCs (diminished efficacy of CHCs by enzyme-induction),e.g.: 
Barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenytoin, primidone, rifampicin, modafinil, and HIV 
medications ritonavir, nevirapine and efavirenz; and possibly also felbamate, griseofulvin, 
oxcarbazepine, topiramate and products containing the herbal remedy St. John's Wort (hypericum 
perforatum). 
Management 
Enzyme induction may be observed after a few days of treatment. Maximal enzyme induction is 
generally seen in about 10 days but may then be sustained for at least 4 weeks after the cessation of 
medicinal product therapy. 
Short-term 
A woman on short-term treatment with medicinal products that induce hepatic drug metabolising 
enzymes or individual active substances that induce these enzymes should temporarily use a barrier 
method in addition to EVRA, i.e. during the time of concomitant medicinal product administration and 
for 28 days after their discontinuation. 
If concomitant medicinal product administration extends beyond the end of the three-week patch 
period, the next transdermal patch should be applied without the usual transdermal patch-free interval. 
Long-term 
In women on long-term treatment with enzyme-inducing active substances, another reliable, 
non-hormonal, method of contraception is recommended. 
Substances with variable effects on the clearance of CHCs 
When co-administered with CHCs, many combinations of HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including combinations with HCV inhibitors can increase or decrease 
plasma concentrations of estrogen or progestins. The net effect of these changes may be clinically 
relevant in some cases. 
Therefore, the prescribing information of concomitant HIV medications should be consulted to 
identify potential interactions and any related recommendations. In case of any doubt, an additional 
barrier contraceptive method should be used by women on protease inhibitor or non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy. 
Inhibition of ethinyl estradiol metabolism 
Etoricoxib has been shown to increase plasma levels of ethinyl estradiol (50 to 60%) when taken 
concomitantly with an oral triphasic hormonal contraceptive. It is thought that etoricoxib increases 
ethinyl estradiol levels because it inhibits sulfotransferase activity thereby inhibiting ethinyl estradiol 
metabolism. 
Effect of EVRA on other medicinal products 
Hormonal contraceptives may affect the metabolism of certain other active substances. Accordingly, 
plasma and tissue concentrations may increase (e.g. ciclosporin). Dosage adjustment of the 
concomitant medicinal product may be necessary. 
Lamotrigine: Combined hormonal contraceptives have been shown to significantly decrease plasma 
concentrations of lamotrigine when coadministered likely due to induction of lamotrigine 
glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control; therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be 
necessary. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory tests 
The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, including 
biochemical parameters of liver, thyroid, adrenal and renal function, plasma levels of (carrier) 
proteins, e.g. corticosteroid-binding globulin and lipid/lipoprotein fractions, parameters of 
carbohydrate metabolism and parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Changes generally remain 
within the normal laboratory range. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
EVRA is not indicated during pregnancy. 
Epidemiological studies indicate no increased risk of birth defects in children born to women who 
used combined oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. The majority of recent studies also do not 
indicate a teratogenic effect when combined oral contraceptives are used inadvertently during early 
pregnancy. 
Limited data on the outcomes of exposed pregnancies in women using EVRA do not allow for 
conclusions about its safety during pregnancy. 
Animal studies have shown undesirable effects during pregnancy and lactation (see section 5.3). Based 
on these animal data, undesirable effects due to hormonal action of the active compounds cannot be 
excluded. However, general experience with combined oral contraceptives during pregnancy did not 
provide evidence for an actual undesirable effect in humans. 
If pregnancy occurs during use of EVRA, EVRA should be stopped immediately. 
The increased risk of VTE during the postpartum period should be considered when re-starting EVRA 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
Breast-feeding may be influenced by combined hormonal contraceptives as they may reduce the 
quantity and change the composition of breast milk. Therefore, the use of EVRA is not to be 
recommended until the breast-feeding mother has completely weaned her child. 
Fertility 
Women may experience a delay in conception following discontinuation of EVRA. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
EVRA has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8.  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in clinical trials were headache, nausea, and breast 
tenderness, occurring in approximately 21.0%, 16.6%, and 15.9% of patients, respectively. Adverse 
reactions that may occur at the beginning of treatment but usually diminish after the first three cycles 
include spotting, breast tenderness and nausea. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
An increased risk of arterial and venous thrombotic and thrombo-embolic events, including 
myocardial infarction, stroke, transient ischemic attacks, venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism 
has been observed in women using CHCs, which are discussed in more detail in section 4.4. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Safety was evaluated in 3 322 sexually active women who participated in three Phase III clinical trials, 
which were designed to evaluate contraceptive efficacy. These subjects received six or 13 cycles of 
contraception (EVRA or oral contraceptive comparator), took at least one dose of study medicinal 
product and provided safety data. Table 1 below reflects the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials 
and from post-marketing experience. Frequency MedDRA convention: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very 
rare (< 1/10 000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Table 1: 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Infections and infestations 
common 
rare 
Adverse reaction 
(Vulvo) vaginal fungal infection 
Vaginal candidiasis 
Rash pustular* 
Application site pustules 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
rare 
Hepatic neoplasm*† 
Breast cancer*† 
Cervix carcinoma*† 
Hepatic adenoma*† 
Uterine leiomyoma 
Fibroadenoma of breast 
Immune system disorders 
uncommon 
rare 
not known 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
uncommon 
rare 
Psychiatric disorders 
common 
uncommon 
rare 
Nervous system disorders 
very common 
common 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction* 
Exacerbation of symptoms of hereditary and acquired 
angioedema* 
Hypercholesterolaemia 
Fluid retention 
Increased appetite 
Hyperglycaemia* 
Insulin resistance* 
Mood, affect and anxiety disorders 
Insomnia 
Libido decreased 
Anger* 
Frustration* 
Libido increased 
Headache 
Migraine 
Dizziness 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rare 
Eye disorders 
rare 
Cardiac disorders 
rare 
Vascular disorders 
uncommon 
rare 
Cerebrovascular accident**† 
Cerebral haemorrhage*† 
Abnormal taste* 
Contact lens intolerance* 
Arterial thromboembolism 
(Acute) myocardial infarction*† 
Hypertension 
Hypertensive crisis* 
Arterial thrombosis**† 
Venous thrombosis**† 
Thrombosis*† 
Venous thromboembolism 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
rare 
Pulmonary (artery) thrombosis*† 
Pulmonary embolism† 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
very common 
Nausea 
common 
rare 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
rare 
Abdominal pain 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal distension 
Colitis* 
Cholecystitis 
Cholelithiasis† 
Hepatic lesion* 
Jaundice cholestatic*† 
Cholestasis*† 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
common 
Acne 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Skin reaction 
Skin irritation 
uncommon 
rare 
Alopecia 
Dermatitis allergic 
Eczema 
Photosensitivity reaction 
Dermatitis contact 
Urticaria 
Erythema 
Angioedema* 
Erythema (multiforme, nodosum)* 
Chloasma† 
Exfoliative rash* 
Pruritus generalised 
Rash (erythematous, pruritic) 
Seborrheic dermatitis* 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
common 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
very common 
Muscle spasms 
Breast tenderness 
common 
uncommon 
rare 
Dysmenorrhoea 
Vaginal bleeding and menstrual disorders**† 
Uterine spasm 
Breast disorders 
Vaginal discharge 
Galactorrhoea 
Premenstrual syndrome 
Vulvovaginal dryness 
Cervical dysplasia* 
Suppressed lactation* 
Genital discharge 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
common 
Malaise 
Fatigue 
Application site reactions (erythema, irritation, pruritus, rash) 
uncommon 
rare 
Investigations 
common 
uncommon 
rare 
Generalised oedema 
Oedema peripheral 
Application site reactions** 
Face oedema* 
Pitting oedema* 
Swelling 
Application site reactions* (e.g., abscess, erosion) 
Localised oedema* 
Weight increased 
Blood pressure increased 
Lipid disorders** 
Blood glucose decreased*† 
Blood glucose abnormal*† 
*  Post-marketing reports. 
** Includes adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing reports. 
†  See section 4.4. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Serious ill effects have not been reported following accidental ingestion of large doses of oral 
contraceptives. Overdose may cause nausea or vomiting. Vaginal bleeding may occur in some 
females. In cases of suspected overdose, all transdermal contraceptive systems should be removed and 
symptomatic treatment given. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Sex hormones and modulators of the genital system, progestogens and 
estrogens, fixed combination; ATC-code: G03AA13. 
Mechanism of action 
EVRA acts through the mechanism of gonadotropin suppression by the estrogenic and progestational 
actions of ethinyl estradiol and norelgestromin. The primary mechanism of action is inhibition of the 
ovulation, but the alterations of the cervical mucus, and to the endometrium may also contribute to the 
efficacy of the product. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Pearl Indices (see table): 
CONT-003 
COC* 
4 592 
0.57 
(0.0; 1.35) 
CONT-004 
EVRA 
5 095 
1.28 
(0.16; 2.39) 
CONT-002 
EVRA 
10 743 
0.73 
(0.15; 1.31) 
CONT-003 
EVRA 
5 831 
0.89 
(0.02; 1.76) 
Study 
Group 
# of cycles 
Overall 
Pearl Index 
(95% CI) 
Method 
Failure 
Pearl Index 
(95% CI) 
*   DSG 150 mcg + 20 mcg EE 
** 50 mcg LNG + 30 mcg for days 1 – 6, 75 mcg LNG + 40 mcg EE for days 7 – 11, 125 mcg LNG + 30 mcg EE for 12 
CONT-004 
COC** 
4 005 
2.27 
(0.59; 3.96) 
All EVRA 
Subjects 
21 669 
0.90 
(0.44; 1.35) 
1.02 
(0.02; 2.02) 
1.30 
(0.03; 2.57) 
0.72 
(0.31; 1.13) 
0.28 
(0.0; 0.84) 
0.61 
(0.0; 1.14) 
0.67 
(0.0; 1.42) 
– 21 days 
Exploratory analyses were performed to determine whether in the Phase III studies (n=3 319) the 
population characteristics of age, race and weight were associated with pregnancy. The analyses 
indicated no association of age and race with pregnancy. With respect to weight, 5 of the 
15 pregnancies reported with EVRA were among women with baseline body weight equal or greater 
than 90 kg, which constituted < 3% of the study population. Below 90 kg there was no association 
between body weight and pregnancy. Although only 10-20% of the variability in pharmacokinetic data 
can be explained by weight (see section 5.2), the greater proportions of pregnancies among women at 
or above 90 kg was statistically significant and indicates the EVRA is less effective in these women. 
With the use of higher dosed COCs (50 microgram ethinyl estradiol) the risk of endometrial and 
ovarian cancer is reduced. Whether this is also applies to the lower dosed combined hormonal 
contraceptives remains to be confirmed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following application of EVRA, norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol levels in serum reach a plateau 
by approximately 48 hours. Steady state concentrations of norelgestromin and EE during one week of 
transdermal patch wear are approximately 0.8 ng/mL and 50 pg/mL, respectively. In multiple-dose 
studies, serum concentrations and AUC for norelgestromin and EE were found to increase only 
slightly over time when compared to week 1 cycle 1. 
The absorption of norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol following application of EVRA was studied 
under conditions encountered in a health club (sauna, whirlpool, treadmill and other aerobic exercise) 
and in a cold water bath. The results indicated that for norelgestromin there were no significant 
treatment effects on Css or AUC when compared to normal wear. For EE, slight increases were 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed due to treadmill and other aerobic exercise; however, the Css
treatments were within the reference range. There was no significant effect of cool water on these 
parameters. 
 values following these 
Results from an EVRA study of extended wear of single contraceptive transdermal patch for 7 days 
and 10 days indicated that target Css of norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol were maintained during a 
3-day period of extended wear of EVRA (10 days). These findings suggest that clinical efficacy would 
be maintained even if a scheduled change is missed for as long as 2 full days. 
Distribution 
Norelgestromin and norgestrel (a serum metabolite of norelgestromin) are highly bound (> 97%) to 
serum proteins. Norelgestromin is bound to albumin and not to SHBG (sex hormone binding 
globulin), while norgestrel is bound primarily to SHBG, which limits its biological activity. Ethinyl 
estradiol is extensively bound to serum albumin. 
Biotransformation 
Hepatic metabolism of norelgestromin occurs and metabolites include norgestrel, which is largely 
bound to SHBG, and various hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites. Ethinyl estradiol is also 
metabolised to various hydroxylated products and their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates. 
Elimination 
Following removal of a transdermal patch, the mean elimination half-lives of norelgestromin and 
ethinyl estradiol were approximately 28 hours and 17 hours, respectively. The metabolites of 
norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol are eliminated by renal and faecal pathways. 
Transdermal versus oral contraceptives 
The pharmacokinetic profiles of transdermal and oral combined hormonal contraceptives are different 
and caution should be exercised when making a direct comparison of these pharmacokinetic 
(PK) parameters. 
In a study comparing EVRA to an oral contraceptive containing norgestimate (parent drug of 
norelgestromin) 250 mcg/ethinyl estradiol 35 mcg, Cmax values were 2-fold higher for NGMN and EE 
in subjects administered the oral contraceptive compared to EVRA, while overall exposure (AUC and 
Css) was comparable in subjects treated with EVRA. Inter-subject variability (%CV) for the PK 
parameters following delivery from EVRA was higher relative to the variability determined from the 
oral contraceptive. 
Effects of age, body weight, and body surface area 
The effects of age, body weight, and body surface area on the pharmacokinetics of norelgestromin and 
ethinyl estradiol were evaluated in 230 healthy women from nine pharmacokinetic studies of single 
7-day applications of EVRA. For both norelgestromin and EE, increasing age, body weight and body 
surface area each were associated with slight decreases in Css and AUC values. However, only a small 
fraction (10–20%) of the overall variability in the pharmacokinetics of the NGMN and EE following 
application of EVRA may be associated with any or all of the above demographic parameters. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenic potential. With respect to the 
reproductive toxicity norelgestromin showed foetal toxicity in rabbits, but the safety margin for this 
effect was sufficiently high. Data on reproductive toxicity of the combination of norelgestromin with 
ethinyl estradiol are not available. Data for combination of norgestimate (precursor of norelgestromin) 
with ethinyl estradiol indicate for female animals a decrease in fertility and implantation efficiency 
(rat), an increase in foetal resorption (rat, rabbit) and, with high dosages, a decrease in viability and 
fertility of female offspring (rat). The relevance of these data for human exposure is unknown as these 
effects have been seen as related to well-known pharmacodynamic or species-specific actions. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies conducted to examine the dermal effect of EVRA indicate this system has no potential to 
produce sensitisation and results in only mild irritation when applied to rabbits skin. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Backing layer 
low-density pigmented polyethylene outer layer 
polyester inner layer. 
Middle layer 
polyisobutylene/polybutene adhesive 
crospovidone 
non-woven polyester fabric 
lauryl lactate. 
Third layer 
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film 
polydimethylsiloxane coating. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Primary packaging material 
A sachet is composed of four layers: a low-density polyethylene film (innermost layer), an aluminium 
foil, a low-density polyethylene film, and an outer layer of bleached paper. 
Secondary packaging material 
Sachets are packaged in a cardboard carton. 
Every carton has 3, 9 or 18 EVRA transdermal patches in individual foil-lined sachets. 
Sachets are wrapped per three in a transparent perforated plastic film and packed in a cardboard 
carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The patch should be applied immediately upon removal from the protective sachet. 
To prevent interference with the adhesive properties of EVRA, no creams, lotions or powders should 
be applied to the skin area where the EVRA transdermal patch is to be applied. 
After use the transdermal patch still contains substantial quantities of active ingredients. Remaining 
hormonal active ingredients of the transdermal patch may have harmful effects if reaching the aquatic 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
environment. Therefore, the used transdermal patch should be discarded carefully. The disposal label 
from the outside of the sachet should be peeled open. The used transdermal patch should be placed 
within the open disposal label so that the sticky surface covers the shaded area on the sachet. The 
disposal label should then be closed sealing the used transdermal patch within. Any unused medicinal 
product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. Used 
transdermal patches should not be flushed down the toilet nor placed in liquid waste disposal systems. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/223/001 
EU/1/02/223/002 
EU/1/02/223/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 August 2002. 
Date of latest renewal: 15 June 2012. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
EVRA 203 micrograms/24 hours + 33.9 micrograms/24 hours transdermal patch 
norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 patch of 20 cm2 contains: 6 mg norelgestromin and 600 micrograms ethinyl estradiol 
1 patch releases: 203 micrograms norelgestromin and 33.9 micrograms ethinyl estradiol per 24 hours 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Backing layer: low-density pigmented polyethylene outer layer, polyester inner layer. 
Middle layer: polyisobutylene/polybutene adhesive, crospovidone, lauryl lactate, non-woven-polyester 
fabric. 
Third layer: polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film, polydimethylsiloxane coating. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
3 transdermal patches 
9 transdermal patches 
18 transdermal patches 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Transdermal use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Do not flush used or unused patches down the toilet. See enclosed leaflet for disposal instructions. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/223/001: 3 transdermal patches 
EU/1/02/223/002: 9 transdermal patches 
EU/1/02/223/003: 18 transdermal patches 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
evra 
17.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
27 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
EVRA 203 micrograms/24 hours + 33.9 micrograms/24 hours transdermal patch 
norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Transdermal use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Contains 1 transdermal patch 
6. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reminder stickers 
Use these stickers on your calendar 
to help you remember when to 
change your patch 
First Patch 
(Week 1) 
Second Patch 
(Week 2) 
Third Patch 
(Week 3) 
Remove Patch 
Get New Patch 
First patch 
Current Cycle 
Next Cycle 
Patch disposal label 
PATCH DISPOSAL LABEL 
To dispose of used patch: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
place used patch so that the sticky side covers the shaded area 
remove backing paper 
close adhesive label and seal 
discard with solid waste 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
EVRA 203 micrograms/24 hours + 33.9 micrograms/24 hours transdermal patch 
norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol 
Important things to know about combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs): 
- 
- 
They are one of the most reliable reversible methods of contraception if used correctly. 
They slightly increase the risk of having a blood clot in the veins and arteries, especially in the 
first year or when restarting a combined hormonal contraceptive following a break of 4 or more 
weeks. 
Please be alert and see your doctor if you get symptoms of a blood clot (see section 2 “Blood 
clots”). 
- 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What EVRA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use EVRA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use EVRA 
Possible side effects 
How to store EVRA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What EVRA is and what is it used for 
EVRA contains two types of sex hormones, a progestogen called norelgestromin and an oestrogen 
called ethinyl estradiol. 
Because it contains two hormones, EVRA is called a ‘combined hormonal contraceptive’. 
It is used to prevent pregnancy. 
2.  What you need to know before you use EVRA 
General notes 
Before you start using EVRA you should read the information on blood clots in section 2. It is 
particularly important to read the symptoms of a blood clot - see section 2 “Blood clots”. 
When you should not use EVRA 
You should not use EVRA if you have any of the conditions listed below. If you do have any of the 
conditions listed below, you must tell your doctor. Your doctor will discuss with you what other form 
of birth control would be more appropriate. 
• 
if you have (or have ever had) a blood clot in a blood vessel of your legs (deep vein thrombosis, 
DVT), your lungs (pulmonary embolus, PE) or other organs; 
if you know you have a disorder affecting your blood clotting - for instance, protein C 
deficiency, protein S deficiency, antithrombin-III deficiency, Factor V Leiden or 
antiphospholipid antibodies; 
if you need an operation or if you are off your feet for a long time (see section ‘Blood clots’); 
if you have ever had a heart attack or a stroke; 
• 
• 
• 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe diabetes with blood vessel damage 
very high blood pressure 
a very high level of fat in the blood (cholesterol or triglycerides) 
a condition known as hyperhomocysteinaemia 
if you have (or have ever had) angina pectoris (a condition that causes severe chest pain and 
may be a first sign of a heart attack) or transient ischaemic attack (TIA – temporary stroke 
symptoms); 
if you have a disease that may increase your risk of a clot in the arteries: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have (or have ever had) a type of migraine called ‘migraine with aura’; 
if you are allergic to norelgestromin, ethinyl estradiol or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6); 
if you have ever been told you might have breast cancer or cancer of the womb, cervix or 
vagina; 
if you have ever had liver tumours or a liver disease because of which your liver does not 
function properly; 
if you have unexplained vaginal bleeding; 
if you have hepatitis C and are taking the medicinal products containing 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, dasabuvir, glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (see also in section “Other medicines and EVRA”). 
Do not use this medicine if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse before using this medicine. 
When to take special care with EVRA 
When should you contact your doctor? 
Seek urgent medical attention 
• 
if you notice possible signs of a blood clot that may mean you are suffering from a blood clot 
in the leg (i.e. deep vein thrombosis), a blood clot in the lung (i.e. pulmonary embolism), a 
heart attack or a stroke (see ‘Blood clot [thrombosis] section below). 
For a description of the symptoms of these serious side effects please go to “How to recognise a 
blood clot”. 
Warnings and precautions 
Before using this medicine, you will need to see your doctor for a medical check-up. 
Tell your doctor if any of the following conditions apply to you. 
• 
• 
• 
If the condition develops, or gets worse while you are using EVRA, you must tell your doctor. 
• 
if you have Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis (chronic inflammatory bowel disease); 
• 
if you have SLE (systemic lupus erythematosus; a disease affecting your natural defence 
system); 
if you have haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS - a disorder of blood clotting causing failure of 
the kidneys); 
if you have sickle cell anaemia (an inherited disease of the red blood cells); 
if you have elevated levels of fat in the blood (hypertriglyceridaemia) or a positive family 
history for this condition. Hypertriglyceridaemia has been associated with an increased risk of 
developing pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas); 
if you need an operation, or you are off your feet for a long time (see in section 2 ‘Blood clots’); 
if you have just given birth you are at an increased risk of blood clots. You should ask your 
doctor how soon after delivery you can start taking EVRA; 
if you have an inflammation in the veins under the skin (superficial thrombophlebitis); 
if you have varicose veins. 
if you experience symptoms of angioedema such as swollen face, tongue and/or throat and/or 
difficulty swallowing or hives potentially with difficulty breathing contact a doctor 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immediately. Products containing estrogens may cause or worsen the symptoms of hereditary 
and acquired angioedema. 
BLOOD CLOTS 
Using a combined hormonal contraceptive such as EVRA increases your risk of developing a blood 
clot compared with not using one. In rare cases a blood clot can block blood vessels and cause serious 
problems. 
Blood clots can develop 
• 
• 
in veins (referred to as a ‘venous thrombosis’, ‘venous thromboembolism’ or VTE) 
in the arteries (referred to as an ‘arterial thrombosis’, ‘arterial thromboembolism’ or ATE). 
Recovery from blood clots is not always complete. Rarely, there may be serious lasting effects or, very 
rarely, they may be fatal. 
It is important to remember that the overall risk of a harmful blood clot due to EVRA is small. 
HOW TO RECOGNISE A BLOOD CLOT 
Seek urgent medical attention if you notice any of the following signs or symptoms. 
What are you possibly 
suffering from? 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Retinal vein thrombosis (blood 
clot in the eye) 
Heart attack 
Are you experiencing any of these signs? 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of one leg or along a vein in the leg or foot 
especially when accompanied by: 
- 
pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only 
when standing or walking; 
increased warmth in the affected leg; 
change in colour of the skin on the leg e.g. turning 
pale, red or blue. 
- 
- 
sudden unexplained breathlessness or rapid breathing; 
sudden cough without an obvious cause, which may bring 
up blood; 
sharp chest pain which may increase with deep breathing; 
severe light headedness or dizziness; 
rapid or irregular heartbeat; 
severe pain in your stomach. 
If you are unsure, talk to a doctor as some of these symptoms such 
as coughing or being short of breath may be mistaken for a milder 
condition such as a respiratory tract infection (e.g. a ‘common 
cold’). 
Symptoms most commonly occur in one eye: 
• 
• 
immediate loss of vision or; 
painless blurring of vision which can progress to loss of 
vision. 
chest pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness; 
sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm or 
below the breastbone; 
fullness, indigestion or choking feeling; 
upper body discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, 
arm and stomach; 
sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
rapid or irregular heartbeats. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sudden weakness or numbness of the face, arm or leg, 
especially on one side of the body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or 
coordination; 
sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known 
cause; 
loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure. 
Sometimes the symptoms of stroke can be brief with an almost 
immediate and full recovery, but you should still seek urgent 
medical attention as you may be at risk of another stroke. 
• 
• 
swelling and slight blue discolouration of an extremity; 
severe pain in your stomach (acute abdomen). 
BLOOD CLOTS IN A VEIN 
Stroke 
Blood clots blocking other 
blood vessels 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in a vein? 
• 
The use of combined hormonal contraceptives has been connected with an increase in the risk of 
blood clots in the vein (venous thrombosis). However, these side effects are rare. Most 
frequently, they occur in the first year of use of a combined hormonal contraceptive. 
If a blood clot forms in a vein in the leg or foot it can cause a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
If a blood clot travels from the leg and lodges in the lung it can cause a pulmonary embolism. 
Very rarely a clot may form in a vein in another organ such as the eye (retinal vein thrombosis). 
• 
• 
• 
When is the risk of developing a blood clot in a vein highest? 
The risk of developing a blood clot in a vein is highest during the first year of taking a combined 
hormonal contraceptive for the first time. The risk may also be higher if you restart taking a combined 
hormonal contraceptive (the same product or a different product) after a break of 4 weeks or more. 
After the first year, the risk gets smaller but is always slightly higher than if you were not using a 
combined hormonal contraceptive. 
When you stop EVRA your risk of a blood clot returns to normal within a few weeks. 
What is the risk of developing a blood clot? 
The risk depends on your natural risk of VTE and the type of combined hormonal contraceptive you 
are taking. 
The overall risk of a blood clot in the leg or lung (DVT or PE) with EVRA is small. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Out of 10,000 women who are not using any combined hormonal contraceptive and are not 
pregnant, about 2 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
Out of 10,000 women who are using a combined hormonal contraceptive that contains 
levonorgestrel, norethisterone, or norgestimate about 5-7 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
Out of 10,000 women who are using a combined hormonal contraceptive that contains 
etonorgestrel or norelgestromin such as EVRA between about 6 and 12 women will develop a 
blood clot in a year. 
The risk of having a blood clot will vary according to your personal medical history (see 
“Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot” below). 
Women who are not using a combined 
hormonal pill/patch/ring and are not pregnant 
Risk of developing a blood clot in a year 
About 2 out of 10 000 women 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Women using a combined hormonal 
contraceptive pill containing levonorgestrel, 
norethisterone or norgestimate 
Women using EVRA 
About 5-7 out of 10 000 women 
About 6-12 out of 10 000 women 
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in a vein 
The risk of a blood clot with EVRA is small but some conditions will increase the risk. Your risk is 
higher: 
• 
• 
if you are very overweight (body mass index or BMI over 30 kg/m2); 
if one of your immediate family has had a blood clot in the leg, lung or other organ at a young 
age (e.g. below the age of about 50). In this case you could have a hereditary blood clotting 
disorder; 
if you need to have an operation, or if you are off your feet for a long time because of an injury 
or illness, or you have your leg in a cast. The use of EVRA may need to be stopped several 
weeks before surgery or while you are less mobile. If you need to stop EVRA ask your doctor 
when you can start using it again; 
as you get older (particularly above about 35 years); 
if you gave birth less than a few weeks ago. 
• 
• 
• 
The risk of developing a blood clot increases the more conditions you have. 
Air travel (> 4 hours) may temporarily increase your risk of a blood clot, particularly if you have some 
of the other factors listed. 
It is important to tell your doctor if any of these conditions apply to you, even if you are unsure. Your 
doctor may decide that EVRA needs to be stopped. 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using EVRA, for example a close family member 
experiences a thrombosis for no known reason; or you gain a lot of weight, tell your doctor. 
BLOOD CLOTS IN AN ARTERY 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in an artery? 
Like a blood clot in a vein, a clot in an artery can cause serious problems. For example, it can cause a 
heart attack or a stroke. 
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in an artery 
It is important to note that the risk of a heart attack or stroke from using EVRA is very small but can 
increase: 
• 
• 
with increasing age (beyond about 35 years); 
if you smoke. When using a combined hormonal contraceptive like EVRA you are advised to 
stop smoking. If you are unable to stop smoking and are older than 35 your doctor may advise 
you to use a different type of contraceptive; 
if you are overweight; 
if you have high blood pressure; 
if a member of your immediate family has had a heart attack or stroke at a young age (less than 
about 50). In this case you could also have a higher risk of having a heart attack or stroke; 
if you, or someone in your immediate family, have a high level of fat in the blood (cholesterol 
or triglycerides); 
if you get migraines, especially migraines with aura; 
if you have a problem with your heart (valve disorder, disturbance of the rhythm called atrial 
fibrillation); 
if you have diabetes. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you have more than one of these conditions or if any of them are particularly severe the risk of 
developing a blood clot may be increased even more. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using EVRA, for example you start smoking, a 
close family member experiences a thrombosis for no known reason; or you gain a lot of weight, tell 
your doctor. 
Psychiatric disorders 
Some women using hormonal contraceptives including EVRA have reported depression or depressed 
mood. Depression can be serious and may sometimes lead to suicidal thoughts. If you experience 
mood changes and depressive symptoms contact your doctor for further medical advice as soon as 
possible. 
Additionally, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using EVRA if you have any of the 
following or they happen or get worse while using EVRA: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You think you might be pregnant; 
You have headaches that get worse or happen more often; 
You weigh 90 kg (which is 14 stone 2 lb) or more; 
You have high blood pressure or your blood pressure gets higher; 
You have gallbladder disease including gallstones or inflammation of the gallbladder; 
You have a blood problem called porphyria; 
You have a problem of the nervous system involving sudden movements of the body called 
‘Sydenham’s chorea’; 
You had a skin rash with blisters during pregnancy (called ‘herpes gestationis’); 
You have a hearing loss; 
You have diabetes; 
You have depression; 
You have epilepsy or any other problem that can cause fits (convulsions); 
You have liver problems including yellowing of the skin and whites of the eye (jaundice); 
You have or have had ‘pregnancy spots’. These are yellowish-brown patches or spots, 
especially on your face (called ‘chloasma’). These spots may not go away completely, even 
after you stop using EVRA. Protect your skin from sunlight or ultraviolet radiation. This may 
help prevent you from getting these spots or help prevent them from getting worse. 
You have kidney problems. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
EVRA. 
Sexually transmitted disease 
This medicine will not protect you against HIV infection (AIDS) or any other sexually transmitted 
disease. These include chlamydia, genital herpes, genital warts, gonorrhoea, hepatitis B, syphilis. 
Always use condoms to protect yourself from these diseases. 
Medical tests 
• 
If you need a blood or urine test, tell your doctor or the laboratory staff that you are taking 
EVRA, because hormonal contraceptives can affect the results of some tests. 
Children and adolescents 
EVRA has not been studied in children and adolescents under 18 years of age. EVRA must not be 
used in children and adolescents who have not yet had their first menstrual period. 
Other medicines and EVRA 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines. 
Do not use EVRA if you have Hepatitis C and are taking the medicinal products containing 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, dasabuvir, glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir as these products may cause increases in liver function blood test 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results (increase in ALT liver enzyme). Your doctor will prescribe another type of contraceptive prior 
to start of the treatment with these medicinal products. EVRA can be restarted approximately 2 weeks 
after completion of this treatment. See section “When you should not use EVRA”. 
Certain medicines and herbal therapies may stop EVRA from working properly. If this happens you 
could get pregnant, or may experience unexpected bleeding. 
These include medicines used for the treatment of: 
• 
some antiretroviral medicines used to treat HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C virus infections (so-
called protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors such as ritonavir, 
nevirapine, efavirenz) 
medicines for infection (such as rifampicin and griseofulvin) 
anti-seizure medicines (such as barbiturates, topiramate, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, 
oxcarbazepine, and felbamate) 
bosentan (a medicine for high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs) 
St. John’s wort (an herbal therapy used for depression) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you take any of these medicines, you may need to use another method of birth control (such as a 
condom, diaphragm or foam). The interfering effect of some of these medicines can last for up to 
28 days after you have stopped taking them. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about using another 
method of birth control if you use EVRA and any of the above medicines concomitantly. 
EVRA may make some other medicines less effective, such as: 
• 
• 
medicines containing ciclosporin 
lamotrigine used for epilepsy [This can increase the risk of fits (seizures)]. 
Your doctor may need to adjust the dose of the other medicine. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice before taking any medicine. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use this medicine if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant. 
Stop using this medicine right away if you become pregnant. 
Do not use this medicine if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed. 
If you think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
You can drive or use machines while using this medicine. 
Risks of using combined hormonal contraceptives 
The following information is based on information about combined birth control pills. As the EVRA 
transdermal patch contains similar hormones to those used in combined birth control pills, it is likely 
to have the same risks. All combined birth control pills have risks, which may lead to disability or 
death. 
It has not been shown that a transdermal patch like EVRA is safer than a combined birth control pill 
taken by mouth. 
Combined hormonal contraceptives and cancer 
Cervical cancer 
Cervical cancer has been found more often in women taking combined hormonal contraceptives. 
However, this may be due to other causes including sexually-transmitted disease. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast cancer 
Breast cancer has been found more often in women who take combined hormonal contraceptives. 
However, it is possible that the combined hormonal contraceptive is not the cause of more women 
having breast cancer. It may be that women taking the combined hormonal contraceptive are examined 
more often. This might mean that there is a better chance of the breast cancer being noticed. The 
increased risk gradually goes down after stopping the combined hormonal contraceptive. After 
10 years, the risk is the same as for people who have never used the combined hormonal 
contraceptive. 
Liver cancer 
In rare cases, liver tumours which are not cancer have been found in women taking combined 
hormonal contraceptives. Even more rarely, liver tumours which are cancer have been found. This can 
cause bleeding inside the body with very bad pain in the stomach area. If this happens to you, talk to 
your doctor immediately. 
3.  How to use EVRA 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. 
• 
• 
• 
If you do not, you may increase your risk of getting pregnant. 
Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Always keep non-hormonal contraceptives (such as condoms, foam or sponge) as a back-up in 
case you make a mistake when using the patch. 
How many patches to use 
•  Weeks 1, 2 & 3:   Put on one patch and leave it on for exactly seven days. 
•  Week 4:  
Do not put on a patch this week. 
If you have not used a hormonal contraceptive during your previous cycle 
• 
You may start this medicine on the first day of your next period. 
• 
If one or more days have elapsed since the start of your period, talk to your doctor about 
temporarily using a non-hormonal contraceptive. 
If you switch from the oral contraceptive pill to EVRA 
If you are switching from an oral contraceptive pill to this medicine: 
•  Wait until you get your menstrual period. 
• 
Put on your first patch during the first 24 hours of your period. 
If the patch is applied after Day 1 of your period, you should: 
• 
Use a non-hormonal contraceptive until Day 8 when you change your patch. 
If you do not get your period within 5 days of taking the last contraceptive pill, check with your doctor 
before starting this medicine. 
If you switch from the progestogen-only pill, an implant or an injectable to EVRA 
• 
You may start this medicine any day after stopping the progestogen-only pill or on the day of 
removal of an implant or when the next injection would be due. 
The first day after stopping the progestogen-only pill, removing the implant or when your next 
injection would be due, put on a patch. 
Use a non-hormonal contraceptive until Day 8, when you change your patch. 
• 
• 
After miscarriage or abortion before 20 weeks of pregnancy 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor. 
You may start this medicine right away. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If one or more days have elapsed since your miscarriage or abortion when you start this medicine, talk 
to your doctor about temporarily using a non-hormonal contraceptive. 
After miscarriage or abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy 
• 
Talk to your doctor. 
You may start this medicine on Day 21 following the abortion or miscarriage, or on the first day of 
your next period, whichever comes first. 
After delivery 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor. 
If you’ve had a baby and are not breast-feeding, you should not start using this medicine sooner 
than 4 weeks after delivery. 
If you start more than 4 weeks after delivery, use another non-hormonal contraceptive in 
addition to this medicine for the first 7 days. 
If you’ve had sex since delivery of your baby, wait for your first period or see your doctor to make 
sure you are not pregnant before starting this medicine. 
If you are breast-feeding 
• 
Talk to your doctor. 
• 
Do not use this medicine if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed (see also section 2 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding). 
Important information to follow when using the patch 
• 
Change EVRA on the same day of each week. This is because it is designed to work over 
7 days. 
Never go without wearing a patch for more than 7 days in a row. 
Only wear one patch at a time. 
Do not cut or tamper with the patch in any way. 
Do not put the patch on skin that is red, irritated or cut. 
To work properly the patch must stick firmly to your skin. 
Press the patch down firmly until the edges stick well. 
Do not use creams, oils, lotions, powder or makeup on the skin where you are placing a patch or 
near a patch you are wearing. This may make the patch come loose. 
Do not put a new patch on the same area of skin as the old patch. If you do you are more likely 
to cause irritation. 
Check each day to make sure the patch has not fallen off. 
Keep using the patches even if you do not have sex very often. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
How to use the patch: 
If this is the first time you are using EVRA, wait until the day you get 
your menstrual period. 
• 
• 
• 
Apply your first patch during the first 24 hours of your period 
If the patch is put on after the first day of your period, use a 
non-hormonal contraceptive until Day 8, when you change your 
patch 
The day you apply your first patch will be Day 1. Your “Patch 
Change Day” will be on this day of the week every week. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choose a place on your body to put the patch. 
• 
• 
• 
Always put your patch on clean, dry, hairless skin 
Put it on the buttock, abdomen, upper outer arm or upper back - 
places where it won’t be rubbed by tight clothing 
Never put the patch on your breasts. 
Using your fingers, open the foil sachet. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Open it by tearing it along the edge (do not use scissors) 
Firmly grasp a corner of the patch and gently take it from the foil 
sachet 
There is a clear protective covering on the patch 
Sometimes patches can stick to the inside of the sachet – be 
careful not to accidentally remove the clear covering as you 
remove the patch 
Then peel away half of the clear protective covering (see picture). 
Try not to touch the sticky surface. 
Put the patch on your skin. 
• 
• 
• 
Then take off the other half of the covering 
Press down firmly on the patch with the palm of your hand for 
10 seconds 
Make sure that the edges stick well. 
Wear the patch for 7 days (one week). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
On the first “Patch Change Day”, Day 8, take off the used patch 
Put on a new patch immediately. 
On Day 15 (Week 3), take off the used patch 
Put on another new one. 
This makes a total of three weeks with the patches. 
To help stop irritation, do not put the new patch on exactly the same 
area of your skin as your last patch. 
Do not wear a patch on Week 4 (Day 22 through Day 28). 
• 
• 
You should have your period during this time 
During this week you are protected from getting pregnant only if 
you start your next patch on time. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For your next four-week cycle. 
• 
• 
Put on a new patch on your normal “Patch Change Day”, the day 
after Day 28 
Do this no matter when your period begins or ends. 
If you want to change your “Patch Change Day” to a different day of the week talk to your doctor. 
You will need to complete the current cycle and remove the third patch on the correct day. During 
Week 4, you may pick a new Change Day and apply the first patch on that day. You should never go 
more than 7 days in a row without wearing a patch. 
If you want to delay your period, apply a patch at the beginning of Week 4 (Day 22) instead of not 
wearing a patch on Week 4. You may experience light or breakthrough bleeding. Do not wear more 
than 6 patches (so not more than 6 weeks) in a row. When you have worn 6 patches in a row (so for 
6 consecutive weeks), do not put on a patch in week 7. After 7 days of not wearing a patch, apply a 
new patch and restart the cycle using this as Day 1. Talk with your doctor before deciding to delay 
your period. 
Everyday activities while using the patches 
• 
Normal activities such as having a bath or shower, using a sauna and exercising should not 
affect how well the patch works. 
The patch is designed to stay in place during these types of activities. 
However, you should check that the patch has not fallen off after doing these activities. 
• 
• 
If you need to place the patch on a new area on your body on a day other than your “Patch 
Change Day” 
If the patch causes irritation or you become uncomfortable wearing it: 
• 
You can take it off and replace it with a new patch in a different place on your body until your 
next “Patch Change Day” 
You may only use one patch at a time. 
• 
If you have trouble remembering to change your patch 
• 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. He/she may be able to make patch changing easier for 
you. He/she may also talk about whether you need to use another method of contraception. 
If your patch becomes loose, lifts at the edges or falls off 
For less than one day (up to 24 hours): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Try to put it on again or put on a new patch immediately. 
Back-up contraception is not needed. 
Your “Patch Change Day” should remain the same. 
Do not try to put a patch back on if: 
it is no longer sticky 
- 
it has become stuck to itself or another surface 
- 
it has other material stuck to it 
- 
it is the second time it has become loose or has fallen off. 
- 
Do not use tapes or wrapping to keep the patch in place. 
If you cannot get a patch back on, put on a new patch immediately. 
• 
• 
For more than one day (24 hours or more) or if you are not sure for how long: 
• 
Start a new four-week cycle immediately by putting on a new patch. 
• 
You now have a new Day 1 and a new “Patch Change Day”. 
• 
You must use non-hormonal contraception as back up for the first week of your new cycle. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You may get pregnant if you do not follow these instructions. 
If you forget to change your patch 
At the start of any patch cycle (Week 1 (Day 1)): 
If you forget to put on your patch, you may be at particularly high risk of becoming pregnant. 
• 
• 
• 
You must use non-hormonal contraception as back up for one week. 
Put on the first patch of your new cycle as soon as you remember. 
You now have a new “Patch Change Day” and new Day 1. 
In the middle of your patch cycle (Week 2 or 3): 
If you forget to change your patch for one or two days (up to 48 hours): 
• 
• 
You must put on a new patch as soon as you remember. 
Put on your next patch on your normal “Patch Change Day”. 
No back up contraception is needed. 
For more than 2 days (48 hours or more): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you forget to change your patch for more than 2 days, you may become pregnant. 
You must start a new four-week cycle as soon as you remember by putting on a new patch. 
You now have a different “Patch Change Day” and a new Day 1. 
You must use back-up contraception for the first week of your new cycle. 
At the end of your patch cycle (Week 4): 
If you forget to take off your patch: 
• 
• 
Take it off as soon as you remember. 
Start your next cycle on your normal “Patch Change Day”, the day after Day 28. 
No back-up contraception is needed. 
If you have absent or irregular bleeding with EVRA 
This medicine may cause unexpected vaginal bleeding or spotting during the weeks when you are 
wearing the patch. 
• 
• 
• 
This usually stops after the first few cycles. 
Mistakes in using your patches can also cause spotting and light bleeding. 
Continue using this medicine and if the bleeding lasts more than the first three cycles, talk to 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you do not get your period during the EVRA patch-free week (Week 4), you should still use a new 
patch on your usual “Patch Change Day”. 
• 
If you have been using this medicine correctly and you do not have a period, this does not 
necessarily mean that you are pregnant. 
However, if you miss two periods in a row, talk to your doctor or pharmacist as you may be 
pregnant. 
• 
If you use more EVRA than you should (more than one EVRA patch at any one time) 
Take the patches off and talk to a doctor immediately. 
Using too many patches may cause you to have the following: 
• 
Feeling sick (nausea) and being sick (vomiting) 
• 
Bleeding from the vagina. 
If you stop using EVRA 
You may get irregular, little or no menstruation. This usually happens in the first 3 months and 
especially if your periods were not regular before you started using this medicine. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. If you get 
any side effect, particularly if severe and persistent, or have any change to your health that you think 
may be due to EVRA, please talk to your doctor. 
Contact a doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms of angioedema: 
swollen face, tongue and/or throat and/or difficulty swallowing or hives potentially with difficulty 
breathing (see also section “Warnings and precautions”). 
An increased risk of blood clots in your veins [venous thromboembolism (VTE)] or blood clots in 
your arteries [arterial thromboembolism (ATE)] is present for all women taking combined hormonal 
contraceptives. For more detailed information on the different risks from taking combined hormonal 
contraceptives please see section 2 “What you need to know before you use EVRA”. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 women): 
• 
• 
• 
Headache 
Nausea 
Breast tenderness. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 women): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
Vaginal yeast infection, sometimes called thrush 
Mood problems such as depression, change in mood or mood swings, anxiety, crying 
Dizziness 
Migraine 
Stomach ache or bloating 
Vomiting or diarrhoea 
Acne, skin rash, skin itching or skin irritation 
Muscle spasms 
Breast problems such as pain, enlargement or lumps in the breast 
Changes in menstrual bleeding pattern, uterine cramps, painful periods, vaginal discharge 
Problems where the patch has been on the skin such as redness, irritation, itching or rash 
Feeling tired or generally unwell 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 women): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reaction, hives 
Swelling due to water retention in the body 
High levels of fats in the blood (such as cholesterol or triglycerides) 
Problems sleeping (insomnia) 
Less interest in sex 
Eczema, redness of the skin 
Abnormal breast milk production 
Premenstrual syndrome 
Vaginal dryness 
Other problems where the patch has been on the skin 
Swelling 
High blood pressure or rise in blood pressure 
Increased appetite 
Hair loss 
Sensitivity to sunlight. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 women): 
• 
Harmful blood clots in a vein or artery for example: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
in a leg or foot (i.e. DVT) 
in a lung (i.e. PE) 
heart attack 
stroke 
mini-stroke or temporary stroke-like symptoms, known as a transient ischaemic attack 
(TIA) 
blood clots in the liver, stomach/intestine, kidneys or eye. 
- 
The chance of having a blood clot may be higher if you have any other conditions that increase 
this risk (See section 2 for more information on the conditions that increase risk for blood clots 
and the symptoms of a blood clot). 
Breast, cervical or liver cancer 
Problems where the patch has been on the skin such as skin rash with blisters or ulcers 
Non-cancerous (benign) tumours in your breast or liver 
Fibroids in the womb (uterus) 
Anger or feeling frustrated 
Increased interest in sex 
Abnormal taste 
Problems when wearing contact lenses 
Sudden sharp increase in blood pressure (hypertensive crisis) 
Inflammation of the gall bladder or colon 
Abnormal cells in your cervix 
Brown spots or patches on the face 
Gallstones or blockage of the bile duct 
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes 
Abnormal blood sugar or insulin levels 
A severe allergic reaction that may include swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat 
which may cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing 
Skin rash with tender red nodules on the shins and legs 
Itchy skin 
Scaly, flaky, itchy and red skin 
Suppressed lactation 
Vaginal discharge 
Fluid retention in legs 
Fluid retention 
Swelling in the arms, hands, legs or feet. 
If you have an upset stomach 
• 
The amount of hormones you get from EVRA should not be affected by being sick (vomiting) 
or diarrhoea. 
You do not need to use extra contraception if you have an upset stomach. 
You may have spotting or light bleeding or breast tenderness or may feel sick during the first 3 cycles. 
The problem will usually go away but if it doesn’t, check with your doctor or pharmacist. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  How to store EVRA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the label after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original container to protect from light and moisture. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Used patches still contain some active hormones. To protect the environment, the patches should be 
disposed of with care. To discard the used patch, you should: 
• 
• 
Peel back the disposal label on the outside of the sachet. 
Place the used patch within the open disposal label so that the sticky surface covers the shaded 
area. 
Close the label sealing the used patch within and discard, keeping out of reach of children. 
• 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What EVRA contains 
The active substances are norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol. Each 20 cm2 transdermal patch 
contains 6 mg norelgestromin and 600 micrograms ethinyl estradiol. The active substances are 
released over 7 days with an average of 203 micrograms norelgestromin and 34 micrograms ethinyl 
estradiol being released each 24 hours. 
The other ingredients are: backing layer: low-density pigmented polyethylene outer layer, polyester 
inner layer; middle layer: polyisobutylene/polybutene adhesive, crospovidone, non-woven polyester 
fabric, lauryl lactate; third layer: polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film, polydimethylsiloxane coating. 
What EVRA looks like and contents of the pack 
EVRA is a thin, beige, plastic transdermal patch stamped “EVRA”. The sticky adhesive side is stuck 
to the skin after removal of the clear, plastic, protective covering. 
EVRA is available in the following pack sizes: Cartons containing 3, 9 or 18 patches in individual 
foil-lined sachets, wrapped per three in a transparent perforated plastic film. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder:  
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
Manufacturer:  
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium. 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
46 
  
 
 
 
 
