SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Evra.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  October  2003.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
EVRA  is  a  contraceptive  patch  of  20  cm2  for  transdermal  administration  that  contains  0.75  mg  of 
ethinyl  estradiol  (EE)  combined  with  6  mg  of  norelgestromin  (NGMN)  as  active  substances. 
Subsequently,  in  February  2003,  the  European  Commission  authorised  a  change  to  a  new 
manufacturing site. In order to achieve bioequivalence between the two patches, the content of EE was 
reduced to 0.6 mg per patch. The content of NGMN remained unchanged. 
Ethinyl estradiol has been used extensively as the estrogenic component of many oral contraceptives. 
By  contrast  NGMN  is  a  new  progestagenic  component.  NGMN  is,  however,  the  primary  active 
metabolite  of  norgestimate  (NGM),  which  is  the  progestagenic  component  of  several  combined  oral 
contraceptives already authorised. In vivo, the deacetylation of NGM occurs predominately during the 
oral absorption process, as a first-pass effect. NGMN was chosen as the progestagenic component of 
the patch as it has been shown to pass through the skin. 
EVRA  is  the  first  combined  contraceptive  for  transdermal  application  designed  to  deliver  effective 
levels  of  the  two  hormones  during  the  7-day  period  of  wear.  The  formulation  is  claimed  to  deliver 
approximately  150  microgram  NGMN  and  20  microgram  EE  to  the  systemic  circulation  per  day 
during each day of wear. The development of EVRA is based on the rational that a patch has a greater 
acceptability and ease of compliance, and that the dose delivery by the transdermal route is unaffected 
by gastrointestinal disturbances.  
The approved indication is “for female contraception. EVRA is intended for women of fertile age. The 
safety and efficacy has been established in women aged 18 to 45 years”. 
The  dose  recommendation  includes  the  use  of  one  patch  per  week  (7  days)  for  three  consecutive 
weeks, to be followed by one patch-free week. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
EVRA  is  a  transdermal  patch  (matrix  type),  which  contains  6  mg  of  NGMN  and  0.75  mg  of  EE  as 
active substances per patch. The patch delivers approximately 150 µg NGMN and 20 µg EE per day. 
The  patch  is  a  thin  flexible  square  with  rounded  corners.  The  surface  in  contact  with  the  skin  is  20 
cm2.  Three  different  layers  are  distinguishable:  a  non  removable  polyester  protective  film  (backing 
layer),  the  adhesive  matrix  containing  the  active  substances  with  a  non  woven  polyester  fabric  as  a 
structural support, and a clear transparent polyester removable protective layer (release liner). 
Other  ingredients  include  polyisobutylene/polybutene,  lauryl  lactate,  crospovidone,  and  non-woven 
polyester fabric. The rationale for the selection of the individual excipients is also given.  
There are no components from animal origin entering in the composition of the finished product. 
Each patch is packed in an opaque, white heat-sealed pouch. The pouch has a laminated construction 
of  bleached  machine  glazed  paper,  low  density  polyethylene,  aluminium  foil  (9  µm)  and  inner  low 
density  polyethylene  heat-seal  layer.  A  supply  of  one  cycle  consists  of  three  pouches  packed  in  a 
cardboard carton. 
1/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substances 
Ethinyl estradiol (EE) 
EE  complies  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  A  certification  of  Suitability  of  the  Monograph  of  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia is available for the manufacturer. 
Results of 10 batches manufactured are provided. All batches conform to specifications. 
The  stability  of  ethinyl  estradiol  has  been  investigated  under  stressed  conditions.  The  degradation 
chemistry  was  studied  in  solution  and  in  the  solid  state.  Aged  active  substance  did  not  contain 
significant  amount  of  degradation  products.  Also,  long-term  stability  data  are  presented,  up  to  48 
months (4 batches; 25°C/60 % RH). Parameters studied are acceptable (including methods used). The 
results  show  that  that  the  substance  is  very  stable  and  extreme  conditions  were  required  to  cause 
degradation. Therefore, on this basis the proposed re-test period of 12 months is acceptable. 
Norelgestromin (NGMN) 
Information on NGMN has been supplied in the form of an EDMF. 
NGMN  is  (17α)-13-ethyl-17-hydroxy-18,  19-dinorpregn-4-en-20-yn-3-one-oxime.  It  is  the  primary 
active metabolite of norgestimate (NGM). 
NGMN has two types of isomerism: 
• 
• 
Optical isomers due to asymmetry of the molecule (6 asymmetric carbon atoms). The particular 
optical isomer is guaranteed by the appropriate starting material and by the synthetic route.  
Geometrical isomerism, NGMN is a mixture of anti- (E) and syn- (Z) isomers.  
Crystalline and amorphous forms have been found. These characteristics however are not relevant for 
this application because the substance is dissolved in the final product. 
NGMN is manufactured by the hydrolysis of the 17-acetyl functional group of NGM (deacetylation). 
The  starting  material  NGM  is  a  well  known  progestagenic  compound  used  in  oral  contraceptive 
medicinal product authorised in the EU, the control and synthesis are well described and validated. 
NGMN specifications include tests for identity (IR, HPLC, Specific Optical Rotation), assay (HPLC, 
98-102 %)  and  a  number  of  purity  tests  such  as  tests  for  related  substances,  residual  solvents  (GC, 
acetone, cyclohexane, isopropyl ether, ethanol, methanol), heavy metals. 
Characterisation of each impurity is provided; the major impurities are NGM and norgestrel (NG). The 
impurities limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch analytical data are presented in four batches used for the manufacture of clinical supplies and 
one  batch  used  in  toxicological  studies  and  also  for  8  batches  (production  size),  all  indicating 
compliance  with  the  specification  and  good  uniformity  and  control  of  the  synthetic  process.  All 
control methods have been adequately validated. 
Stability  studies  for  NGMN  have  been  performed  by  the  active  substance  manufacturer  and  by  the 
applicant. The stability batches were stored in double polyethylene bags in cardboard boxes. Methods 
are validated and stability indicating. They included assay, appearance, water content, ratio of anti-syn 
isomers, and degradation products (HPLC).  
This data provided is sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period, 3 years. 
Other ingredients 
Crospovidone is described in the Ph. Eur and the USP/NF. It is controlled according to the Ph Eur.  
Internal  monographs  are  proposed  for  the  rest  of  the  excipients,  which  are  not  described  in  a 
Pharmacopoeia,  e.g  the  adhesive  and  the  polyester  fabric.  Lauryl  lactate  is  a  novel  excipient  in 
2/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmaceutical  use,  however  a  substantial  amount  of  information  exists  in  relation  to  its  use  in 
cosmetics. 
Analytical certificates of the packaging materials from the suppliers have been submitted. 
Product development and finished product 
The  conversion  of  NGM  to  NGMN  was  not  expected  to  occur  extensively  when  NGM  was 
administered  transdermally.  In  addition  NGMN  would  be  more  effective  in  skin  penetration  than 
NGM  and  was  chosen  chiefly  on  this  basis.  Acceptable  transdermal  delivery  was  investigated  at 
different sites: abdomen, buttock, upper outer arm and upper torso with satisfactory results. 
The aim was to develop a patch, which achieves plasma levels similar to those obtained after an oral 
administration  of  EE  and  NGM.  The  capacity  of  both  substances  to  permeate  through  the  skin  was 
demonstrated during the pharmacokinetic studies, where it was shown that the serum levels in women 
using EVRA achieved similar plasma levels as 250 µg NGM + 35 µg administered orally. 
In the pharmaceutical development, in vitro flux rate studies with human cadaver skin were used as a 
development tool for evaluating prototype performance. 
Three  classes  of  pressure  sensitive  adhesive,  with  different  solubility  parameters  were  also 
investigated in  order to  have  a system that could  provide 7-day  wear and delivery of the two active 
substances. 
The batches used in clinical trials are the same as those intended for marketing. 
The manufacturing process is established in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices and with 
internal standard procedures. The finish product is manufactured in 4 steps: (1) mixture of ingredients, 
(2) coating, drying and lamination, (3) control of the final laminate, and (4) die cutting of the patches 
and primary packaging.  
The manufacturing process has been validated by a number of studies for the four major steps of the 
manufacturing  process  in  three  industrial  batches,  for  instance  mixing  apparatus,  purity  of  lauryl 
lactate, mixing optimisation, optimisation of coating parameters. 
Product Specification  
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, identification of active 
substances (HPLC and TLC), assay (HPLC, NGMN and EE), lauryl lactate (GC), content uniformity 
(Ph.  Eur.),  dissolution,  peel force, adhesive  strength, and  microbial  purity. Degradation  products are 
detected by HPLC. GC detects residual solvents and a limit is defined for each of the solvents. 
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies.  
Stability of the Product 
The stability of the EVRA patches has been studied on three industrial size batches. The patches were 
stored according to the conditions described by ICH for 24 months at 25°C/60 % RH, for 12 months at 
30°C/60 %  RH,  and  for  6  months  in  accelerated  conditions  40°C/75 %  RH.  Additional  stress 
conditions were studied: 1000-foot candles on unpouched patches and pouched patches during 3 to 7 
days. 
The  parameters  tested  were  appearance,  assay  active  substances,  degradation  products,  microbial 
purity, ratio of lauryl alcohol and lauryl lactoyl lactate, ratio NGMN anti to NGMN syn, peel/adhesive 
strength and dissolution. 
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability. These results support the shelf life stated in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
3/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Since  EE  has  already  been  extensively  used  for  many  years  as  the  estrogenic  component  of  many 
approved  oral  contraceptives  in  Europe,  the  preclinical  profile  of  EE  has  been  well  documented  in 
published literature. No new studies using EE have therefore been performed. The preclinical profile 
of EE alone will not be discussed in this document unless relevant for the combination. 
Norelgestromin  (NGMN)  is  a  new  progestogenic  component.  It  is,  however,  the  primary  active 
metabolite (17-deacetylnorgestimate) of norgestimate (NGM), which is the progestagenic component 
contained  in  oral  contraceptives  already  authorised  in  Europe.  In  vivo  the  deacetylation  of  NGM 
occurs  predominantly  during  the  oral  absorption  process,  as  a  first  pass  effect.  Preclinical  data  have 
been previously generated using oral/parenteral administration of NGM and/or NGMN to support the 
oral use of NGM as progesten of oral contraceptives.  
The  preclinical  development  of  EVRA  was  therefore  based  on  a  bridging  strategy.  The 
pharmacological/toxicological  data,  which  were  previously  obtained  with  NGM  have  been  used  to 
support the topical use of NGMN. Additional studies have only been carried out when necessary. 
This  bridging  strategy  was  considered  acceptable  since  preclinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  have 
shown that after administration of NGM, systemic exposure to NGMN was far higher than that of the 
parent compound or other metabolites due to first pass metabolism. As a consequence, it is impossible 
to evaluate the pharmacological profile of NGM alone and data obtained after administration of NGM 
can all be considered to support the activities of NGM/NGMN and/or NGMN alone.  
Pharmacodynamics 
As above-mentioned, data obtained after administration of NGM can all be considered to support the 
activities  of  NGM/NGMN  and/or  NGMN  alone.  This  consideration  was  supported  by  three  studies, 
which  showed  similar  progestagenic  and  androgenic  activities  between  NGM/NGMN  and  NGMN 
alone. 
All the pharmacodynamic studies on NGM/NGMN, except one, had already been reviewed during the 
approval  procedure  of  oral  contraceptives  containing  NGM.  From  this  initial  evaluation  it  was 
concluded  that  NGM/NGMN  could  be  considered  as  an  efficacious  and  safe  progestagenic 
component.  Since  in  almost  all  preclinical  studies  NGMN  acted  as  the  primary  progestagenic 
component, the conclusions made on the use of NGMN alone as progestagenic component of EVRA 
could be extrapolated from the use of the already approved medicinal products. 
Mechanism of action 
Anti-ovulatory activity 
The ability of NGM/NGMN to inhibit ovulation at different dose levels was measured in a number of 
species and compared to that of other progestogens and in  combination with  EE. NGMN and NGM 
were equally potent in vivo in inhibiting ovulation and the combined effects of NGM/NGMN and EE 
on ovulation in rats after oral administration were, at most, additive, and were only seen at relatively 
high doses. The estrogenic component EE is added mainly to provide menstrual cycle control. 
Other activities 
Both  NGM  and  EE  have  further  pharmacological  activities,  which  are  indirectly  related  to  the 
proposed indication and are due to the sex hormonal activities of these steroids. These are summarised 
below. 
NGM  seems  to  have  a  moderate  progestagenic  activity  based  on  its  effects  on  endometrial 
proliferation in rabbits, maintenance of pregnancy in rats and binding to the progestogen receptor in 
vitro. In the same way EE exerts its estrogenicity by binding to estrogenic receptors and stimulating 
cell growth in various tissues.   
4/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NGM/NGMN seemed less androgenic than levonorgestrel (LNG) as assessed by its ability to stimulate 
ventral prostate growth and its effects on sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). 
Effects  on early gestation were studied in rats,  New Zealand White rabbits and Hartley guinea pigs. 
NGM, administered orally at about 5-10 mg/kg (rats), 15 mg/kg (rabbits) and 10 – 30 mg/kg (guinea 
pigs) inhibited pregnancy up to 100 % in some cases but NGM + EE was more effective than NGM 
due to its EE component. Even if no such effects would be expected in women at the clinical dose, it is 
adequately stated in the Summary of Product Characteristics that pregnancy should be ruled out before 
treatment initiation. 
NGM  administered  orally  to  female  Wistar  rats  produced  a  significant  reduction  in  adrenal  gland 
weights  at  the  highest  dose  (0.5  kg/mg)  but  there  was  no  remarkable  alteration  in  hormone 
concentrations and the only histological change observed was a mild uterine stimulation. 
The relative biological activity of isomers of norelgestromin has been demonstrated. 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
NGM  did  not  have  any  significant  effect  on  the  central  nervous  system  of  rats  when  administered 
orally  at  doses  up  to  25 mg/kg  nor  on  the  autonomous  nervous  and  cardiovascular  system  of  dogs 
when given intravenously at doses 0.5 mg/kg. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A number of pharmacokinetic studies and publications from literature were provided to describe the 
pharmacokinetic profile of EE, NGM and NGMN. Most of the studies were already evaluated in the 
context of the applications for orally administered NGM. The preclinical development of oral NGM is 
of  older  date  and  in  these  experiments  radiolabelled  test  compounds  were  used.  Consequently, 
metabolites  in  serum  were  not  quantified.  Therefore,  bridging  studies  were  performed  to  determine 
serum concentrations of NGM, NGMN, and the metabolites after oral administration of NGM with or 
without  EE,  using  LC/MS  techniques.  These  studies  were  performed  in  rats,  rabbits  and  rhesus 
monkeys to investigate the exposure that was likely to  have  been achieved in  the  main  oral toxicity 
studies  with  NGM.  No  studies  have  been  performed  in  mice  and  dogs  since  these  species  are  not 
directly relevant for the safety evaluation. 
New  in  vitro  studies  have  been  performed  with  NGMN  to  support  this  application:  protein  binding, 
interaction  with  P-450  enzymes,  metabolism  in  rat  hepatic  S9  fraction  and  toxicokinetic  data  were 
obtained from toxicological studies.  
Absorption  
The pivotal study in rats measured the serum concentrations of NGM and its metabolites, after the first 
and final doses of a 14 day oral study with NGM + EE in non-fasted females (0.3/0.06 mg/kg; 0.6/0.12 
mg/kg and 3.0/0.6 mg/kg NMG/EE, respectively). At all three doses NGMN was the major analyte on 
both study days. By contrast, NGM and 3-keto NGM (the metabolite of NGM) were only quantifiable 
at the highest dose.  
A study with NGM alone, in both male and female Sprague-Dawley rats confirmed the same relative 
exposure to the compound and primary metabolites at the high oral doses (up to 100 mg/kg/day).  
The  main  Rhesus  monkey  study  investigated  serum  concentrations  of  NGM  and  its  metabolites 
following single and repeated dosing of NGM+EE. The dose levels of NGM and EE were equivalent 
to  the  low  and  high  doses  used  in  the  last  six  years  of  the  long-term  (10-year)  monkey  toxicology 
study (5 µg/kg NGM + 0.7 µg/kg EE and 250 µg/kg NGM + 35 µg/kg EE). The results confirmed a 
dose-related  exposure  to  NGMN,  with  essentially  no  change  in  the  concentrations  during  repeated 
administration.  By  contrast,  NGM  was  only  detected  in  a  few  of  the  samples  from  the  high  dose 
group, and 3-keto NGM was not detected in any of the samples from either dose group.  
5/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When NGM + EE (300 µg/kg NGM + 60 µg/kg EE) was administered orally to female rabbits, neither 
NGM nor NGMN were detected in the serum. This suggests a marked first pass effect in the rabbit not 
only  for  the  parent  compound  but  also  for  its  primary  active  metabolite.  Subcutaneous  dosing  of 
pregnant rabbits with NGMN from Days 7 to 19 of gestation, with or without concomitant exposure to 
EE showed that concentrations of NGMN were dose related but less than proportional, likely to be due 
to absorption-rate limited pharmacokinetics. 
The  serum  concentrations  of  norgestrel  (NG),  a  secondary  active  metabolite  of  NGM,  which  is  also 
the active component of registered combined oral contraceptives, were relatively low in orally dosed 
rats  and  subcutaneously  dosed  rabbits.  By  contrast,  in  the  21-day  oral  NGM  study  in  monkeys  the 
AUC  for  NG  were  more  than  twice  those  for  NGMN,  which  corresponds  with  the  NG  exposure  in 
women.  
Following a single application of a patch (6.0 mg NGMN + 0.6 mg EE 20 cm2 patch) to non-pregnant 
rabbits for 7 days, maximum serum concentrations occurred between 24 and 72 hours, then declined 
gradually during the reminder of the application period. This resulted in a lower exposure of NGMN 
as  compared  with  human  exposure  achieved  with  EVRA.  Within  24  hours  of  removing  the  patch, 
serum levels of both analytes had fallen below the limit of detection of the assay.  
Distribution  
Tissue  distribution  has  not  been  studied  after  administration  of  NGMN.  However,  previous  studies 
were performed with oral doses of radiolabelled NGM. The results indicated extensive distribution of 
the radioactivity to the skin, muscles, liver, adrenals, and adipose tissue as is seen with other steroid 
progestogens. Significant retention was not observed. 
A  specific  in  vitro  binding  study  of  NGMN  has  been  performed.  Plasma  protein  binding  of  NGMN 
was independent of concentration within the range 0.10 to 100 ng/ml, and was effectively the same in 
rats, rabbits, rhesus monkeys and women (98.8 to 99.1 %). 
Metabolism and excretion 
No  in  vivo  studies  have  been  performed  to  profile  the  metabolites  of  NGMN.  This  was  acceptable 
because,  apart  from  any  minor  products  that  might  be  formed  directly  from  NGM/3-keto  NGM  (a 
minor  metabolite  of  NGM)  the  metabolic  profile  for  NGMN  is  expected  to  be  identical  to  that  of 
NGM  and  it  is  anticipated  that  the  metabolic  profile  would  not  be  qualitatively  different  by 
transdermal  and  oral  routes.  Previous  studies  with  NGM  showed  that  metabolism  of  NGM  in  rats, 
dogs, monkeys and humans included hydrolysis of the oxime and acetate moieties; ring A reduction, 
polyhydroxylation  and  conjugation.  In  the  dog  and  Rhesus  monkey  biotransformation  also  involved 
D-homoannulation. From these studies it is concluded that the metabolism of NGM was qualitatively 
similar in rats, dogs, monkeys and humans.  
In rabbits the major metabolic pathway was glucuronidation of NGM and NGMN.  
The metabolism of NGMN, NG and EE involves various isoforms of CYP450.  
No  excretion  studies  have  been  performed  with  NGMN.  The  results  for  elimination  of  the 
radioactivity of NGM from serum showed comparatively long half-life of 30-50 hours in all species. 
Interactions 
It was shown on all the species that the co-administration of EE did not markedly modify the 
disposition of NGM or it metabolites. 
6/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Since NGMN has been shown to be the primary metabolite of NGM in human, rat and rhesus monkey, 
it was considered acceptable to refer to toxicological data generated previously generated with NGM. 
Since  most  of  the  studies  included  NGM  in  combination  with  EE,  any  toxicological  interaction 
between NGMN and EE was also accounted for.  
The bridging strategy was considered acceptable and only new data have been produced with NGMN 
for  reproduction  toxicity  and  mutagenicity.  In  addition  local  tolerance  studies  and  a  repeated  dose 
dermal toxicity study using EVRA patch have also been conducted. All these new studies have been 
performed in accordance with the Good Laboratory Practices. 
Dose extrapolation 
In assessing the exposure  margins  in the animals with those in humans, systemic exposure systemic 
exposure to NGMN was observed during toxicity studies. Retrospective oral pharmacokinetic studies 
to assess systemic exposure to NGMN in oral studies with NGM revealed that AUC values in female 
rats at the top dose in the pivotal carcinogenicity study with rats was more than 16 times higher than 
the  values  in  women  using  NGM  250  µg/EE  35  µg  or  EVRA.  The  AUC  of  NGMN  in  the  10-year 
monkey study exceeded that in humans by > 7 fold.  
Estimation of safety margins relies mainly on the comparison of exposure rates of norelgestromin in 
human and in animal studies. The extrapolation of the exposure of NGMN/NG from animal to humans 
is  difficult  due  to  different  binding  characteristics.  While  NGMN  is  exclusively  bound  by  a  weak 
interaction with serum albumin, NG is also avidly bound by SHBG, the extent of which can change 
during a course of treatment. However it was agreed that this does not compromise the clinical safety 
of  the  product.  In  addition  because  of  the  close  similarities  between  NGMN/NG:EE  exposures  in 
women  using  NGM  250  µg/EE  35  µg  and  EVRA,  the  established  clinical  database  provides  better 
reassurance than the preclinical.  
Single dose toxicity 
No acute toxicity studies have been conducted with NGMN. NGM+EE had a very low order of acute 
toxicity after oral administration. No lethality or toxicity were seen in rats at doses up to 5,000 mg/kg 
of  NMG  +  EE.  It  can  be  assumed  that  the  acute  toxicity  profile  of  NGMN  will  be  of  the  same 
magnitude. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Oral studies with NGM alone or in combination with EE were previously performed in rats, dogs and 
monkeys.  Long-term  studies  included  two  oral  24-month  studies  with  NGM+EE  in  rats,  and  2-year 
and 10-year monkey (Rhesus) studies.  
These  studies  revealed  effects  most  likely  related  to  an  exaggerated  pharmacological  action  such  as 
reduction of oestrus cycles, decreased uterine and ovarian weight, decreased serum cholesterol levels 
and  erythrocytes  parameters.  Assuming  that  human  exposures  to  NGMN  and  NG  via  NGM 
250 µg/EE 35 µg  and  EVRA  are  similar,  these  oral  toxicity  data  indicate  that  EVRA  will  not  pose 
additional safety issues as compared to this already approved oral contraceptive. It has to be noted that 
exposure  of  rats  to  NG  was  relatively  low.  This  difference  in  metabolic  patterns  between  rats  and 
women will not pose a problem, because NG has been used as oral contraceptive for many years and 
the toxicity of NG was sufficiently studied in monkeys. 
In rabbits, topical application of treatment patches (10, 15 or 20 cm2) containing up to 6 mg NGMN 
and 0.75 mg EE (8:1) or placebo patches was made with two new patches applied to shaved sites on 
each  animal  per week, giving  continuous exposure of 24  hours  a day  for  28  to  29  days of duration. 
Clinical observations related to the topical application were limited to irritation at the application site 
7/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in all treatment and placebo groups. The erythema was not directly related to the steroid components 
and was attributed in part to difficulty encountered during patch removal.  
Clinical  chemistry  results  indicated  statistically  significant  decreases  in  serum  phosphorus  and 
triglycerides in all treated groups compared to control. Haemoglobin, haematocrit, red blood cells and 
prothrombin  time  decreased  in  all  test  groups  as  compared  to  control.  Absolute  and  relative  ovary 
weight  increased  in  all  test  groups  but  there  was  no  microscopic  correlate  for  this  difference.  The 
majority  of  haematological  and  clinical  chemistry  changes  can  be  related  to  an  estrogenic  effect. 
Similar changes have been reported in mice, rats, monkeys and dogs. As expected, a number of non 
dosage-related  changes  occurred  in  the  reproductive  tract.  Uterine  changes  included  multifocal 
decidualization  (hypertrophic  vacuolated  mesenchymal  cells)  and  enlargement  with  discoloration. 
These  changes  are  considered  physiologic  progestagenic  and  estrogenic  effects  of  the  treatment. 
Thymic  lymphoid  depletion  and  deposition  of  amyloid  or  amyloid-like  material  in  the  spleen  were 
observed in all treatment groups. These effects were not observed in the oral studies. The margins of 
exposure at the dose levels used in this study compared to the human exposure are small (0.31-0.69 
and  0.67-1.13  for  NGMN  and  EE,  respectively).  These  effects  seemed  however  of  no  concern  for 
humans, based on published data on effects of estrogens and progestogens in rabbits, and the fact that 
the  effects  on  spleen  have  not  been  observed  in  other  animal  species,  nor  are  they  known  from 
hormonal anticonceptive treatment in women. In  addition clinical  data  did  not  indicate an important 
difference in exposure to metabolites between the approved oral contraceptive NGM 250 µg/EE 35 µg 
oral treatment and EVRA.  
Reproduction studies 
Oral  reproduction  studies  with  NGM+EE  were  previously  performed.  These  included  a  fertility  and 
general  reproductive  performance  study  in  rats,  two  embryo-foetal  developmental  studies  (rats  and 
rabbits), and a perinatal toxicity study in rats. 
Dose-related effects on fertility, maternal and foetal parameters, and lactation were observed and are 
expected responses to the pharmacological actions of these substances. In the embryo-foetal toxicity 
study,  the  increase  in  ‘wavy ribs’  reported  in  the  high  dose  group  (NGM+  EE  (5:1)  300  µg/kg/day) 
was considered as a skeletal variant rather than a teratogenic response. The change reversed after birth 
and no teratogenic effects were observed in rabbits after oral administration of NGM + EE.  
Because  rabbits  dosed  orally  with  NGM  were  exposed  to  low  levels  of  NGMN,  an  embryo-foetal 
toxicity  study  was  performed  in  this  species  with  subcutaneously  administered  NGMN  with  doses 
ranging from 1 to 6 mg/kg/day. Foetotoxicity, as reduced ossification of the pubis bone was observed 
at all doses, but the safety margin for this effect is sufficiently high.  
The  oral  reproductive  toxicity  data  indicated  therefore  that  EVRA  will  not  pose  additional  safety 
issues as compared to NGM 250 µg/EE 35 µg. Although exposure of rats to NG was relatively low, an 
additional safety concern is not expected, because NG has been used as oral contraceptive for many 
years. 
Genotoxic potential 
Previous in vitro and in vivo studies conducted with NGM alone  and the combination of NGM+EE, 
and additional in vitro and in vivo studies conducted with NGMN (Ames test, chromosomal aberration 
test, CHO/HGPT and micronucleus test) did not indicate any genotoxic potential. 
Oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  have  been  conducted  using  NGMN  but  results  from  two  previously 
conducted  oral  carcinogenicity  studies  in  rats  and  one  10-year  oral  monkey  study,  with  NGM  +  EE 
have been submitted. It is well established that estrogens can cause neoplasms of the mammary glands 
in  rats  and  therefore  the  findings  in  rats  regarding  mammary  neoplasia  were  considered  not  to  be 
relevant  to  women.  In  the  monkey,  the  neoplasms  reported  were  single  occurrence  and  generally  in 
8/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
different organs. Based on the overall low incidence of neoplasms, the single occurrence of a specific 
type  of  neoplasm  with  known  spontaneous  occurrence,  and  in  the  absence  of  any  of  the  precursor 
lesions in any other monkey in the study, the neoplasms were not considered to be treatment related.  
Local tolerance 
The dermal effects of the 20 cm² patch system containing NGMN + EE with the same amounts as in 
the  product  intended  for  marketing  were  evaluated.  The  local  effects  observed  in  the  primary  skin 
irritation study and in the 28-day dermal toxicity study with multiple application of EVRA patches are 
attributable  to  the  difficulties  of  patch  removal.  There  was  no  evidence  for  contact  sensitisation  in 
guinea pigs.  
Special toxicity studies 
Lauryl  lactate  is  a  new  excipient  to  be  used  for  the  preparation  of  medicinal  products  but  has  been 
used  in  cosmetics.  Data  have  been  provided  to  show  that  the  exposure  of  lauryl  lactate  following 
exposure to EVRA patch would be low. In vivo it is expected to be hydrolysed to lauryl alcohol and 
lactic acid, which are both endogenous compounds. Single application of lauryl lactate was associated 
with  minimal  irritation  and  no  evidence  of  sensitisation.  Preclinical  and  clinical  studies  performed 
with  EVRA  placebo  containing  lauryl  lactate  also  showed  that  the  product  resulted  only  in  mild 
irritation  and  exhibited  no  potential  for  phototoxicity  and  photoallergy.  Lauryl  lactate  was  not 
mutagenic and there was no evidence of systemic toxicity following applications for 28 days in rabbits 
receiving weekly dermal application of lauryl lactate at the concentration present in EVRA. 
These data confirm that the safety of lauryl lactate under the conditions of use is acceptable. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
The  CPMP  has  considered  the  potential  risks  and  environmental  implications  of  the  disposal  of 
EVRA, especially because the patch still contains substantial quantities of EE. Negative effects of low 
levels  (0.1  ng/l)  of  EE  have  already  been  demonstrated  not  only  in  the  laboratory,  but  estrogenic 
effects  on  fish  near  sewage  treatment  works  have  been  found  in  most  investigated  countries.  These 
effects include production of egg-yolk proteins in male fish, and the development of fishes with both 
male  and  female  reproductive  tissues,  with  consequent  changes  in  gender  ratio  and  reduced  species 
reproduction. At higher concentrations (5 ng/l), EE leads to arrest in the development of eggs, i.e. a 
lethal  effect1.  The  finding  of  EE  in  both  surface  water  and  tap  water  suggest  that  EE  is  transported 
long distances over long times and is resistant to degradation2. Based on the 2001 sales figures of EE 
in Europe (628.7 kg) and the average volume of wastewater per capita per day (0.20 m3, according to 
Technical Guidance Document in support of Directive 93/67/EEC on risk assessment of new notified 
substances and regulation (EC) No 1488/94 on risk assessment of existing substances), the estimated 
predicted environmental concentration surface water (PEC) is 2.28 ng/l. In case the total amount of EE 
present in EVRA patches is released into aquatic environment the PEC surface water will increase to 2.43 
2.36 ng/l. 
Although  these  PEC  values  are  below  the  limit  of  10  ng/l  for  the  crude  PEC,  it  was  agreed  that 
effective  measures  should  be  taken  to  ensure  avoidance  of  any  increase  of  environmental 
concentrations of ethinyl estradiol due to market introduction of EVRA. Therefore recommendations 
on the disposal of the patch were included in the relevant sections of the SPC (sections 4.2 “Posology 
1 Kime DE and Nash JP. Gamete viability as an indicator of reproductive endocrine disruption in fish. Sci Total 
Environ 1999;233:123-9. 
2 Kuch H.M. and Ballschmiter K. Determination of endocrine-disrupting phenolic compounds and estrogens in 
surface and drinking water by HRGC-(NCI)-MS in the picogram per liter range. Environ. Sci. Technol. 35, 
3201-3206, 2001. 
9/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
and  method  of  administration”  and  6.6  “Instructions  for  use  and  handling  and  disposal”),  Labelling 
and Package Leaflet to help protecting the environment. 
In addition the applicant agreed to include in the package an appropriate disposal container for used 
patches prior to marketing the product in the European Union.  
In  February  2003,  the  addition  of  a  disposal  system  to  the  outside  of  the  container  of  EVRA  was 
authorised into which the patches should be placed once used. The whole unit can then be discarded 
with solid waste. The section 6.6 of the SPC, the labelling and the section 3 of the PL were amended 
with instructions for use on how to dispose of the used patch. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  development  programme  of  EVRA  aimed  to  investigate  the  contraceptive  safety  and 
efficacy in women. Ten pharmacokinetic and bioavailability studies have been performed; there were 
five pharmacodynamic studies (including a dose ranging study) and three Phase III studies considered 
as  pivotal  for  this  application  (two  controlled  and  one  open-label  studies);  finally,  four  specialised 
safety (including dermal safety) and/or secondary efficacy studies, were also submitted.  
All the clinical trials were performed according to the Good Clinical Practices and agreed international 
ethical principles. 
EVRA is indicated for female contraception. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The primary mechanism of contraception is inhibition of ovulation. Alterations to the morphology of 
cervical mucus and to the endometrium also contribute to the efficacy of the product. 
Five  clinical  studies  were  carried  out  to  evaluate  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  NGMN  +  EE  in 
terms of ovarian function, endometrial effect and effects on cervical mucus.   
In these studies, EVRA was compared with the following combined oral contraceptives (COCs): 
COCS containing as active substances 
Monophasic 
Norgestimate/EE (NGM/EE) 
Desogestrel/EE (DSG/EE) 
Levonorgestrel/EE (LNG/EE) 
Triphasic 
Levonorgestrel/EE (LNG/EE) 
Norgestimate/EE (NGM/EE) 
Doses 
250 µg NGM + 35 µg EE 
150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE 
100 µg LNG + 20 µg EE 
50 µg LNG +30 µg EE for days 1-6,  
75 µg LNG + 40 µg EE for days 7-11, 
125 µg LNG + 30 µg EE for days 12-21 
180 µg NGM +35 µg EE for days 1-7,  
215 µg NGM + 35 µg EE for days 8-14,  
250 µg NGM + 35 µg EE for days 15-21 
10/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overview of these studies is displayed in the table: 
Study Ref. 
No. 
Dose per patch 
NGMN/EE 
CONT-
001 
CONT-
005 
CONT-
006 
CONT-
007 
CONT-
008 
3.0 mg NGMN / 0.38 mg 
EE/  
4.5 mg NGMN / 0.56 mg 
EE/ 6.00 mg NGMN / 0.75 
mg EE 
6.00 mg NGMN / 0.75 mg 
EE 
6.00 mg NGMN / 0.75 mg 
EE 
6.00 mg NGMN / 0.75 mg 
EE 
6.00 mg NGMN / 0.75 mg 
EE 
Duration of 
Treatment 
(1 cycle = 28-day 
menstrual cycle 
unless stated 
otherwise) 
4 cycles 
9 cycles 
6 cycles 
3 cycles 
4 cycles and one 10-
day cycle 
No. of 
Patients 
evaluable for 
efficacy 
(safety) 
148 (153) 
152 (157) 
146 (150) 
99 (99) 
36 (36) 
16 (16) 
52 (52) 
Design* 
Comparator 
Treatment 
OL, PG  
250µg NGM/35µg EE 
DB, PG 
OL, PG 
OL, PG 
OL 
Placebo 
150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE 
and LNG/EE triphasic 
150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE 
and LNG/EE triphasic 
100µgLNG + 20 µg EE 
LNG/EE triphasic 
NGM/EE triphasic 
OL = Open-label, DB = Double blind PG = Parallel group,  
In study CONT-001, subjects received one of the three patch regimens (10 cm2 [3.0  mg NGMN/0.38 
mg EE], 15 cm2 [4.5 mg NGMN/0.56 mg EE], or 20 cm2 [6.0 mg NGMN/0.75 mg EE, EVRA]). This 
study  also  allowed  for  the  determination  of  the  dose.  The  results  will  be  further  presented  under 
clinical efficacy. In the other studies, the patch of EVRA was used. 
Hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis 
• 
The  effect  of  EVRA  on  ovarian  function  was  determined  from  serum  concentrations  of  endogenous 
ovarian  steroids  and  gonadotrophins  and  by  analysis  of  follicular  development  using  ovarian 
ultrasound for at least 2 cycles as recommended by the CPMP Guideline on clinical investigation of 
steroid contraceptives in women (CPMP/EWP/519/98). 
Results were  compatible with the assumption that the primary mechanism of  action of EVRA is the 
inhibition of ovulation through gonadotrophin suppression by estrogenic and progestagenic effects of 
EE and NGMN, i.e, EE inhibits the secretion of FSH while the progestagenic component inhibits the 
release of LH. 
Data  on  follicular  activity  collected  from  studies  CONT-001  and  008  indicated  that  the  rate  of 
persisting follicles during treatment with EVRA did not unfavourably compare with that noted for the 
comparators.  
Data  relating  to  the  return  of  ovarian  function  were  reported  with  EVRA  in  CONT-008.  The  mean 
levels of FSH, LH and estradiol returned to near baseline both immediately post-treatment and at 4-6 
weeks post-treatment. Mean levels of progesterone remained low immediately post-treatment but had 
risen to 14.0 nmol/l at 4-6 weeks post-treatment. No return to fertility studies were conducted but in 
the pivotal studies 6 pregnancies post-therapy were reported, for which the conception was estimated 
to  have  occurred  after  the  last  cycle  of  study  medication.  Therefore  it  was  considered  that  EVRA 
would have a similar effect to oral contraceptives with respect to return to fertility. 
*Effects on cervical mucus 
Effects  of  EVRA  on  cervical  mucus,  evaluated  by  means  of  a  total  cervical  mucus  score  (based  on 
individual scores for ferning, spinnbarkeit, viscosity, quantity, cell count and pH) showed a reduction 
in the number of good scores (10 and above) and an increase in the number of poor scores (less than 5) 
compared  to  baseline,  comparable  with  that  observed  for  treatments  150 µg  DSG/20  µg  EE  and 
LNG/EE triphasic. 
11/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
*Endometrial Effects  
Effects of EVRA on the endometrium, evaluated by means of endometrial biopsies taken at day 7 or 
day  14  of  cycles  1  and  3,  showed  a  mild  or  moderate  progestational  effect  not  different  from  that 
observed with the oral comparators 150 µg DSG/20 µg EE and LNG/EE triphasic. 
*Other Endocrine Parameters 
In Study CONT-008, a number of endocrine parameters were assessed in blood samples pre-study, on-
therapy, and  post-study  for EVRA and  comparators.  The parameters  of follicle  stimulating hormone 
(FSH),  luteinising  hormone  (LH),  dehydroepiandrosterone  sulphate  (DHEA-S),  estradiol,  and 
progesterone  showed  a  similar  pattern  of  changes  for  all  treatment  groups  with  suppression  of  the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis, the hallmark of hormonal contraception.  
Thyroid parameters such as Total Thyroxine, Free Thyroxine Index, and Thyroxine binding globulin 
(TBG) were assessed for all treatments. EVRA increased more the levels of TBG and Total Thyroxin 
as compared to the oral regimens. There was no concomitant substantial difference in relation to the 
Free  Thyroxine  Index.  The  levels  of  sex  hormone  binding  globulin  (SHBG)  were  also  statistically 
significantly higher in the EVRA group than in 100 µg LNG + 20 µg EE or LNG/EE triphasic.  
The  increase  in  corticoid  binding  globulin  (CBG)  levels  was  similar  between  EVRA  and  the  other 
three oral contraceptive comparators. These results indicated that the estrogenic effect of EVRA on the 
hepatic synthesis of CBG is the same as comparators.  
Pharmacodynamic  effects  of  EVRA  on  blood  coagulation  have  been  compared  versus  comparator  
150 µg DSG/ 20 µg EE and comparator LNG/EE triphasic over a treatment period of 6 cycles in study 
CONT-006.  No  significant  differences  were  found  for  FDP  [fibrin  degradation  products,  d-dimer 
(fibrin  turn-over)]  between  treatments.  Effects  of  EVRA  on  haemostatic  parameter  prothrombin 
fragment  1+2  was  more  pronounced  than  noted  for  comparators  150  µg  DSG/  20  µg  EE  and 
comparator LNG/EE  triphasic, whereas for PAP [plasmin-α2 -antiplasmin complex (profibrinolysis)] 
this was the other way round. All mean changes remained within the normal range. 
Results from studies CONT-005 and 006 showed that exposure to pharmacological doses of EE and 
NMGM  resulted  in  the  same  effect  on  hepatic  metabolism  of  serum  parameters  e.g  procoagulatory, 
anticoagulatory and fibrinolytic factors or lipoproteins/lipids whether given orally or transdermally.  
Overall,  these  studies  showed  that  EVRA  has  the  same  contraceptive  action  as  the  comparative 
combined oral contraceptives. The choice of the comparators was well justified. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The EVRA patch was developed to give steady-state serum concentrations of NGMN and EE similar 
to  the  ones  obtained  with  the  COC  containing  250  µg  NGM  +  35  µg  EE  and  the  triphasic  COC 
containing NGM/EE. These two comparators have been associated with clinical efficacy. The values 
that covered 90 % of the subjects in these pharmacokinetic studies (excluding the 10 % with extreme 
values) were used as target ranges in the development of EVRA. The target concentration ranges for 
NGMN  and  EE  were  from  0.6  –  1.2  ng/ml  and  25  -  75  pg/ml,  respectively.  As  EVRA  patch  is 
intended  to  be  worn  for  a  7-day  period  (168  hour),  these  target  concentrations  should,  ideally,  be 
achieved shortly after application of the patch, and then maintained until the end of this period of time.  
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  EVRA  was  determined  after  single  and  multiple  applications  of  the 
patch  in  healthy  female  volunteers.  With  the  exception  of  a  pilot  pharmacokinetic  study  (PHI-001), 
which  evaluated  a  20 cm2  patch  containing  6.0 mg  of  NGMN  and  0.6 mg  of  EE,  all  the 
pharmacokinetic  studies  used  EVRA  (6.0  mg  NGMN/0.75  mg  EE,  20 cm2  patch),  delivering 
approximately 150 µg norelgestromin and 20 µg ethinyl estradiol per day). 
The results from 10 pharmacokinetic studies, including one interaction study with tetracycline (PHI-
012), were provided. No direct pharmacokinetic comparison has been  made between EVRA and the 
COC containing 250 µg NGM + 35 µg EE, but the results from the pharmacodynamic study CONT-
001 compared the serum levels in women using contraceptive EVRA patches with those achieved with 
12/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this COC. The applicant agreed to perform, however, a pharmacokinetic comparing EVRA with this 
COC, the results of which would be submitted post-authorisation. 
Additionally, a population pharmacokinetic analysis and missed patch simulation were carried out on 
pooled pharmacokinetic data. 
Absorption 
Single application (7 day wear) 
After application of EVRA patch, plateau concentrations for NGMN (0.65 ± 0.20 ng/ml) and EE (38.1 
± 12.7 pg/ml) were reached by 48 hours and were maintained during most of the 7-days wear period. 
NG,  which  is  the  metabolite  of  NGMN,  did  not  reach  steady  state  due  to  EE-mediated  induced  sex 
hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels to which NG is extensively bound. Following removal of the 
patch the mean half-lives were approximately 24 hours for NGMN, 39 for hours NG and 17 hours for 
EE. 
In a bioavailability study, the  mean (SD) absorbed dose of NGMN was 139 (44.1) µg/day when the 
patch was applied on the abdomen and 159 (28.1) µg/day when the patch was applied on the buttock, 
with  an  overall  mean  absorbed  dose  of  149  µg/day.  The  mean  (SD)  absorbed  dose  of  EE  was  18.3 
(7.23)  µg/day  from  the  abdomen  and  22.9  (5.08)  µg/day  from  the  buttock,  with  an  overall  mean 
absorbed dose of 20.5 µg/day. So a small increase in exposure was observed after application of the 
patch on the buttock compared with the abdomen. 
 for NGMN and EE were 
In another study assessing the influence of the application sites, the mean Css
within  defined  target  ranges  (0.6  –  1.2  ng/ml  for  NGMN  and  25  –  75  pg/ml  for  EE)  for  each 
anatomical site (abdomen, buttock, upper outer arm and upper torso). In addition the  mean  values ± 
one  standard  deviation  were  very  close  to  the  limiting  values  that  were  pre-set  for  the  ranges.  This 
confirms that all these sites can be used as methods of application as recommended in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
The evaluation of the relationship of the patch size and the amount of steroid hormones delivered for 
NGMN  showed  that  the  10  cm2  patch  (3.0  mg  NGMN/0.38  mg  EE)  led  to  a  statistically  significant 
higher size-normalised AUC0-240h and Css, compared to the 15 cm2 (4.5 mg NGMN/0.56 mg EE) and  
20  cm2  patch  (EVRA  patch).  No  such  treatment  effects  were  observed  for  NG  or  EE.  Therefore, 
although the 10, 15, and 20-cm2 patches were directly dose proportional for NG and EE, for NGMN, 
the  smallest  patch  size  produced  a  slightly  more  than  linear  exposure  and  the  20  cm2  size  patch 
reached the target range. 
Multiple applications 
When  EVRA  was  used  sequentially  for  2  weeks  (application  on  the  lower  abdomen),  the  mean 
concentrations  for  NGMN  and  EE  approached  the  target  range  at  approximately  24  hours  after  first 
application, then reached peak concentration at approximately 72 hours and remained within defined 
target ranges. After patch replacement, the serum concentrations of NGMN and EE dropped slightly 
during  the  first  6  hours  but  the  concentrations  remained  within  the  target  ranges.  After  extended 
wearing of a patch by three days, the serum concentrations remained within the target ranges. Based 
on these results it was agreed to set a margin period of two days of extra wear of the patch, in case the 
patient  has  forgotten  to  make  a  scheduled  change,  as  mentioned  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  
When EVRA was used for 3 cycles of 3-week wear (application on the abdomen or buttock) followed 
by  one  week  free  of  patch,  the  serum  concentrations  of  NGMN  and  EE  during  the  2nd  and  3rd  weeks 
remained  constant  or  were  only  slightly  increased  compared  to  week  1  indicating  that  each  previous 
month’s treatment was effectively cleared from the body during the one-week patch-free period. Steady-
state conditions were achieved during application of EVRA for three weeks per cycle. Larger increases 
in serum concentrations were seen for NG, especially during the first cycle. This is likely to be due to 
the induction of SHBG by EE and the NG-SHBG binding. Intra-subject variability ranged from 18 % to 
13/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 % for all analytes and application sites. Inter-subject variability for NGMN and NG appeared to be 
somewhat greater from the abdomen (44 % - 66 %) than from the buttock (24 % - 36 %). For EE inter-
subject variability from both sites ranged from 26 % to 31 %. Overall, however levels of NGMN, NG 
and  EE  appeared  to  be  relatively  consistent,  both  for  any  given  subject,  and  between  subjects  and 
application sites. 
Distribution 
Studies  on  the  binding  of  NGMN  and  NG  were  previously  performed  and  reviewed.    In  summary, 
both NGMN and NG are highly bound (> 98 %). NGMN is predominantly bound to albumin, and this 
low affinity/high capacity binding is not affected by the increases in SHBG concentrations that occur 
during  the  repeated  administration  of  EE-containing  preparations.  In  contrast,  NG  is  bound 
predominantly to SHBG and to a much lesser extent to albumin. 
Plasma albumin is the main binding protein for EE as described in the literature. 
Metabolism and Excretion 
Since NGMN is formed as the major primary metabolite during the oral absorption of NGM, no new 
studies on its metabolism and excretion in humans have been presented. In summary in vitro studies 
confirmed  that  the  initial  formation  of  NGMN  occurs  in  the  gut  wall  and  the  further  metabolic 
deacetylation occurs in the liver. A secondary hydrolysis of the oxime group leads to the formation of 
NG, which is also an active metabolite. 
Based  on  published  data  for  other  compounds,  it  was  considered  unlikely  that  the  metabolism  for 
NGMN and EE would differ significantly between oral and transdermal administration, in particular 
with regard to any significant first-pass elimination after transdermal application.  
Renal and fecal pathways eliminate the metabolites of NGMN and EE. 
Other studies 
The effects of environmental conditions were evaluated in healthy women using EVRA patch on the 
abdomen  over  seven  days,  during  three  treatment  periods,  each  separated  by  a  one  month  washout 
period. Using the patch under different conditions of cold, heat, humidity and exercise did not affect 
the  transdermal  absorption  and  pharmacokinetics  of  NGMN  and  NG.  An  increased  absorption  was 
seen for EE with sauna, whirlpool and treadmill exposure, but Css
A population pharmacokinetic analysis was carried out on data of NGMN and EE obtained from 230 
women who received EVRA applied on the abdomen (n = 165) or on the buttock (n = 98). Increase in 
age,  body  weight,  and  body  surface  area  was  associated  with  statistically  significant  trends  towards 
slightly decreasing Css and AUC values. Increasing age by 5 years (starting from 30 years) is predicted 
to reduce Css and AUC of NGMN and EE by approximately 5-6 %. Increasing body weight by 10 kg 
(starting from 65 kg) is  predicted to reduce Css and AUC of NGMN  and EE by approximately 8 %. 
Increasing body surface area by 0.3 m2 (starting from 1.7 m2) is predicted to reduce Css and AUC of 
NGMN and EE by approximately 6 %. Race had no significant effect on Css and AUC of EE, while in 
Asian subjects compared to Caucasians; slightly higher Css values for NGMN were predicted. 
 remained within the target range. 
A  pharmacokinetic  simulation  model  was  developed  in  order  to  estimate  how  dosing  irregularities 
may  affect  serum  levels  of  NGMN  and  EE.  The  recommendations  formulated  on  the  results  are 
considered adequate to support the advice included in the Summary of Product Characteristics, which 
are  given  in  case  EVRA  is  not  used  according  to  the  recommendations  and  in  case  a  back-up 
contraception is needed.  
Interactions 
Although  no  study  has  been  performed,  no  interaction  between  NGMN  and  EE  is  expected.  In 
addition an in vitro study, indicated a low potential for metabolic interactions, both between NGMN 
and EE and their effects on co-administered substances.  
14/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  potential  for  the  antibiotic  tetracycline  to  interfere  with  the  bioavailability  of  EVRA  was 
investigated in 24 women to evaluate whether the interaction profile with a transdermal contraceptive 
such  as  EVRA  could  be  different  to  that  of  oral  contraceptives  (interaction  occurring  within  the 
gastrointestinal tract).  Doses of 500 mg q.i.d. (2 g/day) were administered 3 days prior to, and 7 days 
during,  the  wearing  of  EVRA.    No  interaction  was  found  with  concomitant  administration  with 
tetracycline.  
No specific interaction studies with products metabolised through the hepatic microsomal system were 
carried out but the well-known interactions have been adequately included in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Interactions between Hypericum perforatum (St John’s Wort) and some medicinal products, including 
oral  contraceptives,  have  been  reported  either  as  case  reports  or  as  pharmacokinetic  data.  These 
interactions  are  most  likely  related  to  the  induction  of  certain  isoenzymes  of  the  cytochrome  P450 
system by Hypericum perforatum. These interactions may lead to a reduction in plasma concentrations 
and hence to a loss of contraceptive effect. Therefore EVRA should not be used concomitantly with 
products containing Hypericum Perforatum as mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Special populations 
No  formal  studies  in  patients  with  renal  and/or  hepatic  impairment  have  been  performed.  Therefore 
EVRA is contraindicated in patients with hepatic impairment and should be used with caution in case 
of renal impairment, as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of EVRA has not been evaluated in children nor in adolescents.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical efficacy with EVRA was evaluated in three main studies:  
• 
• 
• 
CONT-3: phase III active control studies where EVRA was compared to the monophasic oral 
contraceptive: Desogestrel/EE (150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE). 
CONT-4:  phase  III  active  control  studies  where  EVRA  was  compared  to  a  triphasic  oral 
contraceptive. LNG/EE (50 µg LNG +30 µg EE for days 1-6; 75 µg LNG + 40 µg EE for days 
7-11, 125 µg LNG + 30 µg EE for days 12-21). 
CONT-002: open label study 
These three studies together provided contraceptive data with EVRA in 22,160 cycles in over 3,300 
adult women who wore the patch for an intended duration of either 6 or 13 cycles.  
In addition, the phase II study CONT-001 previously described provided data on the dose. 
The clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed international ethical 
principles. 
Dose response selection 
The dose finding strategy was based on previously conducted oral dose-finding studies of NGM/ EE. 
These  studies  established  the  dose  and  ratio  of  NGM  (and  NGMN)  and  EE  which  was  found  to  be 
effective and safe as the oral contraceptive 250 µg norgestimate (NGM)/35 µg EE.  
the  EVRA  patch  was  based  on  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic 
The  selection  of 
considerations. As previously mentioned in a pharmacokinetic study where several sizes were tested, it 
was shown that the 20-cm2-size patch containing 6.0 mg of NGMN and 0.75 mg of EE reached the 
target range. 
15/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results from study CONT-001 showed that, although the steady state was not confirmed, it appeared 
that  based  on  the  serum  concentration  of  EE  and  NGMN,  the  20  cm2  patch  containing  6.0  mg  of 
NGMN  and  0.75  mg  of  EE  was  the  one  that  provided  serum  concentrations  closer  to  those  attained 
with the oral comparator. This study showed also that the 20 cm2 patch releasing an average daily rate 
of  NGMN  of  150  microgram  and  EE  20  microgram,  over  a  normal  period  of  7  days,  resulted  in  an 
adequate  suppression  of  ovulation  and  ovarian  function  and  favourable  bleeding  pattern.  This 
appeared to be in the range of that noted for the oral 250 µg NGM/35 µg EE 
Main study(ies)  
The overview of the main studies is displayed in table 1: 
Table 1 
Study 
CONT-003 
EU, S-Africa 
1997-1999 
Design 
Open-label, 
randomised, 
multicentre 
N of patients 
1517 enrolled 
846 took EVRA 
643 took comparator  
Treatment  Comparator (COC containing) Cycle 
EVRA 
20 µg EE/ 
150 µg desogestrel 
13 cycles (1/3 of 
subjects) 
6 cycles (2/3 of 
subjects) 
CONT-004 
US, Canada 
1997-1999 
Open-label, 
randomised, 
multicentre 
1495 randomised 
1417 took EVRA 
605 took comparator  
EVRA 
30 µ  EE/50 µ g LNG (days 1-
6), 40 µ g EE/40 µg LNG 
(days 7-11), 30 µ g EE/125 µg 
LNG (days 12-21) 
13 cycles (1/3 of 
subjects) 
6 cycles (2/3 of 
subjects) 
Published in 
JAMA 2001; 
May 9:2347-
2354 
CONT-002 
US, Australia, 
EU, Israel 
1997-1999 
Non-
controlled, 
multicentre 
1754 enrolled 
1672 took EVRA 
EVRA 
- 
13 cycles (1/3 of 
subjects) 
6 cycles (2/3 of 
subjects) 
Parameters 
Contraception 
Cycle control 
Compliance 
Safety 
Subject 
satisfaction 
Skin irritation 
Contraception 
Cycle control 
Compliance 
Safety 
Subject 
satisfaction 
Skin irritation 
Contraception 
Cycle control 
Compliance 
Safety 
Subject 
satisfaction 
Skin irritation 
Study design 
The  objectives,  entry  criteria,  treatment  and  evaluation  schedules  employed  in  the  three  Phase  III 
studies  were  similar;  most  of  the  differences  between  studies  were  related  to  the  inclusion  of  a 
comparator in studies CONT-003 and CONT-004.  
The major entry criteria were:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Healthy  adult  females,  18  to  45  years  old,  with  an  acceptable  body  mass  index,  who  were 
sexually active and at risk of pregnancy; 
Regular menses occurring every 25 to 35 days; 
Sitting systolic blood pressure of <140 mmHg, and diastolic BP of <90 mm Hg; 
Subjects not pregnant, and/or who had completed their last term pregnancy at least 42 days prior 
to study medication, not breast-feeding, and with at least one normal menstruation period since 
their last pregnancy; 
Subjects  who  agreed  to  use  only  the  assigned  study  compound  for  contraception  during  the 
study  period,  except  when  back-up  contraception  against  sexually  transmitted  diseases  was 
required. 
In  all  three  studies,  the  first  application  of  the  EVRA  patch  or  the  first  tablet  of  the  combined  oral 
contraceptive was to be taken on the first day of the menses regardless whether they were fresh starters 
or oral contraceptive switchers. In all three studies EVRA patch was applied for a full week for three 
consecutive  weeks  (days  1-7,  days  8-14,  days  15-21  of  each  cycle).  Days  22-28  of  each  cycle  were 
patch free. Subjects assigned to either comparator groups took one tablet per day for 21 days, followed 
by 7 days of no treatment (CONT-003) or inactive treatment (CONT-004). 
16/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the changing of a patch was missed by 3 days, the worn patch was to be replaced by a new patch 
and back-up contraception was to be used for 1 week. If 4 days or more missed changing a patch, the 
worn  patch  was  to  be  replaced  and  a  new  patch  cycle  was  to  begin  immediately  with  back-up 
contraception for one week. 
A  concern  was  raised  with  respect  to  the  open-label  design  of  the  studies.  It  was  however 
acknowledged  that  a  double  blind  design  would  have  been  complicated  considering  the  different 
routes of administration between EVRA and the comparators. The percentage of subjects using back-
up contraception between EVRA and the oral comparators was not clearly different. In study CONT-
003, 7.9 % of women used back-up contraception in 1.5 % of cycles with EVRA compared to 8.9 % of 
women  who  used  back-up  contraception  in  1.7  %  of  cycles  with  150  µg  DSG/  20  µg  EE.    In  study 
CONT-004, 14.7 % of women used back-up contraception in 2.9 % of cycles with EVRA compared to 
17 % of women who used back-up contraception in 4.0 % of cycles with LNG/EE triphasic. 
These data suggest therefore that women using EVRA were not extra careful, which gives reassurance 
on the absence of bias of the results. 
Efficacy parameters 
The primary endpoint was the completion of the studies without becoming pregnant. According to the 
CPMP guideline already referred to, pregnancy rates are described by both the overall Pearl Index (for 
an intention-to-treat population) and life table analysis (for intention-to-treat and method failure using 
a  multiple  decrement  life  table  procedure).  Additional  efficacy  analyses  for  the  overall  Pearl  Index 
included the relative risk, i.e. the ratio of the relative risk on-therapy pregnancy in the treatment group 
relative  to  the  reference  group  for  an  intention-to-treat  and  method  failure  with  95 %  confidence 
limits.  The  endpoints  of  interest  were  considered  the  6-cycle  and  13-cycle  gross  cumulative 
probabilities of pregnancy.  
Based  on  documentation  by  the  investigator,  each  “on-therapy’  pregnancy  was  classified  as  either  a 
method  or  a  user  failure.  An  occurrence  of  pregnancy  was  designated  as  a  user  failure  if  there  was 
documentation  that  the  subject  had  not  taken  her  test  compound  correctly  at  the  estimated  time  of 
conception.  
Statistical  considerations  were  to  include  all  subjects  who  were  assigned  to  treatment,  received 
treatment  for  at  least  one  day,  and  were  not  pregnant  at  the  start  of  cycle  1  in  the  evaluation  of 
contraceptive efficacy. Cycles following a cycle in which a pregnancy occurred were not included in 
the computation of the Pearl Index.  
Other endpoints included cycle control analysis (proportion of subjects who experienced breakthrough 
bleeding  and/or  spotting  at  cycle  3),  compliance  and  patch  wearability  and  gastro-intestinal 
complaints. 
RESULTS 
Data from subjects assigned to treatment with EVRA patch in the pivotal studies were pooled for the 
purpose of presenting an overall analysis of contraceptive efficacy.  
Patient disposition 
The  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  of  efficacy  evaluable  subjects  were  similar  across  the 
three pivotal studies and within studies comparing subjects with EVRA to those who received the oral 
contraceptives  or  placebo.    The  mean  age  was  28.5  years.  Regarding  the  race,  the  population  was 
predominantly  Caucasian  (in  study  CONT-003:  96 %  in  EVRA  group  and  95 %  in  COC  containing 
150  µg  DSG/  20  µg  EE  group;  in  CONT-004:  85 %  in  EVRA  group  and  84 %  in  triphasic  COC 
containing LNG/EE group). Seventy six percent were non-smokers. The mean weight was 62-65 kg, 
without differences among studies.  
As  the  clinical  programme  was  initiated  before  the  previously  referred  CPMP  guideline  came  into 
force, a description of the baseline characteristics factors so as to see whether one of the aspects have 
17/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
had  an  influence  on  the  efficacy  was  not  performed  as  recommended.  It  was  however  considered 
acceptable, as the data would have led to similar conclusions on efficacy and safety. 
Withdrawals 
Overall, 26 % of all subjects withdrew prematurely from the studies. 
In  study  CONT-003,  the  incidence  of  premature  withdrawal  was  19.9 %  in  the  EVRA  group  and 
14.5 %  in  the  150  µg  DSG/20  µg  EE  group.  In  study  CONT-004,  this  incidence  was  29.6 %  in  the 
EVRA  group  versus  24.3 %  in  LNG/EE  triphasic  group.  Overall,  the  incidence  of  premature 
withdrawal from EVRA was highest for adverse events and subject choice. 
Contraceptive efficacy 
Altogether these studies provided contraceptive data with EVRA in 22,160 on-therapy cycles in over 
3,319  women.  Out  of  3,319  women  available  for  evaluation  of  efficacy,  613  women  completed 
treatment for 13 cycles. The number of cycles was considered sufficient, i.e. the difference between 
the point estimate (ITT/overall Pearl Index) and the upper limit of the 95 % confidence interval does 
not exceed 1 and the duration of investigation is sufficient. 
The results from these studies are displayed in table 2. 
Table 2: Primary Efficacy Data from the Clinical Studies 
Study group 
CONT-002 
EVRA 
CONT-003
EVRA 
CONT-003 
150 µg 
DSG +  20 
µg EE 
643 
4667 
2 
1 
0.56 
(0, 1.33) 
0.28 
(0, 0.83) 
0.3 % 
(0, 0.8%) 
CONT-004 
EVRA 
CONT-004
LNG/EE 
triphasic 
All subjects 
receiving 
EVRA 
811 
5240 
5 
4 
605 
4167 
7 
4 
3319 
22,155 
15 
12 
1.24 
(0.15, 2.33) 
0.99 
(0.02, 1.96) 
1.3 % 
(0, 2.7%) 
2.18 
(0.57, 3.80) 
1.25 
(0.02, 2.47) 
1.8 % 
(0.2, 3.4%) 
0.88 
(0.43, 1.32) 
0.7 
(0.31, 1.10) 
0.8 % 
(0.3, 1.3%) 
1664 
10994 
6 
5 
844 
5921 
4 
3 
0.71 
 (0.14, 1.28) 
0.59 
(0.07, 1.11) 
0.7 % 
(0, 1.4%) 
0.88 
 (0.02, 1.74) 
0.66 
(0, 1.40) 
0.5 % 
(0, 1.0%) 
0.4 % 
(0, 0.7) 
0.4 % 
(0, 0.9) 
0.2 % 
(0, 0.5) 
1.1 % 
(0, 2.5) 
1.3 % 
(0, 2.7) 
0.6 % 
(0.2, 0.9) 
Number of Subjects 
No of cycles 
Number of Pregnancies –
overall 
Number of pregnancies –
method failure 
Overall Pearl Indices  
(95 % CI) 
Pearl indices – method 
failure (95 % CI) 
Probability of Pregnancy 
(overall) 
From life table estimate to 
Cycle 13 (95 % CI) 
Probability of Pregnancy 
(method failure) from life 
table estimate to Cycle 13 
(95% CI) 
Overall  15  pregnancies  occurred  in  women  using  EVRA,  of  which  12  were  classified  as  method 
failures, resulting in an overall Pearl Index of 0.88 (95 % CI 0.43, 1.32) and Pearl Index for method 
failure of 0.7 (0.31, 1.10). The ITT and method failure Pearl indices were close, as the larger part of 
the  pregnancies  reported,  12  out  of  15  pregnancies,  were  due  to  method  failure.  The  overall 
probability of pregnancy calculated by life-table estimate through cycle 13 was 0.8 % (95 % CI 0.3, 
1.3 %) and probability for method failure was 0.6 % (95 % CI 0.2,0.9).  
The use of contraception other than the method assigned was prohibited in the three efficacy studies. 
Data  on  the  use  of  back-up  contraception  due  to  missing  days  of  treatment  was  collected.  Back-up 
contraception  was  reported  for  506  (2.3  %)  of  the  22,175  cycles.  No  pregnancies  occurred  during 
these cycles.  
The Pearl Indices after correction from back-up contraception are the displayed in table 3: 
18/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Pearl Indices 
Study 
Group 
CONT-002 
EVRA 
CONT-003 
EVRA 
10,743 
0.73 
(0.15,1.31) 
5831 
0.89 
(0.02,1.76) 
# of cycles 
Overall 
Pearl Index 
(95% CI) 
Method 
Failure 
Pearl Index 
(95% CI) 
CONT-003 
150 µg DSG 
+  20 µg EE 
4592 
0.57 
(0,1.35) 
CONT-004 
EVRA 
5095 
1.28 
(0.16,2.39) 
CONT-004 
LNG/EE 
triphasic 
4005 
2.27 
(0.59,3.96) 
All subjects 
receiving 
EVRA 
21,669 
0.90 
(0.44,1.35) 
0.61 
(0.0,1.14) 
0.67 
(0,1.42) 
0.28 
(0,0.84) 
1.02 
(0.02,2.02) 
1.30 
(0.03,2.57) 
0.72 
(0.31,1.13) 
In  study  CONT-004,  there  were  5  pregnancies  in  5,244  cycles  (Pearl  Index  of  1.24)  compared  to  4 
pregnancies in 5,921 cycles (Pearl Index of 0.88) reported in CONT-003.  As evaluated by a log-rank 
test, the results for EVRA in these two studies were not significantly different (p-value = 0.60). The 
higher  rate  of  non-compliance  with  the  triphasic  COC  containing  LNG/EE  could  explain  the  higher 
Pearl Index noted in this patient group. 
As 5 of the 15 pregnancies were reported in women with a body weight equal or higher than 90 kg, a 
concern  was  raised  with  respect  to  the  efficacy  of  EVRA  in  this  subgroup  of  women.  A  subgroup 
analysis was therefore performed. When the Pearl Index was calculated based on these pregnancies for 
the small subgroup of subjects with either a body surface area equal or greater than 2.061 m2 (n = 113) 
or a body weight equal or greater than 90 kg (n=83) or a body mass index equal or greater than 30.1 
kg/m2  (n =  223),  the  point estimate  obtained is  between  5.39-10.89  with an upper limit  of the  95 % 
confidence interval of between 9.70-20.44 (see table 4).  
Table 4:  Pearl Index and 95 % Confidence Interval for the Subset of Subjects that Includes the 6 Heaviest    
Pregnant Subjects by Body Surface Area, Body Weight, and Body Mass Index 
Subgroup 
Body Surface Area > 2.061 m2 
Body Weight > 90 kg 
n 
113 
83 
Pearl Index 
9.42 (2.00, 16.84) 
10.89 (1.35, 20.44) 
The efficacy was significantly reduced but remained within the range of efficacy from other available 
methods.  It  is  currently  unknown  whether  the  efficacy  of  oral  contraceptives  in  this  over-weighted 
population is as good as in women with lower body weight. Therefore it was agreed that the choice of 
contraceptive  method  for  an  obese  woman  should  be  made  after  a  discussion  of  known  risks  and 
benefits  of  the  available  options  between  the  woman  and  her  healthcare  provider,  and  that  the 
contraceptive patch might be among the available choices, as mentioned in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
* Compliance 
For subjects treated with EVRA, the percentage of cycles with compliance was 90.5 % to 91.8 % in 
each  study  and  91.4 %  overall.  The  compliance  in  the  EVRA  groups  appeared  to  be  higher  in 
comparison with the 150 µg DSG/20 µg EE (91 % vs 88 %) and the LNG/EE triphasic group (89 % 
vs. 78 %). These results indicate that compliance to the dose recommendations for EVRA is at least as 
feasible as those for oral contraceptives. Patch wearability data indicated a low number of patches that 
needed  replacement  because  they  either  fell  of  or  were  partly  detached.  Adhesion  of  the  patch 
appeared not influenced by different environmental conditions.  
* Bleeding control 
Information regarding bleeding control was adequately collected by means of daily diary cards. In the 
three pivotal efficacy studies a total of 21,060 out of 22,176 cycles were valid for analysis of bleeding 
pattern in 3,319 efficacy evaluable subjects.  The incidence of breakthrough bleeding and/or spotting 
at Cycle 3 in patients using EVRA ranged across studies from 10.0 % to 14.1 % with an average value 
19/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of 11.6 %.  As expected values were lower by Cycle 13 ranging across studies from 5.5 % to 9.2 % 
with an average value of 8.0 %.  
For  both  comparative  studies  a  similar  percentage  of  subjects  in  the  two  treatment  groups  reported 
breakthrough  bleeding  or  spotting  at  Cycle  3  (CONT-003:  14 %  for  EVRA  versus  15 %  for  COC 
containing  150  µg  DSG/20  µg  EE;  CONT-004:  10 %  for  EVRA  versus  9 %  for  triphasic  COC 
containing LNG/EE triphasiqu). Similar observations were made at each of the other cycles and there 
were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups,  confirming  that  overall 
bleeding patterns seen with EVRA are similar to those seen with marketed oral contraceptives.  
The  results  of  both  comparative  studies  indicated  a  longer  duration  of  menses  in  the  EVRA  groups 
than  in  the  two-comparator  groups,  the  difference  being  statistically  significant.  The  absolute 
difference was less than one day and considered clinically not significant. Other bleeding parameters 
were similar between EVRA and the oral contraceptive comparators. 
Follow-up of pregnancies showed that all babies born to women exposed to EVRA at the time of 
conception were healthy. 
Clinical safety 
Safety data were obtained from all clinical studies. Most safety information derived from the analysis 
of the three Phase III studies, which includes 3,300 women who received at least one dose (one patch) 
of EVRA. Of these, a total of 643 women received EVRA for 13 cycles. 
This population comprised predominantly Caucasians (91 %), non-smokers (76 %) women whose age 
ranged  from  18  to  45  years  (mean  28.5  years).    The  majority  of  the  subjects  were  using  oral 
contraceptives within the two months before the studies, including 63 % who began EVRA treatment 
without  interruption  of  therapy  (direct  switch)  and  10 %  whose  therapy  had  been  stopped  within  2 
months  of  the  start  of  EVRA  treatment  (indirect  switch).  The  demographic  and  baseline 
characteristics, including prior use of oral contraceptives were similar across studies for those subjects 
who  received  EVRA  and  within  studies  for  the  oral  contraceptive  comparators  employed  in  each  of 
the comparative Phase III studies.  
The 3,330 EVRA subjects received a total of 22,176 cycles of EVRA treatment.   
Discontinuations 
Of  the  3,330  subjects  receiving  EVRA,  26 %  subjects  withdrew  from  the  studies  prematurely, 
including 12 % subjects who withdrew because of adverse events. The overall discontinuation rate due 
to adverse event was higher for EVRA than for 150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE group (4.5 %) and LNG/EE 
triphasic  group (5.6  %).  The  most commonly reported adverse  event that led to  discontinuation was 
application  site  reaction  (1.9  %  in  all  EVRA  subjects).  Other  commonly  adverse  events  leading  to 
discontinuation  were  similar  to  those  seen  with  the  oral  contraceptives  such  as  nausea,  headache, 
breast symptoms. 
Death and Serious adverse events 
Two women died during the clinical studies (one in the EVRA group and one in the LNG/EE triphasic 
group); both were suicides. 
Nine  women  experienced  serious  adverse  events  that  were  judged  by  the  investigators  as  possibly, 
probably or very likely related to EVRA (pulmonary embolism following elective surgery, pulmonary 
embolism,  menorrhagia,  carcinoma  in  situ  of  the  cervix,  cholecystitis,  hemiparaesthesia  + 
hypoesthesia, migraine, suspected transient ischaemic attack), one to LNG/EE triphasic (intra-cranial 
hypertension), and one to 150 µg DSG/ 20 µg EE (breast carcinoma). Except for carcinoma in situ of 
the cervix, menorrhagia and cholescystis, these adverse events led to discontinuation. 
20/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events  
Overall,  2,665  (80 %)  of  the  3,330  subjects  who  received  EVRA  in  the  three  Phase  III  studies 
experienced at least one treatment-emergent adverse event.  Most adverse events, including the most 
commonly reported events, were mild or moderate in severity, not serious or treatment-limiting, and 
most resolved either spontaneously or after appropriate treatment. 
The adverse event pattern of EVRA observed indicated a general safety profile comparable with that 
known  from  oral  combined  contraceptives,  except  for  breast  symptoms  (breast  discomfort,  breast 
engorgement, and breast pain) and application site reactions.  
Breast  symptoms  (breast  discomfort,  engorgement  or  pain)  were  reported  in  22  %  of  all  subjects 
treated with EVRA versus 9 % with COC containing 150 µg DSG/20 µg EE and 6 % with triphasic 
COC  containing  LNG/EE.  Breast  symptoms  were  mild  to  moderate  of  intensity  and  occurred 
primarily  in  the  first  cycle,  and  the  number  of  reports  decreased  with  time.  In  most  cases  breast 
symptoms were not treatment limiting, i.e. 1.9 % of cases led to discontinuation in the EVRA group 
versus 0.2 and < 0.5 in comparators (150 µg DSG + 20 µg EE and LGN/EE triphasic respectively). 
There  were  significantly  more  breast  symptoms  and  nausea  observed  with  EVRA  than  with 
triphasicCOC  containing  LNG/EE  in  cycles  1  and  2.  The  differences  are  most  pronounced  in 
comparison  with  150  µg DSG + 20  µg EE, which  could  be explained by the higher  dose of ethinyl 
estradiol (33 versus 20 micrograms). For most cycles after cycle 2, there was no difference between 
EVRA  and  the  comparators.  As  it  appeared  that  this  result  could  not  be  explained  by  subject 
discontinuations  from  treatment,  a  possible  explanation  could  be  the  difference  in  adaptation  to  the 
different  plasma  profiles  of  the  progestin  and  estrogen  components  of  the  patch  (constant  delivery) 
versus an oral delivery (peak and trough) leading to higher initial incidence with EVRA.  
In  the  three  pivotal  safety  studies  17  %  of  EVRA-treated  subjects  experienced  application  site 
reactions.  However,  the  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  skin  irritation  decreased  with  the  increased 
duration of EVRA therapy, with the highest incidence of skin irritation reported during Cycle 1 (3.5 
%) and the lowest during Cycles 12 and 13 (0.6 and 0.7 %, respectively).  The low incidence of skin 
irritation  reported  by  subjects  during  each  cycle  is  consistent  with  the  percentage  of  EVRA-treated 
subjects (1.9 %) who discontinued from the Phase III studies due to application site reactions. Most of 
the  reactions  at  the  EVRA  application  sites  that  were  reported  as  adverse  events  were  mild  or 
moderate  in  severity,  and  none  of  these  reactions  was  serious.  The  incidence  of  application  site 
reactions reported by EVRA-treated subjects was within the range of values reported for transdermal 
estrogen  or  estrogen-progestogen  patches  used  by  postmenopausal  women  for  hormone  replacement 
therapy. 
A specific safety analysis of the subgroup of women who completed at least 13 cycles showed that the 
results within and across studies are similar to the overall results. 
An examination of adverse event incidence by age, race, and weight revealed some differences in the 
incidence of various treatment-related adverse events, but the results did not suggest a notable increase 
in risk for any demographic subgroup who received EVRA treatment.   
Specific safety issues 
Haemostasis 
Epidemiological studies have associated the use of COCs with an increased risk for deep venous (deep 
venous  thrombosis,  pulmonary  embolism)  and  arterial  (myocardial  infarction,  transient  ischaemic 
attack) thromboembolism compared to no use. 
The  incidence  of  VTE  in  users  of  oral  contraceptives  with  low  estrogen  content  (<50  µg  ethinyl 
estradiol) ranges from about 20 to 40 cases per 100,000 women years, but this risk varies according to 
the  progestagen  (for  COCs  containing  levonorgestrel,  the  incidence  is  20  cases  per  100,000  women 
years).  This  compares  with  5-10  cases  per  100,000  women  years  for  non-users.  The  excess  risk  of 
VTE is highest during the first year a woman ever uses a combined oral contraceptive. This increased 
21/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
risk  is  less  than  the  risk  of  VTE  associated  with  pregnancy,  which  is  estimated  as  60  per  100,000 
pregnant women years. VTE is fatal in 1%-2% of cases.  
The CPMP, in its Position Statement (EMEA/CPMP/2250/01) concluded that VTE is a rare adverse 
event of all combined oral contraceptives (COCs). In addition the level of this risk is low, and overall 
the balance of benefits and risks remains favourable with all available COCs. There is also an excess 
risk  of  VTE  during  the  first  year  a  woman  ever  uses  any  COCs.  Finally,  the  increased  risk  of  VTE 
associated  with  COCs  is  less  than  the  risk  of  VTE  associated  with  pregnancy.  The  CPMP  agreed 
therefore  on  a  warning  to  be  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  of  combined  oral 
contraceptives. 
In  the  main  studies,  there  was  one  case  of  non-fatal  pulmonary  embolism  and  one  case  of  non-fatal 
post-operative pulmonary embolism observed with EVRA. 
From the current safety data, it cannot be concluded whether the risk of VTE with EVRA is similar to 
or different from existing combined oral contraceptives. Considering that the study population is too 
small, the current calculated VTE rate (59 per 100,000 women years with a confidence interval of 0 to 
174) can provide no valid conclusion on the relative risk for venous thromboembolic disorders versus 
approved combined oral contraceptives can be drawn.  
As  the  validity  of  surrogate  markers  for  the  clinical  endpoint  VTE  (haemostatic  parameters, 
estrogenicity) is still under discussion, no firm conclusion can be drawn from the data obtained from 
the pharmacodynamic studies.  
It is therefore not yet known how EVRA influences the risk of VTE compared with other combined 
oral contraceptives. On this basis, the CPMP agreed that to include a special warning in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics. In addition, the applicant agreed to perform a further assessment of the risk 
of VTE, the results of which will be provided post-authorisation.  
Effects on lipid metabolism 
Investigation  of  the  effects  of  EVRA  on  lipid  metabolism  in  comparison  with  placebo,  over  9 
treatment  cycles,  did  not  indicate  relevant  deleterious  effects.  The  net  effect  appeared  to  be  neutral. 
This outcome was supported by the results on routine lipid parameters tested in the three pivotal Phase 
III studies. 
Supportive data 
In  general,  the  type  of  adverse  events  observed  among  EVRA-treated  subjects  in  the  six  supportive 
studies  (PHI-013,  CONT-001,  CONT-005,  CONT-006,  CONT-007  and  CONT-008),  as  well  as  the 
severity and relationship to study treatment of these events, were similar to the adverse events reported 
in  EVRA-treated  subjects  in  the  Phase  III  studies.  In  total  326  (87  %)  of  the  377  EVRA-treated 
subjects  experienced  one  or  more  treatment-emergent  adverse  event.    Adverse  events  having  the 
highest  incidence  were  headache  (37 %),  breast  symptoms  (26 %),  nausea  (24 %),  and  upper 
respiratory  tract  infection  (20 %).    Most  of  the  adverse  events,  including  the  frequently  reported 
events,  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity,  and  most  events  related  to  the  gastrointestinal  and 
reproductive systems were considered at least possibly related to EVRA treatment.  
Dermal safety and patch wearability 
Four dermal safety studies were carried out with EVRA. Overall results indicated that the application 
of EVRA and vehicle control patches is associated with only mild primary irritation potential.  A study 
to  investigate  phototoxicity  potential  further  demonstrated  that  no  primary  irritation  occurs  with 
EVRA use.  
Over 70,000 EVRA patches were worn for contraception in the three Phase III studies.  Of these, 4.7 
%  were  replaced  because  they  fell  off  (1.8  %)  or  were  partly  detached  (2.9  %).    The  percentage  of 
patches that fell off tended to decrease over time, i.e., 5-7 % of patches became detached at Cycle 1 
whereas only 1 % became detached at Cycle 13.  In each study, and overall, over 90 % of the patches 
were changed as scheduled. Overall and in each of the individual pivotal studies, all application sites 
were used.  The most frequently used site of application was the buttock, followed by the abdomen, 
upper outer arm, and torso (excluding breast tissue).  
22/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects  of  different  environmental  conditions,  such  as  heat,  humidity,  cold  and  exercise  on  EVRA 
were  investigated  in  Study  PHI-015.  The  30  females  participating  in  this  study  were  subjected  to  a 
computer-generated  sequence  of  activities:  normal  activity,  sauna,  whirlpool,  cold  water  bath, 
treadmill  and  combination  of  all  activities.    One  EVRA  patch  (<  2  %)  became  detached  during  the 
study.  Adhesion for all others was > 90 %, and peel force measurements were similar for all activities, 
with  mean  values  ranging  from  0.22  during  the  treadmill  phase  to  0.44  during  combination  activity 
(mean value during normal conditions was 0.30). 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  EVRA  has  been  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  was  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. The quality of this product is therefore considered to be 
acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant  to the  uniform  clinical performance 
of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the  time  of  the 
CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  outstanding  minor  quality  issues  which  had  no  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow  up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Preclinical 
EVRA  is  the  first  combined  contraceptive  for  transdermal  application  containing  the  well-known 
ethinyl  estradiol  and  norelgestromin,  which  is  the  primary  active  metabolite  of  norgestimate. 
Norgestimate is the prostagenic compound of several combined oral contraceptives already authorised. 
The  preclinical  development  of  EVRA  was  therefore  based  on  a  bridging  strategy.  The 
pharmacological/toxicological  data,  which  were  previously  obtained  with  NGM,  have  been  used  to 
support the topical use of NGMN. Additional studies have only been carried out when necessary. This 
bridging strategy is substantiated by a number of recently performed pharmacokinetic studies. 
The  pharmacological  profile  of  EE  is  well  documented  in  published  literature  because  it  is  the 
estrogenic component of many approved oral contraceptives in Europe for many years. 
From the pharmacological  data, it was  concluded that the proposed  use of NGMN  as  progestational 
component of a contraceptive could be considered as efficacious and safe as NGM.  
Effects  observed  in  the  toxicity  studies  are  mostly  limited  to  known  pharmacological  effects  of 
steroids. Local toxicity is not considered a point of concern.  
Clinical efficacy 
EVRA has been specifically developed to generate adequate systemic levels of both active substances, 
comparable to already existing combined oral contraceptive NGM/EE (250 µg/35 µg). A concern was 
raised however on the lack of direct pharmacokinetic comparison between the two products to confirm 
that  the  exposure  achieved  with  EVRA  are  in  terms  of  NGMN,  EE  and  NG  are  similar  to  the  ones 
achieved  with  NGM/EE  (250  µg/35  µg).  The  applicant  agreed, 
to  perform  a 
pharmacokinetic study, the results of which would be submitted post-authorisation. 
therefore, 
The contraceptive efficacy of EVRA is mainly substantiated by three Phase III studies in women aged 
18  to  45  years,  including  two  controlled  studies  where  the  comparators  were  a  COC  containing  
150  µg  desogestrel/  20  µg  ethinyl  estradiol  and  a  triphasic  COC  containing  levonorgestrel  +  ethinyl 
estradiol.  The efficacy of EVRA was demonstrated and appeared similar to that of the comparators. 
The efficacy of EVRA was decreased in women with a body weight equal or higher than 90 kg and 
23/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therefore the choice of contraceptive method for an obese women should be made based on the known 
benefits and risks of the available choices, including EVRA.  
The rational for the development of a transdermal patch was that the patch has greater acceptability of 
ease  of  compliance  with  dosing  instructions.  In  the  Phase  III  studies,  the  compliance  in  the  EVRA 
groups appeared to be higher in comparison with COC containing 150 µg desogestrel/ 20 µg ethinyl 
estradiol (91 % versus 88 %) and a triphasic COC containing levonorgestrel + ethinyl estradiol (89 % 
versus8 %) indicating that compliance to the dose recommendations for EVRA is at least as feasible as 
those for oral contraceptives. 
Clinical safety 
There  is  no  clinical  evidence  indicating  that  a  transdermal  patch  is,  in  any  aspect,  safer  than  the 
existing combined oral contraceptives. 
The most commonly adverse events reported with EVRA included breast symptoms with an incidence 
higher than with the comparators although primarily occurring during the first cycle and in most cases 
not leading to discontinuation, and nausea. Application site reactions were also observed, but leading 
to discontinuation in only 2 % cases.  
It  is  known  that  the  use  of  any  combined  oral  contraceptives  carries  an  increased  risk  for  venous 
thromboembolism compared with no use. It is however not yet known how EVRA influences with the 
risk  of  VTE  compared  with  other  combined  oral  contraceptives.  The  CPMP  agreed  therefore  to 
include a warning in the Summary of Product Characteristics and the applicant undertook to perform a 
further  assessment  of  the  risk  of  venous  thromboembolism,  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  EVRA  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  in  February  2002  the 
granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  EVRA  transdermal  patch  (6  mg  norelgestromin  +  750  µg 
ethinyl estradiol) for the following indication: 
“Female contraception. EVRA is intended for women of fertile age. The safety and efficacy has been 
established in women aged 18 to 45 years” 
However,  potential  risks  and  environmental  implications  of  the  disposal  of  a  contraceptive  patch 
containing ethinyl estradiol were brought to the attention of the CPMP. The potential environmental 
risk of EVRA is related to its ethinyl estradiol component, of which approximately 80 % of the 750 
micrograms  is  not  absorbed  and  a  major  portion  may  be  retained  in  the  disposed  patches  (600 
micrograms  ethinyl  estradiol).  The  CPMP  concluded  that  there  is  a  negative  impact  on  the 
environment from the use of the EVRA patch if inappropriately disposed, due to the resulting release 
of ethinyl estradiol in the freshwater environment.  
According  to  the  current  pharmaceutical  legislation,  the  environmental  risk  assessment  is  not  a 
criterion  to  be  taken  into  account  when  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation.  It 
foresees, however, that if applicable, reasons for any precautionary and safety measures to be taken for 
the  storage  of  the  medicinal  product,  its  administration  to  patients  and  for  the  disposal  of  waste 
products, together with the indication of any potential risks presented by the medicinal product for the 
environment should be considered.  
As  a  consequence,  the  CPMP  agreed  to  revise  the  Opinion  of  February  2002  to  include 
recommendations  on  the  disposal  of  the  used  and  unused  patches  to  be  included  in  the  relevant 
sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics, Labelling and Package Leaflet to help protecting 
the environment. In addition the applicant agreed, as part of follow-up measures to the fulfilled post-
authorisation,  to  include  in  the  package  an  appropriate  disposal  container  for  used  patches  prior  to 
24/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marketing  the  product  in  the  European  Union.  Such  a  disposal  container  was  authorised  by  the 
European Commission in February 2003. 
The CPMP recommended therefore the granting of the marketing authorisation for EVRA transdermal 
patch (6 mg norelgestromin + 750 µg ethinyl estradiol) for the following indication: 
“Female contraception. EVRA is intended for women of fertile age. The safety and efficacy has been 
established in women aged 18 to 45 years”. The CPMP adopted therefore the revised Opinion on 30 
May 2002. 
25/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
