Summary of risk management plan for Evrenzo (roxadustat) 
This is a summary of the RMP for EVRENZO. The RMP details important risks of 
EVRENZO, how these risks can be minimised and how more information will be obtained 
about the risks EVRENZO. 
The EVRENZO SmPC gives essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on 
how EVRENZO should be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
EVRENZO RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
EVRENZO is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with anaemia associated with 
CKD. It contains roxadustat as the active substance and it is taken orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of EVRENZO can be found in the 
EPAR of EVRENZO, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/evrenzo 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or 
further characterize the risks  
Important risks of EVRENZO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about the risks of EVRENZO, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
●  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, are in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
● 
●  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
●  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of EVRENZO are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  
 
 
● 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
EVRENZO.  
●  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of EVRENZO is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation.  
●  Missing information refers to information on the safety of EVRENZO that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Thrombotic vascular events  
Seizures 
Sepsis 
Serious infections 
Data in pregnant and breastfeeding patients 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Thrombotic vascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
In clinical trials, thrombotic vascular events were more 
frequently seen with roxadustat treatment than with placebo 
and comparator.  VAT events were the most frequent 
thrombotic vascular events experienced. In (NDD)-CKD 
safety pool; vascular access thrombosis events were more 
frequent in the roxadustat group than in the placebo group. In 
the DD-CKD safety pool, VAT events were more frequent in 
the roxadustat group than in the comparator group. The events 
of DVT and PE evaluated together showed more frequent 
events for roxadustat than placebo in the NDD pool. In the 
DD pool, DVT and PE events were greater for roxadustat than 
the comparators.  
 
 
 
 
  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
In the DD-CKD safety pool, vascular access thrombosis 
occurred more commonly in the period shortly after treatment 
initiation in patients already on dialysis with previous 
erythropoietin-stimulating agent use and was also more 
commonly associated with increased and/or rapid rise of 
haemoglobin levels. No specific association between 
increased and/or rapid rise of haemoglobin and DVT or PE 
was found. 
General risk factors for thrombotic vascular events include 
history of thromboembolic events, hypercoagulable state, 
technical issues related to AV access creation, type of 
vascular access (graft or fistula), AV access stenosis, 
cannulation injury/more frequent cannulation (e.g., daily 
haemodialysis), infiltration/haematoma formation, intimal 
lesion or hyperplasia, pseudoaneurysm at the AV access site, 
presence of malignancy, and treatment with chemotherapy for 
cancer. 
Routine risk communication: 
Special warnings and precautions for use and Adverse 
reactions sections of the SmPC (section 4.4 and 4.8). 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Recommendations for haemoglobin monitoring are included 
in the Special warnings and precautions for use section of the 
SmPC.  
Abbreviations: AV = Arteriovenous; CKD = Chronic Kidney Disease; DVT = deep vein thrombosis; NDD = 
Non Dialysis Dependent; DD = Dialysis Dependent; PE = Pulmonary embolus; SmPC = summary of product 
characteristics; VAT = Vascular Access Thrombosis 
Important identified risk: Sepsis 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
In the NDD-CKD safety pool, Sepsis was reported at a higher 
incidence in the roxadustat group compared to the placebo 
group; Sepsis was one of the most commonly reported serious 
infections in the pool. Fatal Sepsis was more frequent with 
roxadustat than placebo and were more pronounced in 
patients with low eGFR (< 10 mL/min/1.73m2) or who 
recently initiated dialysis. In the DD-CKD safety pool, the 
incidence rate of Sepsis and Fatal Sepsis events were similar 
between roxadustat and comparators. Sepsis was one of the 
most commonly reported serious infections in the pool. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with low eGFR levels (< 10 mL/min/1.73 m2) who 
are not on dialysis or who recently initiated dialysis (within 4 
months). 
General risk factors: intensive care admission, advanced age, 
immunodeficiency, diabetes mellitus, obesity, malignancy, 
history of recent hospitalizations, alcohol abuse and 
malnutrition. In patients with CKD, additional risk factors 
include decreased vaccine responsiveness, impaired immune 
response, loss of cutaneous barriers (e.g., oedema, dialysis 
catheters, needle sticks in AVF/AVG), type of dialysis 
(haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis), and type of vascular 
access (graft or fistula) for haemodialysis subjects. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
Warnings & precautions section of the SmPC. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Recommendations for monitoring signs and symptoms of 
infection are included in Special warnings and precautions for 
use section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Important identified risk: Seizure 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
In the NDD-CKD safety pool, events of seizure were more 
frequent in the roxadustat group than in the placebo group. In 
the DD-CKD safety pool, events of seizure were more 
frequent in the roxadustat group than in the comparator group. 
No specific risk factors or risk groups for seizure were 
observed in the roxadustat clinical development programme.  
General risk factors include history of seizures, head trauma 
or neurologic disease, stroke, brain tumours, renal failure, 
advanced age, genetic predisposition, alcohol or drug 
withdrawal, drug intoxication, electrolyte imbalances, 
hypoglycaemia, nonketotic hyperglycaemia, hypoxia, 
hyperthyroidism, dialysis disequilibrium syndrome and severe 
hypertension. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
Special warnings and precautions for use, Effects on ability to 
drive and use machines and Adverse reactions sections of the 
SmPC (sections 4.4, 4.7 and 4.8). 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Recommendations for monitoring the presence of 
premonitory neurologic symptoms following treatment 
initiations are included in the Special warnings and 
precautions for use section of the SmPC (Section 4.4). 
Important potential risk: Serious infections 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
In the NDD-CKD safety pool, SAEs of MedDRA SOC 
Infections & Infestations were reported at a higher incidence 
in the roxadustat group compared to the placebo group; 
however, adjusted incidence rates were similar between 
treatment groups. The most commonly reported serious 
infections were pneumonia, sepsis, urinary tract infection. 
Fatal infections were more frequent with roxadustat than 
placebo and were more pronounced in patients with low 
eGFR (< 10 mL/min/1.73m2) or who recently initiated 
dialysis. In the DD-CKD safety pool, the incidence rate of 
SAE and fatal events of infections were similar between 
roxadustat and comparators. The most commonly reported 
serious infections were pneumonia and urinary tract infection. 
In a subset of patients in the DD-CKD safety pool who 
initiated roxadustat within 4 months of starting dialysis (ID-
DD), the incidence rate of SAEs of infection were slightly 
higher in the roxadustat group compared to the comparator 
group. In this ID-DD subset, fatal infections were reported 
more frequently in the roxadustat group compared to the 
comparator group. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with low eGFR levels (< 10 mL/min/1.73 m2) who 
are not on dialysis or who recently initiated dialysis (within 4 
months). 
General risk factors: intensive care admission, advanced age, 
immunodeficiency, diabetes mellitus, obesity, malignancy, 
history of recent hospitalizations, alcohol abuse and 
malnutrition. In patients with CKD, additional risk factors 
include decreased vaccine responsiveness, impaired immune 
response, loss of cutaneous barriers (e.g., oedema, dialysis 
catheters, needle sticks in AVF/AVG), type of dialysis 
(haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) and type of vascular 
access (graft or fistula) for haemodialysis subjects. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
Warnings & Precautions section of the SmPC. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Recommendations for monitoring signs and symptoms of 
infection are included in Special warnings and precautions for 
use section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Abbreviations: AVF = Arteriovenous Fistula; AVG = Arteriovenous Graft; CKD = Chronic Kidney Disease; 
DD = Incident Dialysis-Dialysis dependent; DD-CKD = Dialysis dependent Chronic Kidney Disease; eGFR = 
estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate; NDD-CKD = Non Dialysis dependent Chronic Kidney Disease; - SAE = 
Serious Adverse Event; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics; SOC = System Organ Class;  
Missing Information: Data in Pregnant and Breastfeeding Patients 
Risk minimization measures 
Risk communication: 
•  Contraindication (SmPC 4.3) 
•  Special warnings and precautions (SmPC section 4.4) 
•  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation (SmPC section 4.6) 
•  Patient leaflet section 2 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
• 
Women of childbearing potential must use highly effective 
contraception during treatment and for at least one week after 
the last dose of roxadustat. If pregnancy occurs while 
roxadustat is being administered, treatment should be 
discontinued and switched to alternative treatments (SmPC 4.4 
and 4.6). Other routine risk minimization measures beyond the 
Product information: None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C  Postauthorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
for EVRENZO. 
II.C.2 Other studies in postauthorization development plan 
There are no studies required for EVRENZO. 
 
 
 
 
