ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL powder for oral solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each bottle contains 60 mg risdiplam in 2 g powder for oral solution. 
Each mL of the constituted solution contains 0.75 mg risdiplam. 
Excipients with known effects 
Each mL contains 0.38 mg of sodium benzoate (E 211) and 2.97 mg of isomalt (E 953). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for oral solution. Light yellow, yellow, greyish yellow, greenish yellow, or light green 
powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Evrysdi is indicated for the treatment of 5q spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in patients with a clinical 
diagnosis of SMA Type 1, Type 2 or Type 3 or with one to four SMN2 copies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Evrysdi should be initiated by a physician with experience in the management of 
SMA. 
Posology 
The recommended once daily dose of Evrysdi is determined by age and body weight (see Table 1). 
Evrysdi is taken orally once a day after a meal at approximately the same time each day. 
Table 1. Dosing regimen by age and body weight 
Age* and body weight 
< 2 months of age 
2 months to < 2 years of age  
≥ 2 years of age (< 20 kg) 
≥ 2 years of age (≥ 20 kg) 
Recommended daily dose 
0.15 mg/kg 
0.20 mg/kg 
0.25 mg/kg 
5 mg  
* based on corrected age for preterm infants 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with a daily dose above 5 mg has not been studied. 
Delayed or missed doses 
If a planned dose is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible if still within 6 hours of the 
scheduled dose. Otherwise, the missed dose should be skipped and the next dose should be 
administered at the regularly scheduled time the next day. 
If a dose is not fully swallowed or vomiting occurs after taking a dose of Evrysdi, another dose should 
not be administered to make up for the incomplete dose. The next dose should be administered at the 
regularly scheduled time. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients based on limited data in subjects aged 65 years and 
older (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Risdiplam has not been studied in this population. No dose adjustment is expected to be required in 
patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Patients with 
severe hepatic impairment have not been studied and may have increased risdiplam exposure (see 
sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
 Use of Evrysdi for SMA in patients 2 months of age and younger is supported by pharmacokinetic 
and safety data from paediatric patients 16 days and older (see sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). No data on 
risdiplam pharmacokinetics are available in patients less than 16 days of age. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
Evrysdi must be constituted by a healthcare professional (eg. pharmacist) prior to being dispensed.   
It is recommended that a healthcare professional (HCP) discuss with the patient or caregiver how to 
prepare the prescribed daily dose prior to administration of the first dose. 
Evrysdi is taken orally once a day after a meal at approximately the same time each day, using the re-
usable oral syringe provided. In infants who are breastfed, Evrysdi should be administered after 
breastfeeding. Evrysdi should not be mixed with milk or formula milk. 
Evrysdi should be taken immediately after it is drawn up into the oral syringe. If it is not taken within 
5 minutes, it should be discarded from the oral syringe and a new dose be prepared. If Evrysdi spills or 
gets on the skin, the area should be washed with soap and water. 
The patient should drink water after taking Evrysdi to ensure the medicinal product has been 
completely swallowed. If the patient is unable to swallow and has a nasogastric or gastrostomy tube in 
situ, Evrysdi can be administered via the tube. The tube should be flushed with water after delivering 
Evrysdi. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Selection of the oral syringe for the prescribed daily dose:  
Syringe size 
Dosing volume  
Syringe markings 
1 mL 
6 mL 
12 mL 
0.3 mL to 1 mL 
1  mL to 6 mL 
6.2 mL to 6.6 mL 
0.01 mL 
0.1 mL 
0.2 mL 
For the calculation of dosing volume, the syringe markings need to be considered. The dose volume 
should be rounded to the nearest graduation mark on the selected oral syringe. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Potential embryo-foetal toxicity 
Embryo-foetal toxicity has been observed in animal studies (see section 5.3). Patients of reproductive 
potential should be informed of the risks and must use highly effective contraception during treatment 
and until at least 1 month after the last dose in female patients, and 4 months after the last dose in male 
patients. The pregnancy status of female patients of reproductive potential should be verified prior to 
initiating Evrysdi therapy (see section 4.6). 
Potential effects on male fertility 
Based on observations from animal studies, male patients should not donate sperm while on treatment 
and for 4 months after the last dose of Evrysdi. Prior to initiating treatment, fertility preservation 
strategies should be discussed with male patients of reproductive potential (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). 
The effects of Evrysdi on male fertility have not been investigated in humans. 
Retinal toxicity 
The effects of Evrysdi on retinal structure observed in the non-clinical safety studies have not been 
observed in clinical studies with SMA patients. However, long-term data are still limited. The clinical 
relevance of these nonclinical findings in the long-term has therefore not been established (see 
section 5.3). 
Excipients 
Isomalt 
Evrysdi contains isomalt (2.97 mg per mL). Patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose 
intolerance should not take this medicine. 
Sodium 
Evrysdi contains 0.375 mg of sodium benzoate per mL. Sodium benzoate may increase jaundice 
(yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn babies (up to 4 weeks old). 
Evrysdi contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 mg dose, i.e. is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Risdiplam is primarily metabolized by hepatic enzymes flavin monooxygenase 1 and 3 (FMO1 and 3), 
and also by cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) 1A1, 2J2, 3A4, and 3A7. Risdiplam is not a substrate 
of human multidrug resistance protein 1 (MDR1). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of other medicinal products on risdiplam 
Co-administration of 200 mg itraconazole twice daily, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with a single oral 
dose of 6 mg risdiplam did not exhibit a clinically relevant effect on the PK parameters of risdiplam 
(11% increase in AUC, 9% decrease in Cmax). No dose adjustments are required when Evrysdi is co-
administered with a CYP3A inhibitor. 
No drug-drug interactions are expected via the FMO1 and FMO3 pathway. 
Effects of risdiplam on other medicinal products 
Risdiplam is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. In healthy adult subjects, oral administration of risdiplam 
once daily for 2 weeks slightly increased the exposure of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate 
(AUC 11%; Cmax 16%). The extent of the interaction is not considered clinically relevant, and 
therefore no dose adjustment is required for CYP3A substrates. 
In vitro studies have shown that risdiplam and its major human metabolite M1 are not significant 
inhibitors of human MDR1, organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1, OATP1B3, organic 
anion transporter 1 and 3 (OAT 1 and 3).  However, risdiplam and its metabolite are in vitro inhibitors 
of the human organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2) and the multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE)1 
and MATE2-K transporters. At therapeutic drug concentrations, no interaction is expected with OCT2 
substrates. The effect of co-administration of risdiplam on the pharmacokinetics of MATE1 and 
MATE2-K substrates in humans is unknown. Based on in vitro data, risdiplam may increase plasma 
concentrations of medicinal products eliminated via MATE1 or MATE2-K, such as metformin. If co-
administration cannot be avoided, drug-related toxicities should be monitored and dosage reduction of 
the co-administered medicinal product should be considered if needed. 
There is no efficacy or safety data to support the concomitant use of risdiplam and nusinersen. 
The potential for synergistic effects of concomitant administration of risdiplam with retinotoxic drugs 
has not been studied. Therefore, caution in using concomitant medications with known or suspected 
retinal toxicity is recommended. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Patients of reproductive potential 
Contraception in male and female patients 
Male and female patients of reproductive potential should adhere to the following contraception 
requirements: 
● 
● 
Female patients of childbearing potential should use highly effective contraception during 
treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. 
Male patients, and their female partners of childbearing potential, should both ensure that highly 
effective contraception is achieved during treatment and for at least 4 months after the last dose. 
Pregnancy testing 
The pregnancy status of female patients of reproductive potential should be verified prior to initiating 
Evrysdi therapy. Pregnant women should be clearly advised of the potential risk to the foetus. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of Evrysdi in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evrysdi is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether risdiplam is excreted in human breast milk. Studies in rats show that risdiplam 
is excreted into milk (see section 5.3). As the potential for harm to the breastfed infant is unknown, it 
is recommended not to breastfeed during treatment. 
Fertility 
Male patients 
Male fertility may be compromised while on treatment, based on nonclinical findings. In rat and 
monkey reproductive organs, sperm degeneration and reduced sperm numbers were observed (see 
section 5.3). Based on observations from animal studies, the effects on sperm cells are expected to be 
reversible upon discontinuation of risdiplam. 
Male patients may consider sperm preservation prior to treatment initiation or after a treatment-free 
period of at least 4 months. Male patients who wish to father a child should stop treatment for a 
minimum of 4 months. Treatment may be re-started after conception. 
Female patients 
Based on nonclinical data (see section 5.3), an impact of risdiplam on female fertility is not expected. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Evrysdi has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In infantile-onset SMA patients, the most common adverse reactions observed in Evrysdi clinical 
studies were pyrexia (54.8%), rash (29.0%) and diarrhoea (19.4%). 
In later-onset SMA patients, the most common adverse reactions observed in Evrysdi clinical studies 
were pyrexia (21.7%), headache (20.0%), diarrhoea (16.7%), and rash (16.7%). 
The adverse reactions listed above occurred without an identifiable clinical or time pattern and 
generally resolved despite ongoing treatment in infantile-onset and later-onset SMA patients. 
Based on interim safety data in a limited number of patients in RAINBOWFISH (see section 4.2), the 
safety profile of Evrysdi in pre-symptomatic patients appears to be consistent with the safety profile of 
symptomatic infantile-onset and later-onset SMA patients. At the time of interim analysis, the 
RAINBOWFISH study had enrolled 18 patients with pre-symptomatic SMA between 16 and 40 days 
of age at the time of the first dose (weight range 3.1 to 5.7 kg). The median exposure duration was 8.7 
months (range: 0.5 to 22.8 months). Limited post-marketing data are available in neonates <20 days of 
age. 
See also section 5.3 for the effects of Evrysdi observed in nonclinical studies. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The corresponding frequency category for each adverse drug reaction is based on the following 
convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare 
(≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000). Adverse drug reactions from clinical studies (Table 2) 
are listed by MedDRA system organ class. 
Table 2. Adverse drug reactions occurring in patients with infantile-onset and later-onset SMA 
based on Evrysdi clinical studies 
System Organ Class 
Infantile-onset SMA 
(Type 1) 
Later-onset SMA 
(Type 2 and 3) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Mouth ulcerations and 
aphthous ulcers 
Very common 
Not applicable 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Rash* 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Very common 
Headache 
Not applicable 
Very common 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Pyrexia (including 
hyperpyrexia) 
Infections and infestations 
Urinary tract infection 
(including cystitis) 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 
Not applicable 
Common 
*Includes  dermatitis, dermatitis acneiform, dermatitis allergic, erythema, folliculitis, rash, rash erythematous, rash 
maculo-papular, rash papular 
Safety profile in patients previously treated with other SMA-modifying therapies 
Based on the primary analysis of the JEWELFISH study, the safety profile of Evrysdi in SMA 
treatment non-naive patients who received Evrsydi for up to 59 months (including those previously 
treated with nusinersen [n=76] or with onasemnogene abeparvovec [n=14]) is consistent with the 
safety profile in SMA treatment-naive patients treated with Evrysdi in the FIREFISH, SUNFISH and 
RAINBOWFISH studies (see section 5.1). 
Post-marketing experience 
Cutaneous vasculitis was reported during post-marketing experience. Symptoms recovered after 
permenant discontinuation of Evrysdi. The frequency cannot be estimated based on available data. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no known antidote for overdosage of Evrysdi. In the event of an overdose, the patient should 
be closely supervised and supportive care instituted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other drugs for disorders of the musculo-skeletal system 
ATC code: M09AX10 
Mechanism of action 
Risdiplam is a survival of motor neuron 2 (SMN2) pre-mRNA splicing modifier designed to treat 
SMA caused by mutations of the SMN1 gene in chromosome 5q that lead to SMN protein deficiency. 
Functional SMN protein deficiency is directly linked to the SMA pathophysiology which includes 
progressive loss of motor neurons and muscle weakness. Risdiplam corrects the splicing of SMN2 to 
shift the balance from exon 7 exclusion to exon 7 inclusion into the mRNA transcript, leading to an 
increased production of functional and stable SMN protein. Thus, risdiplam treats SMA by increasing 
and sustaining functional SMN protein levels. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In the studies FIREFISH (patients aged 2-7 months at enrolment), SUNFISH (patients aged 2-25 years 
at enrolment), and JEWELFISH (patients aged 1-60 years at enrolment) in infantile-onset SMA and 
later-onset SMA patients, risdiplam led to an increase in SMN protein in blood with a greater than 2-
fold median change from baseline within 4 weeks of treatment initiation across all SMA types studied. 
The increase was sustained throughout the treatment period (of at least 24 months). 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
The effect of risdiplam on the QTc interval was evaluated in a study in 47 healthy adult subjects. At 
the therapeutic exposure, risdiplam did not prolong the QTc interval. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Evrysdi for the treatment of SMA patients with infantile-onset (SMA Type 1)  and 
later-onset SMA (SMA type 2 and 3)  was evaluated in 2 pivotal clinical studies, FIREFISH and 
SUNFISH. Preliminary efficacy data of Evrysdi for the treatment of pre-symptomatic SMA patients 
has been evaluated in an interim analysis of secondary endpoints of the ongoing phase 2 clinical study 
(RAINBOWFISH). Patients with a clinical diagnosis of Type 4 SMA have not been studied in clinical 
trials. 
Infantile-onset SMA 
Study BP39056 (FIREFISH) is an open-label, 2-part study to investigate the efficacy, safety, PK and 
pharmacodynamics (PD) of Evrysdi in symptomatic Type 1 SMA patients (all patients had genetically 
confirmed disease with 2 copies of the SMN2 gene). Part 1 of FIREFISH was designed as a dose-
finding part of the study. The confirmatory Part 2 of the FIREFISH study assessed the efficacy of 
Evrysdi. Patients from Part 1 did not take part in Part 2. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The key efficacy endpoint was the ability to sit without support for at least 5 seconds, as measured by 
Item 22 of the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development – Third Edition (BSID-III) gross 
motor scale, after 12 months of treatment. 
FIREFISH Part 2 
In FIREFISH Part 2, 41 patients with Type 1 SMA were enrolled. The median age of onset of clinical 
signs and symptoms of Type 1 SMA was 1.5 months (range: 1.0-3.0 months), 54% were female, 54% 
Caucasian and 34% Asian. The median age at enrolment was 5.3 months (range: 2.2-6.9 months) and 
the median time between onset of symptoms and first dose was 3.4 months (range: 1.0-6.0 months). At 
baseline, the median Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular Disease 
(CHOP-INTEND) score was 22.0 points (range: 8.0-37.0) and the median Hammersmith Infant 
Neurological Examination Module 2 (HINE-2) score was 1.0 (range: 0.0-5.0). 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with the ability to sit without support for at least 
5 seconds after 12 months of treatment (BSID-III gross motor scale, Item 22). The key efficacy 
endpoints of Evrysdi treated patients are shown in Table 3. 
9 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Summary of key efficacy results at month 12 and month 24 (FIREFISH Part 2) 
Efficacy Endpoints 
Motor function and development milestones 
BSID-III: sitting without support for at least 
5 seconds  
CHOP-INTEND: score of 40 or higher  
CHOP-INTEND: increase of ≥4 points from 
baseline  
HINE-2: motor milestone respondersb  
HINE-2: sitting without supportc 
Survival and event-free survival 
Event-free survivald  
Alive  
Feeding 
Ability to feed orallye  
Proportion of Patients 
N=41 (90% CI) 
Month 12 
Month 24 
29.3%  
(17.8%, 43.1%) 
p <0.0001a 
56.1%  
(42.1%, 69.4%) 
90.2%  
(79.1%, 96.6%) 
78.0%  
(64.8%, 88.0%) 
24.4%  
(13.9%, 37.9%) 
85.4%  
(73.4%, 92.2%) 
92.7%  
(82.2%, 97.1%) 
61.0% 
(46.9%, 73.8%) 
75.6% 
(62.2%, 86.1%) 
90.2% 
(79.1%, 96.6%) 
85.4% 
(73.2%, 93.4%) 
53.7% 
(39.8%, 67.1%) 
82.9% 
(70.5%, 90.4%) 
92.7% 
(82.2%, 97.1%) 
82.9%  
(70.3%, 91.7%) 
85.4% 
(73.2%, 93.4%) 
Abbreviations: CHOP-INTEND=Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders; HINE-
2=Module 2 of the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination. 
a  p-value is based on a one-sided exact binomial test. The result is compared to a threshold of 5%. 
b  According to HINE-2: ≥2 point increase [or maximal score] in ability to kick, OR ≥1 point increase in the motor 
milestones of head control, rolling, sitting, crawling, standing or walking, AND improvement in more categories of motor 
milestones than worsening is defined as a responder for this analysis. 
c  Sitting without support includes patients that achieved “stable sit” (24%, 10/41) and “pivots (rotates)” (29%, 12/41) as 
assessed by the HINE-2 at Month 24. 
d   An event is meeting the endpoint of permanent ventilation defined as tracheostomy or ≥16 hours of non-invasive 
ventilation per day or intubation for > 21 consecutive days in the absence of, or following the resolution of, an acute 
reversible event. Three patients died within the first 3 months following study enrolment and 4 patients met the endpoint 
of permanent ventilation before Month 24. These 4 patients achieved an increase of at least 4 points in their CHOP-
INTEND score from baseline. 
e   Includes patients who were fed exclusively orally (29 patients overall) and those who were fed orally in combination with 
a feeding tube (6 patients overall) at Month 24. 
At Month 24, 44% of patients achieved sitting without support for 30 seconds (BSID-III, Item 26). 
Patients continued to achieve additional motor milestones as measured by the HINE-2: 80.5% were 
able to roll, and 27% of patients achieved a standing measure (12% supporting weight and 15% 
standing with support). 
Untreated patients with infantile-onset SMA would never be able to sit without support and only 25% 
would be expected to survive without permanent ventilation beyond 14 months of age. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Kaplan-Meier plot of event-free survival (FIREFISH Part 1 and Part 2) 
+ Censored: two patients in Part 2 were censored because the patients attended the Month 24 visit early, one 
patient in Part 1 was censored after discontinuing treatment and died 3.5 months later 
Figure 2. Mean change from baseline in CHOP-INTEND total score (FIREFISH Part 2) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIREFISH Part 1 
The efficacy of Evrysdi in Type 1 SMA patients is also supported by results from FIREFISH Part 1. 
For the 21 patients from Part 1, the baseline characteristics were consistent with symptomatic patients 
with Type 1 SMA. The median age at enrollment was 6.7 months (range: 3.3-6.9 months) and the 
median time between onset of symptoms and first dose was 4.0 months (range: 2.0-5.8 months). 
A total of 17 patients received the therapeutic dose of Evrysdi (dose selected for Part 2). After 
12 months of treatment, 41% (7/17) of these patients were able to sit independently for at least 
5 seconds (BSID-III, Item 22). After 24 months of treatment, 3 more patients receiving the therapeutic 
dose were able to sit independently for at least 5 seconds, leading to a total of 10 patients (59%) 
achieving this motor milestone. 
After 12 months of treatment, 90% (19/21) of patients were alive and event-free (without permanent 
ventilation) and reached 15 months of age or older. After a minimum of 33 months of treatment, 81% 
(17/21) of patients were alive and event-free and reached an age of 37 months or older (median 41 
months; range 37 to 53 months), see Figure 1. Three patients died during treatment and one patient 
died 3.5 months after discontinuing treatment. 
Later Onset SMA 
Study BP39055 (SUNFISH), is a 2-part, multicentre study to investigate the efficacy, safety, PK and 
PD of Evrysdi in SMA Type 2 or Type 3 patients between 2-25 years of age. Part 1 was the 
exploratory dose-finding portion and Part 2 was the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
confirmatory portion. Patients from Part 1 did not take part in Part 2. 
The primary endpoint was the change from baseline score at Month 12 on the Motor Function 
Measure-32 (MFM32). The MFM32 has the ability to assess a wide range of motor function across a 
broad range of SMA patients. The total MFM32 score is expressed as a percentage (range: 0-100) of 
the maximum possible score, with higher scores indicating greater motor function. 
SUNFISH Part 2 
SUNFISH Part 2 is the randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled portion of the SUNFISH study 
in 180 non-ambulant patients with Type 2 (71%) or Type 3 (29%) SMA. Patients were randomized 
with 2:1 ratio to receive either Evrysdi at the therapeutic dose (see section 4.2) or placebo. 
Randomization was stratified by age group (2 to 5, 6 to 11, 12 to 17, 18 to 25 years old). 
The median age of patients at the start of treatment was 9.0 years old (range 2-25 years old), the 
median time between onset of initial SMA symptoms to first treatment was 102.6 (1-275) months. 
Overall, 30% were 2 to 5 years of age, 32% were 6 to 11 years of age, 26% were 12-17 years of age, 
and 12% were 18 to 25 years of age at study enrolment. Of the 180 patients included in the study, 51% 
were female, 67% Caucasian and 19% Asian. At baseline, 67% of patients had scoliosis (32% of 
patients with severe scoliosis). Patients had a mean baseline MFM32 score of 46.1 and Revised Upper 
Limb Module (RULM) score of 20.1. The baseline demographic characteristics were balanced 
between Evrysdi and placebo arms with the exception of scoliosis (63% of patients in the Evrysdi arm 
and 73% of patients in the placebo control). 
The primary analysis for SUNFISH Part 2, the change from baseline in MFM32 total score at Month 
12, showed a clinically meaningful and statistically significant difference between patients treated 
with Evrysdi and placebo. The results of the primary analysis and key secondary endpoints are shown 
in Table 4, Figure 3, and Figure 4. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Summary of efficacy in patients with later-onset SMA at month 12 of treatment 
(SUNFISH Part 2) 
Endpoint  
Primary Endpoint: 
Change from baseline in MFM32 total score1 at Month 12 
LS mean (95%, CI) 
Difference from placebo  
Estimate (95% CI) 
p-value2 
Secondary Endpoints: 
Proportion of patients with a change from baseline in MFM32 total 
score1 of 3 or more at Month 12 (95% CI)1 
Odds ratio for overall response (95% CI) 
Adjusted(unadjusted) p-value3,4 
Change from baseline in RULM total score5 at Month 12 
LS mean (95% CI) 
Difference from placebo estimate (95% CI) 
Adjusted (unadjusted) p-value2,4 
Evrysdi 
(N = 120) 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
1.36  
(0.61, 2.11) 
-0.19  
(-1.22, 0.84) 
1.55  
(0.30, 2.81) 
0.0156 
 38.3%  
(28.9, 47.6) 
23.7%  
(12.0, 35.4) 
2.35 (1.01, 5.44) 
0.0469 (0.0469) 
1.61  
(1.00, 2.22) 
0.02  
(-0.83, 0.87) 
1.59 (0.55, 2.62) 
0.0469 (0.0028) 
LS=least squares 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Based on the missing data rule for MFM32, 6 patients were excluded from the analysis (Evrysdi n=115; placebo 
control n=59). 
Data analysed using a mixed model repeated measure with baseline total score, treatment, visit, age group, treatment-
by-visit and baseline-by-visit. 
Data analysed using logistic regression with baseline total score, treatment and age group.  
The adjusted p-value was obtained for the endpoints included in the hierarchical testing and was derived based on all 
the p-values from endpoints in order of the hierarchy up to the current endpoint 
Based on the missing data rule for RULM, 3 patients were excluded from the analysis (Evrysdi n=119; placebo 
control n=58). 
Upon completion of 12 months of treatment, 117 patients continued to receive Evrysdi. At the time of 
the 24 month analysis, these patients who were treated with Evrysdi for 24 months overall experienced 
maintenance of improvement in motor function between month 12 and month 24. The mean change 
from baseline for MFM32 was 1.83 (95% CI: 0.74, 2.92) and for RULM was 2.79 (95% CI: 1.94, 
3.64). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Mean change from baseline in MFM32 total score over 12 months in SUNFISH Part 21 
1The least squares (LS) mean difference for change from baseline in MFM32 score [95% CI] 
Figure 4. Mean change from baseline in RULM total score over 12 months in SUNFISH Part 21 
1The least squares (LS) mean difference for change from baseline in RULM score [95% CI] 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNFISH Part 1 
Efficacy in later-onset SMA patients was also supported by results from Part 1, the dose-finding part 
of SUNFISH. In Part 1, 51 patients with Type 2 and 3 SMA (including 7 ambulatory patients) between 
2 to 25 years of age were enrolled. After 1 year of treatment there was a clinically meaningful 
improvement in motor function as measured by MFM32, with a mean change from baseline of 2.7 
points (95% CI: 1.5, 3.8). The improvement in MFM32 was maintained up to 2 years on treatment 
(mean change of 2.7 points [95% CI: 1.2, 4.2]). 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Evrysdi in a subset of the paediatric population in spinal muscular atrophy (see Section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Use in patients previously treated with other SMA-modifying therapies (JEWELFISH) 
Study BP39054 (JEWELFISH, n = 174) is a single arm, open-label study to investigate the safety, 
tolerability, PK and PD of Evrysdi in patients with infantile-onset and later-onset SMA (median age 
14 years [range 1 - 60 years]), who had previously received treatment with other approved (nusinersen 
n = 76, onasemnogene abeparvovec n = 14) or investigational SMA modifying therapies. At baseline, 
out of the 168 patients aged 2 - 60 years, 83% of patients had scoliosis and 63% had a Hammersmith 
Functional Motor Scale Expanded (HFMSE) score < 10 points. 
At the analysis at month 24 of treatment, patients 2 - 60 years of age showed overall stabilization in 
motor function in MFM-32 and RULM (n = 137 and n = 133, respectively). Patients less than 2 years 
(n = 6) maintained or gained motor milestones such as head control, rolling and sitting independently. 
All ambulatory patients (aged 5 - 46 years, n = 15) retained their ability to walk. 
Pre-symptomatic SMA (RAINBOWFISH) 
Study BN40703 (RAINBOWFISH) is an ongoing open-label, single-arm, multicenter clinical study to 
investigate the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of Evrysdi in infants from 
birth to 6 weeks of age (at first dose) who have been genetically diagnosed with SMA but do not yet 
present with symptoms. 
At the time of the interim analysis, a total of 18 patients with pre-symptomatic SMA were enrolled in 
RAINBOWFISH. Preliminary efficacy in pre-symptomatic SMA patients was evaluated in 7 patients 
who had been treated with Evrysdi for at least 12 months: four patients had 2 copies of the SMN2 
gene, 2 patients had 3 copies of the SMN2 gene, and 1 patient had 4 or more copies of the SMN2 gene. 
Of these 7 patients, the median age at first dose was 35 days (range: 16 to 40 days), 71% were female, 
100% were Caucasian. 
The 6 patients with 2 or 3 copies of SMN2 achieved the following motor milestones as measured by 
the HINE-2 at Month 12: 6 patients achieved sitting (5 patients could pivot/rotate and 1 patient 
achieved stable sit); 4 patients could stand (3 patients could stand unaided and 1 patient could stand 
with support), and 3 patients could walk independently. All patients were alive at 12 months without 
permanent ventilation and were able to feed orally. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic parameters have been characterised in healthy adult subjects and in patients with 
SMA. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After administration of treatment as an oral solution, PK of risdiplam were approximately linear 
between 0.6 and 18 mg. Risdiplam’s PK was best described by a population PK model with 
three-transit-compartment absorption, two-compartment disposition and ﬁrst-order elimination. Body 
weight and age were found to have significant effect on the PK. 
The estimated exposure (mean AUC0-24h) for infantile-onset SMA patients (age 2-7 months at 
enrolment) at the therapeutic dose of 0.2 mg/kg once daily was 1930 ng.h/mL. The estimated mean 
exposure in pre-symptomatic infants (20 days to <2 months of age) in the RAINBOWFISH study was 
2100 ng.h/mL at 0.15 mg/kg after 2 weeks once daily administration. The estimated exposure for later-
onset SMA patients (2-25 years old at enrolment) in the SUNFISH (Part 2) study at the therapeutic 
dose (0.25 mg/kg once daily for patients with a body weight <20 kg; 5 mg once daily for patients with 
a body weight ≥20 kg) was 2070 ng.h/mL. The estimated exposure (mean AUC0-24h) for SMA 
treatment non-naïve patients (age 1-60 years at enrolment) was 1700 ng.h/mL at the therapeutic dose 
of 0.25 mg/kg or 5 mg. The observed maximum concentration (mean Cmax) was 194 ng/mL at 
0.2 mg/kg in FIREFISH, 120 ng/mL in SUNFISH Part 2, 129 ng/mL in JEWELFISH, and the 
estimated maximum concentration at 0.15 mg/kg in RAINBOWFISH is 114 ng/mL. 
Absorption 
Risdiplam was rapidly absorbed in the fasted state with a plasma tmax ranging from 1 to 4 hours after 
oral administration. Based on limited data (n=3), food (high-fat, high calorie breakfast) had no 
relevant effect on the exposure of risdiplam. In the clinical studies, risdiplam was administered with a 
morning meal or after breastfeeding. 
Distribution 
Risdiplam distributes evenly to all parts of the body, including the central nervous system (CNS) by 
crossing the blood brain barrier, and thereby leading to SMN protein increase in the CNS and 
throughout the body. Concentrations of risdiplam in plasma and SMN protein in blood reflect its 
distribution and pharmacodynamic effects in tissues such as brain and muscle. 
The population pharmacokinetic parameter estimates were 98 L for the apparent central volume of 
distribution, 93 L for the peripheral volume, and 0.68 L/hour for the inter-compartment clearance. 
Risdiplam is predominantly bound to serum albumin, without any binding to alpha-1 acid 
glycoprotein, with a free fraction of 11%. 
Biotransformation 
Risdiplam is primarily metabolized by FMO1 and FMO3, and also by CYPs 1A1, 2J2, 3A4 and 3A7. 
Co-administration of 200 mg itraconazole twice daily, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with a single oral 
dose of 6 mg risdiplam showed no clinically relevant effect on the PK of risdiplam (11% increase in 
AUC, 9% decrease in Cmax). 
Elimination 
Population PK analyses estimated an apparent clearance (CL/F) of 2.6 L/h for risdiplam. 
The effective half-life of risdiplam was approximately 50 hours in SMA patients. 
Risdiplam is not a substrate of human multidrug resistance protein 1 (MDR1). 
Approximately 53% of the dose (14% unchanged risdiplam) was excreted in the feces and 28% in 
urine (8% unchanged risdiplam). Parent drug was the major component found in plasma, accounting 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for 83% of drug related material in circulation. The pharmacologically inactive metabolite M1 was 
identified as the major circulating metabolite. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Paediatric population 
Body weight and age were identified as covariates in the population PK analysis. On the basis of such 
model, the dose is therefore adjusted based on age (below and above 2 months and 2 years) and body 
weight (up to 20 kg) to obtain similar exposure across the age and body weight range. Limited PK data 
are available in patients less than 20 days of age, since only one 16-day-old neonate received risdiplam 
at a lower dose (0.04 mg/kg) in clinical studies. 
Elderly population 
No dedicated studies have been conducted to investigate PK in patients with SMA above 60 years of 
age. Subjects without SMA up to 69 years of age were included in the clinical PK studies, which 
indicates that no dose adjustment is required for patients up to 69 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted to investigate the PK of risdiplam in patients with renal impairment. 
Elimination of risdiplam as unchanged entity via renal excretion is minor (8%). 
Hepatic impairment 
Mild and moderate hepatic impairment had no significant impact on the PK of risdiplam. After a 
single oral administration of 5 mg risdiplam, the mean ratios for Cmax and AUC were 0.95 and 0.80 in 
mild (n=8) and 1.20 and 1.08 in moderate hepatic impaired subjects (n=8) versus matched healthy 
controls (n=10). The safety and PK in patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied. 
Ethnicity 
The PK of risdiplam do not differ in Japanese and Caucasian subjects. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Impairment of fertility 
Treatment with risdiplam was associated with male germ cell arrest in rats and monkeys without 
safety margins based on systemic exposures at the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL). These 
effects led to degenerated spermatocytes, degeneration/necrosis of the seminiferous epithelium, and 
oligo/aspermia in the epididymis. Sperm cell effects of risdiplam are likely related to an interference 
of risdiplam with the cell cycle of dividing cells, which is stage specific and expected to be reversible. 
No effects were seen on female reproductive organs in rats and monkeys after treatment with 
risdiplam. 
No fertility and early embryonic development studies were conducted with concomitant administration 
of risdiplam, as sperm cell arrest and embryotoxic potential under treatment was already identified 
with treatment of rats and monkeys in other toxicity studies. No impairment on male fertility or female 
fertility was observed in two studies in which rats were mated, either following completion of a 
13-week treatment period starting at weaning, or 8 weeks after completion of a 4-week treatment 
period starting at 4 days of age. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect on retinal structure 
Chronic treatment of monkeys with risdiplam yielded evidence for an effect on the retina in terms of 
photoreceptor degeneration starting in the periphery of the retina. Upon cessation of treatment, the 
effects on the retinogram were partially reversible but the photoreceptor degeneration did not reverse. 
The effects were monitored by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and by electroretinography 
(ERG). Effects were seen with exposures in excess of 2-fold the exposure in humans at the therapeutic 
dose without safety margin based on systemic exposures at the NOAEL. No such findings were 
observed in albino or pigmented rats when dosed chronically with risdiplam at exposures exceeding 
those in the monkey. 
Effect on epithelial tissues 
Effects on skin, larynx and eyelid histology and the gastro intestinal tract were evident in rats and 
monkeys treated with risdiplam. Changes started to be seen at high doses with treatment of 2 weeks 
and longer. With chronic treatment for 39 weeks in monkeys, the NOAEL was at an exposure in 
excess of 2-fold the average exposure in humans at the therapeutic dose. 
Effect on haematological parameters 
In the acute bone marrow micronucleus test in rats, a reduction of more than 50% in the ratio of 
polychromatic (young) to normochromatic (adult) erythrocytes, indicative of substantial bone marrow 
toxicity, was observed at the high dose level with exposure in excess of 15-times the average exposure 
in humans at the therapeutic dose. With longer treatment of rats for 26 weeks, the exposure margins to 
the NOAEL were approximately 4-fold the average exposure in humans at the therapeutic dose. 
Genotoxicity 
Risdiplam is not mutagenic in a bacterial reverse mutation assay. In mammalian cells in vitro and in 
bone marrow of rats, risdiplam increases the frequency of micronucleated cells. Micronucleus 
induction in bone marrow was observed in several toxicity studies in rats (adult and juvenile animals). 
The NOAEL across the studies is associated with an exposure of approximately 1.5-fold the exposure 
in humans at the therapeutic dose. Data indicated that this effect is indirect and secondary to an 
interference of risdiplam with the cell cycle of dividing cells. Risdiplam does not possess a potential to 
damage DNA directly. 
Reproductive toxicity 
In studies in pregnant rats treated with risdiplam, embryofoetal toxicity with lower fetal weight and 
delayed development was evident. The NOAEL for this effect was approximately 2-fold above the 
exposure levels reached at the therapeutic dose of risdiplam in patients. In studies with pregnant 
rabbits, dysmorphogenic effects were observed at exposures also associated with maternal toxicity. 
These consisted of four fetuses (4%) from 4 litters (22%) with hydrocephaly. The NOAEL was 
approximately 4-fold the exposure levels reached at the therapeutic dose of risdiplam in patients.  
In a pre- and post-natal development study in rats treated daily with risdiplam, risdiplam caused a 
slight delay in gestation length. Studies in pregnant and lactating rats showed that risdiplam crosses 
the placental barrier and is excreted into milk. 
Carcinogenicity 
Risdiplam did not reveal a carcinogenic potential in transgenic rasH2 mice over 6 months and in a 
2 year study in rats at equivalent exposures to those in humans receiving the maximum recommended 
human dose (MRHD). Significantly increased tumours of the preputial gland in male rats and clitoral 
gland in female rats at 4 times the exposure of the MRHD are without human relevance, because both 
are rodent-specific organs. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Juvenile animal studies 
Juvenile animal data reveal no special hazard for humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
mannitol (E 421) 
isomalt (E 953) 
strawberry flavour 
tartaric acid (E 334) 
sodium benzoate (E 211) 
macrogol/polyethylene glycol 6000 
sucralose 
ascorbic acid (E 300) 
disodium edetate dihydrate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Powder for oral solution 
2 years 
Constituted oral solution 
64 days stored in a refrigerator (2 to 8°C). 
If necessary, the patient or their caregiver may store the oral solution at room temperature (below 
40˚C) for no more than a total of 120 hours (5 days). The oral solution should be returned to the 
refrigerator when it is no longer necessary to keep the bottle at room temperature. The total time 
outside the refrigerator (below 40˚C) should be monitored. 
The oral solution should be discarded if it has been stored at room temperature (below 40°C) for more 
than a total of 120 hours (5 days), or for any period of time kept above 40°C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Powder for oral solution 
Keep in the original amber glass bottle to protect from light. 
Constituted oral solution 
For storage conditions after constitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
Keep the oral solution in the original amber glass bottle to protect from light and keep the bottle 
always in an upright position with the cap tightly closed. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Amber type III glass bottle with a tamper-evident child resistant screw cap. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each carton contains; one bottle, 1 press-in bottle adaptor, two re-usuable 1 mL, two re-usable 6 mL 
and one re-usable 12 mL graduated amber oral syringes. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Evrysdi powder must be constituted to the oral solution by a HCP (eg. pharmacist) prior to being 
dispensed. 
Preparation 
Caution should be exercised in the handling of Evrysdi powder for oral solution (see section 4.4). 
Avoid inhalation and direct contact with skin or mucous membranes with the dry powder and the 
constituted solution. 
Wear disposable gloves during constitution and while wiping the outer surface of the bottle/cap and 
cleaning the working surface after constitution. If contact occurs, wash thoroughly with soap and 
water; rinse eyes with water. 
Instructions for constitution: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Gently tap the bottom of the closed glass bottle to loosen the powder. 
Remove the cap. Do not throw away the cap. 
Carefully pour 79 mL of purified water or water for injection  into the Evrysdi bottle to yield the 
0.75 mg/mL oral solution. 
Hold the medicine bottle on the table with one hand. Insert the press-in bottle adaptor into the 
opening by pushing it down with the other hand. Ensure the adaptor is completely pressed against 
the bottle lip. 
Put the cap back on the bottle and close the bottle tightly. Ensure it is completely closed and then 
shake  well  for  15  seconds.  Wait  for  10  minutes.  You  should  have  obtained  a  clear  solution. 
Afterwards, shake well again for another 15 seconds. 
6.  Write the “Discard after” date of the solution on the bottle label and carton. (The “Discard after” 
date is calculated as 64 days after constitution, the day of constitution is counted as day 0). Put 
the bottle back in its original carton with syringes (in pouches), Package Leaflet, and Instructions 
for Use booklet. Store the carton in the refrigerator (2 to 8°C). 
Discard any unused portion 64 days after constitution. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Roche Registration GmbH 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen, 
Germany  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1531/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 March 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTSOF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Roche Pharma AG 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1  
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen, 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
● 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
● 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
● 
●  Wheneverthe risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
● 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measure: 
Description 
Post-authorisation Efficacy Study (PAES): a long-term prospective, observational 
study to further evaluate disease progression in SMA patients (both pre-
symptomatic and symptomatic) with 1 to 4 SMN2 copies treated with risdiplam, 
in comparison to natural history data in untreated patients. 
Due date 
2030 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL powder for oral solution 
risdiplam 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 bottle contains 60 mg of risdiplam in 2.0 g powder. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains also sodium benzoate (E 211) and isomalt (E 953). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for oral solution 
1 bottle 
Also contains 1 press-in bottle adaptor, 5 re-usable syringes (two 1 mL, two 6 mL and one 12 mL). 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
For oral use after constitution 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not breathe the powder. Avoid skin contact with powder and constituted solution 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Powder EXP 
Oral solution. Discard after (dd-mm-yyyy) 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Constituted oral solution: Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Store in original bottle, tightly closed, 
and always in an upright position 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Roche Registration GmbH  
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1531/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Evrysdi 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL powder for oral solution 
risdiplam 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 bottle contains 60 mg of risdiplam in 2.0 g powder. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains also sodium benzoate (E 211) and isomalt (E 953). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for oral solution 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Avoid skin contact. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Powder:  EXP 
Oral solution. Discard after 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Oral solution: Store at 2°C - 8°C. Keep the bottle tightly closed and in an upright position. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Roche Registration GmbH  
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1531/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL powder for oral solution 
risdiplam 
▼This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or your child start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may 
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you or your child get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.   What Evrysdi is and what it is used for  
2.   What you need to know before you or your child take Evrysdi 
3.   How to take Evrysdi 
Possible side effects  
4.  
5.   How to store Evrysdi 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Evrysdi is and what it is used for 
What Evrysdi is 
Evrysdi is a medicine that contains the active substance risdiplam. 
What is Evrysdi used for 
Evrysdi is used to treat spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a genetic disease. 
What spinal muscular atrophy is 
SMA is caused by a shortage of a protein called survival motor neuron (SMN) protein in the body. 
Lack of SMN protein can cause you or your child to lose motor neurons, which are nerve cells that 
control muscles. This leads to muscle weakness and wasting that can affect everyday movements such 
as head and neck control, sitting, crawling and walking. The muscles used for breathing and 
swallowing may also become weaker. 
How Evrysdi works 
Risdiplam, the active substance in Evrysdi, works by helping the body produce more SMN protein. 
This means fewer motor neurons are lost, which may improve how well muscles work in people with 
SMA. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In infants with SMA Type 1 treated in clinical trials for 1 year, Evrysdi has helped to: 
• 
• 
increase how long they live and reduce the need for a ventilator to help with breathing compared 
to untreated infants with SMA (only 25% of untreated infants would be expected to be alive 
without the need for permanent ventilation beyond 14 months of age compared to 85% of 
patients after 1 year of treatment with Evrysdi), 
keep the ability to be fed by mouth in 83% of patients. 
In children (toddlers to adolescents) and adults with SMA Type 2 and 3, Evrysdi may maintain or 
improve muscle control. 
2.  What you need to know before you or your child take Evrysdi 
Do not take Evrysdi: 
• 
if you or your child are allergic to risdiplam or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you or your child take Evrysdi. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before you or your child take Evrysdi. 
Treatment with Evrysdi may harm your unborn baby or may affect male fertility. See “Pregnancy, 
contraception, breast-feeding and male fertility” for more information. 
Other medicines and Evrysdi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or your child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines in the future. 
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking or have received in the past any of 
the following medicines: 
• 
• 
metformin – a medicine used to treat type II diabetes 
medicines for the treatment of SMA 
Pregnancy, contraception, breast-feeding and male fertility 
Pregnancy 
• 
• 
• 
Do not take Evrysdi if you are pregnant. This is because taking this medicine while you are 
pregnant could harm your unborn baby. 
Before you start treatment with Evrysdi, your doctor should do a pregnancy test. This is because 
Evrysdi may harm your unborn baby. 
If you do become pregnant during your treatment with Evrysdi, tell your doctor straight away. 
You and your doctor will decide what is best for you and your unborn baby. 
Contraception 
For women 
Do not become pregnant: 
• 
during your treatment with Evrysdi and 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
for one month after you stop taking Evrysdi. 
Talk to your doctor about reliable methods of birth control that should be used during treatment and 
for one month after you stop treatment. 
For men 
If your female partner is of childbearing potential, you need to avoid pregnancy. Use reliable methods 
of birth control (eg. condoms): 
• 
• 
during your treatment with Evrysdi and 
for 4 months after you stop taking Evrysdi. 
Talk to your healthcare provider about reliable methods of birth control that should be used. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed while taking this medicine. This is because Evrysdi may pass into breast milk and 
may, therefore, harm your baby. 
Discuss with your doctor if you should stop breast-feeding or if you should stop taking Evrysdi. 
Male fertility 
Based on findings in animals, Evrysdi may reduce male fertility while on treatment and for up to 4 
months after your last dose.  If you are planning to have a child, ask your doctor for advice. 
Do not donate sperm during your treatment and for 4 months after your last dose of Evrysdi. 
Driving and using machines 
Evrysdi is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Evrysdi contains sodium 
Evrysdi contains a small amount of sodium (salt) - there is less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium even at 
the highest daily dose of 5 mg (6.6 mL of 0.75 mg/mL oral solution). This means it is essentially 
‘sodium-free’ and can be used by people on a sodium-restricted diet. 
Evrysdi contains 0.375 mg of sodium benzoate per mL. Sodium benzoate may increase jaundice 
(yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn babies (up to 4 weeks old). 
Evrysdi contains isomalt 
Evrysdi contains 2.97 mg of isomalt per mL.  If you have been told by your doctor that you or your 
child have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take Evrysdi 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. You should receive Evrysdi as a liquid in a bottle. Do not use if the 
medicine in the bottle is a powder, and contact your pharmacist. 
You must also carefully read and follow the enclosed “Instructions for use” booklet on how to take 
or give Evrysdi. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How much Evrysdi to take 
• 
• 
Adolescents and adults: The daily dose of Evrysdi is 5 mg (6.6 mL of the oral solution). 
Infants and children: Your doctor will choose the right dose of Evrysdi based on your child’s 
age and weight. 
You or your child must take your daily dose as instructed by your doctor. Do not change the dose 
without speaking with your doctor. 
When and how to take Evrysdi 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Evrysdi is a liquid which is prepared by the pharmacist, and is referred to as a ‘solution’ or 
‘medicine’ in this leaflet. 
Take Evrysdi once daily after a meal at around the same time each day. This will help you 
remember when to take your medicine. 
Drink water after taking the medicine. Do not mix the medicine with milk or formula milk. 
Take or give Evrysdi immediately after it is drawn up into the oral syringe. If it is not taken 
within 5 minutes, discard the medicine from the oral syringe, and withdraw a new dose 
If Evrysdi gets on you or your child’s skin, wash the area with soap and water. 
Read the ‘Instructions for use’ booklet 
A booklet with ‘Instructions for use’ is included in the pack. It shows you how to withdraw your 
dose using the re-usable oral syringe given to you. You (or your child) can take the medicine: 
• 
• 
• 
by mouth, or 
through a gastrostomy tube, or 
through a nasogastric tube. 
How long to take Evrysdi for 
Your doctor will tell you how long you or your child need to take Evrysdi for. Do not stop treatment 
with Evrysdi unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you or your child take more Evrysdi than you should 
If you or your child take more Evrysdi than you should, talk to a doctor or go to hospital straight away. 
Take the medicine pack and this leaflet with you. 
If you or your child forget to take Evrysdi or vomits after a dose 
•   
•   
•   
If it is within 6 hours of when you or your child normally take Evrysdi, take the missed dose as 
soon as you remember. 
If it is over 6 hours from when you or your child normally take Evrysdi, skip the missed dose 
and then take your next dose at the usual time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you or your child vomits after taking a dose of Evrysdi, do not take an extra dose. Instead, 
take the next dose at the usual time the next day. 
If you spill Evrysdi 
If you spill Evrysdi, dry the area with a dry paper towel and then clean the area with soap and water. 
Throw away the paper towel in the waste and wash your hands well with soap and water. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
diarrhoea 
rash 
headache 
fever  
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
nausea 
mouth sores 
bladder infection 
joint pain 
The following side effect has been reported since the marketing of Evrysdi but the frequency for it to 
occur is not known: 
• 
inflammation of small blood vessels mainly affecting the skin (cutaneous vasculitis). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you or your child get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Evrysdi 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Store the oral solution in a refrigerator (2 to 8˚C). If necessary, you or your caregiver may store 
the oral solution at room temperature (below 40˚C) for no more than a total  of 120 hours (5 
days). Return the oral solution to the refrigerator when it is no longer necessary to keep the 
bottle at room temperature. 
•  Monitor the total time outside the refrigerator (below 40˚C). As mentioned above, the 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sum of time intervals outside the refrigerator must not exceed 120 hours. 
The oral solution is stable for 64 days after the pharmacist prepares it when stored in the 
refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C. The pharmacist will write the date of expiration on the bottle label 
and on the original carton after “Discard after”. Do not use the solution past this “Discard after” 
date or discard the medicine if the bottle has been stored at room temperature (below 40°C) for 
more than a total of 120 hours (5 days). 
Discard the medicine if the bottle has been stored for any period of time at above 40°C. 
Keep the medicine in the original bottle to protect from light. 
Keep the medicine bottle upright, with the cap tightly closed. 
Once you have drawn up the medicine into the oral syringe, use Evrysdi straight away. Do not 
store the Evrysdi solution in the syringe. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
 Contents of the pack and other information 
What Evrysdi contains 
• 
• 
• 
The active substance in the oral solution is risdiplam. 
Each mL of the oral solution contains 0.75 mg risdiplam. 
The other ingredients are mannitol (E 421), isomalt (E 953), strawberry flavour, tartaric acid 
(E 334), sodium benzoate (E 211), macrogol/polyethylene glycol 6000, sucralose, ascorbic acid 
(E 300), disodium edetate dihydrate (see Section 2 ‘Evrysdi contains sodium’ and ‘Evrysdi 
contains isomalt’). 
What Evrysdi looks like and contents of the pack 
• 
• 
• 
Powder for oral solution, which is delivered as an oral solution after preparation by the 
pharmacist. 
The solution is a greenish yellow to yellow, strawberry flavoured oral solution, the volume of 
the solution is 80 mL. 
Each carton contains 1 bottle, 1 press-in bottle adaptor, two 1-mL, two 6-mL and one 12-mL re-
usable amber oral syringes with markings to help you withdraw the right dose. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Roche Registration GmbH 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Roche Pharma AG 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
N.V. Roche S.A.  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 525 82 11 
България  
Рош България ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 474 5444 
Česká republika 
Roche s. r. o. 
Tel: +420 - 2 20382111 
Danmark  
Roche Pharmaceuticals A/S 
Tlf: +45 - 36 39 99 99 
Lietuva  
UAB “Roche Lietuva” 
Tel: +370 5 2546799 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
(Voir/siehe Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Roche (Magyarország) Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 279 4500 
Malta 
(see Ireland ) 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Roche Pharma AG 
Tel: +49 (0) 7624 140 
Eesti 
Roche Eesti OÜ 
Tel: + 372 - 6 177 380 
Ελλάδα 
Roche (Hellas) A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 61 66 100 
España 
Roche Farma S.A. 
Tel: +34 - 91 324 81 00 
France 
Roche 
Tél: +33 (0) 1 47 61 40 00 
Hrvatska 
Roche d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 4722 333 
Ireland 
Roche Products (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 469 0700 
Ísland 
Roche Pharmaceuticals A/S 
c/o Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Roche S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 - 039 2471 
Kύπρος 
Γ.Α.Σταμάτης & Σια Λτδ. 
Τηλ: +357 - 22 76 62 76 
Latvija 
Roche Latvija SIA 
Tel: +371 - 6 7039831 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Nederland 
Roche Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 348 438050 
Norge 
Roche Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 - 22 78 90 00 
Österreich 
Roche Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 27739 
Polska 
Roche Polska Sp.z o.o. 
Tel: +48 - 22 345 18 88 
Portugal  
Roche Farmacêutica Química, Lda 
Tel: +351 - 21 425 70 00 
România 
Roche România S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 21 206 47 01 
Slovenija 
Roche farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 - 1 360 26 00 
Slovenská republika 
Roche Slovensko, s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 - 2 52638201 
Suomi/Finland 
Roche Oy  
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 10 554 500 
Sverige 
Roche AB 
Tel: +46 (0) 8 726 1200 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Roche Products (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 366000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Use – Administration 
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL powder for oral solution 
risdiplam 
Be sure to read and understand the Instructions for Use before you start using Evrysdi. These 
instructions show you how to prepare and give Evrysdi through an oral syringe, gastrostomy tube 
(G- tube), or nasogastric tube (NG-tube). 
If you have any questions about how to use Evrysdi, speak with your doctor or pharmacist. 
Evrysdi should come as a liquid in a bottle when you receive it. Evrysdi is prepared by a pharmacist 
into an oral solution. Do not use if the medicine in the bottle is a powder and contact your pharmacist. 
Important information about Evrysdi 
•  Ask your doctor or pharmacist to show you which oral syringe you should use and how to 
measure your daily dose. 
•  Always use the re-usable oral syringes in the pack to measure your daily dose. 
•  Contact your doctor or pharmacist if your oral syringe(s) is/are lost or damaged. They will 
advise you about how to continue to take your medicine. 
•  See “How to select the correct oral syringe for your dose of Evrysdi”. Ask your 
pharmacist if you have questions on how to select the right oral syringe. 
• 
If the bottle adaptor is not in the bottle, do not use Evrysdi and contact your pharmacist. 
•  The oral solution may be stored at room temperature (below 40˚C) for no more than a total 
of 120 hours (5 days).  Monitor the total time outside the refrigerator (below 40˚C). 
•  Do not use Evrysdi after the Discard after date written on the bottle label or if you or your 
caregiver have stored the bottle at room temperature (below 40˚C) for more than a total of 
120 hours (5 days). Ask your pharmacist for the Discard after date if it is not written on the 
bottle label. 
•  Discard the medicine if the bottle has been stored for any period of time at above 40˚C. 
•  Do not mix Evrysdi with milk or formula milk. 
•  Do not use Evrysdi if the bottle or oral syringes are damaged. 
•  Avoid getting Evrysdi on your skin. If Evrysdi gets on your skin, wash the area with soap 
and water. 
• 
• 
If you spill Evrysdi, dry the area with a dry paper towel and then clean the area with soap 
and water. Throw away the paper towel in the waste and wash your hands well with soap 
and water. 
If there is not enough Evrysdi left in the bottle for your dose, discard the bottle with 
remaining Evrysdi and used oral syringes according to your local requirements; use a new 
bottle of Evrysdi for your full dose.  Do not mix Evrysdi from the new bottle with the bottle 
you are currently using. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each EVRYSDI carton contains (See figure A):  
1.  1 Evrysdi bottle with bottle adaptor and cap  
2.  1 Oral syringe 12 mL (in pouch) 
3.  2 Oral syringes 6 mL (in pouches) 
4.  2 Oral syringes 1 mL (in pouches) 
5.  1 Instructions for Use booklet (not shown) 
6.  1 Package Leaflet (not shown) 
How to store Evrysdi 
Please see section 5 “How to store Evrysdi” of the Package Leaflet for full information. 
Figure A 
39 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A)  Withdrawing your dose volume 
How to select the correct oral syringe for your dose of Evrysdi 
• 
• 
If your daily dose of Evrysdi is between 0.3 mL and 1 mL, use a 1 mL 
oral syringe (yellow label). 
If your daily dose of Evrysdi is between 1 mL and 6 mL, use a 6-mL oral 
syringe (grey label). 
If your daily dose of Evrysdi is more than 6 mL, use a 12-mL oral syringe  
• 
      (brown label). 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist about rounding your or your child’s daily dose to the nearest syringe 
marking. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
How to withdraw your dose of Evrysdi 
Step A1 
Remove the cap by pushing it down 
and then twisting it to the left 
(counter-clockwise) (See Figure B). 
Do not throw away the cap. 
Step A2 
Push the plunger of the oral syringe 
all the way down to remove any air in 
the oral syringe (See Figure C). 
Step A3 
Keeping the bottle upright, insert the 
syringe tip into the bottle adaptor (See 
Figure D). 
Step A4 
Carefully turn the bottle upside down 
with the syringe tip firmly inserted 
into the bottle adaptor (See Figure E). 
Figure B 
Figure C 
Figure D 
Figure E 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step A5 
Slowly pull back on the plunger to 
withdraw your dose of Evrysdi. The 
top of the black plunger stopper must 
line up with the mL marking on the 
oral syringe for your daily dose (See 
Figure F). 
After you have drawn up the correct 
dose, hold the plunger in place to 
keep it from moving. 
Step A6 
Continue to hold the plunger in 
place to stop it moving. Leave the 
oral syringe in the bottle adaptor and 
turn the bottle to an upright position. 
Place the bottle onto a flat surface. 
Remove the oral syringe from the 
bottle adaptor by gently pulling 
straight up on the oral syringe (See 
Figure G). 
Step A7 
Hold the oral syringe with the syringe 
tip pointing up. Check the medicine in 
the oral syringe. If there are large air 
bubbles in the oral syringe (See 
Figure H) or if you have drawn up the 
wrong dose of Evrysdi, insert the 
syringe tip firmly into the bottle 
adaptor. Push the plunger all the way 
down so that the medicine flows back 
into the bottle and repeat Steps A4 to 
A7. 
Take or give Evrysdi immediately 
after it is drawn up into the oral 
syringe. 
If it is not taken within 5 minutes, 
discard the medicine from oral 
syringe and withdraw a new dose. 
Figure F 
Figure G 
Figure H 
42 
 
 
 
 
Step A8 
Put the cap back on the bottle. Turn 
the cap to the right (clockwise) to 
tightly close the bottle (See Figure I). 
Do not remove the bottle adaptor 
from the bottle. 
Figure I 
If you are taking your dose of Evrysdi by mouth, follow the instructions in “B) How to take a dose 
of Evrysdi by mouth”. 
If you are taking your dose of Evrysdi through a gastrostomy tube, follow the instructions in “C) 
How to give a dose of Evrysdi through a gastrostomy tube (G-tube)”. 
If you are taking your dose of Evrysdi through a nasogastric tube, follow the instructions in “D) 
How to give a dose of Evrysdi through a nasogastric tube (NG-tube)”. 
Evrysdi’s oral syringes are specifically designed to be compatible with the ENFit® system. If your 
feeding tube is not ENFit® compatible, you may need an ENFit® transition connector to connect the 
Evrysdi syringe to your G-tube or NG-tube. 
B) How to take a dose of Evrysdi by mouth 
Sit upright when taking a dose volume of Evrysdi by mouth. 
Step B1 
Place the oral syringe into the mouth 
with the tip along either cheek. 
Slowly push the plunger all the way 
down to give the full dose of Evrysdi 
(See Figure J). 
Giving Evrysdi into the back of the 
throat or too fast may cause 
choking. 
Figure J 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step B2 
Check that there is no medicine left in 
the oral syringe (See Figure K). 
Step B3 
Drink some water right after taking 
the dose of Evrysdi (See Figure L). 
Go to Step E for cleaning of the 
syringe. 
Figure K 
Figure L 
C) How to give a dose of Evrysdi through a gastrostomy tube 
If you are giving Evrysdi through a gastrostomy tube, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to 
inspect the gastrostomy tube before giving Evrysdi. 
Step C1 
Place the oral syringe tip into the 
gastrostomy tube. Slowly push the 
plunger all the way down to give the 
full dose of Evrysdi (See Figure M). 
Figure M 
44 
 
 
 
 
Step C2 
Check that there is no medicine left in 
the oral syringe (See Figure N). 
Step C3 
Flush the gastrostomy tube with 10-20 
mL of water right after giving the 
dose of Evrysdi (See Figure O). 
Go to Step E for cleaning of the 
syringe. 
Figure N 
Figure O 
D) How to give a dose of Evrysdi through a nasogastric tube  
If you are giving Evrysdi through a nasogastric tube, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to 
inspect the nasogastric tube before giving Evrysdi. 
Step D1 
Place the oral syringe tip into the 
nasogastric tube. Slowly press the 
plunger all the way down to give the 
full dose of Evrysdi (See Figure P). 
Step D2 
Check that there is no medicine left in 
the oral syringe (See Figure Q). 
Figure P 
Figure Q 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
Step D3 
Flush the nasogastric tube with 10-20 
mL of water right after giving the 
dose of Evrysdi (See Figure R). 
Go to Step E for cleaning of the 
syringe. 
Step E1 
Remove the plunger from the oral 
syringe. 
Rinse the oral syringe barrel well 
under clean water (See Figure S). 
Step E2 
Rinse the plunger well under clean 
water (See Figure T). 
Figure R 
E) How to clean the oral syringe after use 
Figure S 
Figure T 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
Step E3 
Check that the oral syringe barrel and 
plunger are clean. 
Place the oral syringe barrel and 
plunger on a clean surface in a safe 
place to dry (See Figure U). 
Wash your hands. 
Once dry, reassemble the plunger into 
the oral syringe barrel and store the 
syringe with your medicine. 
Figure U 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions For Constitution  
Evrysdi 0.75 mg/mL 
powder for oral solution 
risdiplam 
Instructions for Constitution 
(FOR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS [EG. PHARMACISTS] ONLY) 
Each Evrysdi carton contains (See figure A): 
1.  1 Cap 
2.  1 Evrysdi bottle 
3.  1 Oral syringe 12 mL (in pouch) 
4.  2 Oral syringes 6 mL (in pouches) 
5.  2 Oral syringes 1 mL (in pouches) 
6.  1 Press-in bottle adaptor 
7.  1 Package Leaflet (not shown) 
8.  1 Instructions for Constitution (not shown) 
9.  1 Instructions for Use (not shown) 
Important information about Evrysdi 
•  Avoid inhaling Evrysdi powder. 
•  Use gloves. 
Figure A 
•  Do not use if the powder expiry date has passed. The powder expiration date is printed on the bottle 
label. 
•  Do not dispense the constituted solution if the solution’s Discard After date exceeds the original powder 
expiration date. 
•  Avoid getting contact with the medicine on your skin. If the medicine gets on your skin, wash the area 
with soap and water. 
•  Do not use the medicine if any of the supplies are damaged or missing. 
•  Use Purified Water or Water for Injection to constitute the medicine. 
•  Do not add oral syringes other than the ones provided in the carton. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to store Evrysdi 
•  Store the powder (unconstituted medicine) at room temperature and keep it in the carton. 
•  Store the solution (constituted medicine) in a refrigerator (2 to 8°C) and keep it in the carton upright. 
•  Keep the oral solution in the original bottle and always keep the bottle in an upright position with the 
cap tightly closed. 
Constitution 
Step 1 
Gently tap the bottom of the bottle to loosen the 
powder (See Figure B). 
Step 2 
Remove the cap by pushing it down and then 
twisting to the left (counter-clockwise) (See 
Figure C). Do not throw away the cap. 
Step 3 
Carefully pour 79 mL of Purified Water or Water 
for Injection into the medicine bottle (See Figure 
D). 
Figure B 
Figure C 
Figure D 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 4 
Hold the medicine bottle on a table with one hand. 
Insert the press-in bottle adaptor into the opening 
by pushing it down with the other hand. Ensure it 
is completely pressed against the bottle lip (See 
Figure E). 
Step 5 
Put the cap back on the bottle. Turn the cap to the 
right (clockwise) to close the bottle. 
Ensure it is completely closed and then shake well 
for 15 seconds (See Figure F). 
Wait for 10 minutes. You should have obtained a 
clear solution. 
Afterwards, shake well again for another 
15 seconds. 
Step 6 
Calculate the Discard After date as 64 days after 
constitution (Note: the day of constitution is 
counted as day 0. For example, if constitution is 
on the 1st of April, the Discard After date will be 
the 4th of June). 
Write the Discard After date of the solution on 
the bottle label (See Figure G) and carton. 
Put the bottle back in its original carton, with 
syringes (in pouches), Package Leaflet and 
Instructions For Use booklet. 
Store the carton in the refrigerator (2 to 8°C). 
Figure E 
Figure F 
Figure G 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
