EMA/344876/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005145 
Evrysdi (risdiplam) 
An overview of Evrysdi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Evrysdi and what is it used for? 
Evrysdi is a medicine used to treat patients with 5q spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a genetic disease 
that causes weakness and wasting of the muscles including the lung muscles. It is intended for 
patients with SMA type 1, type 2 or type 3, or those who have up to 4 copies of a gene known as 
SMN2.  
SMA is rare, and Evrysdi was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 26 
February 2019. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3192145. 
Evrysdi contains the active substance risdiplam.  
How is Evrysdi used? 
Treatment with Evrysdi must be started by a doctor experienced in treating SMA. The medicine can 
only be obtained with a prescription. 
Evrysdi is taken by mouth once a day after a meal, at around the same time each day. In patients who 
are not able to swallow, Evrysdi can be given via a tube through the nose or skin to the stomach.  
For more information about using Evrysdi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Evrysdi work? 
Patients with SMA lack a protein called ‘survival motor neuron’ (SMN) protein, which is essential for 
motor neurons (nerve cells in the spinal cord that control muscle movement) to continue working 
normally. Two genes, SMN1 and SMN2, are involved in the production of the SMN protein. Patients 
with SMA lack the SMN1 gene but have one or more copies of the SMN2 gene, which mostly produce a 
short SMN protein that does not work as well as the full-length protein. 
The active substance in Evrysdi, risdiplam, is a small molecule that allows the SMN2 gene to produce 
the full-length protein, which can work normally. This is expected to increase survival of motor 
neurons, thereby reducing current symptoms of the disease and slowing down its progression.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Evrysdi have been shown in studies? 
Evrysdi was shown to be effective at improving motor function in 2 main studies in patients with SMA. 
One study conducted in 41 infants aged 2 to 7 months with type 1 SMA (the most severe type) showed 
that 29% (12 out of 41) of infants were able to sit without support for more than 5 seconds after 12 
months of treatment with Evrysdi. Past observations of infants with SMA found that they are never able 
to sit without support. 
A second study in 180 patients with type 2 and type 3 SMA up to 25 years of age showed a slight 
improvement in motor function (as measured using a rating scale called MFM32) in patients treated 
with Evrysdi: there was a 1.6-point difference compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) on a 100-
point scale after 12 months of treatment. 
Data from an additional study involving 18 newborn infants up to 6 weeks of age at the start of 
treatment support the use of Evrysdi in infants diagnosed with SMA but not yet showing symptoms. Of 
the seven children who received Evrysdi for at least 12 months, six reached milestones (such as sitting 
without support) which could normally not be attained by untreated children with 2 copies of SMN2.  
What are the risks associated with Evrysdi? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Evrysdi, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Evrysdi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include fever, 
rash, diarrhoea and headache.  
Why is Evrysdi authorised in the EU? 
The effects of Evrysdi on the development of motor function in patients with SMA type 1, 2 and 3 were 
considered relevant, particularly considering the severity of the disease. In children with type 1 SMA, 
the most severe form of the disease, Evrysdi allows infants to sit without support for more than 5 
seconds after a year of treatment, which they would not be able to do without treatment.  
Evrysdi is also beneficial in patients with a later onset of SMA (type 2 and 3), although the effects in 
these patients are modest. The side effects with Evrysdi are considered manageable. Therefore, the 
European Medicines Agency decided that Evrysdi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Evrysdi? 
The company that markets Evrysdi will provide data from a long-term study on the effects of the 
medicine in patients with up to 4 copies of the SMN2 gene compared with how the disease progresses 
in patients who have not been treated with Evrysdi. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Evrysdi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Evrysdi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Evrysdi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Evrysdi (risdiplam)  
EMA/344876/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Evrysdi 
Evrysdi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Further information on Evrysdi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/evrysdi.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2023. 
Evrysdi (risdiplam)  
EMA/344876/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
