1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Iron overload 
Iron overload is the result of many disorders and can lead per se to the development of organ damage 
and increased mortality. In humans total body iron stores is maintained within the range of 200-1500 
mg by adequate adjustment of intestinal iron absorption, since no excretory mechanisms exist [1]. In 
normal  individuals,  feedback  mechanisms  inhibit  iron  absorption  as  storage  iron  increases  [1].  Each 
condition that induces an increased net entry of iron within the body inevitably leads to iron overload. 
It can be classified as primary or secondary depending whether it results from a primary defect in the 
regulation of iron balance or is secondary to other genetic or acquired disorders. A known example of 
primary  iron  overload  is  hereditary  hemochromatosis  (HHC),  in  which  iron  is  absorbed  in  excess 
because  of  increased  iron  transfer  from  the  enteral  cells  to  the  blood.  The  secondary  includes  iron 
overload either due to, or associated with, ineffective erythropoiesis, chronic liver diseases, parenteral 
administration or ingestion of excessive amounts of iron. Thalassemia major and sideroblastic anemia 
are  the  two  best  studied  examples  of  iron  overload  secondary  to  blood  transfusions  and  ineffective 
erythropoiesis.  Frequent  blood  transfusions  lead  to  excessive  accumulation  of  iron  with  a  toxic 
accumulation in 3 to 10 years. 
The toxicity of iron results from two related events: 1) excess iron deposits in various tissues of the 
body, particularly in liver, heart and endocrine organs with the consequence of liver diseases, diabetes 
mellitus  and  other  complications,  and  2)  free  iron  that  catalyzes  the  formation  of  highly  reactive 
hydroxyl radicals which lead to membrane damage and denaturation of proteins. Once iron exceeds a 
certain  level,  these  effects  lead  to  significant  morbidity  and  mortality.  Without  specific  chelation 
therapy to remove the iron, in 3 to 10 years almost all regularly transfused patients will have acquired 
a toxic accumulation of iron. The main cause of death is due to cardiac complications. 
Treatment of iron overload 
The  aim  of  treatment  of  iron  storage  disease  is  to  remove  from  the  body  the  excess  iron  that  has 
accumulated.  In  the  case  of  patients  without  primary  disorders  of  hematopoiesis  (i.e.  primary 
hemochromatosis),  this  is  best  achieved  by  phlebotomy,  since  regeneration  of  erythrocytes  by  the 
marrow  utilizes  iron,  which  is  therefore  withdrawn  from  various  body  pools.  Phlebotomy  is  only 
occasionally feasible in patients who have augmented iron stores because of ineffective erythropoiesis 
and is generally precluded in those in whom the iron overload is the result of multiple transfusions. 
Such patients require treatment with an iron chelating agent to achieve safe levels of body iron. This is 
a slow process because only a small proportion of body iron is available for chelation at any moment. 
By  increasing  the  doses  of  chelators  in  an  attempt  to  speed  up  iron  removal,  there  is  a  risk  of 
increasing  the  toxicity  of  iron  chelators  by  chelating  iron,  which  is  needed  for  normal  tissue 
metabolism.  Therefore,  while  the  slow  process  of  decreasing  tissue  iron  to  safe  levels  is  being 
achieved,  a  second  goal  is  to  make  the  iron  as  safe  as  possible  by  binding  the  toxic  iron  pools 
responsible for causing tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy reduces iron-related morbidity, reduces 
and  retards  liver  diseases,  diabetes  and  other  endocrine  failures,  normalizes  growth  and  sexual 
development, prevents, and in some cases reverses, cardiac insufficiency and improves quality of life. 
Consequently iron chelation therapy dramatically reduces mortality. 
Deferoxamine  mesylate  was  introduced  about  forty  years  ago  and  remains  the  standard  chelation 
therapy  for  the  removal  of  excess  iron.  A  clear  and  consistent  evidence  in  the  literature  on  the 
demonstrable  clinical  benefits  of  deferoxamine  therapy  was  shown  both  on  morbidity  and  mortality 
[2].  Due  to  the  challenges  of  administering  deferoxamine  by  slow  subcutaneous  or  intravenous 
infusion over 8 to 12 hours, five to seven nights per week, compliance is often poor, leading to less 
than optimal efficacy of this therapy in preventing complications. 
Due the limited data available on its efficacy and its safety profile, the oral iron chelator deferiprone is 
approved  in  Europe  only  for  the  treatment  of  iron-overloaded  thalassemic  patients  who  cannot 
adequately be treated with deferoxamine, or for whom deferoxamine is contraindicated.  
About the product 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     1/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exjade developed by Novartis Europharm contains the active substance deferasirox, an orally active 
iron chelator for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions.  
Acronyms used during the development were ICL670, ICL670-NXA, ICL670-NXB, CGP72670 and 
the international non-proprietary name (INN) and the approved name in USA is Deferasirox.  
With  the  present  application,  the  applicant  sought  a  marketing  authorization  for  the  “treatment  of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusion (transfusional haemosiderosis) in adult and paediatric 
patients (aged 2 years and over)”. The dose proposed by the applicant was an initial dose of 20mg/kg 
body  weight  for  patients  receiving  blood  transfusions  (about  2/4  units/month  of  packed  red  blood 
cells)  with  changes  for  less  or  more  transfusions  and  a  maintenance  dose  dependent  on  the  serum 
ferritin with a maximum dose of 30mg/kg deferasirox. 
1.2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Exjade is presented as dispersible tablets containing 125 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg of deferasirox, as 
active substance. The three strengths can be differentiated by the size of the tablets and their imprints. 
The  other  ingredients  include  lactose monohydrate, crospovidone type A, microcrystalline cellulose, 
povidone, sodium lauryl sulphate, silica colloidal anhydrous and magnesium stearate. The tablets are 
packed in PVC/PE/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. The tablets are to be dispersed in water, orange juice or 
apple juice prior to oral administration. 
Active Substance  
Deferasirox belongs to a novel class of tridentate iron chelators, the N-substituted bis-hydroxyphenyl-
triazole.  
Two  molecules  of  deferasirox are needed to form a soluble complex with one Fe3+ ion. Satisfactory 
information has been provided on the structure/the stability of the complex at physiological pH and on 
the influence of other metal ions (see non-clinical and clinical sections).  
The active is a white to slightly yellow and not hygroscopic powder. It has a good permeability and it 
is practically insoluble in water and in acid medium, the solubility increasing with pH. Therefore, the 
particle size is likely to be important to the rate and possibly to the extent of absorption.  
Deferasirox  is  not  chiral.  Two  polymorphic  forms  have  been  identified.  The  active  is  the 
thermodynamically stable polymorph A. The other polymorph cannot be formed under recommended 
storage conditions for the active substance/finished product and under conditions used to manufacture 
the finished product. 
Manufacture 
• 
Deferasirox is produced by two different manufacturers from commercially available starting materials 
in  a  two-step  synthesis  followed  by  purification  by  crystallisation  and  micronisation.  Satisfactory 
specifications and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials, key intermediates, 
reagents and solvents. 
The  same  process  has  been  used  from  development  to  commercial  production.  However,  the 
purification  step  was  slightly  modified  (change  in  crystallisation  solvent)  resulting  in  three  process 
versions A, B and C. Comparative batch analysis data provided show no major differences, especially 
in term of impurity profiles.  
Deferasirox contains very low levels of process-related impurities and detectable amounts were only 
found in early development batches. The only impurity relevant at low levels is 4-hydrazinobenzoic 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     2/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acid  (starting  material),  which  has  a  genotoxic  and  carcinogenic  potential.  An  acceptable  impurity 
limit based on batch analysis data provided and justified from a toxicological point of view (see non-
clinical assessment) has been included in deferasirox specification.  
Catalysts are not used in the synthesis. However the active being a complexing agent for several metal 
ions, their level in the active has been controlled and results showed that no heavy metals are extracted 
from the production equipment.  
Deferasirox residual solvents limits are in accordance with the ICH guideline. 
Specification 
• 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  clarity  and  colour  of  solution 
(PhEur),  identity  (IR  and  XRPD),  assay  (HPLC),  impurity  content  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC), 
particle  size,  water  content,  residue  on  ignition  (PhEur),  heavy  metals  (PhEur)  and  microbial  limits 
(PhEur).  Impurity  limits  in  the  specification  are  justified  by  toxicology  studies.  Batch  analysis  data 
provided for batches manufactured at both sites confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with 
the proposed specification. 
Stability 
• 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  three  batches.  Under  long-term  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH  – 
intended  packaging)  and  under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  –  intended  packaging) 
respectively up to 2-year data and 6-month data have been provided. 
The  parameters  tested  included  appearance,  clarity  and  colour  of  solution,  identity  (IR  and  XRPD), 
assay (HPLC), impurities and water content. 
Deferasirox appears as a very stable drug substance in the solid state as degradation products were not 
observed under ICH conditions and they formed only under stress conditions. 
The data provided support the propose retest period when deferasirox is stored in sealed double 
polyethylene bags placed in sealed drums. 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
• 
The objective was to develop an oral formulation, which would ease administration to all age patients. 
In order to avoid a large tablet for swallowing due to a relatively high amount of drug substance per 
dosage unit, dispersible tablets were developed. 
The different strengths have the same qualitative and proportional quantitative composition. 
The physical characteristics of the drug substance resulting from micronisation (electrostatic tendency, 
poor flow and compression properties) have been compensated by a suitable choice of excipients and 
manufacturing process (aqueous granulation).  
The  excipients  have  been  selected  based  on  their  compatibility  with  deferasirox by means of binary 
mixture  tests  and  they  are  commonly  used  for  tablet  formulations.  Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  the 
magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin and the lactose derived from milk of bovine origin has been 
considered in compliance with the current TSE requirements. 
Satisfactory specifications have been set up for PVC/PE/PVDC/Aluminium blister. 
Physico-chemical  stability  up  to  24h  has  been  confirmed  when  tablets  are  dispersed  in  water,  apple 
and  orange  juice  (see  section  4.2  of  the  SPC).  Dispersion  in  carbonated  drinks  or  milk  is  not 
recommended due to foaming and slow dispersion, respectively. 
The commercial formulation of the finished product has been used in all pivotal studies. 
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  the  standard  following  operations:  blending,  aqueous 
granulation, drying, screening, blending and compression. 
The quantity of magnesium stearate in the formulation had to be reduced during development in order 
to  meet  PhEur  disintegration  time  requirements.  Validation  data  on  3  consecutive  full-scale  batches 
per strength have been provided and confirm the robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing 
process. 
Product Specification 
• 
The  finished  product  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (UV  and  HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (PhEur),  mean  mass,  fineness  of 
dispersion (PhEur), dissolution , disintegration and microbial limits (PhEur). 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     3/52 
 
 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for its intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  the  validation  batches  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and 
uniformity with the proposed specification. 
Stability of the Product 
• 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  production-scale  batches  manufactured  using  the  commercial 
manufacturing  process  according  to  a  bracketing  program  as  the  three  strengths  have  comparable 
compositions  pro  rata.  The  parameters  tested  included:  appearance,  dissolution,  fineness  of 
dispersion, disintegration time, assay, degradation products and microbial quality.  
Under long-term conditions (25°C/60% RH - commercial packaging) and under accelerated conditions 
(40°C/75% RH - commercial packaging) respectively 24-month and 6-month data are available. The 
observed changes were small, and not likely to have a significant effect on efficacy and safety of the 
product when used according to the directions in the SPC 
The photostability study performed shows that the finished product is not light sensitive. 
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the drug substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing process enhances to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life. At the time of the CHMP 
opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the Risk-benefit balance of 
the product. The applicant committed to resolve it as Follow Up Measure after the opinion, within an 
agreed timeframe. 
1.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
While  most  of  the  pharmacology  studies  predate  the  ICH  guidelines  S7A  [10]  and  S7B  [4],  all 
toxicological pivotal studies were conducted in accordance to Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs). The 
non-clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  mouse,  rat,  marmoset,  rabbit  and  dog  and  were  performed 
using the oral route, as recommended for clinical use. The analytical methods (HPLC-UV or HPLC-
MS-MS) were validated and the limit of quantification was ≤ 0.670 µmol/l for deferasirox and ≤0.314 
µmol/l for Fe-[deferasirox]2, the biological matrix used was plasma since a major part of deferasirox 
(68-95%) and Fe-[deferasirox]2 (≤91%) was confined to the plasma compartment. 
Pharmacology 
The  objectives  of  the  pharmacology  program  were  to  establish  the  affinity  and  selectivity  of 
deferasirox for iron.  
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies 
Deferasirox is a tridentate chelator, hence two molecules are needed to fully coordinate one atom of 
(hexa-coordinate)  Fe(III).  The  formation  of  Fe(III)  complexes  with  deferasirox  was  studied  in 
H2O/DMSO  by  potentiometric  and  spectrophotometric  methods.  The  major  species  identified  under 
physiologic conditions (pH 7.4) and clinically attainable deferasirox concentrations of 10 µmol/l, and 
3-. In these conditions, the affinity of 
an assumed iron concentration of 1 µmol/l was Fe(deferasirox)2
deferasirox for Fe(III) was less than deferoxamine but higher than deferiprone. Deferasirox had a low 
affinity for Fe(II). In a biological system at physiological conditions, if there were Fe(II) in solution, 
deferasirox would weakly bind it and convert it to a stable [FeIII(L)2] complex. 
Deferasirox  was  highly  selective  for  Fe(III).  The  ranking  according  to  affinities  was  typical  for 
selective iron chelators: Fe(III)>Al(III)>>Cu(II)>>Zn(II)>Fe(II)>>Mg(II)>Ca(II). 
The ability of deferasirox to remove iron from cells was studied in cultured iron-loaded rat heart cells. 
In direct comparison with DFO, up to a concentration of clinically relevant 80 µmol/l, the efficiency 
for  the  removal  of  radioactive  iron  was  similar  with  the  two  compounds.  At  160  and  320  µmol/l, 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     4/52 
 
 
deferoxamine  (DFO)  was  more  efficient  by  removing  approximately  73%  and  82%  compared  to 
deferasirox, which removed approximately 46% and 56% of the radioactivity from cells.  
In vivo studies 
In  rats,  oral  administration  of  25,  50  and  100  mg/kg  deferasirox  in  bile  duct-cannulated  showed 
promotion of iron excretion within the first three hours (h) post-dose with a dose dependent maximum 
mean iron excretion occurring between 4 and 12 h. A protracted action of deferasirox was observed 
for 30 hours after the administration of a dose of 25 mg/kg, and for 33 hours after doses of 50 mg/kg 
and 100 mg/kg of deferasirox. 
The amount of excreted iron as percentage of the theoretical (stoichiometric) iron binding capacity of 
the 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg doses were 18.3±2%, 16.7±6% and 14.6±4%, respectively. The decrease of 
efficiency with higher doses was linear.  
To define the sources of iron chelated in vivo by orally administered deferasirox, a comparative study 
with  intraperitoneally  administered  DFO  and  orally  administered  deferasirox  was  performed  in  rats 
using  radio-iron  probes  selective  for  hepatocellular  and  reticulo-endothelial  iron  stores.  Deferasirox 
was  more  effective  than  DFO,  particularly  with  mobilizing  iron  from  the  hepatocellular  pool.  With 
deferasirox, all iron was cleared by the liver and excreted through the bile. 
The potential dissociation of iron chelator complexes prior to excretion was studied in an experimental 
rat model. Following i.v. (intravenous) administration into rats of  59Fe-complexes of deferasirox pre-
formed in vitro, 40% of the 59Fe given was excreted within 48 hours, mostly in feces. 
The  ability  of  deferasirox  to  reduce  body  iron  burden  was  further evaluated in iron-overloaded rats. 
Treatment  with  deferasirox  at  59.7  mg/kg  p.o.  (80 µmole  Iron  Binding  Equivalent  (IBE)/kg)  for  12 
weeks  was  compared  with  DFO  (98.4  mg/kg)  and  deferiprone  (62.5  mg/kg),  both  at  150  µmole 
IBE/kg. in terms of iron binding equivalents, deferasirox (80 µmol/kg IBE) was similarly effective as 
an approximately two-fold higher dose of DFO (150 µmol/kg IBE). 
Marmosets, which differ from rodents in their iron metabolism (uptake, pools, fluxes and excretion), 
were  iron-overloaded  by  3  intraperitoneal  (i.p.)  injections  of  iron-dextran,  separated  by  a  14  day 
interval after each injection (200 mg iron/kg twice, 100 mg/kg at the third injection). The equilibration 
period  after  loading  was  at  least  8  weeks.  Seven  days  before  and  during  the  experiment  with  a 
chelator, marmosets were maintained on a low-iron diet to reduce fecal iron background.  
After oral administration of 14, 28, 56 and 112 mg/kg of deferasirox, excretion of iron was primarily 
through the feces. High amounts of iron were still excreted in the 24 to 48 hour period, particularly at 
the two higher dosages. The "effective oral dose" (ED) is defined as the dose which mobilizes 500 µg 
of iron per kg body weight, the targeted, daily mobilization rate for iron chelation therapy in highly 
transfused  β-thalassemia  patients.  The  ED  in  marmosets  was  estimated  to  be  about  22 mg/kg.  The 
calculated  in  vivo  efficiency  of  iron  chelation  for  deferasirox,  (i.e.  the  amount  of  excreted  iron  as 
percentage of the theoretical, stoichiometric iron binding capacity of the dose), was 29% at the dose of 
56 mg/kg (150 µmol IBE/kg).  
Treatment male and female marmosets with deferasirox at once daily oral doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg 
decreased liver iron content by an average of 70%, 87% and 95%, respectively, in males. In females, 
liver  iron  reductions  of  67%  and  82%  were  observed  in  the  40  and  80 mg/kg  dose  groups, 
respectively. Females receiving 20 mg/kg had no reduction in liver iron. No decreases of liver copper 
or zinc were observed in animals. Kidney iron concentrations were reduced in both male and female 
treatment  groups,  albeit  to  a  lesser  extent  than  in  the  liver.  A  reduction  of  approximately  30%  in 
females and 40% in males was noted only in the 80 mg/kg dose group. Treatment with deferasirox for 
39 weeks had very marginal effects on kidney copper and zinc. 
The  effects  of  deferasirox  on  heart  and  liver  iron  have  been  studied  in  iron  loaded  gerbil,  best 
available  animal  model  [5],  and  were  compared  to  the  effects  of  deferiprone.  At  5-fold  the  clinical 
dose  (deferasirox  100  mg/kg  once  a  day;  deferiprone  375  mg/kg/day  in  three  divided  doses) 
deferasirox  and  deferiprone  were  equally  effective  in  removing  heart  iron.  Deferasirox  removed 
double the amount of liver iron as compared to deferiprone [6]. This data were further supported by 
studies performed in cultured cardiac cells that showed removal of iron in vitro  [6-9]. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     5/52 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific study has been conducted to evaluate secondary pharmacodynamics. 
• 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Following evaluation of possible effects of deferasirox on the central nervous system in vivo, only a 
transient marginal to weak ataxia (0.5 to 6 hours following 100, 300 or 1000 mg/kg) and a marginal 
head  tremor  were  observed  in  the  mouse.  Single  intraduodenal  doses  of  100,  300  and  1000  mg/kg 
deferasirox in the anaesthetized rat had no effect on respiratory rate, tidal and minute volumes. In the 
conscious  rat  there  were  no  effects  on  renal  excretion  of  sodium,  chloride  and  potassium,  or  urine 
volume over 6 hours after oral dosing up to 1000 mg/kg. The design of the studies investigating the 
cardiovascular effects of deferasirox are summarised in the table below: 
Table 1: Summary of cardiovascular safety studies 
Study type 
Isolated guinea pig atria (GLP) 
Isolated sheep Purkinje fiber 
assay (GLP) 
Route 
in vitro 
in vitro 
Isolated rabbit heart (non GLP) 
in vitro 
HERG (non GLP) 
Anesthetized rat study (GLP) 
Dog telemetry study (GLP) 
in vitro 
in vivo 
intraduodenal
in vivo 
oral (gavage)
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Major Findings 
↑ force of contraction ≥ 100 µmol/l  
↓ heart contractions at 300 µmol/l 
↓ APD and maximum rate of depolarization at > 21 µM 
and reduced upstroke amplitude > 64 µM.  
small ↑ APD, squaring of action potential at 30 µmol/l 
no effects up to max concentration of 250 µmol/l  
No effects at single doses up to 1000 mg/kg 
↑ heart rate at 300 mg/kg with no change in QTc 
No specific pharmacodynamic drug interactions study has been conducted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The plasma concentrations of total deferasirox (corresponding to the sum of free deferasirox and iron-
bound deferasirox), and iron complex Fe-[deferasirox]2 were measured by HPLC-UV or HPLC-MS-
MS analytical methods. Metabolites were characterized by mass spectrometry (LC-MS and LC-MS-
MS), LC-1H-NMR or by co-elution with non-radiolabeled reference compounds. 
• 
Absorption - Bioavailability 
Single oral doses of deferasirox were rapidly and highly absorbed in all animals. High oral doses as 
used  in  toxicity  studies  in  mice  (300  mg/kg)  or  rats  (100  mg/kg)  led  to  a  delayed  absorption  and 
distribution displaying Cmax values of deferasirox that were reached at up to 8 hours post-dose. Table 
2 summarises the key PK parameters in rats, marmosets and humans (studies 0115 and 2101). 
Table 2: Pharmacokinetic parameters of total deferasirox 
Single oral dose (mg/kg) 
AUC (µmol·h/l)/(mg/kg) c 
Cmax (µmol/l)/(mg/kg) c 
tmax (h) 
Bioavailability (% of dose) 
deferasirox (% of 14C-AUC) 
t½α of deferasirox (h) 
Intravenous dose (mg/kg) 
AUC (µmol·h /l)/(mg/kg) c 
Vss (l/kg) 
Human 
~ 20 a 
35.5 
1.53 
4-6 
73 ± 20 d 
91 
11 ± 5 
Human d 
1.65 
63.4 
0.18 
Marmoset 
25 
8.72 h 
1.85 
0.5 
88 b 
25 
0.7 (t½z 35) e, f 
Marmoset 
10 
   9.96 b, k 
 8.1 e, f 
Rat b, f 
10 
2.71 h 
0.76 
0.5 
32 b 
67 
0.8  
Rat b, f 
10 
   8.45 j 
 0.64 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     6/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Single oral dose (mg/kg) 
Clearance CL (ml/min/kg) 
Hepatic extraction ratio EH (%) 
g 
Human 
~ 20 a 
0.74 
8 
Marmoset 
25 
 3.2 f 
12 
Rat b, f 
10 
  5.6 
  23 
4.1 ± 1.5 
t½α of deferasirox (h) 
a an  oral  dose  of  1000  mg  14C-labeled  deferasirox was given  as a drink suspension in water to thalassemia patients at 
steady-state  (daily  1000  mg  non-radiolabeled  deferasirox);  b  calculations based on: deferasirox  total = deferasirox  free + 
c multiply µmol/L or µmol·h/l with 373.37 to obtain µg/l or µg·h/l, respectively; d healthy volunteers, 
Fe-[deferasirox]2; 
130  mg,  90  min  i.v.  infusion  versus  375  mg,  p.o.;  e  value  very  high,  probably  due  to  substantial  contribution  by 
enterohepatic  recirculation  evident  in  the  terminal  elimination  phase  after  8  h;  f  parameter  calculated  by the author of 
this  overview;  g  EH=  CL/hepatic  plasma  flow,  where  hepatic  plasma  flow  =  hepatic  blood  flow  ⋅  hematocrit  (HCT  ~ 
0.45); h AUC0-72h; i AUC0-24h; j AUC0.083-24h; k AUC0.083-72h. 
  0.7 
0.5 (t½z 51) e, f 
Analysis of the binding kinetics of deferasirox in in vitro mechanistic transport studies in Caco-2 cell 
monolayers, showed a Km value of about 14 µmol/l and a maximal transporter-mediated flux (Jmax) of 
94  nmol/min·cm2.  Inhibition  studies  with  efflux  inhibitors  (verapamil,  cyclosporin A,  probenecid, 
imatinib) suggested deferasirox to be most likely a substrate for MRP2 or MXR (also called BCRP, 
breast cancer-resistant protein).  
Transporter system(s) involved in carrier-mediated drug uptake of ICL670 were tested, using cRNA-
injected  Xenopus  laevis  oocytes.  The  human  organic  anion  transporting  polypeptides  OATP1A2 
(gene:  SLC21A3,  also  called  hOATP1),  OATP1B1  (gene:  SLC21A6,  also  called  hOATP2), 
OATP1B3  (gene:  SLC21A8,  also  called  hOATP8)  or  the  human  organic  cation  transporter  hOCT1 
(gene:  SLC22A2)  were  tested  at  deferasirox  concentrations  from  1  to  100 µmol/l.  cRNA-injected 
transportocytes and water-injected control oocytes displayed a similar concentration-dependent linear 
increase of deferasirox uptake between 1 and 100 µmol/l.  
The  data  obtained  in  purified  membrane  vesicles  from  insect  or  mammalian  cells  expressing  high 
levels of human ABC transporter proteins indicated an interaction of deferasirox with MXR (BCRP) 
and  MRP2  efflux  pumps  suggesting  deferasirox  to  be  actively  transported  by  these  transporter 
proteins, although with distinctly higher affinity for MXR (~ 8-fold) than for MRP2. In contrast, no 
transport  by  MDR1  (P-gp)  efflux  protein  was  observed.  Experiments  revealed  deferasirox  to  inhibit 
endogeneous substrates of these transporters: [3H]LTC4 (leukotriene C4) and [3H]E1S (estradiol 17β-D-
glucuronide)  transport  mediated  by  MRP2  (IC50  ≅  50  µmol/L)  and  MXR  (IC50  ≅  1  µmol/L), 
respectively.  
Bioavailability of deferasirox was tested in male Beagle dogs, comparing three oral formulations (A 
and  B:  dispersible  tablet,  C: sachet)  versus  an  intravenous  reference  formulation  (D:  PEG 400 
solution).  In  an  additional  PK  study,  the  clinical  service  form  [quadri-divisible  dispersible  tablet  of 
total  mass  1 g  containing  250  mg  of  deferasirox  (25%  loading)]  was  compared  with  the  market 
formulation [dispersible tablet of total mass 850 mg containing 250 mg of deferasirox (30% loading)]. 
The oral bioavailability of 10 mg/kg ICL670 was approximately 100% of dose.  
The  effect  of  food  on  the  PK  of  125 mg  dosage  strength  (12 mg/kg)  of  deferasirox  was  studied  in 
dogs.  One  group  was  pre-treated  with  an  oil  in-water  emulsion  (goat  milk),  another  group  was 
pretreated with oil (corn oil glycerides). The reference group remained fasted.  
The enterohepatic recirculation of deferasirox and its metabolites was investigated in male bile duct-
cannulated rats. A first group received an IV dose of 10 mg/kg 14C-labeled deferasirox. Within 6 and 
24 hours post-dose, 61.5% and 78.2%, respectively, of the radioactive dose was collected in bile. A 
second group received the bile from donor rats from the first group, as an infusion into the duodenum. 
The total mean recovery of [14C]deferasirox -related radioactivity in bile, urine and carcass was 39% 
of the infused radioactivity.  
• 
Distribution 
In  vitro  plasma  protein  binding  studies  were  performed  in  plasma  of  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  dogs, 
marmosets  and  humans.  [14C]deferasirox  as  well  as  its  iron  complex  Fe-[deferasirox]2  were  bound 
from  98.2  to  99.6%  to  plasma  proteins.  The  species  ranking  of  unbound  fraction  was  similar  for 
deferasirox and its iron complex: human (0.3-0,5%) ~ rat ~ dog < rabbit ~ mouse ~ marmoset (0.9-
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     7/52 
 
  
 
1.8%). In vitro plasma protein binding of deferasirox to human serum albumin (40 g/l) was 98%-99% 
for deferasirox concentrations of 10 and 105 µg/ml (27-281 µmol/l). Binding to α1-acid glycoprotein 
was moderate and decreased from 85% to 8% with deferasirox concentrations from 0.5 to 105 µg/ml 
(1.34-281  µmol/l),  respectively.  Binding  to  γ-globulins  was  negligible.  Deferasirox  was  mainly 
confined to the plasma compartment of all species including human (blood/plasma distribution value 
for was 70% to 85% in mice and 78% to 93% in rabbits). 
After  an  oral  dose  of  100  mg/kg  [14C]deferasirox  to  male  albino  rats,  maximal  concentrations  of 
radioactivity  in  the  tissues  were  reached  at  4  hours.  Highest  radioactivity  concentrations  were 
observed in the liver (765 nmol/g) and kidney cortex (631 nmol/g). Kidney medulla 245 nmol/g was 
comparable to blood (213 nmol/g). The volume of distribution was 0.18 to 0.98 l/kg in mice, rats, dogs 
and humans, 8.1 l/kg in marmosets. Clearance in plasma was 2.9 to 8.0 ml/min/kg in the animals, and 
0.74 ml/min/kg in humans. The volume of distribution of Fe-[deferasirox]2 was 0.086 l/kg in rats. Its 
clearance in plasma was 3.9 ml/min/kg. 
Pregnant rats were administered a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg of [14C] deferasirox at days 13 and at 
day 17 of gestation. At day 13 between 1 and 24 hours post-dose, the mean 14C concentrations in the 
fetuses were 12- to 26-fold, and at day 17 at 2 hours post-dose about 6-fold lower than in maternal blood 
and  lower  than  in  maternal  tissues,  respectively.  Pregnant  rabbits  were  given  a  single  oral  dose  of 
40 mg/kg [14C]deferasirox at day 17 of gestation. At 24 hours post-dose the 14C concentrations in the 
fetuses represented 1-2% of the concentrations found in the corresponding plasma of the dam.  
Following  a  single  oral  dose  of  10 mg/kg  14C-labeled  ICL670  to  female  lactating  rats,  Cmax  of 
radioactivity in plasma and milk was reached at 0.5 hours. The milk/plasma ratio of 14C radioactivity at 
4  to  8  hours  post-dose  was  17  to  24.  Within  24  hours  post-dose,  about  3.3%  of  the  administered 
radioactivity in the milk was recovered as unchanged drug.  
• 
Metabolism 
In vitro metabolism 
The  in vitro biotransformation of [14C]deferasirox was investigated using liver microsomes from the 
rat,  rabbit,  dog,  marmoset  and  human.  In  rat,  rabbit,  marmoset  and  human  liver  microsomes,  the 
metabolism  of  deferasirox  was  qualitatively  comparable,  whereas  dog  liver  microsomes  did  not 
metabolize  the  compound  under  the  experimental  conditions  studied.  Four  polar  metabolite  peaks 
were seen, which consisted of regio-isomers of mono-hydroxylated deferasirox. They were identified 
as M1, M2, M4, M5 by LC-MS and LC-1H-NMR. These metabolites were also found to be present as 
glucuronic acid conjugates in the bile and as aglycons in feces of rats and marmosets treated with a 
single dose of deferasirox. Oxidative metabolism of deferasirox was fast in rabbit and marmoset, and 
slow  in  rat  and  human  liver  microsomes.  The  iron  complex  Fe-[  deferasirox]2  yielded  similar 
metabolite patterns in marmoset liver microsomes indicating that iron complexing of deferasirox had a 
minor influence on the in vitro metabolism of deferasirox. After incubations with recombinant human 
cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes,  the  metabolite  formation  was  mainly  catalyzed  by  CYP1A1  and 
CYP1A2 forming metabolites M1 and M2, and CYP2D6 forming metabolites M4 and M5. CYP1A2 
contributes to the oxidative metabolism of deferasirox by 6- to 8-fold more than CYP2D6  
The direct glucuronidation of deferasirox was investigated in vitro using human liver microsomes in 
the  presence  of  UDPGA.  Glucuronic  acid  conjugation  was  also  tested  with  a  panel  of  recombinant 
human  UGT  isoenzymes  produced  in  insect  cell  membranes.  Direct  glucuronidation  of  deferasirox 
was  catalyzed  predominantly  by  UGT1A1  (Km= 52.1 µmol/l)  and  UGT1A3  (Km=  72.6 µmol/L) 
accounting together for about 95% of the glucuronide formation. Minor contributions originated from 
of UGT1A7 and UGT1A9. Only trace activities were observed with UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A8, 
UGT1A10, UGT2B4, UGT2B7, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17. 
The formation of the acyl-glucuronide (M3) was an important biotransformation pathway observed in 
human  and  rat  hepatocytes  (50  µmol/l,  3  hours  incubation  time).  Additionally,  M7  (5-O-sulfate 
metabolite)  and  M4  (5’-hydroxy  metabolite)  were  observed.  M6  (2-O-glucuronide  metabolite)  was 
only seen in human hepatocytes. Metabolites M3, M4, M6 and M7 were also seen in 0-48 h bile of 
bile duct-cannulated rats (10 mg/kg, i.v.).  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     8/52 
 
 
In vivo metabolism 
The  metabolism  of  14C-labeled  deferasirox  was  studied  in  male  and  female  mice  (10 mg/kg,  i.v.; 10 
and  300  mg/kg,  p.o.),  male  rats  (10  mg/kg,  i.v,  10  and  100 mg/kg,  p.o.)  and  male  marmosets  (10 
mg/kg,  i.v.;  25  mg/kg,  p.o.).  Additionally,  the  metabolism  of  the  14C-labeled  iron  complex  Fe-
[deferasirox]2  was  studied  in  male  rats  after  an  intravenous  dose  of  10  mg/kg.  In  humans,  the 
metabolism of deferasirox was investigated in thalassemia patients at steady-state by non-radiolabeled 
deferasirox (1000 mg/day), who were given a single oral dose of 1000 mg (~ 20 mg/kg) of 14C-labeled 
deferasirox. The Biotransformation pathways of deferasirox in animals and humans are summarised in 
Table 3.  
Table 3: Biotransformation pathways of deferasirox in animals and humans 
Acyl-Gluc
M3
M3'
isomerization
O
O
M4
oxidation
M9
gluc
M1
oxidation
sulf
M7
gluc
sulf
M12
2-or 2'-Osulf
 of Ogluc
5'
3'
oxidation
M5
gluc
N N
N
O
O
3+
Fe
5
3
oxidation
sulf
M13
2- or 2'-
Osulf
sulf
M8
M2
gluc gluc
M11
M6
M10
Metabolite 
Occurrenc
e in species
M1 
M2 
M3 
M3’ 
M4 
M5 
M6 
M7 
M8 
M9 
M10 
M11 
M12 
M13 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma, 
HLM 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma, 
HLM 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma, 
H 
M, R, Ma 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
Abbreviations:  Acyl-Gluc:  acyl-glucuronide  of  deferasirox;  gluc:  O-conjugation  with  glucuronic  acid;  sulf:  O-
conjugation with sulfuric acid; Fe3+: position of the Fe3+ ion in the Fe-(deferasirox)2 complex; M: mouse; R: rat; Ma: 
marmoset monkey ; H: human; HLM: human liver microsomes. 
In all species including human, biotransformation was extensive, the major metabolic pathways being 
hydroxylation, glucuronidation and sulfation. In mice and rats, depending on dose and dosing route, 
deferasirox  represented  80%-95%  of  the  14C-AUC0-8h.  In  mice,  deferasirox  represented  66%-81%  of 
the 14C-AUC0-24h. The acyl-glucuronide (M3) and the 2-O-glucuronide metabolite of deferasirox (M6) 
accounted for 2.9%-13.3% and 1.0%-5.8% of exposure respectively. In marmoset plasma (25 mg/kg, 
p.o.), deferasirox amounted to 23% of 14C-AUC0-24h. Additionally, a significant amount of about 27% 
consisted of the acyl-glucuronide (M3), 20% of the 5-O-glucuronide metabolite (M7) and about 2% of 
the 2-O-glucuronide metabolite of deferasirox (M6).  
In  thalassemia  patients  who  were  treated  with  a  single  oral  dose  of  1000  mg  (~  20  mg/kg)  of  14C-
labeled deferasirox at steady-state (1000 mg/day ICL670), the predominant radiolabeled component in 
plasma  was  deferasirox  (about  91%  of  AUC).  Thus  systemic  exposure  was  largely  to  deferasirox. 
Exposure to the acyl-glucuronide metabolite (M3) was minimal (3% of the 14C-AUC). 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     9/52 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Elimination and excretion 
The first elimination phase of deferasirox and  14C radioactivity ranged from about 0.5 hours in mice 
(10 mg/kg,  i.v.)  to  1.9  hours  in  marmosets  (25 mg/kg, p.o.). In male dogs following single doses of 
non-radiolabeled deferasirox (11-14 mg/kg, p.o.), the elimination half-lives were about 1-3 hours. In 
marmosets,  the  terminal  elimination  half-lives  for  deferasirox  and  14C  radioactivity  were  35  and  42 
hours  after  p.o.  dosing,  and  51  and  41  hours  after  i.v.  dosing,  respectively.  After  intravenous 
administration  of  10 mg/kg  14C-labeled  iron  complex  Fe-[  deferasirox]2  to  male  albino  rats  the 
14C concentrations in plasma declined with an initial half-life of about 0.5 hours (period: 0.5-2 h).  
Independent  of  the  route  of  administration,  in  all  investigated  species,  excretion  of  radioactivity 
occurred  mainly  via  bile/feces  and  was  virtually  complete  within  3  days  (mice)  or  7  days  (rats, 
marmosets). In rats, 58-76% of the dose was excreted in the bile.  Renal excretion generally accounted 
for  less  than  12%  of  dose.  After  high  oral  doses  (up  to  300 mg/kg)  male  mice  showed  higher  renal 
excretion (18% of the dose) and delayed excretion of radioactivity, in line with delayed elimination of 
radioactivity from the systemic circulation.   
Deferasirox, its iron complex and metabolites of deferasirox are mono-, di- or tri-anionic molecules. 
Their  elimination  from  the  systemic  circulation  is  most  probably  governed  by  anion-transport 
processes, largely in the liver. Biliary excretion of 14C-radioactivity (10 mg/kg, i.v.), representing [14C] 
deferasirox and its metabolites, was impaired in bile duct-cannulated Mrp2-deficient TR—rats (the rat 
transporter  Mrp2  corresponds  to  MRP2,  multidrug-resistance-associated  protein  2  in  humans), 
although about 43% of the dose was still excreted into the bile.  
Iron excretion was analyzed in urine and bile following a single intravenous dose of 50 mg/kg non-
radiolabeled deferasirox, or its metabolites M1 or M2. The ability of deferasirox to remove iron from 
rats was 6-fold higher than for the two metabolites. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
In vitro drug-drug interaction study of deferasirox and its complex Fe-[deferasirox]2 on comedications, 
showed  that  deferasirox  weakly  inhibited  cytochrome  P450  activities  with  IC50  values  ranging  from 
100  to  >500 µmol/l.  Deferasirox  displayed  partial  noncompetitive  inhibition  of  acetaminophen 
glucuronidation in human liver microsomes (Ki = 204.8 µmol/l). Hydroxyurea was evaluated in vitro 
as  a  potential  inhibitor  of  the  metabolism  of  deferasirox  in  pooled  human  liver  microsomes  with 
NADPH  and  UDPGA  as  cofactors  for  cytochrome  P450  and  UGT  metabolism,  respectively.  The 
results  indicated  that  the  metabolism  of  [14C]  deferasirox  (50  µmol/l)  was  not  inhibited  by 
hydroxyurea  concentrations  between  0.01  to  5  mmol/l.  For  hydroxyurea  up  to  100  µmol/L  no 
activation and no inhibition of the MDR1, MXR, or MRP2 proteins could be observed. The marker 
probe ligands for the two main drug binding sites on albumin, warfarin (1 and 5 µg/mL) and diazepam 
(0.1  and  1  µg/mL),  were  displaced  to  a  very  low  extent  by  deferasirox  and  Fe-[deferasirox]2  (5 and 
100 µg/mL).  
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
The  acute  toxicity  of  deferasirox  was  assessed  in  mice  and  rats  receiving  oral  (0-1000  mg/kg)  or 
intravenous  (0-150  and  0-75  mg/kg,  respectively)  single  dose.  The  minimum  lethal  oral  doses  were 
1000  and  500  mg/kg  in  mice  or  male  rats  and  female  rats,  respectively.  The  minimum  lethal 
intravenous doses were 150 and > 75 mg/kg in mice and rats, respectively.  
Discolored  urine,  body  weight  reductions  with  or  without  concomitant  food  consumption  deceases 
were observed. Deaths occurred immediately post dose in the intravenous mouse study, but typically 
occurred on subsequent days (days 2-9). 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Studies in rats 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     10/52 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferasirox  was  administered  orally  to  iron  overloaded  and/or  non-overloaded  Han  Wistar  rats 
(10/sex/group) at 0 or 100 mg/kg. Clinical signs in non-iron overloaded males were sedation, ptosis, 
piloerection,  red  discoloration  of  feces,  diarrhea,  labored  breathing  and  chromorhinorrhea,  while 
females  were  generally  unaffected.  Hematology  revealed  morphological  changes  of  the  red  blood 
cells. Zinc protoporphyrin was increased and platelets and hemoglobin were slightly decreased in all 
treated  groups.  Urinalysis  revealed  a  slightly  reduced  creatinine  clearance  in  all  treated  groups. 
Following treatment, the liver/kidney iron concentration was reduced by 47-81% in deferasirox treated 
non iron overloaded animals compared to non iron overloaded controls; whereas the liver/kidney iron 
concentration  was  reduced  by  16-46%  in  iron  overloaded  animals  compared  to  iron  overloaded 
controls.  Pathology  investigations  revealed  that  deferasirox  was  nephrotoxic  at  100 mg/kg/day 
although  the  nephrotoxic  potential  was  less  pronounced  in  animals  pre-loaded  with  iron.  The 
liver/kidney iron concentration was still higher in iron overloaded deferasirox treated rats after the 4-
week treatment period than in non overloaded controls (17 fold in males, 10 fold in females).  
Deferasirox was administered orally to Wistar Hannover rats (16/sex/group) at daily doses of 10, 30 
and  100 mg/kg  for  at  least  4 consecutive  weeks.  Deferasirox-related  findings  were  observed  at 
100 mg/kg  and  included  mortality;  decreases  in  mean  cell  volume,  hemoglobin,  mean  corpuscular 
hemoglobin and hematocrit and increases in red cell distribution width; decreases in serum iron with 
concomitant increases in total and unsaturated iron-binding capacity (TIBC and UIBC); decreases in 
urinary  pH;  decreases  in  liver  and  kidney  iron  content  at  all  doses;  gross  necropsy  findings  of  red 
lesions  in  the  stomach,  red  contents  in  the  intestine  and  urinary  bladder  and  red  mesenteric  lymph 
nodes,  in  the  early  deaths;  decreases  in  adrenal  weights,  and  decreases  in  thymus  weights;  and 
microscopic  findings  of  tubular  vacuolation  and  necrosis  in  the  kidney,  vacuolation  of  the  adrenal 
gland,  focal  degeneration,  inflammation  and  myocarditis  in  the  heart,  erosion,  hemorrhage  and/or 
inflammation in the stomach and intestine and lymphoid depletion and/or necrosis in the thymus and 
spleen. Most of the treatment-related effects were reversible by the end of a 4-week recovery period.  
In a 4-week oral exploratory study in male rats, a daily dose of 100 mg/kg/day to animals fed with a 
standard diet was not tolerated based on mortality, reductions in body weight and food consumption 
parameters and histopathological changes in the kidneys, adrenals and stomach. Deferasirox was well 
tolerated in animals fed with an iron supplemented diet at the same dose level, based on the absence of 
any toxicological findings.  
In a 26-week oral toxicity study in rats, deferasirox was administered to Wistar Hannover rats (20 or 
30/sex/group)  at  daily  doses  of  30,  80  and  180 mg/kg.  These  animals  also  received  an  iron 
supplemented  diet.  One  control  group  received  iron  supplemented  rodent  diet;  the  second  control 
group  received  standard  rodent  diet.  Chronic  oral  administration  of  deferasirox  to  rats  produced 
pharmacologic and/or toxicologic effects at all dose levels.  The high dose of 180 mg/kg/day exceeded 
a maximally tolerated dose as evidenced by test article-induced mortality. Histopathological changes 
were evident in the eyes and stomach at doses ≥ 80 mg/kg/day and in the kidneys, adrenals and spleen 
at  180 mg/kg/day.  All  changes  were  at  least  partially  reversible  with  the  exception  of  the  cataracts.  
Minimal  clinical  pathology,  organ  weight  and  early  lenticular  changes  were  observed  in  males  at 
30 mg/kg/day. The no effect level for females was 30 mg/kg/day. A no-observed-adverse-effect level 
(NOAEL) was not achieved for males. 
Studies in marmosets 
In  a  2-week  oral  toxicity  study  three  groups  of  two  male  and  two  female  marmosets  received 
deferasirox at dosages of 100, 200 or 400 mg/kg/day. The administration of deferasirox was associated 
with kidney alteration (cortical proximal tubular epithelial vacuolation) and changes (increase in urine 
and  plasma  iron  concentration.  The  NOAEL  was  100  mg/kg/day,  corresponding  to  a  Cmax  of  235 
µmol/l in the male and 129 µmol/l in the female. 
In a 2-week oral toxicity study, deferasirox or control article were consequently given to marmosets 
with an initial iron overload. A group of ten male and ten female marmosets received deferasirox at a 
dose  of  400 mg/kg/day  for  14  days.  No  deferasirox-related  changes  of  the  kidney  were  present  at 
microscopic examination.  The NOAEL was 400 mg/kg/day, corresponding to a Cmax of 195 µmol/l 
in the male and 214 µmol/l in the female. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     11/52 
 
 
In a 4-week oral toxicity study in marmosets, administration of deferasirox at a dose of 130 mg/kg/day 
was  associated  with  changes  in  the  kidney,  liver  and  gallbladder  in  males.  After  a  4-week  recovery 
period, the only remaining change was a small number of protein casts in renal cortical tubular cells of 
a single male animal. The NOAEL was considered to be 65 mg/kg/day for males and 130 mg/kg/day 
for females. 
In  a  4-week  oral  palatability  and  toxicity  study  in  marmosets,  two  groups  of  two  male  received 
deferasirox  at  a  dose  of  200 mg/kg/day.  One  of  these  treated  groups  received  normal  diet  and  one 
received an iron-supplemented diet. One of the control groups received normal diet and one received 
iron-supplemented diet. Animals receiving iron-supplemented diet did not tolerate the treatment with 
deferasirox as well as the animals receiving normal diet. Plasma concentrations of total deferasirox in 
the  surviving  animal  given  an  iron-supplemented  diet  were  lower  than  in  the  two  animals  given  a 
normal diet (Cmax 78.8 µmol/l instead of 194 µmol/l in males and 662 µmol/l instead of 2266 µmol/l 
in females). No AUC were reported. A high inter-animal variability of Cmax and AUC(0-24h) in animals 
given a normal diet was stated in the application. 
In a 39-week oral toxicity study in marmosets, deferasirox was administered to groups of four male 
and four female marmosets at doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg/day and a dose volume of 5 ml/kg, once 
daily.  An additional group receiving 80 mg/kg/day deferasirox was given an iron supplement in the 
diet to attenuate possible adverse effects due to iron deprivation. At 80 mg/kg/day there were clinical 
signs, body weight and food consumption effects resulting in the premature sacrifice of three animals, 
and evidence of toxic changes in the gallbladder, hepatic bile ducts and kidneys. Marked depletion of 
liver and kidney iron stores was apparent at all dosages with the exception of females at 20 mg/kg/day. 
Excluding this finding, changes at 40 mg/kg/day were minimal and this was considered to be the No-
Toxic-Effect Level. 
Table 4: Deferasirox exposure multiples in toxicity studies 
Species/ 
Study 
number 
4-wk rat 
[974080] d 
4-wk rat 
[987066] e 
26-wk rat 
[987037] e 
2-wk 
marmoset 
[971974] 
NOAELb 
(mg/kg) 
10 
10 
100 
- 
30 f 
30 f 
100 
Sex 
male 
female 
male 
female 
male 
female 
male 
female 
c 
AUC0-24h
(µmol·h/L
) 
c 
Cmax
(µmol/L) 
Exposure multiples 
Based on 
AUC0-24h 
Based on 
Cmax 
25.8 
27.6 
1095 
- 
98 
166 
- 
- 
6.43 
13.1 
276 
- 
19.5 
72.3 
235 
129 
0.02 
0.02 
0.78 
- 
0.07 
0.12 
- 
- 
0.05 
0.11 
2.3 
- 
0.16 
0.60 
1.04 
1.07 
65 
130 
male 
female 
4-wk 
marmoset 
[974194] d 
39-wk 
marmoset 
[982027] d, 
a based on 20 mg/kg, multiple dose, day 12, Cmax = 120.5 µmol/l, AUC0-24h = 1404 µmol·h/l; b No-Observed-Adverse-
Effect-Level; c based on day 1 data; d Standard diets; e Iron-supplemented diets; f Lowest dose in study, not NOAEL 
male 
female 
0.37 
0.38 
92.7 
72.6 
0.12 
0.14 
32.0 
37.0 
520 
541 
164 
195 
40 
40 
0.77 
0.60 
0.27 
0.31 
• 
Genotoxicity 
The design of the genotoxicity studies performed is provided in the table below: 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     12/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Deferasirox in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies  
In vitro test/study 
ID/GLP 
strains 
Concentrations/ 
Concentration range/ Metabolising 
system 
Ames (GLP) 
Chromosomal 
aberration  (GLP) 
S. typhimurium TA1535, 
TA97a, TA98, TA100, 
TA102 
Human peripheral blood 
lymphocyte 
Up to 5000 µg/plate 
+/- S9 
Up to 143.0 µg/mL 
+/- S9 
In vivo test/study  
ID/GLP 
species 
rat 
rat 
Bone marrow 
Micronucleus test 
(GLP) 
Bone marrow 
Micronucleus test 
Bone marrow 
Micronucleus test 
(GLP, excepted the tissue 
iron analysis) 
Liver micronucleus test 
(GLP) 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Concentrations/ 
Concentration range/ Metabolising 
system 
50, 158, 500 mg/kg 
A - 500 mg/kg twice with a recovery 
period up to 10 days 
B – 500 mg/kg with ICL670-iron complex 
Iron-overloaded 
rats (40 mg/kg 
IP iron twice per 
week)  
300 or 500 mg/kg 
rat 
200, 350 or 500 mg/kg 
Results 
negative 
negative 
Results 
positive result at 
500 mg/kg 
A: + after 1, 2, 3 
days;  - after 6 and 
10 days 
B: positive 
negative 
negative 
In a 104-week oral carcinogenicity study in rats, the animals received doses of 0 (control feed), 0 (iron 
supplemented  feed),  25,  50  and  100 mg/kg/day  of  deferasirox.  These  dose  were  subsequently 
decreased  to  15,  30  and  60 mg/kg/day  beginning  on  day 29.  At  study  termination,  72-84%  survival 
was observed in the males and 58-68% survival was observed in the females. There were no statistical 
differences in survival between the control groups and deferasirox -treated dose groups. There were no 
test  article-related  neoplastic  or  non-neoplastic  pathological  changes.  Based  on  the  extent  of  tissue 
iron depletion with corresponding increases in serum iron concentrations, the maximum tolerated dose 
was 100→60 mg/kg/day. 
In a 26-week oral carcinogenicity study in p53 heterozygous mice, deferasirox was administered to 25 
male at daily doses of 0 (feed supplemented with iron), 0 (standard feed), 20, 100 and 200 mg/kg/day 
(feed supplemented with iron), and 30 mg/kg/day (standard feed) and to 25 female at daily doses of 0 
(feed supplemented with iron), 0 (standard feed), 30, 100 and 300 mg/kg/day (feed supplemented with 
iron)  and  100→60 mg/kg/day  (standard  feed,  dose  decrease  effective  day 50).  Deferasirox  was  also 
administered  to  p53  wild  type  mice  (25/sex/group).  Excessive  moribundity/mortality  was  observed. 
The  cause  of  moribundity  was  test  article-related  stomach  and  kidney  lesions.  There  were  no  test 
article-related neoplastic findings.   
• 
Reproduction Toxicity 
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, deferasirox administered orally at daily 
doses  of  7.5,  25  or  75 mg/kg  to  male  and  female  rats  resulted  in  no  effects  on  sperm  count,  sperm 
motility, or fertility in males and there were no treatment-related effects noted in females at any dose 
level.  
In an oral embryo-fetal development study in 25 female rats (10-100 mg/kg), the following changes 
were  observed  at  100 mg/kg:  1) mortality  with  associated  gastrointestinal  lesions;  2) clinical  signs; 
3) decreases in food consumption, body weight parameters; 4) increases in the number of fetuses with 
skeletal variations without an apparent indication of teratogenicity. The systemic exposure of pregnant 
rats  to  ICL 670  increased  over-proportionally  with  the  dose  between  10  and  100 mg/kg,  based  on 
AUC  values.  The  maternal  liver  iron  was  depleted  by  deferasirox  in  a  dose-dependent  manner,  but 
there were no effects on the fetal iron level. The NOEL was 30 mg/kg.  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     13/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  an  oral  embryo-fetal  development  study  in  20  female  rabbits  (5-50  mg/kg),  deferasirox  had  no 
effect  on  the  reproductive  parameters  and  no  effect  on  the  fetal  external,  visceral  or  skeletal 
development.  Deferasirox  had  no  effect  on  the  iron  and  zinc  levels  in  the  maternal  liver  and  in  the 
fetuses.  The  NOEL  for  the  rabbit  maternal  toxicity  was  20 mg/kg.  The  NOEL  for  the  rabbit 
embryo-fetal development was 50 mg/kg.  
In  an  oral  pre-  and  postnatal  development  study  in  25  female  rats  (10-90  mg/kg),  the  NOEL  for  F0 
maternal  toxicity  and  fetal  growth  and  viability  was  30 mg/kg/day.  There  were  deferasirox  -related 
effects  on  body  weight,  morphological,  functional,  learning/memory  or  fertility  parameters 
investigated  for  offspring  at  doses  ≤ 30 mg/kg/day.  Thus,  the  NOEL  for  F1  effects  was 
> 30 mg/kg/day. 
• 
Studies in juvenile animals 
In an oral neonatal and juvenile development study, deferasirox administered to rats on days 7-70 post 
partum  at  a  dose  of  40 mg/kg/day  produced  mortality  with  and  without  iron  supplementation.  Test 
article-related  lenticular  changes  (cataracts)  developed  during  the  study  and  these  increased  in 
incidence and severity as the study progressed. These lenticular changes remained the same showing 
no  detectable  progression  during  the  recovery  period  examinations.  The  no-observed-adverse-effect 
level (NOAEL) was considered to be 20 mg/kg/day for neonatal/juvenile males and 10 mg/kg/day for 
neonatal/juvenile females.   
In a subchronic oral toxicity study of in juvenile mice, administration of deferasirox at ≥ 15 mg/kg/day 
produced  mortality  (with  and  without  iron  supplementation).  There  were  effects  on  lymphocyte 
populations  in  the  blood  at  each  dose  level  and  in  the  spleen  and  thymus  at  35  mg/kg/day  (with  or 
without iron supplementation).   
• 
Local tolerance  
The  local  tolerance  of  deferasirox  was  assessed  in  the  rabbit  when  administered  by  a  single 
intravenous administration.  At necropsy there were a few instances of discoloration or blood vessel 
dilation in both groups and at both saline and test item treated sites. Microscopic examination revealed 
no evidence of local intolerance to either deferasirox or placebo.  
• 
Other toxicity studies 
In a immunotoxicity study, deferasirox was administered to groups of rats (10/sex/group) at dosages of 
6,  20  or  60  mg/kg/day  for  four  weeks.  Hematological  changes  in  the  erythron  and  a  dose-related 
decrease in white cell parameters for immunized males when compared with immunized controls was 
observed.  Histopathological  changes  corresponding  to  immune  stimulation  were  observed  in  the 
spleen  and in the lymph nodes of immunized animals. A lower production of IgG was observed for 
immunized males administered 60 mg/kg/day, with reduced B cell counts in peripheral blood and to a 
lesser extent the spleen and lymph nodes.   
The mechanism of deferasirox nephrotoxicity was investigated in cell cultures from kidney proximal 
tubule  and  in  rat  kidney  slices.  In  pig  cell  line  and  human  renal  proximal  tubular  epithelium  cells, 
deferasirox induced a concentration dependent increase of LDH leakage. In both cellular systems this 
effect  was  statistically  significantly  different  from  controls  at  deferasirox  concentrations  ≥ 100 µM 
and was not detected in the presence of an equimolar amount of Fe3+. Treatment with the stable iron 
complex  did  not  increase  LDH  leakage  significantly.  Rat  kidney  slices  were  treated  with  1 mM  of 
deferasirox  for  4.5  hours  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  0.5  and  1  mM  Fe3+.  In  the  absence  of  iron, 
deferasirox  significantly  increased  LDH  leakage  by  a  factor  of  2-3  compared  to  control.    The  ATP 
dependent  para-aminohippuric  acid  (PAH)  uptake  as  a  parameter  of  function  integrity  of  proximal 
tubular cells was decreased by 71-78%.  In parallel ATP content and energy charge were decreased.  
These  effects  were  prevented  in  the  presence  of  a  twofold  molar  excess  of  Fe3+.  Co-incubation  of 
deferasirox with a stoichiometric amount of Fe3+ impeded the increase of the LDH leakage completely 
and partly the reduction of the PAH-accumulation. 
The effects of iron and deferasirox on cultured lenses was performed in an in vitro cataract study with 
isolated rat lenses. The lenses were incubated with deferasirox at concentrations of 2-200 µM for 14 
hours or 6 days in the presence and absence of additional iron. The major finding was that exposure to 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     14/52 
 
deferasirox at high concentrations for prolonged period of 6 days led to both loss of transparency and 
glutathione.  No change in effect was observed when iron was added to the experiment.   
Deferasirox  has  been  shown  in  ICH  compliant  stability  experiments  to  be  chemically  stable  when 
exposed  to  ultraviolet/visible  light  as  drug  substance  or  drug  product.  Based  on  this  information, 
nonclinical phototoxicity studies were not conducted.  
4-Hydrazinobenzoic acid (4-HBA) is an impurity of deferasirox, which is carried over from synthesis 
and  not  a  degradation  product  formed  during  processing  or  storage.  4-HBA  was  evaluated  for 
mutagenic activity in a GLP test using Salmonella typhimurium strains. In strain TA97a, a clear and 
dose-dependent mutagenic effect was seen after treatment with 4-hydrazinobenzoic acid (doses of up 
to 5000 µg/plate, with or without S9), up to a factor of 5.86 over the control value. 
The clastogenic potential of 4-HBA was assessed in vitro, on human peripheral blood lymphocytes, up 
to  1498.7 µg/ml  with  metabolic  activation  and  up  to  928.3  µg/ml  without  metabolic  activation.  No 
increased chromosome aberration frequencies above the historical control range were found in any of 
the experiments.   
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Based on the calculated PEC (predicted environmental concentration) in surface water, the predicted 
concentration of deferasirox in the environmental was 42 ng/l. The PEC/PNEC ratio (algae, EC50 0.32 
mg/l) was < 1. The relative weight of dry sludge in waste water was estimated to be approximately 0.5 
%. The predicted concentration of deferasirox in the environmental was 56 ng/kg, as calculated below: 
PECs grassland (ng/kg) = (Cs*As)/(D*ä) = (84480*0.1)/(0.1*1500) = 56.32ng/kg soil 
Cs = Concentration of substance adsorbed to sludge particles (ng/kg dry sludge); As = Amount of sludge spread on grass 
(0.1 kg/m2/year) or arable land (0.17 kg/m2/year); D = Incorporation of sludge into soil (10 cm for grass land and 20 cm for 
arable land); ä = Density of soil (1500 kg/m3) 
The  PEC  was  178-fold  below  the  action  limit  (PEC  >10  µg/kg  soil)  recommended  in  the  draft 
guideline 
2005 
for 
(http://www.emea.eu.int/pdfs/human/swp/519902en.pdf)  #8]  on  environmental  risk  assessment  of 
medicinal products for human use. Therefore, no further analysis was performed. 
consultation 
Released 
[EMEA, 
January 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Discussion on non-clinical phamacodynamics 
The primary pharmacodynamic program, including in vitro and in vivo studies conducted in rats and 
marmosets, investigated the affinity, the selectivity and the efficiency of deferasirox regarding the iron 
overload. The major species under physiologic conditions, deferasirox concentrations of 10 µmol/, and 
3-.  In  these  conditions,  the  affinity  of  deferasirox 
iron  concentration  of  1 µmol/l  was  Fe(deferasirox)2
was  less  than  DFO  but  higher  than  deferiprone.  Deferasirox  showed  low  affinity  for  Fe(II).  The 
ranking according to affinities was: Fe(III)> Al(III)>> Cu(II)>> Zn(II)> Fe(II)>> Mg(II)> Ca(II). Up 
to 80 µmol/l of deferasirox (plasma concentration range observed in patients receiving deferasirox at 
dose ≥ 20 mg/kg), the efficiency of deferasirox, defined as the amount of iron excreted as a percentage 
of  the  theoretical  iron  binding  capacity  of  the  dose,  was  approximately  40%.  This  efficiency  was 
similar to that of DFO (50%). Beyond this concentration, a reduced potency as compared to DFO was 
seen  (at  320 µmol/l,  deferasirox  showed  an  efficiency  of  56%  as  compared  to  82%  with  DFO).  In 
animal models tested, iron excretion was dose proportional and protracted, indicating dose dependent 
pharmacodynamic effects for up to 24 hours. The bulk of the iron was excreted in bile, while urinary 
excretion was consistently low (< 15%). The efficiency of the chelator, was around 18% and 29% for 
rat and monkey, respectively (efficiencies of DFO given subcutaneously and deferiprone given orally 
ranged between 2 to 4% in rats and monkeys).  
The effective daily dose of deferasirox in marmosets was calculated as approximately 22 mg/kg (the 
effective  dose  is  based  on  the  clinical  objective  of  eliminating  up  to  500 µg/kg/day  in  highly 
transfused  β-thalassemia  patients).  Daily  administration  of  deferasirox  up  to  80 mg/kg  to  non  iron-
loaded marmoset monkeys (male/female) for 39 weeks resulted in average reductions of liver iron up 
to  approximately  85%.  Elevation  in  liver  copper  level  has  been  observed  in  a  limited  number  of 
marmoset  chronically  treated  with  deferasirox.  This  phenomenon  remained unexplained but was not 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     15/52 
 
 
 
 
expected  to  have  any  significant  clinical  consequences.  Liver  iron  was  used  throughout  the 
development  program  as  a  robust  marker  of  total  body  iron  load  and  as  model  target  for  iron 
mobilization by chelation. However, deferasirox was shown to remove iron from the heart.  
The preclinical investigations to assess for effects on the cardiovascular system were conducted to aid 
in the clinical investigation on potential cardiovascular effects (see clinical safety). The dog study did 
not provide any relevant findings. 
Discussion on non-clinical phamacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  deferasirox,  its  metabolites,  and  the  respective  iron  complex  Fe-[deferasirox]2 
were  investigated  in  mice,  rats,  marmosets,  dogs  and  rabbits.  The  fate  of  deferasirox  and  Fe-
[deferasirox]2 were similar in all species investigated including human. Data obtained in rats were the 
most similar to those from human, in terms of disposition and metabolism of deferasirox. 
In  rodents,  but  not  in  marmosets  and  humans,  bioavailability  increased  dose  over-proportionally, 
probably  due  to  saturation  of  elimination  processes.  Based  on  in  vitro  permeability  studies  across 
Caco-2 cell monolayers, deferasirox was identified as a well permeable compound being a substrate 
for  a  prominent  efflux  system.  Uptake  of  deferasirox  was  not  significantly  different  from  uptake 
values  into  water-injected  control  oocytes,  indicating  deferasirox  to  have  no  affinity  for  the  human 
organic  anion  transporting  polypeptides  OATP1A2,  OATP1B1,  OATP1B3  or  the  human  organic 
cation  transporter  hOCT1.  All  oral  test  formulations  and  the  market  formulation  were  virtually 
completely absorbed and their mean plasma profiles were almost similar. No differences in absorption 
rate was observed. Dog model was of limited value concerning modelling of food effect in humans. 
Following studies performed in bile duct-cannulated rats, the total extent of enterohepatic circulation 
was  30.5%  of  the  originally  administered  intravenous  dose.  Unchanged  deferasirox,  several  sulfate 
and glucuronide conjugates contributed to the enterohepatic circulation of ICL670-related compounds. 
The volume of distribution of deferasirox was low to moderate (Vss= 0.18 to 0.98 l/kg in the mouse, 
rat, dog and human). The volume of distribution of Fe-[deferasirox]2 was very low (Vss=0.086 l/kg in 
the rat). Up to 8 hours post-administration, most organs and tissues showed 14C concentrations close to 
or  below  that  in  blood.  Highest  14C  levels  were  seen  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  the  heart  and 
excretory organs, i.e. liver, kidney and intestine. Deferasirox and/or its metabolites passed the blood-
brain  barrier  to  a  very  low  extent.  Deferasirox  and/or  its  metabolites  did  not  show  any  affinity  to 
melanin-containing  structures  of  the  eye  (choroid)  of  the  pigmented  rat.  Similar  tissue  distribution 
patterns were observed in rats after i.v. administration of 14C-labeled deferasirox and its iron complex. 
The  placental  barrier  was  passed  in  pregnant  rats  and  rabbits  to  a  very  limited  extent.  It  can  be 
assumed that also the human placenta will be crossed to a very limited extent. Deferasirox was found 
to  be  rapidly  and  extensively  secreted  into  maternal  milk.  Therefore,  breast-feeding  while  taking 
deferasirox is not recommended (see SPC section 4.6). 
Metabolism data indicated that glucuronidation of deferasirox was a key biotransformation pathway. 
Direct  glucuronidation  of  deferasirox  was  catalyzed  predominantly  by  UGT1A1  and  UGT1A3  
accounting together for about 95% of the glucuronide formation. Minor contributions originated from 
of UGT1A7 and UGT1A9. Only trace activities were observed with UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A8, 
UGT1A10,  UGT2B4,  UGT2B7,  UGT2B15  and  UGT2B17.  Data  available  from  the  literature  show 
that UGT induction is generally low. However, no induction study of UGT was performed. Monthly 
safety and efficacy (serum ferritin) monitoring are recommended in the SPC (see section 4.2) to tailor 
the dose of deferasirox to the individual patient’s response (see also clinical pharmacokinetics). 
Deferasirox was the predominant systemically available component in all species including humans.  
Essentially the same metabolites of deferasirox in humans were formed by at least one of the animal 
species in vivo and/or in vitro, supporting the selection of the toxicological test species. Exposure to 
metabolites  after  oral  dosing  of  [14C]deferasirox  was  high  in  marmosets  (~ 80%  of  14C-AUC)  and 
moderate  to  low  in  mice  (~ 30%),  rats  (~ 20%)  and  low  in  humans  (~ 9%).  In  line  with the  in vitro 
studies  in  liver  microsomes  and  hepatocytes,  the  main  oxidative  metabolic  pathways  were  aromatic 
hydroxylation  accompanied  by  conjugation  with  glucuronic  acid  and/or  sulfuric  acid.  The  common 
systemically  available  metabolite  across  species  was  the  acyl-glucuronide  (M3)  constituting  about 
27%  of  14C-AUC0-24h  in  marmosets,  about  3%  in  humans,  and  about  0.8%  in  mice  and  rats. 
Deferasirox being the major active circulating moiety, it was considered to contribute to most of the 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     16/52 
 
pharmacological activity (iron mobilization). The hydroxy metabolites M1 and M2 were considered to 
negligibly contribute to the overall iron elimination in vivo.  
Radioactivity was eliminated from blood and most tissues with apparent half-lives ranging from 2 to 7 
hours,  except  in  the  skin  where  a  half-life  of  about  21 hours was seen. Biliary elimination could be 
studied in rats only, but the findings were assumed to apply to other animal species. According to the 
data  assessed,  accumulation  of  deferasirox  and/or  its  metabolites  in  the  excretory  organs  or  in  any 
tissue is not expected after multiple oral administration of deferasirox to humans. 
Given the relatively high expected therapeutic concentrations of deferasirox (100-200 µmol/l,  reached 
after  daily  oral  dosing  of  20-30  mg/kg),  inhibition  by  deferasirox  of  metabolic  reactions  that  are 
catalyzed  by  CYP2C8,  CYP1A2,  CYP3A4/5,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C9  is  possible  in  theory.  Though, 
considering  the  very  high  plasma  protein  binding  of  deferasirox  (>99%),  significant  inhibition  by 
deferasirox is not likely to occur. Oxidative metabolism by cytochrome P450 enzymes (hydroxylation) 
to M1 (presumably by CYP1A) and M4 (by CYP2D6) is a minor elimination process, as only 6% and 
2%  of  the  dose,  respectively,  underwent  this  type  of  metabolism.  Therefore,  any  inhibition  or 
induction  of  those  enzymes  by  co-medications  is  not  expected  to  significantly  affect  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  ICL670.  If  any  interaction  via  CYP450  enzymes  were  to  occur,  the  change  in 
ICL670  pharmacokinetics  would  most  likely  be  much  smaller  than  the  normal  interindividual 
variability. Genetic polymorphism (e.g. CYP2D6 poor metabolizer status) is not expected to have an 
impact  either.  In  combination  with  the  very  high  plasma  protein  binding  of  deferasirox,  significant 
drug-drug  interactions  due  to  inhibition  of  paracetamol  glucuronidation  by  deferasirox  were 
considered  unlikely.  Interaction  of  deferasirox  and  Hydroxyurea  in  sickle  cell  anemia  patients  was 
also considered unlikely. The potential for a clinically relevant interaction on the protein binding level 
appears to be very unlikely with warfarin and diazepam.  
Discussion on toxicology 
The  most  relevant  finding  observed  in  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  included  renal  effects, 
lenticular changes, effects on hepatobiliary tract and myocardial changes. 
A nephropathy consisting of renal tubular degeneration, cytoplasmic vacuolization of cortical tubular 
epithelial  cells  and  tubular  necrosis  was  observed  in  all  species  and  contributed  to  the  mortality 
observed in these studies. In the rat, renal tubular degeneration was observed at exposure (AUC) that 
was  1.4-1.7  and  1.5-4.8  fold  the  human  exposure.  In  vivo  and  in  vitro  data  suggested  that  the  renal 
findings are a consequence of the pharmacological action of iron chelators under conditions of normal 
tissue iron levels. According to this hypothesis, a scale in renal toxicity should be observed in patients, 
depending  on  the  degree  of  iron-overload  due  to  transfusion.  However,  in  animals  on  iron 
supplemented  diets,  exposure  to  circulating  deferasirox  was  reduced,  suggesting  that  renal  effect 
observed in vivo was due to the lack in exposure rather than to the lack of iron depletion. As the safety 
margin was very low and would be lower after administration of the maximal therapeutic dose of 40 
mg/kg, it was anticipated that the effect might occur in the patient. The applicant committed to explore 
the extent and mechanisms of potential renal injury following deferasirox administration.  
Cataracts  were  first  observed  high-dose  repeated  toxicity  study  in  rats.  The  changes  varied  in 
morphology  from  early  cortical  striations  or  vacuoles  to  mature  cataracts.  Cataracts  were  also 
observed  in  the  rat  neonatal/juvenile  toxicity  and  26-week  transgenic  mouse  carcinogenicity.  In 
contrast, in the two-year rat carcinogenicity, in which the dose and exposure in the mid and high doses 
overlapped the dose and exposure in the low and mid dose in the 26-week study, no lenticular lesions 
were  observed  at  any  dose  level.  Cataracts  were  also  not  observed  in  any  marmoset  toxicity  study, 
even though exposure at the high dose used in the 39 week marmoset was greater than that in the low 
dose chronic rat study where early lesions were observed. An in vitro study with rat lenses suggested 
that  the  stress  induced  by  deferasirox  is  oxidative  in  nature  rather  than  disruptive  of  membrane 
integrity. These lenticular effects occurred at exposures less than human exposure. 
Animal assessments are not capable of detecting subtle changes in auditory function nor indicate the 
type of deficit (e.g. high frequency). The sensitive and routine measurements employed in humans will 
be  able  to  detect  these  types  of  changes.  Auditory  and ophthalmic testing (including fundoscopy) is 
recommended before the start of the treatment and at regular intervals thereafter (every 12 months). If 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     17/52 
 
disturbances  are  noted  during  the  treatment,  dose  reduction  or  interruption  may  be  considered  (see 
section 4.4 of the SPC). 
Inflammatory  and  degenerative  changes  in  the  gallbladder  and  bile  ducts  were  seen  in  some 
marmosets  at  high  doses  and  at  doses  that  resulted  in  morbidity/mortality.    Similar  findings  were 
observed in intrahepatic bile ducts in transgenic mice. Inflammatory changes in the gallbladder were 
generally  seen  in  all  treatment  groups  including  control  animals  in  most  of  the  marmoset  toxicity 
studies with ICL670. While the severity of these observations was greater in individual animals treated 
with  high  doses  of  deferasirox,  the  increased  severity  may  represent  a  secondary  effect  on  a  pre-
existing condition of the marmoset gallbladder.  As the primary elimination route of deferasirox is via 
bile, the exacerbation of background lesions may be caused by excretion/concentration of deferasirox 
iron complexes in bile. 
Myocardial  changes  (primarily  myocarditis)  were  observed  in  rats  and  mice  studies  without  iron 
supplementation.  These  changes  were  observed  concurrently  with  and  might  be  secondary  to  severe 
anemia observed in these animals.  Cardiac changes were not detected in any marmoset study.  These 
types of observations are expected to be of no or little clinical relevance in patients with increased iron 
tissue burden. 
Gastrointestinal  erosions/ulceration,  and  cytoplasmic  vacuolization  of  the  adrenal  medulla  were 
observed  in  rats  and  transgenic  mice  at  high  doses  that  were  generally  associated  with  morbidity  or 
mortality,  and  as  such  are  of  little  clinical  relevance.  Anemia,  lymphoid  depletion,  and  decreased 
adrenal  and  thymus  weights  were  observed  in  rats,  possibly  due  to  depletion  of  tissue  iron  since 
changes were less marked in studies in iron-loaded animals.  As these effects were most pronounced at 
higher doses and in the shorter term studies in which severe effects on animal health were observed, 
these findings were considered of little or no relevance to humans. 
Deferasirox  was  not  found  mutagenic  in  vitro  experiments.  A  positive  result  was  observed  in  the 
micronucleus  test  in  rats  following  oral  adminsitration  of  500  mg/kg.  Following  an  additional 
micronucleus  test  performed  on  iron-overloaded  rats  giving  negative  results,  deferasirox  was 
considered not genotoxic up to the maximum tolerated dose of 500 mg/kg.  
The oral administration of deferasirox to rats fed an iron supplemented diet for at least 104 weeks was 
not carcinogenic at doses up to 100→60 mg/kg/day. Deferasirox administered orally for 26 weeks was 
not carcinogenic in p53 heterozygous or wild type mice at doses up to 200 mg/kg/day for males and 
300 mg/kg/day for females. Due to the sensitivity of the animal models relative to humans, doses at 
multiples of exposure as presented in the ICH S1C guideline [11]  were not possible. Consequently, 
doses were selected based on existing data to estimate a maximum tolerated dose as the high dose, as 
also described in the ICH S1C guideline [11] . As expected, the administration of p-cresidine caused 
proliferative changes notably in the urinary bladder of p53 heterozygous mice (see section 5.3 of the 
SPC). 
No  effects  on  sperm  count,  sperm  motility  or  fertility  in  males,  or  on  fertility  in  males  and  females 
were  observed  at  any  dose  level.  Deferasirox  was  not  teratogenic  in  rats  or  rabbits  but  caused 
increased frequency of skeletal variations and stillborn pups in rats at high doses that were severely 
toxic to the non-iron-overloaded mother (see section 5.3 of the SPC). 
There  was  a  weak  reduction  in  the  secondary  immune  response  in  male  rats  at  the  highest  dosage 
tested. Deferasirox was locally well tolerated in a local intravenous tolerance study in the rabbit. The 
assessments of auditory function were limited to measurement of the startle effect.  
Based  on  the  results  of  the  environmental  risk  assessment  report,  deferasirox  is  expected  to  be  of 
negligible risk to the environment.  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     18/52 
 
1.4 
 Clinical aspects 
The development program of deferasirox was based on three pivotal studies (one phase III trial [study 
107], one non-controlled phase II efficacy trial [108] and one controlled phase II safety trial [109]). 
These  studies  were  supported  by  a  small  long-term  trial  in  adults  (study  0105)  and  a  small  trial  in 
pediatrics 
(study  0106)  with  β-thalassemia,  and  by  several  short-term  pharmacokinetic, 
pharmacodynamic,  and  safety  studies  in  patients  with  β-thalassemia  and  in  healthy  volunteers.  The 
clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant has 
provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried out 
in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Deferasirox  must  be  initiated  and  maintained  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  chronic 
iron  overload  due  to  blood  transfusions.  It  is  recommended  that  treatment  be  started  after  the 
transfusion  of  approximately  20 units  (about  100 ml/kg)  of  packed  red  blood  cells  or  when  there  is 
evidence  from  clinical  monitoring  that  chronic  iron  overload  is  present  (e.g.  serum  ferritin 
> 1,000 µg/l). Doses (in mg/kg) must be calculated and rounded to the nearest whole tablet size. The 
recommended initial daily dose is 20 mg/kg body weight. An initial daily dose of 30 mg/kg may be 
considered for patients who require reduction of elevated body iron levels and who are also receiving 
more than 14 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells (approximately >4 units/month for an adult). An 
initial  daily  dose  of  10 mg/kg  may  be  considered  for  patients  who  do  not require reduction of body 
iron  levels  and  who  are  also  receiving  less  than  7 ml/kg/month  of  packed  red  blood  cells 
(approximately  <2  units/month  for  an  adult).  The  patient’s  response  must  be  monitored  and  dose 
increase should be considered if sufficient efficacy is not obtained. For patients already well managed 
on  treatment  with  deferoxamine,  a  starting  dose  of  deferasirox  that  is  numerically  half  that  of  the 
deferoxamine  dose  could  be  considered  (e.g.  a  patient  receiving  40 mg/kg/day  of  deferoxamine  for 
5 days  per  week  (or  equivalent)  could  be  transferred  to  a  starting  daily  dose  of  20 mg/kg/day  of 
EXJADE). When this results in a daily dose less than 20 mg/kg body weight, the patient’s response 
must be monitored and a dose increase should be considered if sufficient efficacy is not obtained. It is 
recommended  that  serum  ferritin  be  monitored  every  month  and  that  the  dose  of  deferasirox  be 
adjusted,  if  necessary,  every  3  to  6 months,  based  on  the  trends  in  serum  ferritin.  Dose  adjustments 
may be made in steps of 5 to 10 mg/kg and are to be tailored to the individual patient’s response and 
therapeutic  goals  (maintenance  or  reduction  of  iron  burden).  Doses  above  30 mg/kg  are  not 
recommended  because  there is only limited experience with doses above this level. If serum ferritin 
falls consistently below 500 µg/l, an interruption of treatment should be considered (see SPC, section 
4.2 and section 4.4). Instructions for use and handling are detailed in the SPC (see section 6.6). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The concentrations of total deferasirox (corresponding to the sum of free deferasirox and iron-bound 
deferasirox), as well as the iron complex Fe-[deferasirox]2 were determined in plasma by HPLC-UV 
or  HPLC-MS-MS  analytical  methods.  The  HPLC-UV  method  and  HPLC  method  with  Turbo  Ion 
Spray Mass Spectrometry (MS) detection were used for the analysis of the plasma and urine samples 
of the clinical trials. The limit of quantification was ≤ 0.670 µmol/l for deferasirox and ≤ 0.314 µmol/l 
for Fe-[deferasirox]2. 
Absorption  
• 
The absolute oral bioavailability of deferasirox was assessed in one study in healthy adult volunteers. 
The  absolute  oral  bioavailability  of  deferasirox  estimated  by  the  dose-normalized  geometric  mean 
ratio  for  AUC0-∞  following  a  single  375 mg  oral  dose  (tablet)  compared  to  a  130 mg  90-minute 
intravenous  infusion  was  0.70  [90%  CI  (0.62,  0.80)].  Bioequivalence  studies  between  intermediate 
development formulations were not performed. 
AUC0-∞ for deferasirox 0.5 hour before high fat breakfast and standard breakfast was 13 % [90% (CI 
1.02,  1.25)]  and  25%  [90%  CI  (1.13,  1.38)]  higher,  respectively,  compared  to  deferasirox  under 
fasting conditions. The total exposure (AUC) to deferasirox increased by a factor of two if taken after 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     19/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a high-fat breakfast in comparison to fasted condition. The total exposure increased by about 50% if 
administered concomitantly with a standard breakfast compared to fasted condition.  
An open label, randomized, four-way crossover study evaluated in 28 subjects, the bioequivalence of a 
single oral dose of 20 mg/kg deferasirox administered 4 hours before a standard lunch when dispersed 
in  orange  juice,  apple  juice  or  non-dispersed  in  water  compared  to  the  reference  treatment,  tablets 
dispersed  in  non-carbonated  commercially  bottled  water.  The  AUC(0-t)  and  Cmax  for  deferasirox 
dispersed in apple juice were 10% and 12% lower respectively, compared to deferasirox dispersed in 
water.  The  AUC(0-t)  and  Cmax  for  deferasirox  dispersed  in  orange  juice  were  3%  and  8%  higher 
respectively  compared  to  deferasirox  dispersed  in  water.  The  AUC(0-t)  and  Cmax  for  deferasirox  non-
dispersed were 1% higher and 2% lower respectively, compared to deferasirox dispersed in water. 
Distribution 
• 
Deferasirox  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (~99%),  almost  exclusively  to  serum  albumin  (see 
non-clinical section on distribution). The in vitro distribution of deferasirox between blood cells and 
plasma  showed,  that  the  mean  fraction  in  blood  cells  was  only  5%  over  the  concentration  range  of 
4-80 µg/ml (10-200 µmol/l). 
Elimination 
• 
After  a  single  oral  dose  of  [14C]deferasirox,  about  8%  of  administered  radioactivity  was  excreted  in 
urine  and  84%  in  the  feces.  Most  of  the  administered  radioactivity  was  recovered  in  feces  as 
unchanged drug formed by de-conjugation of the glucuronide metabolite in the intestine. Deferasirox 
was eliminated mainly by conjugation with glucuronic acid, followed by hepatobiliary elimination of 
the conjugate. Oxidative metabolism was about 8% of the dose eliminated by this pathway. The total 
excretion  of  deferasirox  and  its  metabolites  over  7  days  was  91.5%  of  the  dose.  Enterohepatic 
recirculation  slowed  down  drug  elimination  and  increases  drug  exposure.  In  an  ADME  radiotracer 
study  in  thalassemia  patients,  pharmacokinetics  in  some  patients  displayed  a  second  maximum  or  a 
shoulder of deferasirox in plasma at 24 hours post-dose.  
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In  a  single  escalating  doses  in  sequential  dose  (2.5,  5,  10,  20,  40,  80  mg/kg,  18  patients),    the 
pharmacokinetic  of  deferasirox  was  linear  and  drug  exposure  was  dose  proportional  in  patients  at 
steady state. There was no change in the main PK parameters derived from plasma profiles over a one-
year  study  duration  in  β-thalassemia  patients  treated  with  deferasirox  in  the  dose  range 
5-30 mg/kg/day.  In  β-thalassemia  patients,  peak  plasma  concentrations  of  deferasirox  were  achieved 
with  a  median  tmax,ss  between  1.5  and  4.3  hours  in  the  dose  range  5-30 mg/kg.  Mean  terminal 
elimination half-life was in the range of 7 to 16 hours. The accumulation ratio of deferasirox (10 and 
20 mg/kg/day)  calculated  as  the  ratio  of  the  average  AUC  between  Day 15  and  Day 360  to  Day 1 
AUC was 1.43 [90% CI (1.19, 1.73)]. 
Special populations 
• 
A  population  pharmacokinetic  model  included  several  covariates  to  describe  the  inter-subject 
variability.  Weight,  sex,  serum  creatinine  and  study  effects  were  included  on  both  clearance  of 
deferasirox  and  of  (Fe-[deferasirox]2).  Weight  and  study  effect  were  selected  as  covariates  on 
deferasirox volume of distribution, and age as a covariate on the absorption rate constant. The inter-
subject  and  inter-occasion  variability  on  apparent  deferasirox  clearance  were  characterised  by  a 
coefficients of variation of 44% and 42%, respectively. 
The  PK  characteristics  of  deferasirox  was  obtained  in  19  paediatric  patients  (9  children  and  10 
adolescents)  from  an  exploratory  multicentre,  open-label  and  non-comparative  study  conducted  in 
patients with transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia major, previously treated with DFO for ≥4 weeks, 
stratified into two age groups (adolescents, 12 - ≤17 years and children, 2 - <12 years). The PK profile 
of deferasirox (10mg/kg/day) analysis revealed that, after single and multiple doses were similar PK 
characteristics  in  the  adolescents  and  children,  associated  with  an  important  inter-individual 
variability.  There  was  accumulation  in  both  age  groups,  deferasirox  total  exposure  (AUC)  was  60% 
higher after 2 weeks of treatment compared to Day 1 (90% CI for the ratio: 1.38, 1.85). After 4 weeks 
of treatment, AUC0-24 had doubled compared to Day 1 (90% CI for the ratio: 1.72, 2.31), with a 25% 
further  increase  in  the  last  2  weeks  (90%  CI  for  the  ratio:  1.08,  1.45).  Based  on  the  population  PK 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     20/52 
 
 
 
 
 
analysis,  the  exposure  of  young  children  (ages  2  to  <  6  years)  was about 50% lower than in adults, 
although there was variability, with some children in this age range experiencing a drug exposure that 
was  similar  to  adults.  Drug  exposure  increases  between  age  2  to  18  years  to  reach  adult  levels. 
Females  had  a  lower  apparent  clearance  (by  17.5%)  for  deferasirox  compared  to  males.  Patients  of 
Oriental,  Black  and  Caucasian  were  involved  in  the  clinical  trials.  There  were  very  few  data 
comparing the pharmacokinetics of deferasirox in the different ethnic groups. The pharmacokinetics of 
deferasirox were not studied in elderly patients (≥ 65 years), in patients with impaired liver or renal 
function. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro studies 
Interaction with CYP450 isoenzymes 
The  inhibitory  potential  of  deferasirox  and  its  ferric  complex  form  to  inhibit  specific  cytochrome 
(CYP) P450 activities was investigated in human liver microsomes in a concentration range of 0-500 
µM.  The  iron  chelator  deferasirox  inhibited  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  activities  with  IC50  values 
ranging from 100 to 500 µM.  Deferasirox inhibited CYP2C8 paclitaxel hydroxylation activity with 
the lowest IC50 of 100 µM, followed by CYP1A2 phenacetin O-deethylation activity with IC50 of 175 
µM. CYP2A6, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4/5 were inhibited with IC50 values of 200 µM, 210 µM and 340 µM 
respectively.  CYP2E1  (chlorzoxazone  6-hydroxylation)  was  inhibited  with  an  IC50  >  500  µM.  The 
ferric  complex  of  attenuated  phenacetin  O-deethylation  (CYP1A2)  and  coumarin  6-hydroxylation 
(CYP2A6) both with IC50 values of 100 µM. All other CYP450 activities examined were inhibited by 
ferric complex form with IC50 values ≥160 µM. Induction of CYP450 isoenzymes by deferasirox has 
not been investigated. 
Interaction with UGT isoenzymes 
Deferasirox  was  mainly  metabolised  by  glucuronidation  with  the  acylglucuronide  being  the  major 
metabolite  (see  clinical  and  non-clinical  metabolism).  Glucuronidation  was  found  to  be  performed 
predominantly  by  UGT1A1  and,  UGT1A3  (accounting  together  for  about  95%  of  the  glucuronide 
formation)  with  minor  contributions  of  UGT1A7  and  UGT1A9.  Only  trace  activities  were  observed 
with UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A8, UGT1A10, UGT2B4, UGT2B7, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17. 
As patients treated with deferasirox may also take acetaminophen as co-medication, an in vitro study 
using human liver microsomes was conducted to investigate the potential inhibition of acetaminophen 
glucuronidation  by  deferasirox.  The  relative  contributions  of  UGT  enzymes  for  glucuronidation  of 
acetaminophen were calculated to be 60% for UGT1A9, 30% for UGT1A6 and 10% for UGT1A1 at 
therapeutic drug levels. At toxic concentrations of acetaminophen (> 1 mM), the relative contributions 
by UGT1A1 increased to 30%, UGT1A6 dropped to 10% and UGT1A9 remained unchanged at 60%. 
At  therapeutic  oral  doses  of  up  to  40  mg/kg/day  deferasirox,  the  Ki  values  was  more  than  two-fold 
higher than the Cmax for deferasirox reached in the patients.  
Interaction with hydroxyurea  
The  potential  inhibitory  effect  of  hydroxyurea  comedications  on  deferasirox  metabolization  was 
investigated  in  a  in  vitro  study  using  human  liver  microsomes.  The  concentrations  of  hydroxyurea 
ranged between 10 µM and 5 mM (twice the highest human in vivo concentrations). Hydroxyurea did 
neither change the metabolite pattern nor the metabolisation rates up of deferasirox. 
Interaction with P-gp transporter 
Human  intestinal  cell  line  Caco-2  grown  on  permeable  filter  support  was  used  to  identify  the 
inhibitory  potential  of  deferasirox  on  P-gp  transporter.  The  concentration  dependant  compound 
transport  [1,5,10  and  50  µM]  across  Caco-2  cell  monolayers  was  measured  from  the  apical  to 
basolateral  as  well  as  from  the  basolateral  to  apical  side.  For  1µM  deferasirox  apical  to  basolateral 
transport studies were also performed in the presence of the potent efflux system inhibitors ciclosporin 
and  verapamil  at  concentration  of  10µM  and  100µM  respectively.  Deferasirox  was  identified  as  a 
highly  permeable  compound  (intrinsic  permeability  >  80%).  The  significant  differences  between 
apical-to-basolateral  and  basolateral-to-apical  permeability  data  suggest  strong  efflux  transporter 
involvement.  Presence  of  the  efflux  transporter  inhibitor  Verapamil  did  not  influence  deferasirox 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     21/52 
 
 
 
permeability.  Addition  of  the  efflux  inhibitor  CsA,  however,  increased  apical-to-basolateral 
permeability slightly but significantly.  
Displacement of warfarin and diazepam from human plasma proteins 
In human plasma displacement in human plasma of both [14C]diazepam (0.1 and 1 µg/ml) and [14C] 
warfarin (1 and 5 µg/ml) by deferasirox was observed. In presence of 100 µg/ml of deferasirox (268 
µM) the unbound fractions of [14C] diazepam and [14C] warfarin in human plasma were 3.4-3.6 % 
and 1.5-1.6 %, respectively, as compared to 2.3-2.4 % and 1.1-1.2 % in absence of deferasirox. 
In vivo studies 
A  randomized,  single  centre,  open-label,  two-period  cross-over  study  was  conducted  in  15  healthy 
male volunteers to determine the effect of a single 20 mg/kg oral dose of deferasirox on multiple dose 
digoxin pharmacokinetics (single oral dose of 0.5 mg on day 1 and day 22, and 0.25 mg oral dose once 
daily on day 2-8 and days 23-29). In terms of Cmax and AUC, the 90% confidence intervals around the 
geometric mean ratio were within the limits of [0.8 - 1.25] with AUC ratio of 0.908, 90% CI [0.827-
0.997] and Cmax ratio of 0.933, 90% CI [0.822-1.059].  
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Clinical pharmacokinetics 
The  estimate  of  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  deferasirox  from  oral  formulation  was  about  70% 
compared  to  an  intravenous  formulation.  There  was  no  correlation  observed  between  the  individual 
absolute bioavailability data and subjects’ body weight, body height, or body surface area.  
The possibility of two pathways working together (i.e. improved oral absorption and enhanced entero-
hepatic  recycling  of  drug  once  absorbed),  provides  a  plausible  basis  that  the  increased  oral 
bioavailability  observed  when  taking  the  drug  with  a  meal  can  exceed  the  absolute  bioavailability 
established under fasting conditions. It is therefore recommended that deferasirox is taken on an empty 
stomach at least 30 minutes before food, preferably at the same time each day (see SPC, sections 4.2, 
4.5 and 5.2). The bioequivalent exposure to deferasirox when tablets were dispersed in orange or apple 
juice was considered comparable with the exposure to deferasirox dispersed in water. No difference in 
bioavailability  was  observed  whether  the  tablets  were  administered  fully  dispersed  in  water  or  non-
dispersed (see SPC, sections 4.2). 
Deferasirox has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and must be used with caution in 
such patients. The initial dosing recommendations for patients with hepatic impairment are the same as 
for  adult  patients  (see  SPC  section  4.2). Hepatic function in all patients should be monitored before 
treatment then every month (see clinical section and SPC section 4.4). In the clinical studies, treatment 
has been initiated only in patients with baseline liver transaminase levels up to 6 times the upper limit 
of the normal range. Deferasirox is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment, as it 
has  not  been  studied  in  such  patients  (see  section  4.4  and  5.2).  Deferasirox  has  not  been  studied  in 
patients  with  renal  impairment  and  must  not  be  used  in  patients  with  pre-treatment  estimated 
creatinine clearance below < 60 ml/min (see clinical safety, SPC sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4). Age was 
not  found  to  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  deferasirox  in  adult  patients.  The  pharmacokinetics  of 
deferasirox  in  geriatric  individuals  65  years  of  age  and  older  have  not  been  investigated.  However 
safety in the elderly population indicated no substantial difference from other age groups (see clinical 
safety). The dosing recommendations for elderly patients are the same as for adult patients. Since the 
SPC advises frequent assessments of renal and hepatic function with dose adjustments if necessary, it 
is considered to be sufficient for a physician to monitor and manage elderly patients. A clinical study 
is  currently  ongoing  with  deferasirox  in  elderly  patients  with  myelodysplastic  syndrome  and 
transfusional  iron  overload,  in  which  PK  is  being  assessed.    The  dosing  recommendations  for 
paediatric patients (2 to 17 years of age) are the same as for adult patients (see SPC section 4.2). In 
children aged between 2 and 5 years, may require higher doses than are necessary in adults (see SPC 
section 5.2). However, the initial dose should be the same as in adults, followed by individual titration. 
Glucuronidation was the main metabolic pathway for deferasirox, with subsequent biliary excretion. 
Deconjugation of glucuronidates in the intestine and subsequent reabsorption (enterohepatic recycling) 
is likely to occur. Deferasirox was mainly glucuronidated by UGT1A1 and to a lesser extent UGT1A3. 
A  decrease  of  deferasirox  plasma  concentration  cannot  be  excluded  when  administered  with  potent 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     22/52 
 
 
 
 
UGT inducers such as rifampicin, phenobarbital or phenytoin. The patient’s serum ferritin should be 
monitored  during  and  after  the  combination,  and  the  dose  of  deferasirox  adjusted  if  necessary  (see 
SPC section 4.5). The applicant has agreed to assess, post authorization, the magnitude of the effect of 
potent UGT inducers (such as rifampicin) on deferasirox plasmatic exposure. 
Oxidative metabolism by CYP enzymes (hydroxylation) to M1 (presumably by CYP1A) and M4 (by 
CYP2D6) was a minor elimination process (about 8%). Therefore, any inhibition or induction of those 
enzymes by co-medications is not expected to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of deferasirox.  
Based on an in vitro study, the concentration of deferasirox leading to a CYP2C8 inhibition was close 
to the human concentration at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day. Although, CYP2C8 is not, quantitatively, the 
major  isoenzyme  of  the  cytochrome  system,  several  compounds  are  mainly  metabolised  by  this 
isoenzyme as paclitaxel or repaglinide. Due to the variability of deferasirox concentration and AUC 
after a dose of 30 mg/kg, a clinical drug-drug interaction study was requested to exclude the potential 
risk of interaction between deferasirox and CYP2C8 substrates. A clinical study in healthy volunteers 
to  investigate  a  potential  induction  effect  of  deferasirox  on  single  dose  pharmacokinetics  of 
midazolam is planned. Based on the results obtained, if inductive changes in midazolam exposure by 
deferasirox  are  observed,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  further  studies  with  appropriate 
probe-substrates  for  each  cytochromes  (e.g.  repaglinide  with  CYP2C8).  Pending  clarification,  SPC 
section  4.5  mentions  that  an  interaction  between  deferasirox  and  CYP2C8  substrates  like  paclitaxel 
and repaglinide can not be excluded. 
In case of any interaction via CYP450 enzymes, the change in deferasirox pharmacokinetics would be 
negligible. Genetic polymorphism (e.g., CYP2D6 poor metabolizer status) is not expected to have an 
impact either.  
No inhibition of deferasirox metabolism by hydroxyurea was observed in vitro. Deferasirox was not P-
gp  dependent,  but  MRP2  and  MXR,  two  multidrug  resistance  associated  proteins,  were  involved  in 
biliary  excretion  of  deferasirox.  Considering  the  compensatory  elimination  and  excretory  pathways, 
the therapeutic window and the slow mode of action of deferasirox, any relevant interactions on the 
transporter  level  when  deferasirox  is  given  concomitantly  with  other  drugs  are  not  expected. 
Combination  of  deferasirox  with  other  iron  chelator  therapy  has  not  been  studied  and  is  contra-
indicated    in  view  of  the  high  potency  of  deferasirox  and  the  increased  risk  of  adverse  effects 
associated with rapid or extensive chelation (see SPC section 4.3 and 4.5). Although deferasirox has a 
lower affinity for aluminium than for iron, it is not recommended to take deferasirox with aluminium-
containing  antacid  preparations  (see  SPC  section  4.4  and  4.5).  Displacement  of  both  warfarin, 
diazepam  or  other  compounds  binding  to  the  same  site  on  albumin  cannot  be  excluded  in  patients 
treated  with  deferasirox.  However,  a  clinically  significant  effect  is  very  unlikely  in case of warfarin 
and  diazepam.  No  interaction  was  observed  between  deferasirox  (20  mg/kg)  and  digoxin  in  healthy 
adult volunteers. The concomitant administration of deferasirox and vitamin C has not been formally 
studied. Doses of vitamin C up to 200 mg per day have not been associated with adverse consequences 
(see SPC section 4.5). 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Deferasirox is an orally active iron chelator belonging to a new class of tridentate iron chelators, the 
N-substituted bis-hydroxyphenyl-triazoles. Deferasirox is claimed to mobilize tissue iron and promote 
its excretion, primarily in the feces (see non-clinical pharmacology). 
• 
Primary and secondary pharmacology 
In  a  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  dose-escalation  study  (0104)  the  PK  and 
cumulative  iron  balance  (including  urinary  and  fecal  iron  excretion)  were  assessed  in  24  adult 
thalassemia patients receiving deferasirox, at doses of 10, 20 or 40 mg/kg, or placebo, during 12 days. 
The efficiency of chelation was based on average daily net iron excretion, and was calculated as the 
ratio between the amount of iron that could theoretically have been chelated, and the amount of iron 
actually  excreted,  relative  to  body  weight.  The  theoretical  amount  of  iron  was  obtained  from  the 
consideration  that  two  molecules  of  deferasirox  are  needed  to  chelate  a  single  atom  of  iron.  The 
molecular weight of deferasirox is 373.4, and that of iron 55.85. Negative iron balance was achieved 
at  all  3  doses  of  active  drug,  and  averaged  approximately  0.119  mg/kg/day  at  the  10  mg/kg  dose, 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     23/52 
 
 
0.329  mg/kg/day  at  the  20  mg/kg  dose,  and  0.445  mg/kg/day  at  the  40  mg/kg  dose.  The fraction of 
iron excreted in urine was on average for each active dose approximately 2-5% of the total. 
In  a  randomized,  open-label,  phase  II  study  (0105)  was  performed  a  to  evaluate  the  effects  on  liver 
iron  concentration  of  repeated  doses  of  10  and  20 mg/kg/day  of  deferasirox  in  comparison  with 
40 mg/kg/day  deferoxamine  in  adult  patients  with  transfusion-dependent  iron  overload. Hepatic iron 
stores  (measured  by  means  of  SQUID)  and  urinary  iron  excretion  (UIE)  were  examined  in  the 
exploratory analysis of the exposure-response relationships. AUCδ and the trough concentrations for 
both deferasirox and its iron complex were the exposure PK parameters used in the PK/PD analysis. 
The relationships between the deferasirox chelation to iron versus dose were examined. There was a 
trend  for  patients  with  higher  AUC  values  and  patients  with  higher  trough  concentrations  to  show 
greater  reductions  in  LIC  from  baseline.  No  PK/PD  relationship  could  be  established  between  the 
AUC  and  the  changes  in  LIC.  No  PK/PD  relationship  could  be  established  with  the  trough 
concentrations. No significant amounts of iron were found in urine and therefore, in contrast to DFO, 
UIE  could  not  be  used  as  an  efficacy  marker.  The  relationship  between  the  total  iron  excretion  and 
Cmax was more variable than with AUC, and thus the correlation was weak (r2 = 0.464, P < 0.001). 
There was a marked relationship between the total iron excretion and the trough concentrations (r2 = 
0.7378, P < 0.0001). 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response studies 
Two dose-finding trials were performed. Study 0104 was 12 days randomized placebo-controlled trial 
versus  placebo,  conducted  in  23  frequently  transfused  adult  patients  with  β-thalassemia,  receiving 
deferasirox 10, 20, 40 mg/kg, and aiming at providing initial pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
data.  This  study  was  followed  by  a  phase  II  (study  0105)  multi-center,  one-year,  open-label, 
randomized  controlled  trial  in  71  adult  β-thalassemia  patients  in  which  surrogate  markers  for  iron 
burden, such as serum ferritin, were explored and liver iron concentration (LIC) changes over a one 
year interval, were determined every 3 months by a non-invasive method [magnetic susceptometry by 
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)]. 
Study 0105 was used as the basis for the formulation of the dosing algorithm used in the pivotal and 
supportive studies of ICL670. Patients were randomized to receive oral deferasirox at doses of 10 or 
20 mg/kg/day, or subcutaneous (s.c) infusions of DFO 40 mg/kg/day for five days each week (n= 24, 
24  and  23,  respectively).  Patients  were  male  or  female,  at  least  18  years  of  age, with LIC values as 
determined  by  SQUID  of  5  to  15  mg  Fe/g  dry  weight  (dw)  at  study  entry.  Dose  adjustments  were 
permitted during the additional phase of the trial if strongly indicated, based on clinical response. 
The  groups  were  well  balanced  for  demographic  characteristics  at  baseline.  There  were  no  protocol 
violations.  The  mean  exposure  time  for  the  initial  part  of  study  was  similar  for  the  two  deferasirox 
arms  (10  mg/kg,  49  weeks;  20  mg/kg,  47  weeks)  and  slightly  less  for  the  DFO  arm  (45  weeks).  In 
patients  with  LIC  available  at  12  months  (per  protocol  population,  PP)  the  mean  LIC  in  the  group 
treated with ICL670 10 mg/kg was 8.7 and 8.4 mg/g dw liver at baseline and 12 months respectively. 
The corresponding figures for the deferasirox 20 mg/kg and the DFO groups were 8.7 and 6.6, and 7.9 
and  5.9  mg/g  dw  liver.  A  categorical  analysis  of  the  percentage  change  in  LIC  showed  that  the 
responder  rates  (>10%  fall  in  LIC)  were  73  %  and  76  %  in  the  groups  treated  with  deferasirox  20 
mg/kg and DFO, respectively, and 46% in patients treated with deferasirox 10 mg/kg. No consistent 
changes were seen in serum ferritin, iron, transferrin and transferrin saturation. 
• 
Main study(ies)  
Three  study  reports  of  clinical  trials  pertinent  to  the  claimed  indication  were  submitted.  Study 0107 
was  a  phase  III  randomised,  active-controlled,  open-label  clinical  trial  to  evaluate  deferasirox  in 
frequently  transfused  patients  with  β-thalassemia.  Study  0108  was  a  phase  II  open-label  trial  to 
evaluate deferasirox in patients with chronic anemia and transfusional hemosiderosis who were either 
β-thalassemia  patients  who  could  not  be  properly  chelated  with  DFO,  or  patients  with  a  variety  of 
acquired  or  congenital  rare  anemias  requiring  chelation  therapy.  Study  0109  was  a  phase  II 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     24/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised,  active-controlled,  open-label  trial  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  deferasirox  in  patients  with 
sickle cell disease (SCD) and transfusional hemosiderosis requiring chelation therapy. 
Study 0107 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
This  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  active-controlled  phase  III  clinical  trial.  The  main  inclusion 
criteria were patients older than 2 years, with β-thalassemia and transfusional hemosiderosis, already 
treated with DFO at a mean daily dose of 20-60 mg/kg/day for five consecutive days each week for at 
least four weeks before entering screening and still suitable for treatment with DFO, or patients never 
treated  with  an  iron  chelator  and  without  contra-indications  to  either  trial  medication;  suitable  for 
treatment  with  s.c.  DFO  at  a  dose  range  between  20  and  60  mg/kg/day;  LIC  ≥2  mg  Fe/g  dw,  as 
assessed  by  liver  biopsy;  regular  blood  transfusions  (≥  8  transfusional  events  per  year).  The  main 
exclusion criteria were: transfusion-dependent anemias other than β-thalassemia; mean levels of ALT 
or AST >250 U/l during the 12 months before randomization (at least four determinations during the 
12-month  period  preceding  enrolment,  including  measurements  during  the  run-in)  and  ALT  or  AST 
variations  >300%  (CV  of  mean  value)  during  12-months  preceding  enrolment;  clinical  evidence  of 
active hepatitis C; serum creatinine above the upper limit of normal (ULN); significant proteinuria as 
indicated by a urinary protein/creatinine ratio > 0.5 (mg/mg) in a second void urine samples taken at 
both visits 1 and 2. A third sample was to be taken from patients in whom one ratio was > 0.5 (mg/mg) 
and one was ≤ 0.5 (mg/mg). Patients in whom the ratio was > 0.5 (mg/mg) in two of the three samples 
were  excluded;  history  of  nephrotic  syndrome;  2nd  or  3rd  degree  A-V  block,  Q-Tc  interval 
prolongation,  cataract  or  a  history  of  relevant  ocular  toxicity  related  to  iron  chelation;  pregnant  or 
breast-feeding patients; pediatric patients body weight which prevented the use of the smallest tablet 
strength for dosing. 
Treatments 
Deferasirox tablets were to be dispersed in a small glass of water and taken daily every morning 30 
minutes  before  breakfast.  DFO  was  selected  as  the  active  comparator  since  it  was  the  reference 
chelator in patients with transfusional hemosiderosis. DFO was administered as s.c. infusions for ≥8 
hours at doses between 20 and 60 mg/kg/day for five consecutive days/week.  
The  initial  dose  of  deferasirox  or  DFO  was  dependent  on  the  LIC  determined  at  screening:  patients 
with a screening LIC of 2 - 3 mg Fe/g c dry weight (dw) received deferasirox 5 mg/kg or DFO 20-30 
mg/kg/day; patients with a screening LIC of >3 - 7 mg Fe/g dw received deferasirox 10 mg/kg or DFO 
25-35 mg/kg/day; patients with a screening LIC of >7-14 mg Fe/g dw received deferasirox 20 mg/kg 
or DFO 35-50 mg/kg/day; patients with a screening LIC of >14 mg Fe/g dw received deferasirox 30 
mg/kg or DFO ≥50 mg/kg/day.  
The  initial  dose  of  deferasirox  was  to  remain  unchanged  during  the  1-year  study  period  unless  the 
evaluation of safety and efficacy markers indicated that dose adjustment was necessary. The minimum 
total  daily  dose  of  deferasirox  was  125  mg.  Patients  with  a  baseline  LIC  of  2-7  mg  Fe/g  dw  were 
allowed  to  continue  their  previous  doses  of  DFO,  even  if  doses  were  greater  than  those  specified 
above.  The  allowance  regarding  the  weekly  schedule  was  limited  to  at  least  three  and  up  to  seven 
days/week. The initial dose of DFO was to remain unchanged during the study period, provided that 
the evaluation of safety and efficacy markers did not indicate that a dose adjustment was needed. 
Dose  adjustments  for  both  deferasirox  and  DFO  were  based  on  the  combined  evaluation  of  safety 
markers  indicative  of  over-  or  under-chelation.  Secondary  efficacy  parameters  (potential  surrogate 
markers  such  as  serum  ferritin)  were  also  considered.  The  majority  of  deferasirox  dose  adjustments 
were  to  be  performed  in  steps  of  10  mg/kg/day  up  to  a  maximum  of  deferasirox  40  mg/kg/day.  In 
individual  cases  (e.g.  paediatric  patients),  if  prompted  by  safety  concerns,  or  where  baseline  LIC 
levels have been close to 2 mg Fe/g dw, dose adjustment by steps of 5 mg/kg/day was also permitted. 
Dose adjustments for DFO were prescribed in steps of 5 or 10 mg/kg/day (see table 6). 
Table 6: Average daily dose by LIC category in study 0107 
Baseline LIC in mg Fe/g dw (regardless of method) 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     25/52 
 
 
 
 
Baseline LIC in mg Fe/g dw (regardless of method) 
deferasirox (N=296) 
Protocol assigned dose 
Average daily dose (mg/kg/day) 
<= 3 
>3-7 
>7-14 
N=15 
5 mg/kg 
N=78 
10 mg/kg 
N=84 
20 mg/kg 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
6.2 ± 1.6 
5.0 
10.2 ± 1.2 
10.0 
19.4 ± 1.7 
20.0 
  Minimum-Maximum 
4.3 – 8.7 
5.6 – 16.3 
9.9 – 21.4 
DFO (N=290) 
Protocol assigned dose 
Average daily dose (mg/kg/day) 
N=14 
20-30 
mg/kg 
N=79 
25-35 
mg/kg 
N=91 
35-50 
mg/kg 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
33.9 ± 9.9 
30.0 
36.7 ± 9.2 
35.0 
42.4 ± 6.6 
40.8 
  Minimum-Maximum 
23.0 – 52.6 
20.0 – 75.6 
21.0 - 70 
>14 
N=119 
30 
mg/kg 
28.2 ± 
3.5 
30.0 
11.0 – 
30.0 
N=106 
>= 50 
mg/kg 
51.6 ± 
5.8 
51.0 
30.0 – 
66.1 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  deferasirox  compared  to  DFO  in  its 
effects on liver iron content (LIC) as assessed by liver biopsy after one year of treatment in patients 
with β-thalassemia and transfusional hemosiderosis. The main secondary objectives were to evaluate 
the  safety  profile  of  deferasirox,  to  estimate  the  absolute  and  relative  change  in  LIC  and  total  body 
iron excretion (TBIE) rate for subgroups [LIC (2 - <7 and ≥ 7mg Fe/g dw) and age], to evaluate the 
relationship  between  LIC  and  potential  surrogate  markers  for  efficacy  such  as  serum  ferritin,  serum 
iron,  transferrin  (TRF)  and  TRF  saturation  for  the  dose  titration  of  deferasirox  as  well  as  safety 
markers possibly indicative of over chelation. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  based  on  changes  in  LIC  measured  by  liver  biopsy  or  superconducting 
quantum interference device (SQUID), a noninvasive technology and in a subset of patients by liver 
biopsy  and  MRI  [12,  13]  ,  in  pediatric  patients  or  those  with  contraindication  to  liver  biopsy;  the 
success rate was determined and analyzed primarily for the PP-1 population, i.e. all patients who had 
either LIC measurements at baseline and EOS using liver biopsy or SQUID, or who discontinued due 
to safety reasons. The primary endpoint was based on the following success criteria: 
Table 7: Succes rate for the primary endpoint in study 0107 
LIC at baseline 
2 - < 7 mg Fe/g dw 
>= 7 - < 10 mg Fe/g dw 
>= 10 mg Fe/g dw 
success, if LIC after 1 year 
1 - < 7 mg Fe/g dw 
1 - < 7 mg Fe/g dw 
Decrease in LIC >= 3 mg Fe/g dw 
failure, if LIC after 1 year 
< 1 mg Fe/g dw  or  >= 7 mg Fe/g dw 
< 1 mg Fe/g dw  or  >= 7 mg Fe/g dw 
Decrease in LIC < 3 mg Fe/g dw 
Liver  samples  for  iron  content  and  pathology  studies  were  obtained  by  ultrasound-guided 
percutaneous  biopsy  of  the  center  of  the  right  lobe  of  the  liver  [14]  .  Iron  quantification  was 
performed  in  a  central  laboratory using atomic absorption spectrometry [15]. All patients who were 
randomized  were  included  in  the  intent  to  treat  population  (ITT).  Patients  in  the  per  protocol  (PP) 
population for the primary efficacy analysis (PP-1) were those that had received study drug and who 
had  an  LIC  determination  at  baseline  and  at  EOS,  using  the  same  technique  as  at  baseline.  Also 
included  were  patients  who  had  to  permanently  discontinue  study  medication  due  to  any  of  the 
following:  adverse  event;  abnormal  laboratory  value;  abnormal  test  procedure  results;  iron  overload 
related  death.  Patients  prematurely  discontinued  due  to  any  other  reason  were  excluded  from  this 
population.  Secondary  endpoints  measures  included  absolute  and  relative  change  in  LIC,  total  body 
iron  excretion  (TBIE)  and  surrogate  markers  of  efficacy  and  iron  metabolism  including  serum  iron, 
ferritin, TRF and TRF saturation as well as liver pathology evaluations in patients with biopsy. For the 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     26/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
secondary efficacy parameters, the PP population (PP-2) was used and included patients for whom an 
LIC determination at EOS was available, using the same technique as at baseline. 
Sample size 
The  sample  size  was  selected  to  show  non-inferiority  at  a  2-sided  alpha  level  of  0.05  if  the  success 
rates of the DFO and deferasirox treatment arms (probability of success =0.5) have maximal variance. 
Thus,  468  patients  were  required  (234  per  arm)  to  achieve  a  power  of  90%.  A  sample  size  of  500 
patients was selected in order to show non-inferiority to DFO and to achieve the secondary efficacy 
objectives of absolute and relative changes in LIC by having subgroups of adequate size. The power 
calculations (non-inferiority margin: 0.15) at different success rates (0.6, 07 and 08) in the ICL670 and 
DFO arm was 92.8%, 95.5% and 98.7% respectively. 
Randomisation 
Patients were assigned a sequential patient number in each center. Eligible patients were randomized 
in a 1:1 ratio to receive either oral dereasirox once daily, or s.c. infusions of DFO on five consecutive 
days  each  week,  using  an  interactive  voice  response  system.  Randomization  was  stratified  by  age 
groups: 2 to <12 years, 12 to <18 years and >=18 years.  
Blinding (masking) 
Study  0107  was  an  open-label  study  as  it  was  considered  impractical  and  unethical  to  use  blinding 
which  would  have  required  the  long-term  self-administration  of  a  parenteral  placebo  in  patients 
randomized to deferasirox.  
Statistical methods 
Non-inferiority was to be shown if the 2-sided 95% CI (using normal approximation) of the difference 
in success rate between deferasirox and DFO was above -15% in the PP-1 population. For groups of 
less than 12 patients, exact CIs were calculated using Pearson-Clopper limits. To test the reduction in 
LIC in patients on deferasirox with a baseline LIC of >=7 mg Fe/g dw, Student’s t-test at a one-sided 
alpha  level  of  0.025  was  used.  For  comparison  of  LIC  reduction  between  patients  treated  with 
deferasirox  and  DFO,  a  covariance  model  with  baseline  value  as  covariate,  and  treatment-group  as 
main effect was fitted. 
Additional  analyses  were  done  for  efficacy  and  safety  assessment  for  the  following  subgroups:  Age 
category:  (<6  years,  6-<12  years,  12-<16  years,  16-<50  years,  50-<65  years,  >=65  years)  based  on 
derived  age  at  visit  1;  gender  (Male/Female);  ethnic  groups  (Caucasian,  Black,  Oriental,  Other); 
country; dose cohort (the initial dose recorded in the eCRF): 5 mg/kg deferasirox / < 25 mg/kg DFO, 
10 mg/kg deferasirox / 25 - <35 mg/kg DFO, 20 mg/kg deferasirox / 35 - <50 mg/kg DFO, 30 mg/kg 
deferasirox / >= 50 mg/kg DFO; baseline LIC category, by method: <7 mg Fe/g dw (SQUID), <7 mg 
Fe/g dw (Biopsy), >=7 mg Fe/g dw (SQUID), >=7 mg Fe/g dw (Biopsy). 
The  following  subgroups  were  used  for  additional  efficacy  analyses:  average  planned  daily  dose 
during study: <7.5 mg/kg ICL670 / < 25 mg/kg DFO, 7.5 - <15 mg/kg ICL670 / 25-<35 mg/kg DFO, 
15 - <25 mg/kg ICL670 / 35-<45 mg/kg DFO, >=25 mg/kg ICL670 / >=45 mg/kg DFO; average iron 
intake category: none, >0 and <0.4 mg Fe/kg/day; 0.4 and <=0.5 mg Fe/kg/day; >0.5 mg Fe/kg/day; 
baseline LIC category: < 7 mg Fe/g dw or >=7 mg Fe/g dw; baseline LIC method: SQUID or biopsy; 
baseline LIC dosing category: <=3 mg Fe/g dw; >3 - 7 mg Fe/g dw; >7 - 14 mg Fe/g dw; >14 mg Fe/g 
dw. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A total of 591 were randomized (297 in the deferasirox arm; 294 in the DFO arm); of these, 5 patients 
never started treatment. Of the 586 patients who started treatment (296 in the deferasirox arm; 290 in 
the  DFO  arm),  premature  discontinuation  occurred  in  17  patients  receiving  deferasirox  and  12 
receiving DFO. The reasons for discontinuation are provided in table 8. 
Table 8- Patient disposition in study 0107 and reasons for discontinuation 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     27/52 
 
 
Disposition 
Completed 
Discontinued 
Adverse events 
Death 
Protocol violation 
  Withdrawal of 
consent 
deferasirox 
N=296 n (%) 
279 (94.3) 
17 (5.7) 
7 (2.4) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.7) 
DFO 
N=290 n 
(%) 
278 (95.9) 
12 (4.1) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (1.0) 
2 (0.7) 
All 
patients 
N=586 n 
(%) 
557 (95.1) 
29 (4.9) 
8 (1.4) 
4 (0.7) 
4 (0.7) 
7 (2.4) 
6 (2.1) 
13 (2.2) 
The number of patients included in the PP-1 population was 276 in the deferasirox arm and 277 in the 
DFO  arm.  There  were  20  patients  in  the  deferasirox  arm  and  13  patients  in  the  DFO  arm  excluded 
from  PP-1  population  (11  vs  5  due  to  not  available  LIC;  2  in  both  arms  excluded  for  protocol 
violation; 7 vs 6 excluded for withdrawal of consent). 
Recruitment 
The first patient was randomized in February 2003 and the last one in November 2004. 
Conduct of the study 
Three amendments of the protocol were made during the study. Amendment 1 revised the exclusion 
criterion  for  the  permitted  level  of  proteinuria  [urinary  protein/creatinine  ratios  >0.5  (mg/mg)  in  a 
minimum of two urine samples]. In addition the amendment specified that treatment with deferasirox 
was to be temporarily discontinued if the urinary protein/creatinine ratio increased to >1.0 (mg/mg) at 
consecutive  visits.  A  50%  dose  reduction  was  stipulated  for  patients  in  whom  proteinuria  of  this 
severity  recurred  after  restarting  deferasirox  at  the  same  dose.  Amendment  2  introduced  dose 
adjustments  for  patients  on  deferasirox  in  whom  serum  creatinine  levels  increased  by  >33%  from 
baseline values at ≥2 consecutive visits. Amendment 3 added central ECG and quantitative QT/QTc 
analysis  in  order  to  comply  with  the  ICH  draft  guideline  E14  (2004)  [16].  The  amendment  also 
retrospectively addressed changes to the liver biopsy procedures (most importantly, the sample weight 
threshold for the analysis of liver biopsies was reduced from 1 mg dw to 0.5 mg dw; the number of 
stains  used  in  the  pathology  analysis  was  reduced  to  three;  review  by  a  second  pathologist  was 
eliminated).  
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic characteristics are provided by treatment, in the following table: 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     28/52 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Demographic characteristics (study 0107, PP-1 population) 
Deferasirox (N=276) 
DFO (N=277) 
Variable / 
Statistic 
Age (years) 
N 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
  Min - Max 
Age group 
(years) 
< 6 
6  - < 12 
12 - < 16 
16 - < 50 
50 - < 65 
Sex 
  Male 
Female 
Race 
Caucasian 
Black 
Oriental 
Others 
Height (cm) 
N 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
  Min – Max 
Weight (kg) 
N 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
  Min – Max 
Weight group 
(kg) 
<15 
15 - <35 
35 - <55 
55 - <75 
≥75 
276 
16.7 ± 9.26 
15 
2 – 49 
28 (10.1%) 
63 (22.8%) 
57 (20.7%) 
128 (46.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
130 (47.1%) 
146 (52.9%) 
245 (88.8%) 
2 (0.7%) 
9 (3.3%) 
20 (7.2%) 
275 
144.9 ± 20.76 
150 
84 - 186 
275 
42.8 ± 16.61 
43.5 
11.4 – 87.9 
7 (2.5%) 
86 (31.2%) 
114 (41.3%) 
60 (21.7%) 
8 (2.9%) 
All patients 
(N=553) 
553 
16.8 ± 9.55 
15 
2 – 53 
56 (10.1%) 
130 (23.5%) 
106 (19.2%) 
260 (47.0%) 
1 (0.2%) 
268 (48.5%) 
285 (51.5%) 
277 
16.9 ± 9.84 
15 
2 - 53 
28 (10.1%) 
67 (24.2%) 
49 (17.7%) 
132 (47.7%) 
1 (0.4%) 
138 (49.8%) 
139 (50.2%) 
239 (86.3%) 
484 (87.5%) 
1 (0.4%) 
10 (3.6%) 
27 (9.7%) 
277 
144.4 ± 21.55 
149 
84 - 181 
277 
42.4 ± 16.71 
44.8 
12.0 – 90.2 
8 (2.9%) 
87 (31.4%) 
111 (40.1%) 
66 (23.8%) 
5 (1.8%) 
3 (0.5%) 
19 (3.4%) 
47 (8.5%) 
552 
144.6 ± 21.14 
150.0 
84 - 186 
552 
42.6 ± 16.65 
44.1 
11.4 – 90.2 
15 (2.7%) 
173 (31.3%) 
225 (40.7%) 
126 (22.8%) 
13 (2.4%) 
Of  the  586  patients  treated,  15  (2.6%)  were  chelator  naïve:  7  patients  on  the  deferasirox  arm  and  8 
patients on the DFO arm. Five patients (2 on the deferasirox arm vs. 3 on the DFO arm) received prior 
deferiprone treatment in addition to DFO. 
Numbers analysed 
The number of participants in each group included in each analysis is provided in Table 10.  
Table 10: Number (%) of patients in analysis populations 
Analysis Population 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) 
population 
Safety  population 
PP-1 population 
Deferasirox  
N=297, n (%) 
297 (100.0) 
296 (99.7) 
276 (92.9) 
DFO 
N=294, n (%) 
All patients 
N=591, n (%) 
294 (100.0) 
290 (98.6) 
277 (94.2) 
591 (100.0) 
586 (99.2) 
553 (93.6) 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     29/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PP-2 population 
268 (90.2) 
273 (92.9) 
541 (91.5) 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy results 
As shown in the table 11, the results of study 0107 obtained in the PP-1 population did not show that 
deferasirox is non-inferior to DFO in reducing or maintaining LIC levels, with a difference in success 
rates of -13.5 [-21.6, -5.4].  
In a open label subgroup analysis of 381 patients with LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g dw, the difference was -0.3 
[-10.2, 9.6] and thus non-inferioritiy was achieved when comparable doses were used. 
Table 11 - Success rates based on change in LIC (study 0107, PP-1 population) 
Deferasiro
x 
Deferasiro
x 
Deferasiro
x 
Deferasiro
x 
Deferasiro
x 
5 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg 
20 mg/kg 
30 mg/kg 
all patients 
N=15 
N=15 
N=70 
n=70 
N=79 
n=79 
N=112 
n=112 
N=276 
 n=276 
DFO 
all 
patients 
N=277 
n=277 
Biopsy & SQUID    
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
Difference and 
95% CI 
LIC  < 7 mg Fe/g 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
Difference [95% 
LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g 
CI] 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
Difference [95% 
CI] 
Biopsy      
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
Difference [95% 
LIC  < 7 mg Fe/g 
CI] 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
Difference [95% 
LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g 
CI] 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
6 (40.0) 
28 (40.0) 
29 (36.7) 
83 (74.1) 
146 (52.9) 
184 (66.4) 
[16.3, 67.7] 
[28.5, 51.5] 
[26.1, 47.3] 
[66.0, 82.2] 
[47.0, 58.8] 
[60.9, 
72.0] 
N=15 
n=70 
6 (40.0) 
28 (40.0) 
[16.3, 67.7] 
[28.5, 51.5] 
-13.5  [-21.6, -5.4] 
n=85 
n=87 
34 (40.0) 
72 (82.8) 
[29.6, 50.4] 
[74.8, 
90.7] 
-42.8 [-55.9, -29.7] 
n=79 
n=112 
n=191 
n=190 
29 (36.7) 
83 (74.1) 
112 (58.6) 
112 (58.9) 
[26.1, 47.3] 
[66.0, 82.2] 
[51.7, 65.6] 
[52.0, 
65.9] 
n=8 
n=45 
n=64 
n=112 
n=229 
n=234 
-0.3  [-10.2, 9.6] 
0 (0.0) 
12 (26.7) 
22 (34.4) 
83 (74.1) 
117 (51.1) 
147 (62.8) 
[0, 36.9] 
[13.7, 39.6] 
[22.7, 46.0] 
[66.0, 82.2] 
[44.6, 57.6] 
[56.6, 
69.0] 
n=8 
n=45 
0 (0.0) 
12 (26.7) 
[0, 36.9] 
[13.7, 39.6] 
-11.7 [-20.7, -2.8] 
n=53 
n=55 
12 (22.6) 
42 (76.4) 
[11.4, 33.9] 
[65.1, 
87.6] 
-53.7 [-69.6, -37.8] 
n=64 
n=112 
n=176 
n=179 
22 (34.4) 
83 (74.1) 
[22.7, 46.0] 
[66.0, 82.2] 
105 (59.7) 
[52.4, 66.9] 
105 (58.7) 
[51.4, 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     30/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferasiro
x 
5 mg/kg 
N=15 
Deferasiro
x 
10 mg/kg 
N=70 
Deferasiro
x 
20 mg/kg 
N=79 
Deferasiro
x 
30 mg/kg 
N=112 
Deferasiro
x 
all patients 
N=276 
DFO 
all 
patients 
N=277 
65.9] 
n=7 
n=25 
n=15 
n=0 
n=47 
n=43 
1.0 [-9.2, 11.2] 
Difference [95% 
CI] 
SQUID    
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
6 (85.7) 
16 (64.0) 
7 (46.7) 
95% CI  
[42.1, 99.6] 
[45.2, 82.8] 
[21.4, 71.9] 
LIC  < 7 mg Fe/g 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
n=7 
n=25 
6 (85.7) 
16 (64.0) 
95% CI  
[42.1, 99.6] 
[45.2, 82.8] 
- 
- 
29 (61.7) 
37 (86.0) 
[47.8, 75.6] 
n=32 
[75.7, 
96.4] 
n=32 
22 (68.8) 
30 (93.8) 
[52.7, 84.8] 
[85.4, 100] 
LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g 
dw 
Success rate (n 
(%)) 
95% CI  
n=15 
n=0 
n=15 
n=11 
7 (46.7) 
[21.3, 73.4] 
- 
- 
7 (46.7) 
[21.3, 73.4] 
7 (63.6) 
[30.8, 
89.1] 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; DFO = deferoxamine; LIC = liver iron content; SQUID = superconducting quantum 
interference device.  
Secondary efficacy results 
Results of secondary efficacy analysis of study 0107 are provided in tables 12,13,14. 
Table 12 - Absolute changes in LIC, serum ferritin, and iron balance (PP-2 and safety populations) 
LIC 
in 
mg 
Fe/g 
dw 
LIC 
<= 3 
LIC 
>3-7 
LIC 
>7-
14 
LIC 
>14 
Median dose 
mg/kg/day 
Deferoxamine   /  
DFO 
5 
30 
10 
35 
20 
41 
Iron burden at end of 
study (based on available 
values) 
Change in serum ferritin 
(µg/l) 
Change in LIC (mg Fe/g 
dw) 
Ratio iron excretion/intake 
Change in serum ferritin 
(µg/l) 
Change in LIC (mg Fe/g 
dw) 
Ratio iron excretion/intake 
Change in serum ferritin 
(µg/l) 
Change in LIC (mg Fe/g 
dw) 
Ratio iron excretion/intake 
30 
51 
Change in serum ferritin 
(µg/l) 
n 
1
5 
1
5 
1
5 
7
3 
6
8 
6
8 
8
0 
7
7 
7
7 
1
1
5 
Mean ± 
SD 
deferoxa
mine 
+1189 ± 
700 
+4.8 ± 
3.77 
0.58 ± 
0.328 
+833 ± 
817 
+3.8 ± 
3.85 
0.67 ± 
0.365 
-36 ± 721 
-0.4 ± 
4.70 
1.02 ± 
0.398 
-926 ± 
1416 
n 
1
3 
1
3 
1
3 
7
7 
7
5 
7
5 
8
9 
8
7 
8
7 
1
0
1 
Mean ± 
SD 
DFO 
+211 ± 
459 
+0.5 ± 
1.11 
0.95 ± 
0.101 
+32 ± 
585 
0.0 ± 
2.36 
0.98 ± 
0.217 
-364 ± 
614 
-1.9 ± 
2.93 
1.13 ± 
0.241 
-1003 ± 
1428 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     31/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIC 
in 
mg 
Fe/g 
dw 
Median dose 
mg/kg/day 
Deferoxamine   /  
DFO 
Iron burden at end of 
study (based on available 
values) 
Change in LIC (mg Fe/g 
dw) 
Ratio iron excretion/intake 
n 
1
0
8 
1
0
8 
Mean ± 
SD 
deferoxa
mine 
-8.9 ± 
8.07 
1.67 ± 
0.716 
n 
9
8 
9
8 
Mean ± 
SD 
DFO 
-6.4 ± 
6.93 
1.44 ± 
0.596 
Table 13 - Change in LIC in patients with LIC >= 7 mg Fe/g dw at baseline (PP-2 population) 
deferoxamin
e 
N=185 
DFO 
N=186 
185 
-5.3 ± 8.04 
186 
-4.3 ± 5.83 
p<0.001 (S)* 
172 
-5.6 ± 8.21 
175 
-4.4 ± 5.98 
p<0.001 (S)* 
13 
-1.5 ± 3.69 
11 
-2.9 ± 2.32 
Statistics 
Biopsy & SQUID   
n 
Mean ± SD 
95% CI 
p-value 
Biopsy   
n 
Mean ± SD 
95% CI 
p-value 
SQUID 
n 
Mean ± SD 
95% CI 
Difference 
(deferoxamine -
DFO) 
adjusted on baseline 
-0.56 ± 0.623 
[-1.79,  0.66] 
p=0.367 (NS)** 
-0.65 ± 0.661 
[-1.95,  0.65] 
p=0.325 (NS)** 
1.19 ± 1.342 
[-1.60,  3.98] 
p=0.160 
(NS)* 
p-value 
*  t-test  for  one  sample  (one  sided):  if  p<0.025,  significant  difference  (S)  of  the  change  from 
baseline  in  the  ICL670  group.  **  Covariance  analysis  with  baseline  as  covariate:  if  p<0.05, 
significant difference(S )in changes between the 2 groups at EOS. NS = not significant. 
p=0.386 (NS)** 
There was no significant difference in absolute change in LIC between patients (with LIC >= 7 mg 
Fe/g dw at baseline) treated with ICL670 and DFO. 
Table  14  summarises  the  iron  excretion  (based  on  LIC  measurements  at  baseline  and  EOS)  and  the 
iron  excretion/intake  ratio  by  treatment  group  in  the  PP-2  population.  There  were  no  marked 
differences in these parameters between the treatment groups.  
Table 14 - Iron balance during treatment (study 0107, PP-2 population) 
Biopsy 
  Average iron intake (mg/kg/day) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
Deferasirox 
N=268 
n=224 
0.38 ± 0.109 
0.13 - 0.71 
0.30- 0.47 
0.37 
DFO 
N=273 
n=230 
0.40± 0.113 
0.17 – 0.80 
0.32 - 0.47 
0.38 
  Average iron excretion rate (mg/kg/day) 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     32/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
  Ratio Fe excretion/Fe intake 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
SQUID 
  Average iron intake (mg/kg/day) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
0.45 ± 0.252 
-0.16 - 1.3 
0.27 - 0.62 
0.43 
1.21 ± 0.745 
-0.78 - 4.47 
0.71 -1.64 
1.07 
n=44 
0.40 ± 0.097 
0.17 – 0.63 
0.34- 0.46 
0.38 
  Average iron excretion rate (mg/kg/day) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
0.36 ± 0.085 
0.14 - 0.53 
0.31 - 0.42 
0.37 
  Ratio Fe excretion/Fe intake 
  Mean ± SD 
  Minimum - Maximum 
  P25 - P75 
  Median 
0.95 ± 0.24 
0.44 - 1.64 
0.81 -1.06 
0.91 
0.47 ± 0.194 
-0.18 - 1.36 
0.35 - 0.57 
0.47 
1.21 ± 0.476 
-0.55 - 3.78 
0.96 - 1.39 
1.14 
n=43 
0.44± 0.107 
0.23 – 0.82 
0.36 - 0.51 
0.43 
0.46 ± 0.113 
0.18 - 0.81 
0.39 - 0.53 
0.49 
1.05 ± 0.145 
0.80 – 1.45 
0.96 - 1.13 
1.02 
Serum ferritin levels mirrored the changes observed with LIC. In patients treated with deferasirox 5 or 
10 mg/kg in whom LIC increased, ferritin levels also increased progressively. In deferasirox patients 
treated at 20 mg/kg, LIC and ferritin levels remained stable, and in patients treated at 30 mg/kg there 
was a fall in both LIC and serum ferritin. 
In  DFO-treated  patients,  ferritin  behaved  in  a  similar  way.  At  lower  doses,  ferritin  levels  remained 
relatively constant and in patients treated with doses of >=50 mg/kg, a progressive fall in ferritin was 
observed (data not shown). 
An  increase  in  serum  iron  was  observed  during  the  study  in  the  highest  dose  category  for  both 
treatments.  Although  the  variability  of  TRF  concentrations  was  high,  there  were  small  increases  in 
TRF  concentrations  in  both  treatment  groups  during  the  study,  accompanied  by  a  slight  increase  in 
TRF saturation.  
• 
Supportive studies 
Study 0108 
This  study  was  a  multi-center,  open-label,  non-comparative  phase  II  trial  designed  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy/safety  of  deferasirox  in  pediatric  and  adult  patients  with  congenital  and  acquired  anemia 
complicated by chronic iron overload who could not be appropriately or adequately treated with DFO. 
The  study  population  included  β-thalassemia  patients  unable  to  be  adequately  treated  with  DFO 
(n=85) and patients with various rare chronic anemias (n=99). 
Deferasirox treatment was as detailed in study 0107. The primary efficacy assessment was liver iron 
content (LIC). The success rate was determined based on changes in LIC; (for secondary assessment: 
see  study  0107).  The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  deferasirox 
treatment on LIC as assessed by liver biopsy (or SQUID) after one year treatment. Effective chelation 
with  deferasirox  in  patients  with  either  β-thalassemia  unable  to  be  adequately  treated  with  DFO  or 
with rare anemias was defined to be established if the success rate was above 50%.  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     33/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  rare  anemia  stratum  included  patients  with  myelodysplastic  syndrome  (MDS,  n=47),  Diamond-
Blackfan  anemia  (DBA,  n=30),  aplastic  anemia  (n=5),  α-thalassemia  (n=3),  sideroblastic  anemia 
(n=3), myelofibrosis (n=2), pure red cell aplasia (n=2), pyruvate kinase deficiency (n=2), autoimmune 
hemolytic anemia (n=1), Fanconi’s anemia (n=1), hereditary sideroblastic anemia (n=1), erythropenia 
(n=1), and unspecified anemia (n=1). Thirty-two patients discontinued prior to the completion of the 
1-year  study  period  [8  patients  with  β-thalassemia  (4  adverse  events;  4  withdrew  consent)  and  24 
patients  with  rare  anemias  (9  adverse  events,  5  deaths,  6  withdrew  consent,  4  study  drug  no  longer 
needed0].  The  median  daily  dose  during  study  was  26.9  mg/kg  for  patients  with  β-thalassemia  and 
21.0 mg/kg for patients with rare anemias. About 50% of patients required dose adjustments at least 
once during study. 
In the ITT population, the success rate was significantly higher than 50%. In the PP-1 population the 
success rate was significantly higher than 50% in patients whose LIC was ≥ 7 mg Fe/g dw (biopsy + 
SQUID) at baseline. The same was observed in the ITT population with a baseline LIC >=7 mg Fe/g 
dw measured by biopsy (see table 15). 
Table 15 - Success rates based on change in LIC (study 0108, ITT and PP-1 population) 
β-
thalassemia 
N=80 
n=80 
45 (56.3) 
[45.4, 67.1] 
n=10 
2 (20.0) 
[2.5, 55.6] 
n=70 
43 (61.4) 
[50.0, 72.8] 
PP-1 population 
Rare 
anemias 
N=85 
n=85 
48 (56.5) 
[45.9, 67.0] 
n=13 
8 (61.5) 
[31.6, 86.1] 
n=72 
40 (55.6) 
[44.1, 67.0] 
All patients 
N=165 
n=165 
93 (56.4) 
[48.8, 63.9] 
p=0.051 
(NS) 
n=23 
10 (43.5) 
[23.2, 65.5] 
n=142 
83 (58.5) 
[50.3, 66.6] 
ITT 
population 
All patients 
N=184 
n=184 
93 (50.5) 
[43.3, 57.8] 
p=0.441 (NS) 
n=25 
10 (40.0) 
[21.1, 61.3] 
n=159 
83 (52.2) 
[44.4, 60.0] 
p=0.022 (S) 
p=0.289 (NS) 
Biopsy & SQUID    
Success rate (n (%)) 
95% CI  
p-value 
alpha=2.5%)  
(1-sided, 
LIC <7 mg Fe/g dw 
Success rate (n (%)) 
95% CI  
LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g dw 
Success rate (n (%)) 
95% CI  
p-value 
alpha=2.5%) 
(1-sided, 
Changes in LIC in patients [N=126 (β-thalassemia n=67 and rare anemias n=59)] with LIC available 
by either method (Biopsy and SQUID) at EOS (PP-2 population) and baseline LIC ≥ 7 mg Fe/g dw, 
showed a statistically significantly reduction in LIC (Mean ± SD =  - 5.5 ± 7.37, p<0.001). 
Changes  in  ferritin  mirrored  LIC  changes.  In  patients  with  β-thalassemia  or  DBA  treated  with 
deferasirox  5  or  10  mg/kg,  ferritin  levels  increased  progressively,  whereas  ferritin  levels  remained 
constant or fell progressively with doses of 20 and 30 mg/kg respectively. For patients with MDS or 
other  rare  anemias,  who  had  a  lower  average  iron  intake  during  study,  constant  levels  of  LIC  and 
ferritin were observed with a dose of 10 mg/kg, and 20 mg/kg introduced an overall reduction of iron 
burden.  Liver  pathology  showed  no  change  in  liver  fibrosis  in  either  disease  group.  In  both  groups, 
there was a decrease in Ishak grading [17]  indicating a decrease in necro-inflammatory activity, most 
apparent  in  patients  treated  with  deferasirox  30  mg/kg.  Semi-quantitative  assessment  of  changes  in 
regional hepatic iron showed reductions in total and regional iron of similar magnitude in both disease 
groups. 
Study 0109 
A  randomized,  multicenter,  open  label,  phase  Il  study  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics  and  the  effects  on  liver  iron  concentration  of  repeated  doses  of  10  mg/kg/day  of 
deferasirox  relative  to  deferoxamine  in  sickle  cell  disease  (SCD)  patients  with  transfusional 
hemosiderosis.  
For  treatment,  see  study  0107.  Efficacy  was  a  secondary  objective  and  was  assessed  by  estimating 
absolute and relative LIC change as well as the TBIE rate. LIC was assessed by SQUID. All patients 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     34/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
underwent  a  baseline  SQUID  assessment  which  was  repeated  at  24  and  52  weeks.  In  addition,  a 
subgroup of 30 patients was planned to undergo liver biopsy at screening and 52 weeks and MRI at 
screening,  24  and  52  weeks.  The  goal  of  these  additional  assessments  was  to  calibrate  the  LIC 
assessments obtained by SQUID with biopsy and MRI data. PK profiles were collected from patients 
receiving deferasirox in this subgroup. Independent of the randomized chelation therapy all patients in 
selected centers were potentially eligible to undergo liver biopsy and MRI as an additional method for 
LIC assessment until the required patient number had been reached. If a patient agreed to undergo the 
additional procedure he/she was included in this subgroup.  
An  average  dose  of  about  a  2:1  ratio  were  received  by  all  4  dose  treatment  groups.  A  significant 
reduction  in  LIC  was  observed  in  patients  receiving  deferasirox  and  with  LIC  ≥7  mg  Fe/g  dw  at 
baseline. The difference in response to deferasirox or DFO treatment was not statistically significant 
(p=0.669, PP-2 population). The results were confirmed in the PP-1 population. In patients with sickle 
cell disease and baseline LIC <7 mg Fe/g dw, who received the lower doses of deferasirox and DFO, 
maintenance of mean LIC was observed. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The patients included in the main dose finding study had a liver iron concentration (LIC) >7mg Fe/g 
dry  weight  (dw),  as  measured  by  the  SQUID  method.  In  severely  overloaded  patients  (taking  into 
account the SQUID initial screening), the 20 mg/kg/day dosage was effective to reverse iron overload, 
which  was  not  the  case  with  the  10  mg/kg/day  dosage.  The  20mg/kg/day  dosage  was  therefore 
selected in severely iron overloaded patients for efficacy studies. 
The  choice  of  the  primary  endpoint  of  the  pivotal  study,  based  on  a  success/failure  criterion  was 
supported by the literature. The primary objective could be interpreted as 1) prevention of increase of 
LIC above 7 mg Fe/g dw in patients with a LIC under this limit at baseline, and 2) decrease of LIC to a 
value  <7  mg  Fe/g  dw  in  patients  with  a  LIC  above  this  limit  at  baseline.  The  possible  loss  of 
information using such categorical endpoint was acknowledged, as very different situations could be 
defined as “success” (e.g. a patient showing a LIC decrease from 6.9 to 1.0 mg Fe/g dw and a patient 
showing a LIC increase from 2.0 to 6.9 mg Fe/g dw). 
Inclusion criteria and dose attribution were based on LIC, a parameter of limited availability in clinical 
practice. Posology and dose adjustment recommendations [based on patient’s response and therapeutic 
goals  (maintenance  or  reduction  of  iron  burden)]  are  provided  in  the  SPC,  based  on  monitoring  of 
serum ferritin (see SPC section 4.2 and 4.4) and in line with the SPC of the reference product. This 
proposal was considered acceptable from a practical point of view. If serum ferritin falls consistently 
below 500 µg/l, an interruption of treatment is recommended. 
It appeared during the pivotal trial that SQUID method underestimated LIC by 50% as compared to 
the actual values obtained from liver biopsy. The discrepancy was considered of limited impact as far 
as  relative  (percent)  variations  of  LIC  were  assessed.  However,  absolute  values  of  LIC  and  of  LIC 
decreases  were  underestimated  (errors  in  baseline  categorization;  false  assessments  of  absolute  LIC 
variations and of success/failure detection). Even if a limited number of patients were evaluated with 
the  SQUID  method  (including  children  and  patients  with  contra-indication  to  liver  biopsy),  the 
reliability of the clinical results was questioned. 
The primary analysis of the overall PP-1 population failed to meet the prospectively defined criterion 
to establish non-inferiority based on the comparison of success rates in the PP-1 population (difference 
and 95% CI: -13.5 [-21.6, -5.4]). In a sub-group analysis of patients with baseline LIC levels ≥ 7 mg 
Fe/g  dw,  overall  success  rates  were  comparable  (58.6%  vs.  58.9%)  and  the  lower  limit  of  the  95% 
confidence interval (-10.2%) was above the predefined non-inferiority threshold of -15%. 
Treatment  adjustment,  as  described  in  the  protocol  and  applied  in  the  pivotal  study,  resulted  in 
imbalance  dosages  that  may  have  favoured  the  results  in  patients  (especially  in  the  less  severely 
overloaded patients) treated with DFO: Patients receiving DFO before inclusion and randomized in the 
DFO  group,  could  receive  their  pre-inclusion  posology  as  soon  as  a  dose  increase  was  considered 
necessary.  Therefore,  the  actual  dose  of  DFO  often  exceeded  the  dose  initially  allocated,  whereas 
patients allocated to deferasirox had to follow a pre-established schedule that produced limited dose 
increase  as  compared  to  the  initial  planning.  These  doses  adjustments  precluded  a  fair  comparison 
between  the  two  treatments  and  could  partly  explain  why  deferasirox  failed  to  demonstrate  non 
inferiority to DFO, especially in less overloaded patients. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     35/52 
 
 
 
Target  organ  damages  have  not  been  evaluated.  Cardiologic  consequences  of  iron  overload  being  a 
major  prognostic  factor,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  further  investigate,  post-authorisation,  the 
effect of deferasirox on cardiac iron overload and cardiac function. 
Ten percent of the patients included in the pivotal trial were under 6 years of age. The efficacy results 
in  this  sub-group  did  not  differ  from  the  results  observed  in  the  general  population.  However,  the 
applicability  of  the  results  observed  in  the  whole  population  to  children  was  questioned.  Various 
concerns  were  raised:  difficulty  to  apply  the  claimed  non-inferiority  to  the  small  subgroup  of  very 
young  children;  the  SQUID  method  was  more  frequently  used  in  children  than  in  adults  [79/292 
(27%) in patients under 16 years versus 11/261 (4%) after 16 years of age]. Among patients between 2 
and 6 years of age, 9/56 (16%) were evaluated by SQUID; the renal disorders observed in the overall 
population (see clinical safety) remained a concern in very young patients.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
The key studies supporting the safety claim included data obtained in 1005 patients with transfusional 
hemosiderosis in various diseases (β-thalassemia, rare anemias, SCD) and derived from the four main 
safety and efficacy studies (0106, 0107, 0108, 0109).  
Of these patients, 652 received deferasirox and 353 received deferoxamine (DFO). Among them, 488 
(46.7%) were paediatric patients < 16 years of age. In patients receiving deferasirox, 52 (8.0%) were 
less than 6 years, 121 (18.6%) were between 6 and 12 years and 119 (18.3%) were between 12 and 16 
years of age. 
More  than  93%  of  patients  with  β-thalassemia  received  deferasirox  for  ≥48  weeks  and  the  mean 
exposure  was  about  one  year  [Mean  (±  SD)  =  51.6  ±  8.55].  Approximately  40%  of  patients  were 
initially treated at the highest daily dose of 30 mg/kg and 17 of the 143 patients analyzed in the ≤10 
mg/kg dose group received an initial dose of 5 mg/kg.  
In the subgroups of patients with rare anemias (study 0108, n = 99), the initial dose of deferasirox was 
5,  10,  20  or  30  mg/kg  in  5  (5.1%),  11  (11.1%),  30  (30.3%)  and  53  (53.5%)  patients,  respectively. 
About  70%  of  patients  received  study  drug  for  ≥48  weeks,  including  27  patients  with  MDS  and  14 
with  other  anemias.  Thirty-three  patients  with  MDS  and  21  patients  with  other  anemias  received 
deferasirox for ≥24 weeks. In the subgroups of patients with SCD (study 0109, n = 195), 165 (84.6%) 
patients,  including  114  (86.4%)  on  deferasirox,  had  received  study  drug  for  ≥48  weeks.  Treatment 
duration  in  the  core  phase  of  study  0105  was  three  months  and  treatment  could  continue  in  an 
extension phase for a total duration of 48 weeks.  
• 
Adverse events  
Controlled studies 
In study 0107, 500 patients developed AEs [254/296 (85.8%) in the deferasirox; 246/290 (84.8%) in 
the DFO group). General disorders were prominent among the DFO patients due to frequent reports of 
infusion  site  reactions.  Gastrointestinal  disorders  (42.6%  vs.  31.4%),  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue 
disorders (22% vs. 15.5%), investigations (19.3% vs. 5.5%), hepatobiliary disorders (4.7% vs. 1.7%), 
psychiatric disorders (4.7% vs. 3.4%) were more frequent in the deferasirox group. The following AEs 
were  reported  more  frequently  in  the  deferasirox  group:  abdominal  pain  (13.9%  vs.  9.7%),  diarrhea 
(11.8%  vs.  7.2%),  nausea  (10.5%  vs.  4.8%),  creatinine  increased  (11.1%  vs.  0%),  rash  (8.4%  vs. 
3.1%), abdominal pain upper (7.8% vs. 5.2%), arthralgia (7.4% vs. 4.8%), acute tonsillitis (6.4% vs. 
5.2%),  fatigue  (6.1%  vs.  4.8%),  dyspepsia  (3%  vs.  1.7%).  Cholelithiasis,  hepatitis  and  hepatic 
steatosis, ALT increased occurred more frequently in the deferasirox group compared to DFO group 
(respectively  1.7%  vs.  0.7%;  0.7%  vs.  0;  1%  vs.  0;  2.0%  vs.  0.3%).  However,  events  such  as  viral 
infection, influenza like illness, pharyngitis, bronchitis, pyrexia, cough, headache, pharyngolaryngeal 
pain,  back  pain,  asthenia,  transfusion  reaction,  bone  pain,  epistaxis  were  more  frequent  in  the  DFO 
group.  In  study  0105,  68  patients  reported  AEs  during  [24  (100%)  in  the  deferasirox  10  mg/kg/day 
group,  23  (95.8%)  in  the  deferasirox  20  mg/kg/day  group  and  21  (91.3%)  in  the  DFO  group].  The 
respiratory  system  (87.5%  in  the  deferasirox  10  mg/kg/day  arm,  62.5%  in  the  deferasirox  20 
mg/kg/day  arm,  56.5%  in  the  DFO  arm),  including  pharyngitis,  rhinitis,  pharyngolaryngeal  pain, 
bronchitis, cough and the gastrointestinal system (respectively 70.8%, 58.3%, 47.8%) were the system 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     36/52 
 
 
 
 
the most frequently affected, followed by general disorders (54.2%, 58.3%, 47.8%), infections (75%, 
45.8%,  52.2%),  and  musculoskeletal  complaints  (50%,  50%,  52.2%).  The  frequency  of 
skin/subcutaneous  disorders  was  similar  between  groups  (respectively  20.8%,  20.8%,  21.7%). 
Investigations  were  more  frequently  reported  in  the  deferasirox  groups  and  mainly  concerned  renal 
function  tests  abnormalities  reported  in  the  deferasirox  20mg/kg/day  group  (2  cases  of  β-
2microglobulin increased, 3 cases of urinary β-2microglobulin increased, one case of blood creatinine 
increased, one case of creatinine renal clearance decreased vs. 0 in the others).  
Adverse reactions ranked by frequency, are provided in table 16 
Table 16: Adverse reactions among clinical trial (presented in order of decreasing seriousness) 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncom
mon: 
Anxiety, sleep disorder 
Nervous system disorders 
Commo
n: 
Uncom
mon: 
Eye disorders 
Uncom
mon: 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Early cataract, maculopathy 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncom
mon: 
Hearing loss 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncom
mon: 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Commo
n: 
Uncom
mon: 
Diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, 
dyspepsia 
Gastritis 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Commo
n: 
Uncom
mon: 
Transaminases increased 
Hepatitis, cholelithiasis  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Commo
n: 
Uncom
mon: 
Rash, pruritus 
Pigmentation disorder 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Very 
common: 
Common: 
Uncommo
n: 
Blood creatinine increased 
Proteinuria 
Glycosuria 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Uncom
mon: 
Pyrexia, oedema, fatigue 
Convention: very common: > 1/10; common: > 1/100, < 1/10; uncommon: > 1/1,000, < 1/100.  
Uncontrolled studies 
In  study  108,  181  patients  reported  AEs  [84/85  (98.8%)  in  the  group  with  β-thalassemia  and  97/99 
(98.8%) in the group with rare anemias]. Gastrointestinal disorders (respectively 71.8% and 72.7%), 
infections and infestations (70.6% and 65.7%), general and administration site disorders (48.2% and 
48.5%)  were  the  most  frequently  reported.  A  total  of  73/184  (39.7%)  patients  developed  mild 
creatinine increases at some point during the study. One of the patients treated at 5 or 10 mg/kg had a 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     37/52 
 
 
transient 33% increase in creatinine, whereas the percentages affected in the 20 and 30 mg/kg groups 
were 48.1% and 44.3% respectively, and were similar in the disease groups. In the group of patients 
with rare anemias, 4 cases of renal failure, 3 cases of renal impairment two cases of cholelithiasis, two 
cases of cataract (one in each group), one case of sudden hearing loss were reported. Eleven cases of 
tachycardia  (8  patients  with  β-thalassemia,  3  patients  with  anemias)  and  9  cases  of  palpitations  (5 
patients with β-thalassemia, 4 patients with anemias) were observed. 
In  study  0106,  involving  paediatric  patients  with  transfusion  dependent  β-thalassemia  major  (n=40) 
receiving repeated dose of 10 mg/kg of deferasirox during 48 weeks, 14 children < 12 years (70%), 
developed GI disorders compared to 11 adolescents (55%), 27.5% patients reported skin disorders and 
12.5% reported transaminases increased. No growth disorders or sexual development failure occurred 
during this study. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  study  0107,  52  patients  (8.9%)  experienced  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  [27  (9.1%)  in  the 
deferasirox group vs. 25 (8.6%) in the DFO group]. Four deaths were reported during the study [1 in 
the  deferasirox  group  (0.3%)  vs.  3  in  the  DFO  group  (1%)].  In  study  0109,  67  patients  (34.8%) 
experienced  SAEs  [46  (34.8%)  in  the  ICL670  group  vs.  21  (33.3%)  in  the  DFO  group].  Digestive 
disorders  (abdominal  pain,  nausea,  vomiting,  one  case  of  pancreatitis),  investigations  (mostly  liver 
function  tests  disorders),  skin  disorders  (skin  ulcer,  swelling  face)  were  more  frequent  in  patients 
receiving  deferasirox.  Two  SAEs  were  considered  related  to  deferasirox  (acute  pancreatitis;  severe 
nausea).  In  study  0105,  12  patients  (16.9%)  experienced  SAEs  [4  (16.7%)  in  the  deferasirox  10mg 
/kg/day group vs. 3 (12.5%) in the deferasirox 20mg /kg/day group and 5 (21.7%) in the DFO group]. 
No  cases  were  considered  drug-related.  During  the  extension  phase  (n  =  67),  5  patients  reported  8 
serious adverse events, including one case of QTc prolongation in one patient receiving deferasirox, 
one  case  of  nephrolithiasis  and  one  case  of  transaminases  increased  in  patients  receiving  DFO.  In 
study  0108,  38  patients  (20.7%)  experienced  SAEs  [11  in  patients  with  β-thalassemia  and  27  in 
patients with rare anemias], of which 6 cases were considered to be drug related (including 1 case of 
abdominal  pain  with  a  positive  rechallenge,  1  case  of  skin  rash,  1  case  of  dizziness,  vomiting, 
hypotension  and  arrhythmia  which  led  the  investigator  to  switch  to  DFO,  1  case  of  loss  of 
consciousness).  In  study  0106,  1  serious  case  of  pancreatitis  and  one  serious  case  of  cholelithiasis 
were reported in two adolescents.  
Other significant events 
Renal disorders: Table 17 summarizes the data from studies 0105, 0106, 0107, 0108 and 0109 on renal 
disorders.  
Table 17- Renal disorders (studies 0105, 0106, 0107, 0108 and 0109): 
Study 107 
Study 109 
Study 105 
deferasir
ox 
N = 296 
n(%) 
9 (3.0%) 
DFO 
N=290 
n(%) 
10 
(3.4%) 
113 
(38.2%) 
41 
(14.2%) 
7 (2.4%)
1 (0.3%) 
deferas
irox 
N=132 
n(%) 
9 
(6.8%) 
32 
(24.2%
) 
1 
(0.8%) 
DFO 
N=63 
n(%) 
1 
(1.6%) 
4 
(6.3%) 
2 
(3.2%) 
deferas
irox 
N=48 
n(%) 
8 
(16.7%
) 
NA 
DFO 
N=23 
n(%) 
4 
(17.4%
) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Renal 
disorders 
Serum 
creatinine 
increases > 
33%  
Serum 
creatinine 
increases > 
33% and > 
ULN 
Study 
108 
deferasir
ox 
N=184 
n(%) 
29 
(15.8%) 
54 
(29.3%) 
19 
(10.3%) 
Renal SAEs 
0 
2 (0.7%) 
0 
0 
2 
(4.1%) 
0 
2 (1.1%) 
Study 
106 
deferas
irox 
N=40 
n (%) 
1 
(2.5%) 
0 
1 
(2.5%) 
> 
ULN, 
but < 
33% 
0 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     38/52 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal 
due to renal 
AEs 
Dose 
interruption / 
adjustment due 
to renal AEs 
Dose 
interruption / 
adjustment 
due to serum 
creat.  
increased 
UPCR 0.2 - < 
0.4 mg/mg 
UPCR 0.4 - < 
0.6 mg/mg 
UPCR ≥0.6 
mg/mg 
Urinary β2 M 
increased 
Urin. 
β2M≥10000 
µg/l 
Nephrolithiasi
s / renal colic 
0 
0 
2 (0.6%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
0 
33 
(11.1%) 
0 
4 
(3.0%) 
126 
(42.6%) 
56 
(18.9%) 
55 
(18.6%) 
169 
(58.3%) 
42 
(14.5%) 
21 
(7.2%) 
1 (0.3%) 
NA 
0 
60 
(45.5%
) 
11 
(8.3%) 
14 
(10.6%
) 
NA 
0 
3 (1.0%) 
0 
Preoteinuria 
2 (0.7%) 
3 (1.0%) 
2 
(1.5%) 
0 
0 
0 
25 
(39.7%
) 
3 
(4.8%) 
6 
(9.5%) 
NA 
0 
0 
0 
1 
(2.1%) 
1 
(2.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
NA 
NA 
1 (0.5%) 
0 
8 (4.3%) 
1 
(2.5%) 
32 
(17.4%)  
5 
patients  
discont.  
80 
(43.5%) 
30 
(16.3%) 
27 
(14.7%) 
0 
17 
(42.5%
) 
3 
(7.5%) 
1 
(2.5%) 
3 
(6.2%) 
2 
(4.1%) 
8 
(16.6%
) 
NA 
0  
0 
NA 
NA 
1 
(4.3%) 
3 (1.6%) 
1 
(2.5%) 
NA 
6 (3.2%) 
0 
A  total  of  36.3%  of  patients  on  deferasirox  experienced  serum  creatinine  increases  >  33%  at  ≥2 
consecutive  visits.  In  most  of  the  cases,  the  serum  creatinine  stayed  into  normal  ranges.  However, 
2.4% of patients in study 107, 2.3% in study 109 and 10.3% in study 108 receiving deferasirox had 
serum  creatinine  post-baseline  >  ULN  at  ≥2  consecutive  visits.  This  increase  was  dose-related  and 
occurred  mainly  with  daily  doses  of  20  and  30  mg/kg.  Lower  doses  (5-10  mg/kg)  were  better 
tolerated. 
More than 50% of patients treated with deferasirox and who did not underwent dose reduction, were 
still experiencing serum creatinine increases > 33% at the end of study.  
treated  with  deferasirox,  68  had  dose 
In  studies  107,  109  and  105,  among  patients 
reduction/adjustment  due  to  serum  creatinine  increased.  The  study  protocols  did  not  require  dose 
reductions for patients on DFO who experienced serum creatinine increases. 
In 41.2% of patients (28/68), a dose reduction led to a decrease of the serum creatinine. However,  in 
all these cases but two, the values remained higher compared to baseline, with the reduced dose.  
In 50% of patients (33/68), the serum creatinine values remained stable after dose reduction, without 
decreasing. In 7 patients, some values remained therefore > ULN after dose reduction. In 7 patients, 
the serum creatinine values tended to increase later after dose was decreased. 
In some pateints, a progressive increase in serum creatinine led to drug interruption. In 17 cases, the 
consequences of the interruption could not be evaluated, as the treatement was interrupted for a few 
days only.  
In  8  patients,  the  interruption  of  treatment  was  longer  (from  20  to  110  days):  In  one  case,  the  first 
interruption  led  to  a  decrease  of  the  serum  creatinine  to  a  value  similar  to  baseline  within  23  days. 
However,  following  the  second  interruption  (three  weeks),  serum  creatinine  values  remained  higher 
compared to baseline values (+30%). In two cases, treatment interruptions were decided due to values 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     39/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> ULN at 20 mg/kg dose. The values decreased after dose interruption; the values normalised in one 
situation,  during  the  extension  study  at  a  lower  dose  (15  mg/kg),  and  after  40  days  of  drug 
interruption, in the other situation. In four cases, the serum creatinine decreased after dose interruption 
but  remained  >ULN.  In  one  case,  the  serum  creatinine  values  decreased  after  dose  interruption, 
however, the patient experienced one value >ULN on day 95 following the interruption.  
At  the  end  of  study,  63%  of  patients  had  more  than  30%  serum  creatinine  increased  compared  to 
baseline and 30% of patients had a 50% serum creatinine increase.  
Urinary β2M (ULN < 100 µg/l) and the urinary protein/creatinine ratio (UPCR), which quantifies the 
proteinuria (ULN < 0.2 mg/mg) were also modified in patients receiving deferasirox. 
Renal  colic/nephrolithiasis  were  reported  more  frequently  in  patients  treated  with  deferasirox  (8/48 
(16.6%)) than in  patients treated with DFO ( 1/23 4.3%)) in the comparative study 105. these events 
were reported with equal frequency in the two remaining comparative studies 107 and 109”. 
Proteinuria, dysuria and nephropathy were also observed. Protein electrophoresis was not performed.  
Markers of tubular function (such as uricemia, kalemia, phosphoremia, glycosuria) and glycemia were 
measured  in  all  studies.  These  results  showed  no  clinically  relevant  abnormalities  except  a  minimal 
(on average, a 5% reduction from baseline) in uric acid.   
The explanation provided by the applicant for the mild, stable increase in creatinine (and cystatin C) in 
patients treated with deferasirox is a reduction in GFR, possibly as a consequence of an effect on renal 
haemodynamics.  The  applicant  hypothesised  that  these  haemodynamic  changes  are  induced  by  an 
excessively  rapid  rate  of  removal  of  iron  (over-chelation).  In  some  patients  there  appears  to  be 
removal  of  iron  that  greatly  exceeds  the  intake  of  iron  from  transfusion  which  might  lead  to  the 
removal of iron from iron-dependent enzymes and transporters that are associated with the regulation 
of kidney function.  
Hepatobiliary disorders and liver function tests changes: Table 18 summarizes the data from studies 
107,  109,  105  and  108  on  liver  disorders.  In  study  106,  transaminases  increases  were  reported  in 
12.5% of the patients, and one adolescent experienced one serious case of cholelithiasis.  
Table 18: Liver disorders (studies 107, 109, 105 and 108): 
Study 107 
Study 109 
Study 105 
Deferasir
ox 
N=296, 
n(%) 
14 
(4.7%) 
1 (0.3% 
17 
(5.7%) 
2 (0.7%) 
4 (1.4%) 
5 (1.7%) 
DFO 
N=29
0, 
n(%) 
5 
(1.7%
) 
1 
(0.3%
) 
5 
(1.7%
) 
0 
0 
2 
(0.7%
) 
Deferasi
rox 
N=132, 
n(%) 
7 
(5.3%) 
1 
(0.8%) 
5 
(3.8%) 
1 
(0.8%) 
0 
3 
(2.4%) 
DF
O 
N=6
3, 
n(%
) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
AST > 5 ULN at 
consecutive post-
baseline visits 
ALT > 5 ULN at 
consecutive post-
baseline visits 
Hepatobiliary SAEs 
Deferasirox 
withdrawal due to 
hepatobiliary AEs 
Cholelithiasis 
Deferasi
rox 
N=48, 
n(%) 
DFO 
N=23, 
n(%) 
Study 
108 
Deferasir
ox 
N=184, 
n(%) 
1 
(2.1%) 
0 
10 
(5.4%) 
NA 
NA 
0 
NA 
NA 
1 
(2.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
14 
(7.6%) 
2 (1.1%)
0 
2 (1.1%)
Abbreviations:  ALT:  Alanine  aminotransferase;  AST:  Aspartate  aminotransferase;  DFO:  Deferoxamine;  SAEs: 
Serious adverse events; ULN: Upper normal limit. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     40/52 
 
  
 
 
 
Hepatobiliary  disorders  and  liver  function  tests  changes:  The  number  of  patients  who  reported 
jaundice and hyperbilirubinemia was higher in the group receiving 30 mg/kg of deferasirox. The LIC 
values at baseline were higher on average in this dose group. However, the relationship could not be 
established  due  to  fluctuation  of  the  bilirubin  rates.  Almost  2/3  of  the  patients  in  the  deferasirox 
groups had elevations of transaminases during the study. There was a significant difference with the 
DFO group which was not in line with a possible normal fluctuations in a patient population with pre-
existing  liver  disease.  The  difference  was  more  evident  when  considering  SGPT/ALT  (70,8%  vs. 
33%). Cases of negative dechallenge, or one case of improvement after deferasirox dose increase, have 
been reported. In 2 cases positive dechallenges/rechallenge were reported. Elevations of transaminases 
greater  than  10 times  the  upper  limit  of  the  normal  range,  suggestive  of  hepatitis,  were  uncommon 
(0.3%).  A  similar  number  of  patients  receiving  5,  10,  20  or  30  mg/kg  of  deferasirox  experienced 
hepatobiliary disorders, suggesting the absence of dose-effect. However, some events could be due to 
either the underlying disease or to insufficient iron chelation. Cholelithiasis is a known complication 
in  patients  with  thalassemia  [21]  and  sickle  cell  disease  [18-20].  However,  in  clinical  studies,  the 
incidence of hepato-biliary adverse events occurring as cholecystitis, biliary colic, cholelithiasis was 
higher in deferasirox group than in DFO group [14/703 (2.0%) vs. 3/353 (0.8%)]; 9/14 (64%) cases 
were reported in patients aged ≤ 19 years.  
ECG  abnormalities  and  rhythm  disorders:  Nine  cases  (1.3%)  of  serious  AEs  involving  ECG 
abnormalities or rhythm disorders were reported in patients treated with deferasirox compared to one 
reported  with  DFO  (0.3%).  The  percentage  of  patients  who  experienced  ECG  abnormalities  and 
rhythm  disorders  in  study  107  (during  one  year  of  therapy)  was  4.7%  in  the  deferasirox  group  vs. 
4.1% in the DFO group. In study 109, ECG abnormalities and rhythm disorders were reported in 9.8% 
of patients in the deferasirox group vs. 3.2% in the DFO group. The time to onset was 220 days (70-
359)  in  deferasirox  treatment  group  and  212  days  (81-340)  in  DFO  treatment  group.  In  most  cases, 
confounding  factors  were  found  as  pre-existing  cardiac  diseases  (including  arrhythmias).  Negative 
rechallenge and resolution without interruption of treatment were observed. 
Skin disorders: A total of 52 patients (12.4%) in the pooled thalassemia population experienced a rash, 
which  resolved  spontaneously  without  interruption  or  discontinuation  in  33  cases  (63.5%).  These 
rashes  were  generally  of  mild  severity  and  resolved,  on  average,  in  less  than  one  week.  Nineteen 
patients  (36.5%)  who  developed  a  skin  rash  in  the  pooled  β-thalassemia  population  discontinued  or 
interrupted the treatment.  
Digestive  disorders:  Gastrointestinal  disturbances  were  reported  in  about  26%  of  patients  (mainly 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea or abdominal pain) during chronic treatment with deferasirox in adult and 
paediatric  patients.  Diarrhoea  was  reported  more  commonly  in  paediatric  patients  aged  2  to  5  years 
than  in  older  patients.  A  few  cases  of  ulcer,  pancreatitis,  GI  haemorrhage,  hematemesis,  dyspepsia, 
gastritis  were  reported  in  patients  receiving  deferasirox.  No  serious  cases  of  gastritis  were  reported. 
These  reactions  were  dose-dependent,  mostly  mild  to  moderate,  generally  transient  and  mostly 
resolved even if treatment was continued.  
Ophthalmologic  and  audiometric  examinations:  Lens  opacities  and  signs  of  deafness  have  been 
observed at a similar frequency in deferasirox and DFO groups. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
See section on “Other significant events”. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Safety data in paediatric patients are reported as part of study 0106 results. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No safety related to drug-drug interactions studies were conducted. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the pivotal study, 13 patients (2.0%) permanently discontinued therapy due to AEs [9 (2.7%) in the 
deferasirox group and 4 (1.4%) in the DFO group]. Therapy discontinuations were mostly due to skin 
and liver disorders. Temporary dose interruptions or dose adjustments due to AEs occurred in 92/296 
(31.1%)  patients  receiving  deferasirox  vs.  54/290  (18.6%)  patients  receiving  DFO  [most  common 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     41/52 
 
reasons  were  blood  creatinine  increases  and  3  cases  of  blood  creatinine  abnormal  (12.5%  vs.  0%), 
infections (6.8% vs. 8.9%), GI disorders (5.1% vs. 3.4%), skin disorders (5.1%, vs. 0.3%)]. A possible 
dose response effect for dose interruptions/adjustments was apparent for serum creatinine, with 2.6%, 
8.3% and 20.2% of patients affected at 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, respectively. In study 0109, 5 patients 
(2.6%) permanently discontinued therapy due to adverse events [4 (3.0%) in the deferasirox group and 
1 (1.6%) in the DFO group]. Temporary dose interruptions or dose adjustments due to AEs occurred 
in  33/132  (25%)  patients  receiving  deferasirox  vs.  14/63  (22.2%)  patients  receiving  DFO  [most 
common reason were GI disorders (8.3%  vs. 3.2%), skin disorders (2.3%  vs. 0%), hepatic and renal 
disorders  (ALT  increased:  0.8%  and  creatinine  increased:  2.3%  vs.  0%)].  In  study  0105,  3  patients 
(4.2%) permanently discontinued therapy due to adverse events [1 (4.2%) in the deferasirox group vs. 
2 (8.7%) in the DFO group]. Temporary dose interruptions or adjustments were mainly due to GI and 
renal disorders and occurred in 13 (54.2%) patients receiving deferasirox 20mg/kg/day vs. 6 patients 
(25.0%) receiving deferasirox 10mg/kg/day and 25 (35.2%) patients receiving DFO. In the extension 
phase, 3 patients receiving deferasirox discontinued treatment due to a severe reactivation of hepatitis 
infection,  QT  prolongation,  increase  in  β-2  M.  Five  patients  receiving  deferasirox  interrupted 
treatment (including 3 cases of drug-related elevated β-2 M to > 10,000 µg/l) vs. 2 patients receiving 
DFO.  In  study  0108,  18  patients  (4  in  the  group  with  β-thalassemia  and  14  in  the  group  with  rare 
anemias)  discontinued  deferasirox  due  to  renal  disorders  (5  cases),  GI  disorders,  skin  rash  or  atrial 
fibrillation. Dose interruptions or adjustments were mainly [32/184 (17.4%) patients] due to increases 
in creatinine by at least 33% at two consecutive visits compared to the average of the baseline values.  
• 
Post marketing experience 
At  the  time  of  the  submission,  post-marketing  experience  on  deferasirox  was  not  available. 
Deferasirox was authorised in the US on 02 November 2005. 
• 
User testing 
The  readability  test  of  the  package  leaflet  of  Exjade  (deferasirox)  125,  250  and  500  mg  dispersible 
tablets was performed in English, in 20 subjects. The respondents were healthy volunteers or patients 
with sickle cell disease or thalassemia, aged between 18 and 63 years. Age, gender, socio-professional 
profiles  and  reading  ability  were  taken  into  account;  some  respondents  had  English  as  a  second 
language. The test received globally good results and the enlightened difficulties have conducted the 
applicant to perform several changes at each round of the evaluation to improve the readability. There 
were no question on the risks regarding the renal function but the test was performed before the SPC 
was  modified.  Overall,  the  test  conformed  to  EMEA  guidance  and  the  results  were  considered 
satisfactory.  
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Serum  creatinine  increases  of    >  30%  to  >  90%  occurred  early,  in  general  within the first month of 
treatement with deferasirox. There was a correlation between the increase of serum creatinine and the 
decrease of the creatinine clearance, which occured during the first four weeks of treatement.  
Creatinine clearance decreases confirmed that deferasirox may cause renal dysfunction. In the pivotal 
study, 9.7% of patients (vs. 3.1% in the DFO group) experienced abnormal creatinin clearance (< 90 
ml/min). Two of the three patients who had abnormal creatinine clearance at baseline experienced a 
worsening of their renal function test while receiving deferasirox. From week 52 to week 84 there was 
a further decrease in median levels of about - 7.5 ml/min.  
No  risk  factors  were  identified  regarding  the  age.  The  time  course  in  creatinine  clearance  from  the 
long-term  study  108-108E  showed  similar  effects  across  various  underlying  diseases.  Only  scarce 
information was provided in patients with renal impairment before initiation of deferasirox treatment. 
However, according to the US post marketing reports, which showed a worsening of the renal function 
in patients treated with deferasirox, the responsibility of deferasirox as a contributing factor could not 
be ruled out based on the chronology. 
Serum  creatinine  values may decrease after dose reduction. However, in 50% of patients, the serum 
creatinine values only stabilized after dose reduction. This stabilisation may be transient, since further 
increases  were  observed.  The  outcome  after  dose  discontinuation  were  difficult  to  assess  as  the 
duration of the interruption was often short (a few days). In a few cases, the duration was longer. The 
serum  creatinine  decreased  slowly  after  drug  interruption.  However,  the  serum  creatinine  values 
remained > ULN in some cases.  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     42/52 
 
Since  deferasirox  was  resumed  while  serum  creatinine  was  still  >  ULN  in  some  patients,  it  was 
difficult  to  conclude  regarding  the  reversibility  of  the  renal  events.  However,  in  two  patients,  a 
decrease of serum creatinine with a value similar to the baseline value was observed. 
Therefore, the data observed did do not allow to affirm the reversibility of the renal events associated 
with  deferasirox  after  interruption  of  the  treatment.  A  dose  reduction  did  not  systematically 
correspond to a decrease in serum creatinine. 
Two fatal cases were spontaneously reported in the US. Both patients had an underlying disease: the 
first  case  of  fatal  renal  failure  occurred  in  a  patient  with  acute  lymphocytic  leukaemia  but  had  no 
history of renal disease and no concomitant nephrotoxic drugs. The second one developed sepsis with 
multi-organ  dysfunction.  Both  cases  occurred  shortly  after  the  initiation  of  the  treatment  with 
deferasirox and the fatal outcome occurred rapidly after the symptoms began;. Thus, a possible causal 
relationship to desferasirox cannot be excluded.  Therefore it is recommended that serum creatinine be 
assessed in duplicate before initiating therapy. Serum creatinine, creatinine clearance (estimated with 
the  Cockcroft-Gault  or  MDRD  formula  in  adults  and  with  the  Schwartz  formula  in  children)  and/or 
plasma  cystatin  C  levels  should  be  monitored  weekly  during  the  first  month  after  initiation  or 
modification  of  the  therapy,  and  monitored  monthly  thereafter  (see  SPC  section  4.4).  Guidance  on 
dose reduction is provided in section 4.4 of the SPC for adult and paediatric patients. The applicant’s 
hypothesis  of  overchelation,  as  a  possible  mechanism  to  explain  the  renal  findings,  was  considered 
interesting  but  not  sufficient  to  explain  the  renal  disorders  associated  with  deferasirox.  Particular 
attention should therefore be paid to monitoring of serum creatinine in patients who are receiving high 
doses of deferasirox and/or low rates of transfusion (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells or <2 
units/month for an adult). Particular attention should also be paid to monitoring of serum creatinine in 
patients who are concomitantly receiving medicinal products that depress renal function.  
Important  increases  of  ß2M  observed  during  clinical  trials  suggested  a  tubular  toxicity  due  to 
deferasirox.  Markers  of  tubular  function  (such  as  uricemia,  kalemia,  phosphoremia,  glycosuria)  and 
glycemia  were  measured  in  all  studies.  These  results  showed  no  clinically  relevant  abnormalities 
except a minimal (on average, a 5% reduction from baseline) in uric acid. 
Tests  for  proteinuria  should  be  performed  monthly.  As  needed,  additional  markers  of  renal  tubular 
function  may  also  be  monitored.  Dose  reduction  or  interruption  may  be  considered  if  there  are 
abnormalities in levels of tubular markers and/or if clinically indicated. If, despite dose reduction and 
interruption,  the  serum  creatinine  remains  significantly  elevated  and  there  is  also  persistent 
abnormality  in  another  marker  of  renal  function  (e.g.  proteinuria,  Fanconi’s  Syndrome),  the  patient 
should  be  referred  to  a  renal  specialist,  and  further  specialised  investigations,  such  as  renal  biopsy, 
may be considered (see SPC section 4.4).  
The  long  term  consequences  of  the  renal  toxicity  of  deferasirox  are  unknown.  PSURs  will  be 
submitted every 6 months during the first two years and will contain a section on renal safety. Annual 
Safety Reports (ASRs) will be provided every 12 months for ongoing clinical trials with deferasirox 
and  will  include  summaries  on  outcomes  in  patients  whose  dose  was  decreased  due  to  creatinine 
increases.  Reports to be provided every 18 months will contain full renal safety updates on the long-
term studies (0105E2, 0106E, 0107E, 0108E and 0109E). Deferasirox is contra-indicated in patients 
with estimated creatinine clearance < 60ml/min. 
Hepatobiliary  disorders  and  liver  function  tests  changes  were  more  frequently  observed  in  patients 
treated with deferasirox than DFO. These adverse effects occurred within a few months after therapy 
initiation  and  led  in  some  cases  to  dose  reduction,  treatment  interruption  or  study  medication 
withdrawal.  The  elevation  in  transaminases  was  reported  in  patients  treated  with  low  doses  of 
deferasirox and was intermittent or fluctuated. Cholelithiasis is a known complication in patients with 
thalassemia  and  sickle  cell  disease  but  the  responsibility  of  deferasirox  in  the  occurrence  of 
cholelithiasis  occurring  in  the  patients  treated  was  not  excluded.  It  is  recommended  that  that  liver 
function  tests  be  performed  every  month.  Guidance  on  posology  adaptation  or  interruption  are 
provided in the SPC (see SPC, section 4.4 and 4.8).  
Cardiac  dysfunction  is  a  known  complication  of  severe  iron  overload.  Cardiac  function  should  be 
monitored in patients with severe iron overload during long-term treatment with deferasirox (see SPC 
section 4.4). 
Skin  rash  occurred  in  about  7%  of  adult  and  paediatric  patients  during  chronic  treatment  with 
deferasirox. The rashes resolved spontaneously in most cases. When interruption of treatment may be 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     43/52 
 
necessary,  treatment  may  be  reintroduced  after  resolution  of  the  rash,  at  a  lower  dose  followed  by 
gradual dose escalation. In severe cases this reintroduction could be conducted in combination with a 
short period of oral steroid administration (see SPC section 4.4 and 4.8). 
Deferasirox  were  not  associated  with  growth  disorders  compared  to  DFO  in  paediatric  patients.  No 
differences between the treatment groups have been observed regarding sexual development as well. 
These results should be interpreted with caution given the small number of patients involved and the 
duration  of  treatment.  As  a  precautionary  measure  in  the  management  of  paediatric  patients  with 
transfusional  iron  overload,  body  weight,  height  and  sexual  development  should  be  monitored  at 
regular  intervals  (every  12 months).  No  clinical  data  on  exposed  pregnancies  are  available  for 
deferasirox. Studies in animals have shown some reproductive toxicity at maternally toxic doses (see 
non-clinical assessment and SPC section 5.3). As a precaution, it is recommended that deferasirox not 
be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (see SPC section 4.6). As with other iron chelator 
treatment,  high-frequency  hearing  loss  and  lenticular  opacities  (early  cataracts)  have  been 
uncommonly observed in patients treated with deferasirox. Auditory and ophthalmic testing (including 
fundoscopy)  is  recommended  before  the  start  of  treatment  and  at  regular  intervals  thereafter  (every 
12 months).  If  disturbances  are  noted  during  the  treatment,  dose  reduction  or  interruption  may  be 
considered  (see  SPC  section  4.4  and  4.8).  As  the  tablets  contain  lactose,  deferasirox  is  not 
recommended  for  patients  with  rare  hereditary  problems  of  galactose  intolerance,  of  severe  lactase 
deficiency or of glucose-galactose malabsorption (see SPC section 4.4). Exjade is contra-indicated in 
patients with hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any of the excipients (see SPC section 4.3). No case of 
overdose  has  been  reported  during  the  clinical  trials.  Single  doses  of  80 mg/kg  in  iron-overloaded 
thalassaemic patients caused mild nausea and diarrhoea. Acute signs of overdose may include nausea, 
vomiting,  headache  and  diarrhoea.  Overdose  may  be  treated  by  induction  of  emesis  or  by  gastric 
lavage, and by symptomatic treatment (see SPC section 4.9). No studies on the effects of deferasirox 
on  the  ability  to  drive  and  use  machines  have  been  performed.  Caution  when  driving  or  operating 
machinery are recommended (see SPC section 4.7). 
1.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     44/52 
 
 
Table 19- Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Serum creatinine 
increases 
Elevations of liver 
transaminases  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
- Sentinel site monitoring. 
- Renal mechanistic study 2123. 
- Inclusion of patients with baseline serum 
creatinine >ULN in study US03. 
- Renal monitoring in ongoing studies 
(including long-term studies 0105E2, 
0106E1, 0107E1, 0108E1, 0109E1) and in 
planned clinical study 2204. 
- Collection in a database of all available 
data on renal biopsies 
- Nonclinical renal mechanistic study. 
- Routine PhV, use of targeted 
questionnaires, follow-up in PSUR. 
- Sentinel site monitoring. 
- Monitoring of hepatic function in 
ongoing studies (including long-term 
studies 0105E2, 0106E1, 0107E1, 0108E1, 
0109E1) and in future clinical studies. 
- Routine PhV, use of targeted 
questionnaires, follow-up in PSUR. 
High-frequency 
hearing loss  
- Annual auditory monitoring in ongoing 
and planned clinical studies. 
- Routine PhV, use of targeted 
questionnaires, follow-up in PSUR. 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
- SPC: contraindication for renal 
impairment in section 4.3; extensive 
monitoring and dose adjustment 
recommendations in section 4.4;adverse 
effect information in section 4.8. 
- Physician education. 
- Patient booklet for monitoring 
laboratory test results. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC: monitoring and dose adjustment 
recommendations in section 4.4; adverse 
effect information in section 4.8; product 
not recommended in severe hepatic 
impairment (section 4.4). 
- Physician education. 
- Patient booklet for monitoring 
laboratory test results. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC: annual monitoring 
recommendation in section 4.4; adverse 
effect information in section 4.8. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
Lenticular opacities 
and cataracts 
- Ophthalmologic monitoring and annual 
ocular examination in ongoing and planned 
clinical studies including study 2204. 
- SPC: annual monitoring 
recommendation in section 4.4; adverse 
effect information in section 4.8. 
- Routine PhV, use of targeted 
questionnaires, follow-up in PSUR. 
Cardiac monitoring 
in cardiac iron 
overload 
- Sentinel site monitoring. 
- Clinical studies (cardiac monitoring in 
extension studies and in study 2204). 
- Routine PhV, follow-up in PSUR. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC, section 4.4: “Cardiac dysfunction 
is a known complication of severe iron 
overload. Cardiac function should be 
monitored in patients with severe iron 
overload during long-term treatment with 
EXJADE”. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     45/52 
 
Limited experience 
in pediatric patients 
age 2 to <6 years
- Pediatric registry. 
- Inclusion of pediatric patients in ongoing 
and planned clinical studies. 
- Routine PhV, use of targeted 
questionnaires, follow-up in PSUR. 
- SPC: specific comments on monitoring 
of development in section 4.4; adverse 
event information in section 4.8; 
information on patient numbers in 
section 5.1; lower PK exposure and 
dosing recommendations mentioned in 
sections 4.2 & 5.2. 
- Pediatric patient booklet. 
- Legal status (restricted medical 
prescription to experienced physicians in 
the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due to blood transfusions). 
Limited experience 
in patients with renal 
impairment 
Limited experience 
in patients with 
hepatic impairment 
- Clinical study US03 (inclusion of patients 
with baseline serum creatinine values up to 
2xULN). 
- SPC, sections 4.2 and 4.3: “EXJADE 
has not been studied in patients with 
renal impairment”. 
- Clinical study 2125 (pharmacokinetic 
study in subjects with hepatic impairment). 
- SPC, section 4.4: “EXJADE is not 
recommended in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment as it has not been 
studied in such patients”.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:   
The  MAH  shall  set  up  a  surveillance  programme  to  collect  information  on  the  demographics  of 
patients  prescribed  Exjade,  any  adverse  reactions  and  reasons  for  discontinuation  of  Exjade.  The 
formal protocols for the sentinel monitoring surveillance should be reviewed by the CHMP.  
- Active sentinel site surveillance will be used in order to monitor renal, hepatic and cardiac function 
in long-term actual practice settings. The intended exposure will be of approximately 500 patient years 
for  each  of  the  three  strata  which  will  be  studied:  beta-thalassemia,  sickle  cell  disease  and  other 
anemias  (including  myelodysplastic  syndromes).  Active  drug  surveillance  through  networks  of 
sentinel sites in institutional and primary care settings will be conducted throughout the Europe Union 
and  potentially  in  parts  of  Africa  and  Asia.  Sentinel  site  monitoring  will  allow  for  surveillance  of  a 
geographically diverse sample of patients found in actual practice settings.  
-  A  voluntary  patient  registry  (study  2411)  will  be  implemented  in  approximately  200  pediatric 
patients  aged  2 to < 6 years. The registry will include the monitoring of renal function using serum 
creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance and proteinuria. The observation period in the registry will 
be 5 years.  
- The total number of patients with beta-thalassemia entered in ongoing extensions is 679, of all ages. 
The majority of them is being studied in centres specialized for the treatment of beta-thalassemia in 
the  EU  member  states.  For  these  patients,  prospectively  planned  monitoring  of  parameters  of  renal 
function includes serum creatinine, calculated creatinine clearance and proteinuria, since the beginning 
of  the  core  trial.  This  monitoring  will  continue  until  the  completion  of  the  extension  studies,  which 
will last up to 4 years following the completion of the 1-year core studies. 
-  The  monitoring  of  patients  of  all  ages  with  beta-thalassemia  included  in  ongoing  extensions,  will 
continue  until  the  completion  of  the  extension  studies,  which  will  last  up  to  4  years  following  the 
completion  of  the  1-year  core  studies.  The  prospectively  planned  monitoring  of  parameters  of  renal 
function includes serum creatinine, calculated creatinine clearance and proteinuria. 
- The same centers that are involved in the ongoing study extensions are also participating in the phase 
IV study 2409, in which beta-thalassemia patients will also be studied for one year, as well as in the 
planned confirmatory study 2204, in patients with beta-thalassemia will be evaluated for two years. 
-  The  protocols  of  extension  studies  will  be  amended  to  integrate  special  high-risk  populations 
[patients  with  renal  impairment  (studies  US03  and  2204)  and  hepatic  impairment  patients  (study 
2125)].  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:   
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     46/52 
 
 
 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that,  at  launch,  all  physicians  who  are  expected  to  prescribe  Exjade  are 
provided with a physician information pack containing the following: Product information; physician 
information about Exjade (including brochure and pocket card); patient information pack. 
The physician information about Exjade should contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The need to monitor serum ferritin monthly  
That Exjade causes rises in serum creatinine in some patients 
o 
The need to monitor serum creatinine  
•  On two occasions prior to initiation of treatment 
•  Every  week  during  the  first  month  of  initiation  of  treatment  or  after  therapy    
  modification 
• 
The need to reduce by 10mg/kgthe dose if serum creatinine rises: 
•  Adults:  >33% above baseline and creatinine clearance <LLN (90ml/min) 
•  Paediatrics:  either  >  ULN  or  creatinine  clearance  falls  to  <LLN  at  two 
Monthly thereafter 
consecutive visits. 
The need to interrupt treatment after a dose reduction if serum creatinine rises: 
•  Adults and Paediatrics:  remain >33% above baseline or creatinine clearance 
  <LLN (90ml/min) 
The need to consider renal biopsy: 
•  When  serum  creatinine  is  elevated  and  if  another  abnormality  has  been 
detected (e.g. proteinuria, signs of Fanconi’s Syndrome). 
The importance of measuring creatinine clearance 
Brief overview of methods of measuring creatinine clearance 
That rises in serum transaminases occur in patients treated with Exjade 
o 
The need for liver function tests prior to prescription, then at monthly intervals or 
more often if clinically indicated 
Not to prescribe to patients with pre-existing severe hepatic disease  
The  need  to  interrupt  treatment  if  persistent  and  progressive  increase  in  liver 
enzyme were noted. 
The need for annual auditory and ophthalmic testing 
The  need  for  a  guidance  table  highlighting  pre-treatment  measurements  of  serum 
creatinine, creatinine clearance, proteinuria, hepatic enzymes, ferritin  
That  the  safety  database  of  Exjade  is  limited  and  physicians  are  encouraged  to  enrol 
patients  in  a  surveillance  programme  (sentinel  site  monitoring  and  pediatric  registry)  to 
increase knowledge about the incidence of important ADRs.   
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
The information collected should include: 
o  Anonymised patient details – age, sex, weight 
o  Transfusion history and requirements 
o  Initial dose of Exjade and subsequent changes in dose  
o  Concomitant medications 
o  Record  of  measurements  of  serum  creatinine,  creatinine  clearance,  proteinuria, 
hepatic enzymes, ferritin 
o  Renal histology, if available 
o  Reason for discontinuation 
o  ADRs 
• 
The  educational  programme  should  prompt  doctors  to  report  serious  ADRs  and  certain 
selected ADRs as below: 
•  All serious ADRs 
•  Persistent and progressive increase in hepatic enzymes  
• 
Increase  in  serum  creatinine  levels  (>33%  above  baseline)  or  clearance 
creatinine decrease (<90ml/min) 
•  Significant changes found in auditory or ophthalmological testing 
•  Gallstones 
•  Unexpected ADRs according to the SPC. 
The Patient information pack should include the following information 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     47/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Patient information leaflet 
o  Information on the need for regular monitoring, and when it should be carried out, of 
serum creatinine, creatinine clearance, proteinuria, hepatic enzymes, ferritin 
o  Information  that  renal  biopsy  may  be  considered  if  significant  renal  abnormalities 
occur 
o  Patient booklet where the physician can record the results of the above along with the 
dose of Exjade 
o  Reminder card for dates of tests 
Other conditions 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance is in place and functioning before the 
product is placed on the market and for as long as the marketed product remains in use. 
Risk Management plan 
The MAH commits to perform the studies and additional pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan. 
The  MAH  must  inform  the  EMEA  and  the  CHMP  of  the  status  and  results  of  the  surveillance 
programme in each Member State within 6 months of the Decision and at each update of the EU Risk 
Management Plan.  This report shall also provide the details of the ADRs as specified above. 
As well as the requirements in the legislation, the following serious ADRs should be forwarded on an 
expedited basis to the appropriate competent authority as well as summarised in the above reports: 
o  Increase in hepatic enzymes > 10xULN 
o  Serious rise in creatinine  
o  Results of renal biopsies, if available 
o  Cataracts 
o  Hearing loss 
o  Gallstones 
An  updated  Risk  Management  Plan  should  be  provided  as  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk 
Management Systems for medicinal products for human use. 
1.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality, Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The quality of Exjade was considered acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the 
uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  were  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory way. 
There  were  no  issues  concerning  the  quality,  the  non-clinical  pharmacology  or  the  toxicology  of 
deferasirox that negatively affected the overall benefit-risk assessment. Some issues required further 
clarification, to be provided post-authorisation. 
Efficacy 
The pivotal study was an open-label randomised comparative study conducted in 586 patients, aged 2 
years  and  older,  suffering  from  beta-thalassaemia  and  transfusional  iron  overload.  The  primary 
efficacy  objective  was  to  show  that  deferasirox  is  non-inferior  to  deferoxamine  for  the  efficacy 
variable defined as binary outcome, indicating a successful or failed treatment effect on hepatic iron 
stores, assessed by liver biopsy and SQUID at baseline and at the end of a 12 month treatment period. 
Deferasirox  was  to  be  declared  non-inferior  to  deferoxamine  if  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  (two 
sided) for the difference in the percentage of treatment successes on deferasirox and deferoxamine was 
above  a  delta  of  -15%  in  the  per  protocol  population  (all  patients  who  had  LIC  at  end  of  study  or 
discontinued due to safety). The principal analysis of the total patient population did not demonstrate 
non-inferiority of deferasirox to deferoxamine.  
It  appeared  from  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  this  study  that,  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  liver  iron 
concentration  ≥7 mg  Fe/g  dw  treated  with  deferasirox  (20  and  30 mg/kg)  or  deferoxamine  (35  to 
≥50 mg/kg),  the  non-inferiority  criteria  were  achieved.  However,  in  patients  with  liver  iron 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     48/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration  <7 mg  Fe/g  dw  treated  with  deferasirox  (5  and  10 mg/kg)  or  deferoxamine  (20  to 
35 mg/kg),  non-inferiority  was  not  established;  this  difference  could  be  due  to  an  imbalance  in  the 
dosing of the two chelators. This imbalance occurred because patients on deferoxamine were allowed 
to remain on their pre-study dose even if it was higher than the protocol specified dose.  
Supportive  studies  were  conducted  to  allow  extrapolation  of  non-inferiority  in  other  forms  of 
transfusional  iron  overload  (i.e.,  sickle  cell  disease,  myelodysplastic  syndromes,  rare  forms  of 
congenital  anaemia).  The  same  non-parametric  success  criterion  was  used  to  assess  the  efficacy  of 
deferasirox  in  maintaining  or  reducing  LIC.  In  the  absence  of  comparator  arm,  success  was  to  be 
declared if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval exceeded 50% in the ITT population. The 
efficacy was not demonstrated in the ITT population. The success rate was significantly higher than 
50% in patients whose LIC was  ≥7 mg Fe/g dw (biopsy + SQUID) at baseline. Positive results was 
also observed in the ITT population with a baseline LIC ≥7 mg Fe/g dw measured by biopsy.  
Safety 
The most frequent reactions reported during chronic treatment with deferasirox in adult and paediatric 
patients included gastrointestinal disturbances in about 26% of patients and skin rash in about 7% of 
patients.  These  reactions  were  dose-dependent,  mostly  mild  to  moderate,  generally  transient  and 
mostly resolve even if treatment is continued. During clinical trials, increases in serum creatinine of 
>33% on ≥2 consecutive occasions, sometimes above the upper limit of the normal range, occurred in 
about 36% of patients. These were dose-dependent. About two-thirds of the patients showing serum 
creatinine increase returned below the 33% level without dose adjustment. In the remaining third the 
serum creatinine increase did not always respond to a dose reduction or a dose interruption. Complete 
recovery was exceptional (2/68 patients). The preventability, reversibility and long-term consequences 
of  the  modification  of  the  renal  function  were  questioned.  The  mechanism  of  these  renal  alterations 
could not be explained. Over-chelation and/or haemodynamic changes leading to functional clearance 
alterations are possible explanations (pure haemodynamic moderate drug-induced modifications of the 
renal function, e.g. observed during angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors treatments, are rapidly 
and  completely  reversible).  There  was  no  demonstration  of  risk  prevention  by  progressively  and 
slowly  increasing  the  dose.  There  was  no  effective  measure  identified  to  reverse  the  impaired  renal 
function; interruption of the treatment is not always completely efficient. 
Gallstones  and  related  biliary  disorders  were  reported  in  about  2%  of  patients.  Elevations  of  liver 
transaminases occurred in 2% of patients and were not dependent on dose. Elevations of transaminases 
greater  than  10 times  the  upper  limit  of  the  normal  range,  suggestive  of  hepatitis,  were  uncommon 
(0.3%). 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. The CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in 
section 3.5 adequately addressed the safety concerns listed in the risk management plan. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  principal  analysis  of  the  pivotal  study  conducted  in  patients  with  beta-thalassemia  and 
transfusional iron overload did not demonstrate the non-inferiority of deferasirox to deferoxamine.  
From a subgroup post-hoc analysis including patients with liver iron concentration ≥7 mg Fe/g dw, the 
non-inferiority  criteria  were  achieved.  Therefore,  the  efficacy  of  deferasirox  was  considered 
established  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  iron  overload,  receiving  high  dose  of  blood 
transfusions.  As  LIC  cannot  be  assessed  to  decide  treatment  dosage  in  clinical  practice,  the  most 
heavily overloaded patients were subsequently defined as those receiving high amounts of packed red 
blood cells (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells). Secondary endpoints confirmed the likelihood 
of an acceptable efficacy of deferasirox, which offers the advantage of its oral availability. 
In  patients  with  beta  thalassemia  with  less  severe  iron  overload,  receiving  relatively  low  doses  of 
blood transfusions, the non inferiority of deferasirox as compared to deferoxamine was not established 
and  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  the  use  of  deferasirox  results  in  a  less  efficient  overload  control.  In 
these patients, the potential benefit of deferasirox, an orally available compound, is overweighed by 
the availability of deferoxamine, a recognized therapy.  
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     49/52 
 
 
 
In  patients  with  beta  thalassemia,  the  risk  of  a  moderate  decrease  in  glomerular  filtration  rate,  as 
observed in the clinical trials, was considered acceptable as long as patients do not suffer from other 
renal disease. The risk of renal toxicity was considered probably higher in patients treated with high 
doses of deferasirox. 
In patients with other anaemias (e.g. sickle cell disease or myelodysplastic syndromes) the efficacy of 
deferasirox  could  not  be  robustly  extrapolated  from  the  weak  evidence  obtained  from  the  pivotal 
study, even if an activity was observed in a non comparative trial. Moreover, the risk of renal toxicity 
was  of  special  concern  [22].  Therefore,  in  these  patients,  deferasirox  was  considered  a  valid  second 
line treatment option when deferoxamine is contraindicated or inadequate. This same indication (when 
deferoxamine is contraindicated or inadequate) was also recommended in patients aged 2 to 5 years, 
due to the low number of paediatric patients exposed to the treatement in the clinical studies, and the 
importance of a long term preservation of the nephronic capital in this population. 
Based on this assessment, the CHMP recommended that deferasirox is indicated for the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) 
in  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia  major  aged  6 years  and  older.  In  the  other  subgroups,  such  as 
patients with other anaemias, patients aged 2 to 5 years and patients with beta thalassaemia major with 
iron  overload  due  to  infrequent  blood  transfusions  (<7 ml/kg/month  of  packed  red  blood  cells),  the 
CHMP recommended the use of deferasirox for the treatment of chronic iron overload, due to blood 
transfusions, when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate. 
Cardiologic consequences of iron overload being a major prognostic factor, the effect of deferasirox 
on cardiac iron overload and cardiac function will be further investigate post-authorisation. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  studies  and  activities  (i.e.  extension  clinical  studies  including  high-
risk  populations  and  surveillance  programme,  respectively)  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine 
pharmacovigilance were needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     50/52 
 
 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
Safety issue 
Serum creatinine 
increases 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
- SPC: contraindication for renal impairment in section 4.3; extensive monitoring and dose 
adjustment recommendations in section 4.4; adverse effect information in section 4.8. 
Elevations of liver 
transaminases  
High-frequency hearing 
loss  
Lenticular opacities and 
cataracts 
Cardiac monitoring in 
cardiac iron overload 
- Physician education. 
- Patient booklet for monitoring laboratory test results. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC: monitoring and dose adjustment recommendations in section 4.4; adverse effect 
information in section 4.8; product not recommended in severe hepatic impairment (section 
4.4). 
- Physician education. 
- Patient booklet for monitoring laboratory test results. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC: annual monitoring recommendation in section 4.4; adverse effect information in section 
4.8. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC: annual monitoring recommendation in section 4.4; adverse effect information in section 
4.8. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC, section 4.4: “Cardiac dysfunction is a known complication of severe iron overload. 
Cardiac function should be monitored in patients with severe iron overload during long-term 
treatment with EXJADE”. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
Limited experience in 
pediatric patients age 2 to 
<6 years  
- SPC: specific comments on monitoring of development in section 4.4; adverse event 
information in section 4.8; information on patient numbers in section 5.1; lower PK exposure 
and dosing recommendations mentioned in sections 4.2 & 5.2. 
- Pediatric patient booklet. 
- Legal status (restricted medical prescription to experienced physicians in the treatment of 
chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions). 
- SPC, sections 4.2 and 4.3: “EXJADE has not been studied in patients with renal 
impairment”. 
- SPC, section 4.4: “EXJADE is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
as it has not been studied in such patients”.  
Limited experience in 
patients with renal 
impairment 
Limited experience in 
patients with hepatic 
impairment 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus, that the risk-benefit balance of Exjade in: 
- the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed 
red blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and older.  
-  the  treatment  of  chronic  iron  overload  due  to  blood  transfusions  when  deferoxamine  therapy  is 
contraindicated  or  inadequate  in  the  following  patient  groups:  patients  with  other  anaemias,  patients 
aged  2  to  5 years,  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia  major  with  iron  overload  due  to  infrequent  blood 
transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) 
was favourable, and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     51/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
 2005. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
Finch CA, Huebers H: Perspectives in iron metabolism. N Engl J Med 1982, 306(25):1520-1528. 
Porter JB: Practical management of iron overload. Br J Haematol 2001, 115(2):239-252. 
Piga A, Gaglioti C, Fogliacco E, Tricta F: Comparative effects of deferiprone and deferoxamine on 
survival and cardiac disease in patients with thalassemia major: a retrospective analysis. 
Haematologica 2003, 88(5):489-496. 
 E: S7B: Step 4 Note for Guidance on Non-Clinical Evaluation of the potential for Delayed 
Ventricular Repolarization (QT Interval Prolongation) by Human Pharmaceuticals. 
http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/ich/053900enpdf (CPMP/ICH/423/02 - adopted May 2005) 
 2005. 
Wood JC, Otto-Duessel M, Aguilar M, Nick H, Nelson MD, Coates TD, Pollack H, Moats R: Cardiac 
iron determines cardiac T2*, T2, and T1 in the gerbil model of iron cardiomyopathy. Circulation 
2005, 112(4):535-543. 
Wood JC O-DM, Gonzales I, et al. (2005): ICL670 removes cardiac iron in a gerbil model of iron 
overload. Blood 2005, 106(11). 
Hershko C, Konijn AM, Nick HP, Breuer W, Cabantchik ZI, Link G: ICL670A: a new synthetic oral 
chelator: evaluation in hypertransfused rats with selective radioiron probes of hepatocellular and 
reticuloendothelial iron stores and in iron-loaded rat heart cells in culture. Blood 2001, 
97(4):1115-1122. 
Cabantchik Z LG, Glickstein H, Ben El R, Hershko R, Konijn A, Nick H: Deferasirox (Exjade®, 
ICL670): A Journey into Labile Iron Centers of Living Cardiomyocytes. Blood 2005, 106(11). 
Cabantchik ZI, Breuer W, Zanninelli G, Cianciulli P: LPI-labile plasma iron in iron overload. Best 
Pract Res Clin Haematol 2005, 18(2):277-287. 
EMEA: Note for Guidance on Safety Pharmacology Studies for Human Pharmaceuticals 
(CPMP/ICH/539/00). http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/ich/053900enpdf 2000. 
EMEA: Step 4 Note for Guidance on Dose Selection for Carcinogenicity Studies of 
Pharmaceutical (CPMP/ICH/383/95 - adopted November 1994). 
http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/ich/017495enpdf 1994. 
Brittenham GM, Allen CJ, Farrell DE, Harris JW: Hepatic iron stores in thalassemia: non-invasive 
magnetic measurements. Prog Clin Biol Res 1989, 309:101-106. 
Brittenham GM, Farrell DE, Harris JW, Feldman ES, Danish EH, Muir WA, Tripp JH, Bellon EM: 
Magnetic-susceptibility measurement of human iron stores. N Engl J Med 1982, 307(27):1671-
1675. 
Angelucci E, Giovagnoni A, Valeri G, Paci E, Ripalti M, Muretto P, McLaren C, Brittenham GM, 
Lucarelli G: Limitations of magnetic resonance imaging in measurement of hepatic iron. Blood 
1997, 90(12):4736-4742. 
Angelucci E, Brittenham GM, McLaren CE, Ripalti M, Baronciani D, Giardini C, Galimberti M, Polchi 
P, Lucarelli G: Hepatic iron concentration and total body iron stores in thalassemia major. N Engl 
J Med 2000, 343(5):327-331. 
EMEA: The Clinical Evaluation of QT/QTs Interval Prolongation and Proarrhythmic Potential 
for Non-Antiarrhythmic drugs (CHMP/ICH/2/04 - Final approval by CHMP May 2005). 
http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/ich/571603enpdf> 
Ishak K, Baptista A, Bianchi L, Callea F, De Groote J, Gudat F, Denk H, Desmet V, Korb G, 
MacSween RN et al: Histological grading and staging of chronic hepatitis. J Hepatol 1995, 
22(6):696-699. 
Billa RF, Biwole MS, Juimo AG, Bejanga BI, Blackett K: Gall stone disease in African patients with 
sickle cell anaemia: a preliminary report from Yaounde, Cameroon. Gut 1991, 32(5):539-541. 
Bond LR, Hatty SR, Horn ME, Dick M, Meire HB, Bellingham AJ: Gall stones in sickle cell disease 
in the United Kingdom. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed) 1987, 295(6592):234-236. 
Longo-Mbenza B, Ngiyulu R, Kizunda P, Kaluila M, Bikangi N: Gallbladder disease in young 
Congolese with sickle cell anemia: an ultrasound survey. J Trop Pediatr 2004, 50(2):73-77. 
Galanello R: Iron chelation: new therapies. Semin Hematol 2001, 38(1 Suppl 1):73-76. 
Scheinman JI: Sickle cell disease and the kidney. Semin Nephrol 2003, 23(1):66-76. 
©EMEA 2006              
                                                     52/52 
 
 
 
 
 
