31 March 2016 
EMA/174254/2016 
Measures to avoid medication errors with Exjade 
Educational material to raise awareness of dose variation between different 
types of tablets  
Educational material will be given to patients and healthcare professionals using Exjade (deferasirox), 
following the introduction of a film-coated tablet to the already authorised dispersible tablet. Exjade is 
a medicine used to remove excessive iron from the blood of patients with beta thalassemia or other 
blood disorders which result in excessive iron in the blood. 
The education material will advise that the doses for the two types of Exjade tablets are different. A 
smaller dose is needed of the new film-coated tablets compared to that of the dispersible tablet. The 
patient may receive too little or too much of the medicine if the dose is not correct when changing 
from one type of tablet to another.  
The two types of tablets can be easily distinguished by their shape, and the design of the outer cartons 
and blisters. 
Both types of tablets will be available for some time, which will allow doctors to switch patients from 
dispersible tablets to film-coated tablets. After this time, Exjade dispersible tablets will no longer be 
marketed. Healthcare professionals will be notified of the planned date for removing the dispersible 
tablets from the market.  
Information for patients 
•  Exjade film-coated tablets have been introduced.  
• 
The dispersible tablets and the new film-coated tablets are to be taken once a day, preferably at 
the same time each day. 
•  Whereas the dispersible tablets have to be taken on an empty stomach 30 minutes before food, 
the film-coated tablets can be taken on an empty stomach or with a light meal. 
• 
Your doctor will have worked out the dose of Exjade you need. The dose depends on your weight, 
the amount of iron in your blood, how well your liver and kidneys work and the amount of blood 
transfusions you receive. 
•  Exjade dispersible tablets will not be available in the future. If you are switching from dispersible 
tablets to the new film-coated tablets, you will need a smaller dose. The doctor will tell you how 
much of the new tablet you need to take. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
•  Read the package leaflet and other information you have been given with your tablets. It has 
important information about your treatment and how to take the medicine. If you have any 
questions about your treatment, contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
• 
You will be given a handbook with information on the two types of tablets and how to take them. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  Exjade (deferasirox) is now available as film-coated tablets in addition to the already authorised 
dispersible tablets.  
•  Both types of tablets will be available for a limited period to allow doctors to switch patients from 
the dispersible tablets to the film-coated tablets. After this time Exjade dispersible tablets will no 
longer be marketed. 
•  Bioavailability of film-coated tablets is higher than of the dispersible tablets and the strength of 
film-coated tablets is correspondingly lower. Film-coated tablets containing 90, 180 and 360 mg 
are equivalent to dispersible tablets containing 125, 250 and 500 mg, respectively. 
• 
• 
• 
To avoid errors, prescriptions for Exjade must specify the type of formulation (dispersible tablets or 
film-coated tablets), the prescribed dose in mg/kg/day, and the calculated dose per day with the 
strength of film-coated or dispersible tablets. 
The summary of product characteristics and the educational materials on the use of Exjade should 
be followed because they give important information on its use. 
The following table describes the differences between the two formulations: 
Film-coated tablets 
Dispersible tablets 
(to be discontinued) 
Description and strength 
Oval, blue tablets containing 
Round, white tablets containing 
90 mg (light blue), 180 mg 
125 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg 
(medium blue) and 360 mg 
(all white) 
(dark blue) 
Excipient: lactose 
Does not contain lactose 
Contains lactose 
When to take tablets 
Once daily, may be taken on an 
Once daily, must be taken on an 
empty stomach or with a light 
empty stomach, at least 30 
meal 
minutes before food 
How to take tablets 
Swallowed whole with some 
Dispersed in water, orange juice 
water or crushed and sprinkled 
or apple juice. Not to be chewed 
on soft food (e.g. yogurt or 
or swallowed whole 
apple sauce) 
Dose range (adults and children)  7–28 mg/kg daily, rounded to 
10–40 mg/kg daily, rounded to 
the nearest whole tablet size 
the nearest whole tablet size 
Measures to avoid medication errors with Exjade  
EMA/174254/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More about the medicine 
Exjade is a medicine used to treat chronic iron overload (an excess of iron in the body) in patients with 
beta thalassemia or other blood disorders in which patients do not have enough normal haemoglobin in 
the blood. 
Exjade contains the active substance deferasirox which is an ‘iron chelator’. This means that it attaches 
to iron in the body to form a ‘chelate’ that can be excreted by the body, mainly in the stool. This helps 
to correct iron overload and prevent the extra iron from damaging organs such as the heart and liver. 
More information on Exjade, including its indications in full, can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Findmedicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. 
Measures to avoid medication errors with Exjade  
EMA/174254/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
