20 September 2018 
EMA/612425/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
EXJADE  
deferasirox 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000670/P46/076 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction : Rationale and background .............................................................. 3 
2.3.2. Discussion on clinical aspects .............................................................................. 8 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ........................................ 9 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 30 April 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for deferasirox, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  study  CICL670AGR04,  ‘CONVENIENCE: A  multiCenter,  nOn  iNterVENtional  study 
to evaluate the Impact of defErasirox on the quality of life of patients with beta thalassemia or sickle 
cell disease and transfusion - induCEd iron overload’ is a stand-alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The  non-interventional  nature  of  the  study  implies  use  of  the  commercially  available  form  of 
deferasirox.  The  study  was  conducted  with  DFX  DT  (dispersible  tablets)  as  the  study  drug.  
In  September  of  2017  DFX  DT  was  substituted  commercially  with  DFX  FCT  (film  coated  tablets).  
The  results  from  the  ECLIPSE  trial  showed  a  superiority  of  FCT  vs  DT  in  QoL-related  parameters.  
To avoid any introduction of systematic positive bias any patients enrolled who switched to FCT were 
withdrawn from the study. Therefore, all collected and analyzed data refer to DFX DT. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction : Rationale and background 
Adherence  to  iron  chelation  therapy  is  fundamental  in  transfusion-dependent  patients,  such  as  those 
with  β-thalassemia  and  other  transfusion-dependent  forms  of  anemia  requiring  lifelong  iron  chelation 
therapy  from  early  childhood,  so  that  complications  associated  with  transfusional  iron  overload  are 
prevented.  Furthermore,  the  extensive  medical  care  required  in  these  chronic,  progressive  and,  if-
unchelated, life-threatening conditions may impact the physical, psychosocial well-being and quality of 
Life  (QoL)  of  patients  and  their  families  (Atkin  2001).  Although  QoL  has  emerged  as  a  fundamental 
focus  of  comprehensive  healthcare  in  this  population,  there  is  limited  published  data  regarding  the 
health-related  QoL  in  patients  with  transfusion-induced  iron  overload  and  until  recently  no  specific 
questionnaire  was  available  for  the  assessment  of  the  QoL  of  thalassemia  patients.  In  view  of  this 
important need, the first Greek version of thalassemia-specific QoL questionnaire 
[Self-administered  Specific  Thalassemia  Quality  of  life  instrument  (STQOLI)]  has  been  recently 
developed  and  validated  (Lyrakos  2011 1 ).  Furthermore,  the  availability  of  iron  chelators  such  as 
deferasirox  (DFX)  that,  due  to  its  pharmacological  properties  and  its  balanced  efficacy  and  safety 
profile  along  with  its  once-daily  convenient  dosing  regimen  contributes  to  actual  patient  compliance 
and  increases  the  effectiveness  of  chelation  therapy,  is  important  in  optimizing  treatment  outcomes 
and improving QoLof iron-overloaded transfusion-dependent patients. 
1 Lyrakos GN, Vini D, Aslani H, et al (2012) Psychometric properties of the Specific Thalassemia Quality of Life Instrument for adults. 
Patient Prefer Adherence;6:477-97. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
                                                
Study CICL670AGR04: Research question and objectives 
Τhis study was designed to assess the health-related QoL (HRQoL) of patients with beta thalassemia or 
sickle  cell  disease  who  had  been  receiving  blood  transfusions  and  iron  chelation,  using  the  STQOLI 
questionnaire,  after  switching  to  DFX  monotherapy.  Moreover,  the  study  aimed  to  further  enrich  the 
existing  data  on  the  efficacy  and  tolerability  profile  of  DFX,  as  well  as  to  assess  patient’s  compliance 
and satisfaction with treatment in a ‘real world’ clinical setting, among a representative population of 
patients with β-thalassemia or sickle cell disease and transfusion-induced iron overload in Greece. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of DFX monotherapy on the 
thalassemia-specific quality of life at six months after switching to DFX monotherapy in patients with 
transfusion-induced iron overload. 
Secondary objectives included: 
• The evaluation of the impact on the thalassemia-specific QoL at 12 and 24 months after switching to 
DFX monotherapy in patients with transfusion-induced overload. 
• The evaluation of the impact on the general QoL after switching to DFX monotherapy in patients with 
transfusion-induced iron overload. 
• Assessment of the effectiveness profile of DFX treatment in the study population at the indicative 
study time points. 
• Evaluation of the safety profile of DFX treatment under the setting of the standard clinical practice. 
• Evaluation of patients’ compliance with DFX treatment and reasons for non-compliance. 
• Assessment of patient satisfaction with DFX therapy. 
• Assessment of DFX tolerability. 
Study design 
The design was that of prospective multicenter, non-interventional, observational, open-label, phase IV 
study. The study protocol and ICF were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Ethics Boards and 
the  relevant  financial  agreements  were  executable,  before  initiation  of  the  study  at  any  participating 
site. 
Τhe  study  has  been  designed  to  assess  the  HRQoL  of  patients  with  beta-thalassemia  or  sickle  cell 
disease  who  are  receiving  blood  transfusions  and  iron  chelation  with  DFX,  using  the  STQOLI 
questionnaire.  A  power  of  approximately  80%  was  considered  adequate  for  the  assessment  of  150 
patients in order to answer the research question; the difference in total STQOLI score at 6 months of 
therapy  from  prior  DFX  therapy  commencement.  Hence,  the  hypothesis  of  a  3-point  mean  change  in 
STQOLI  total  score  along  with  the  aforementioned  power  of  the  study  confirmed  the  strength  of  the 
study design. Data required to address study specific objectives were collected from patients’ hospital 
files.  A  Novartis  representative  reviewed  the  protocol  and  the  case  report  form  (CRF)  with  the 
physicians  and  the  staff  involved  in  the  study.  Physicians  were  requested  to  monitor  patients  for  a 
planned  observation  period  of  up  to  24  months  under  which  patients  continued  to  receive  DFX 
treatment according to the approved product’s labelling. 
This clinical study was conducted in 16 investigational sites throughout Greece; one site did not enroll 
any  patients.  Physicians  were  requested  to  monitor  patients  for  a  planned  observation  period  of  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
24  months  under  which  patients  continued  to  receive  DFX  treatment  according  to  the  approved 
product’s labeling. Four follow-up visits (6, 12, 18 and 24 months after treatment with DFX initiation) 
were scheduled during the observation period. Overall 80 patients were screened and 68 patients were 
enrolled. One of the enrolled patients was pediatric (18>age>14 y) 
Study population /Sample size 
One  hundred  and  fifty  (150)  patients  with  beta-thalassemia  or  sickle  cell  disease  and  transfusion-
induced iron overload were planned to participate in the study according to the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria. 
Overall  80  patients  were  screened  and  68  patients  were  enrolled.  One  of  the  enrolled  patients  was 
pediatric (18>age>14 y). 
CHMP comment: 
Only one paediatric patient was enrolled. 
Treatments 
DFX monotherapy, dispersible tablets 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint of this observational study was the change in STQOLI score at 6 months of DFX 
treatment when compared to the score before the switch to DFX. 
The study secondary endpoints included the following: 
• Change in STQOLI score at 12 and 24 months of DFX treatment, when compared to the score 
before the switch to DFX. 
• Change in the EQ-5D VAS and index scores at 6, 12 and 24 months of DFX treatment, when 
compared to from the ones before the switch to DFX. 
• Change in cardiac iron overload, measured by MRI T2* values as performed in clinical 
practice, after 12 and 24 months of DFX treatment, when compared to the values before the 
switch to DFX. 
• Change in liver iron concentration (LIC) measured by liver MRI T2* technique as performed 
in clinical practice, after 12 and24 months of DFX treatment, when compared to that before the 
DFX. 
• Change in serum ferritin levels, as measured in clinical practice, after 6, 12, 18 and 24 
months of DFX treatment, when compared to those before the switch to DFX. 
• Proportions of patients who experience adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), 
adverse drug reactions (ADRs) and serious adverse drug reactions (SADRs)  
(including both clinical and laboratory abnormalities). 
• Proportion of enrolled patients reporting ‘excellent/very good compliance with DFX therapy’, 
via a 5-point Likert scale. 
• Frequency of patient-reported reasons for poor compliance after 6, 12, 18 and 24 months of 
DFX monotherapy. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
• Proportion of patients reporting ‘satisfied/very satisfied with DFX treatment’,  
via a 5-point Likert scale after 6, 12 and 24 months of DFX treatment. 
Statistical Methods 
Statistical analysis was performed: 
• In the Intention to Treat (ITT) set which consists of all eligible patients who will be enrolled in the 
study regardless of whether or not they will finally complete the study; 
• In the Per Protocol Set (PPS) which consists of all eligible patients from ITT who will complete the 
study, i.e., the 24-month follow-up period and; 
• In subsets of ITT with available data at each indicative timepoint (visit). 
In principle, the analyses of baseline characteristics as well as of safety data were based on ITT,  
whereas  the  changes  in  efficacy  variables  as  well  as  in  STQOLI  and  EQ-5D  at  the different 
time points of the study  were  calculated using the subsets of  ITT with available data at each 
indicative timepoint. 
Patients who were erroneously enrolled in the study (i.e., not fulfilling the eligibility criteria) were  
excluded  from  all  analyses  of  this  study  and  any  violations  of  the  protocol  were reported in 
detail in the clinical study report (CSR) 
Results 
The main study results are: 
• QoL did not show any statistical significant changes from baseline in STQOLI at 6 months (primary 
endpoint). With respect to other timepoints, STQOLI had a slight trend to decrease, whereas EQ-5D 
index score showed a slight increase at 6 and 12 months from baseline, that was not sustained at EOS. 
EQ-5D VAS scores describing patients’ health state increased throughout the study; the increase was 
statistically significant at 12 months. 
• Liver iron overload showed a trend to decrease throughout the study, as LIC decreased at the end of 
study (EOS) compared to baseline, although these changes did not reach statistical significance.  
Serum ferritin levels and LVEF remained practically unchanged. 
• Compliance with treatment and satisfaction with DFX was increased throughout the study, although 
the increase was not statistically significant. 
• The most common reason for patients’ non-compliance was patients’ negligence. 
• AEs were reported in 80.9% of the study’s patients. In total and irrespective of the causality 
assessment, SAEs occurred in 36.8%.  
• Of the SAEs of the present study, 14.9% were suspected to be related to the study drug. 
• The most common ADRs encountered were increased serum creatinine, abdominal pain, 
albuminuria/microalbuminuria/proteinuria, and increased liver transaminases. 
• There was one instance reported of each of the following AEs, whose frequency is otherwise not 
known in the product’s SmPC and should be noted: neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, alopecia, and 
allergic dermatitis (hypersensitivity). 
• No deaths were documented throughout the study duration. 
• Patients who withdrew from DFX treatment due to an AE were 26.5% of the study population. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
•.The pediatric patient withdrew within 3 months due to an increase of serum creatinine levels, before 
the planned first assessments related to the objectives of this study.  
CHMP comment: 
No conclusions can be derived for the pediatric cohort of this study since the only one pediatric patient 
withdrew before the planned first assessments related to the objectives of this study. 
Efficacy results 
Two validated instruments were used for assessing the quality of life in this study – STQOLI and EQ-
5D. For details of the instruments, refer to [StudyICL670AGR04-Section 10.4].  
Quality of life (QoL) at baseline  
At  baseline,  the  STQOLI  total  score  for  the  pediatric  patient  was  73.46,  which  was  higher  than  the 
mean  STQOLI  total  score  of  the  overall  study  population  (N=68,  mean  score:  63.69).  The  domain 
scores for disease and symptoms (90.27), psychosocial impact (71.66), and chelation therapy impact 
(82.05) was higher in the pediatric patient than the study population mean (61.86, 55.80, 57.87) but 
the  transfusion  impact  (53.32)  was  lower  than  the  study  population  mean  (64.37)  [Study 
ICL670AGR04-Section 10.4].  
At baseline, EQ-5D VAS for the pediatric patient was 90 (high QoL, population mean: 77.29) and the 
EQ-5D index was 0.88 (population mean: 0.83). The patient reported some problems in usual activities 
and pain/discomfort dimension, no problems were reported in the other dimensions. The values of his 
cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T2*, liver iron concentration (LIC), serum ferritin level and 
left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  at  baseline  were  23  msec,  3  mg  Fe/g,  1400  μg/L  and  58% 
respectively.  
Change in QoL, iron overload parameters, compliance  
Apart from the baseline QoL data, no other related data were collected for the pediatric patient as he 
withdrew from the study before the planned data collection at 6 months.  
CHMP comment:  
No conclusion can be drawn since only baseline QoL data were collected for the single pediatric patient.  
Safety results 
The pediatric patient experienced two AEs (summarized in Table 5-1):  
• an increase in serum ferritin (non-serious AE, not evaluable) 
• a non-serious adverse drug reaction of elevated blood creatinine resulting in permanent 
discontinuation of the study drug 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
During  the  time  the  pediatric  patient  was  on  study,  only  one  hematological  and  biochemical 
examination was recorded. Outside of normal range values were recorded for hemoglobin (11.7g/dL), 
hematocrit  (32.5%),  RBC  (4  ×  10^6/μL),  eosinophils  (5.4%),  total  bilirubin  (4.59mg/dL)  and  serum 
ferritin (1400 μg/L). All these values were considered clinically non-significant or related to the primary 
medical condition. The blood creatinine value was not provided. 
CHMP comment:  
The  pediatric  patient  experienced  two  non-serious  AEs  (an  increase  in  serum  ferritin  and  elevated 
blood  creatinine).  This  latter  resulted  in  permanent  discontinuation  of  the  study  drug  and  is  already 
reported in the current label as a very common ADR. 
2.3.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The single pediatric patient enrolled withdrew within 3 months due to an increase of serum creatinine 
levels, before the planned first assessments related to the objectives of this study.  
No  efficacy  conclusion  can  be  derived  from  the  single  pediatric  patient  enrolled  in  this  study,  as  only 
baseline data for this patient are available.  
Regarding  safety  aspect,  "Blood  creatinine  increased"  that  lead  to  discontinuation  of  the  patient  is 
already reported in the current label as a very common ADR.  
No changes to the pediatric information of the current deferasirox Core Data Sheet are proposed as a 
result  of  this  study  and  no  regulatory  consequences  of  the  submitted  study  are  anticipated  for  the 
pediatric information in the EU SmPC  
The benefit-risk assessment for deferasirox is considered to remain positive for the currently approved 
indications in paediatric and in overall population.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
  Fulfilled:  
No changes to the paediatric information of the current deferasirox Core Data Sheet are proposed as a 
result  of  this  study  and  no  regulatory  consequences  of  the  submitted  study  are  anticipated  for  the 
paediatric information in the EU SmPC 
The benefit-risk assessment for deferasirox is considered to remain positive for the currently approved 
indications in paediatric and in overall population. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/612425/2018  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
