EMA/483217/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000670 
Exjade (deferasirox) 
An overview of Exjade and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Exjade and what is it used for? 
Exjade is a medicine used to treat chronic iron overload (an excess of iron in the body) in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients from 6 years of age who have beta thalassaemia major (an inherited blood disorder in 
which patients do not have enough normal haemoglobin in the blood) and who receive frequent 
blood transfusions; 
children aged 2 to 5 years with beta thalassaemia major who receive frequent blood transfusions, 
when deferoxamine (another medicine used to treat iron overload) cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age with beta thalassaemia major who receive infrequent blood 
transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age who suffer from other types of anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin in 
the blood) and who receive blood transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 10 years of age with non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes, when 
deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate. Non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia 
syndromes are blood disorders similar to beta thalassaemia major but which do not require blood 
transfusions. In these patients iron overload is caused by excess absorption of iron from the gut.  
Exjade contains the active substance deferasirox.  
How is Exjade used? 
Exjade can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor who is experienced in the treatment of chronic iron overload. 
It is available as film-coated tablets, dispersible tablets and granules. The film-coated tablets are to be 
swallowed with water while the dispersible tablets are to be mixed with a liquid to make up a 
suspension that the patient can drink. The granules are sprinkled on soft food such as yogurt or apple 
sauce that the patient can eat. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The starting dose of Exjade depends on the patient’s body weight, on which form of the medicine is 
being taken, what the medicine is used for, and on the level of iron overload. The dose is then 
adjusted as needed, every 3 to 6 months, according to the iron levels in the blood. 
Exjade is taken once a day at around the same time. The dispersible tablets should be taken on an 
empty stomach (at least 30 minutes before food), and the film-coated tablets and granules can be 
taken on an empty stomach or with a light meal.  
For more information about using Exjade, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Exjade work? 
The body cannot remove iron effectively and excess iron can cause damage. The active substance in 
Exjade, deferasirox, is an ‘iron chelator’. It attaches to excess iron in the body to form a compound 
called a ‘chelate’ that can be removed by the body, mainly in the stool. This helps to correct the iron 
overload and prevent damage to organs such as the heart or liver from excess iron. 
What benefits of Exjade have been shown in studies? 
In chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions, one main study compared Exjade with 
deferoxamine in 591 patients with beta thalassaemia major. About half of the patients were under the 
age of 16 years, and 56 were less than 6 years old. Effectiveness was determined by the level of iron 
in the liver before and after one year of treatment. The iron level was reduced satisfactorily in 53% of 
the patients receiving Exjade, compared with 66% of the patients receiving deferoxamine. Exjade was 
not as effective overall as the comparator medicine. However, in the 381 patients who had particularly 
high levels of iron at the beginning of the study and who received comparable amounts of Exjade and 
deferoxamine, the two medicines were as effective as each other.  
Another study involved 184 patients who could not be treated with deferoxamine, including patients 
with beta thalassaemia major and with other types of anaemia. In more than half of these patients the 
iron level was reduced satisfactorily after a year of treatment with Exjade, including patients aged 
between 2 and 5 years. 
In a further main study involving 166 patients from 10 years of age (including 21 patients aged 10 to 
18 years) with non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes and iron overload, Exjade was 
more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was the change 
in iron levels in the liver after 12 months of treatment. In patients treated with Exjade, liver iron levels 
decreased on average by 3.8 mg per gram of liver compared with an average increase of 0.4 mg per 
gram of liver in patients treated with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Exjade? 
The most common side effect with Exjade (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is increased 
blood creatinine (a marker of kidney problems). Other common side effects (in up to 1 patient in 10) 
include nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, diarrhoea, indigestion, abdominal (belly) pain, constipation, 
headache, rash, itching, blood tests showing raised transaminases (which may suggest liver damage) 
and protein in urine. For the full list of side effects of Exjade, see the package leaflet. 
Cases of kidney and liver failure have been reported with Exjade. Kidney and liver tests should be done 
before starting treatment and at regular intervals during treatment with Exjade. Treatment may need 
to be interrupted or stopped depending on the results of the tests.  
Exjade (deferasirox)  
EMA/483217/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Cases of metabolic acidosis (when the body produces more acid than it gets rid of) have been reported 
with Exjade, mostly in patients with kidney impairment. Interruption of treatment with Exjade should 
be considered in patients who develop this condition. 
Exjade must not be used in people whose creatinine clearance is less than 60 ml per minute. It must 
not be used in combination with other iron chelators. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Exjade authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Exjade’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Exjade? 
The company that markets Exjade must issue an education pack to healthcare professionals. This pack 
aims to inform them about the treatment recommendations with Exjade, including choosing the right 
dose, that the doses are different for dispersible tablets compared to film-coated tablets or granules, 
and the need to monitor the patient’s health, especially kidney function. The company will also prepare 
a similar pack for patients. 
The company will also perform the following studies: a study on the long-term effects of the film-
coated tablets and dispersible tablets in children aged over 10 years with non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia; and a study to assess the safety of the film-coated tablets (particularly when they are 
crushed) in children. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Exjade have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Exjade are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Exjade are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Exjade 
Exjade received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 August 2006. 
Further information on Exjade can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018.  
Exjade (deferasirox)  
EMA/483217/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
