31 May 2018 
EMA/523750/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): deferasirox 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000939/201710 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 Nov 2016 – 31 Oct 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for deferasirox, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Cumulatively, 3 literature reported cases of drug-drug interaction between busulfan and deferasirox 
leading to increased busulfan exposure (via decreased busulfan clearance) were retrieved. In one case, 
deferoxamine was concomitantly administered and no de-challenge was performed. In the 2 other 
cases, a positive de-challenge without concomitant medications was reported. Some possible 
mechanisms for this drug-drug interaction have been proposed but however the exact mechanism 
remains unclear to date. Taking into account that supratherapeutic exposure to busulfan increases the 
risk for severe mucositis, sinusoidal obstructive syndrome, seizures, and pulmonary fibrosis and based 
on the available evidence of a drug-drug interaction between busulfan and deferasirox, the PRAC 
concluded that section 4.5 of the SmPC should be updated  
Following the submission of a cumulative review during the evaluation of the present PSUR, a total of 19 
serious cases (13 paediatric cases, 6 adult cases) of hepatic/renal damage without pre-existing altered 
function leading to hyperammonemia with no pertinent confounding factors were reported and 
considered as likely linked to deferasirox treatment. Most of these cases reported favourable evolution 
when deferasirox was discontinued (7 positive de-challenge, 8 cases with improvement after deferasirox 
discontinuation associated with symptomatic treatment, and 1 positive re challenge) with a compatible 
temporal association. All paediatric cases of but one and all adult cases reported encephalopathy and/or 
changes in consciousness/comatose states associated with the hyperammonemia context. Regarding 
volume depletion, 3 of the paediatric cases reported vomiting as a symptom (among which 1 reported 
rehydration therapy was provided) and 1 case reported dehydration. Among paediatric cases, 5 cases 
have an infectious context of acute illness: 1 case reported adenovirus infection, 1 case reported 
previously gastroenteritis with emesis while 3 cases reported upper respiratory tract infections among 
which 2 fatal cases in human respiratory syncytial virus positive patients. Among the 6 adult cases, 1 
case reported vomiting and 2 cases reported melena as associated symptoms. Volume depletion may 
aggravated hepatic or renal failure, but could not be the sole cause in the development of 
hyperammonemia of hepatic or renal failure aetiology. Taking into account the available data, the PRAC 
concluded that the current warning on renal function and hepatic function in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
should be updated to inform healthcare professionals about severe forms of hepatic and/or renal failure 
associated with changes in consciousness in the context of hyperammonaemic encephalopathy with 
specific focus on paediatric patients and to recommend early dosage of ammonia levels in patients 
developing unexplained changes in mental status. In addition a new 2nd footnote is proposed to be 
included in section 4.8 of the SmPC for the ‘renal tubular function disorders’ and ‘hepatic failure’ 
adverse drug reactions regarding cases with hyperammonaemic encephalopathy and changes in 
consciousness. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing deferasirox were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for deferasirox the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing deferasirox is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/523750/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
