29 May 2019 
EMA/529960/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): deferasirox 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000939/201810 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01/11/2017 to: 31/10/2018
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for deferasirox, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows: 
Based on a cumulative review of overdose cases, early signs of deferasirox overdose seem to be of digestive 
type with AEs such as abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. Furthermore, hepatic disorders manifesting 
with liver enzyme increase, jaundice with increased total and direct bilirubin, hepatic failure and one case of 
liver injury with liver enzyme increased associated with Fanconi syndrome (90 mg/kg once) were reported. 
Cases of renal disorders with positive dechallenge were retrieved. Cases of rash were also reported in 
context of overdose and section 4.4 of the SmPC mentions dose-dependence in the paragraph dedicated to 
rashes. In conclusion, an update of section 4.9 of the SmPC to adequately reflect data regarding overdose 
with deferasirox is considered necessary. 
In addition, data made available during the interval support the contributory role of the dose administered 
and over-chelation in the occurrence of some toxicities (e.g. ‘hyperammonaemia’ occurring in a clinical 
context of renal/hepatic disorders, renal and hepatic failure disorders and metabolic acidosis) including in 
the paediatric population (renal and hepatic toxicities, including cases with acute tubular injuries, metabolic 
acidosis, hyperammonaemia and hearing and ocular toxicities). As a result, recommendations regarding 
over-chelation should be updated in the Product Information. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for deferasirox the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing deferasirox is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/529960/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
