28 April 2016 
EMA/331067/2016 
Procedure Management and Committees Support Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
EXJADE  
deferasirox 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000670/P46/065 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study .............................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 13 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ..................................... 13 
  Fulfilled: ................................................................................................................ 14 
  Not fulfilled: ........................................................................................................... 14 
4. Additional clarification requested .......................................................... 14 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information ............................................. 14 
5. CHMP overall updated conclusion and recommendation ........................ 20 
  Fulfilled: ................................................................................................................ 21 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On  30  September  2015,  the  MAH  submitted  one  completed  paediatric  studies  for  Exjade 
(observational), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that the study is a stand-alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The  registry  is  observational  and  does  not  impose  a  therapy  protocol,  diagnostic/therapeutic 
interventions or a strict visit schedule. Patients were treated with an oral iron chelator according to 
the  investigator's  judgment  and  in  accordance  with  the  local  (country-specific)  prescribing 
information.  Data  about  all  treatments  applied to  the  patients  were  collected.  Treatment  included 
commercially available Exjade, which is brand name for deferasirox and is presented as dispersible 
tablets in 3 doses strengths: 125, 250 and 500mg..  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  orally  active,  tridentate  iron  chelator  deferasirox  (company  research  code:  ICL670)  is  the 
active ingredient in Exjade® dispersible tablets. Exjade is currently approved in over 100 countries. 
In the European Union, it was approved on 28-Aug-2006 for the treatment of chronic iron overload 
due  to  frequent  blood  transfusions  (≥7  ml/kg/month  of  packed  red  blood  cells)  in  patients  with 
beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and older. 
EXJADE is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient groups: 
-  in  paediatric  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia  major  with  iron  overload  due  to  frequent 
blood transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
-  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia  major  with  iron  overload  due  to 
infrequent blood transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and 
older, 
- in adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
Since 20 December 2012, Exjade has been also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload 
requiring chelation therapy when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients 
10 years and older with nontransfusion- dependent thalassaemia syndromes. 
The MAH submitted the final report for this clinical study (observational) and a clinical overview of 
this study.  
The MAH submitted one final report for: 
• 
CICL670ATR03 : A 3 year observational study (registry) of children with 
hemoglobinopathies at enrolment treated with oral iron chelators due to transfusional 
hemosiderosis. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 3/21 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
CICL670ATR03 : A 3 year observational study (registry) of 
children with hemoglobinopathies at enrolment treated with oral 
iron chelators due to transfusional hemosiderosis. 
Description 
This is a prospective, multicentre non interventional observational registry in Turkey to collect data 
of patients aged from 2 to 18 years-old with hemoglobinopathies who are treated with oral iron 
chelators therapy for transfusional hemosiderosis. Patients were followed up for 3 years. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objectives: 
Primary objectives of the present study are to study the magnitude of the problem of iron overload 
in  Turkey,  gaining  insight  about  this  condition  and  the  patterns  of  care  regarding  the  use  of  oral 
iron chelating therapy for transfusion-dependent hemoglobinopathies in this country. 
Secondary objectives: 
To describe the demographics of patients with hemoglobinopathies and iron overload management 
of these patients requiring chronic transfusional therapy 
To  investigate  any  correlation  between  secondary  iron  overload  due  to  transfusions,  treatments 
received and co-morbidities (including cardiac function) 
Collect data on (if available) 
-  Adverse events 
- 
Liver and kidney functions 
-  Auditory and ophthalmology assessments 
-  Growth and sexual development for pediatric patients 
- 
To  list  transfusion  requirements  and  the  types  of  iron  chelation  therapy  and  regimens 
employed in Turkey 
Study design 
This study is a prospective, multi-center, non-interventional study in Turkey designed as a registry 
of patients 2 – 18 years of age with hemoglobinopathies, who are on oral iron chelator therapy at 
the time of enrollment with transfusional hemosiderosis. The study was initiated on 23 Nov 2010 
(FPFV) and ended on 17 October 2014 (LPLV). The study was conducted in 31 sites in Turkey. 
CHMP comment 
This is an observational study which is not designed to assess the efficacy and safety of chelation 
therapy (in particular deferasirox) according to the MAH. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 4/21 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population /Sample size 
All eligible patients in all centers in Turkey which are responsible in diagnosis and management of 
patients  with  hemoglobinopathies  and  agree  to  participate  in  the  registry  during  the  1  year-
recruitment period of the study, or until the target number of patients is achieved. The estimated 
sample size was 400 patients.  
Inclusion criteria 
Eligible patients must meet all of the following criteria: 
Written informed consent obtained from the patient and the child’s legal guardian for children. 
Male or female patients aged 2-18 years at enrollment.  
Patients who have transfusion-dependent anemia, such as major β- thalassemia and sickle cell 
disease. 
Patients who have an iron overload as defined in established patients management guidelines 
regarding oral iron chelation therapy as a cumulative blood transfusion history of ≥100 mL/kg of 
packed red blood cells (approximately 10 units for a 20 kg patient) and/or a serum ferritin 
consistently >1000 μg/L. 
Patients beginning or under treatment with any oral iron chelator (under prescription) for 
transfusional hemosiderosis at the time of enrollment. 
Exclusion criteria 
Patients with any of the following will NOT be included in the study: 
Patients who have any contraindication for treatment with any iron chelator according to the local 
prescribing information  
Patients with non-transfusional hemosiderosis. 
Unwilling or unable to comply with the protocol. 
Severe concomitant illnesses that might make the completion of the registry unlikely (e.g. cancer, 
active AIDS). 
Patients involved in another clinical trial. 
Pregnancy or breastfeeding 
Known sensitivity to class of oral iron chelators 
Use of any investigational agent in the last 30 days 
Treatments 
The study protocol does not impose a therapy protocol or diagnostic/therapeutic interventions. 
Patient will be treated with an oral iron chelator according to the investigator’s judgment and in 
accordance with the local (country-specific) prescribing information.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 5/21 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Statistical Methods 
Investigators  will  enter  the  information  required  by  the  protocol  into  the  Novartis  Case  Report 
Forms (CRFs). Non-obvious errors or omissions will be entered on Data Query Forms, which will be 
returned to the investigational site for resolution. 
The data from all centers will be pooled and summarized with respect to demographic and baseline 
characteristics and efficacy and safety observations. Data will be presented for the complete intent-
to-treat  population  as  well  as  the  per-protocol  population  (all  patients  who  completed  the  study 
without major protocol deviations). 
A  multivariate  Cox  proportional  hazards  regression  model  will  be  applied  to  correlate  secondary 
iron overload (ferritin levels) due to transfusions and treatments received to comorbidities . 
For  the  assessment  of  safety  based  on  the  frequency  of  serious  adverse  events;  serious  adverse 
events will be summarized by presenting for each treatment group the number and percentage of 
patients  having  any  serious  adverse  event,  having  a  serious  adverse  event  in  each  body  system 
and  having  each  individual  serious  event.  Any  other  information  collected  (e.g.  severity  or 
relatedness to study medication) will be listed as appropriate. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A  total  of  483  paediatric  patients  (aged  2-18  years)  were  enrolled:  459  patients  (95%)  were 
diagnosed  with  beta-thalassemia  major  and  24  (5%)  had  sickle  cell  anaemia.  A  total  of  347 
patients  completed  the  study  and  were  followed  during  3  years.  A  total  of  136  patients 
discontinued from the study.  The mean age of the patients was 9.38±4.10 years. The distribution 
of  patients  according  to  age  groups  was  as  followed:  143  patients  (29.6%)  aged  2-6  years,  223 
patients (46.2%) aged 7-12 years, 117 patients (24.2%) aged 13-18 years 
Baseline data 
At baseline, 90.4% (n=415) of the patients with beta-thalassemia major were receiving DFX, 7.6% 
(n=35)  of  the  patients  were  receiving  deferiprone  (DFP)  and  2  %  (n=9)  were  treated  with 
deferoxamine (DFO). 
The  mean  daily  doses  of  DFX  and  DFP  were  26.37±6.13  mg/kg/body  weight  and  69.59±17.17 
mg/kg/body  weight  respectively  while  DFO  mean  dose  was  60.83±21.08  mg/kg/body  weight.  All 
patients with sickle cell anaemia (n=24) were receiving DFX, and the mean daily dose of DFX was 
25.15±5.41 mg/kg/body weight 
Within the total population, 71 patients (14.7%) presented with concomitant diseases at baseline 
and the most common concomitant diseases were endocrine dysfunction, cardiac insufficiency and 
liver disease. Of those 71 patients, 65 (14.8%) were receiving DFX and the endocrine dysfunction 
(29 patients, 6.6%) was the most common concomitant disease. Within endocrine complications, 
hypothyroidism was the most frequent 8 (27.6%) followed by osteoporosis 5 (17.5%) 
Within the study, 5 patients were reported to be positive for HBsAg suggesting an ongoing infection 
of  hepatitis  B.  All  of  these  reported  positive  HBsAg  assessments  were  reported  for  patients 
receiving  DFX.  The  presence  of  anti-HBc  was  reported  in  13  patients  throughout  the  study, 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
 
indicating  previous  or  ongoing  infection  with  HBV  in  an  undefined  time  frame.  Eight  patients  of 
those were receiving DFX. 
A  considerable  number  of  assessments  were  positive  for  anti-HBs.  The  presence  of  anti-HBs  is 
generally  interpreted  as  indicating  recovery  and  immunity  from  HBV  infection.  Anti-HBs  also 
develop in a person who has been successfully vaccinated against hepatitis B. 
Furthermore,  there  were  8  patients  tested  positive  for  Anti  HCV  within  the  study,  potentially 
suggesting  the  presence  of  hepatitis  C  infection.  All  of  them  were  reported  for  patients  receiving 
DFX 
Efficacy results 
Efficacy  was  assessed  with  SF  change  from  baseline  to  end  of  study.  SF  data  of  all  evaluable 
patients in this study demonstrated that SF levels decreased from mean 2056.56 ng/dl to 1636.70 
ng/dl in DFX treated patients. 
In this study,  T2* MRI was used to detect cardiac iron deposition and was suggested at baseline, 
after 2 years of observation and after 3 years at end of study. T2* MRI was performed at baseline 
in 68 patients of whom 62 were treated with DFX. Of those, 43 (69.4%) patients had T2* >20 ms. 
One  patient  treated  with  DFX  had  T2*  <5  ms  at  baseline.  After  2  years,  40  DFX  patients  were 
assessed  with  T2*  MRI  and  28  (84.8%)  of  those  patients  had  normal  results  (T2*  >20ms).  Two 
patients  receiving  DFX  had  5>T2*<10.  At  the  study  end,  27  DFX  patients  of  total  37  were 
evaluated for cardiac T2*. Five (20.8%) patients had T2* between 10 to 20 ms which is regarded 
as moderate cardiac IOL. Importantly, 19 (79.2%) patients who were receiving DFX presented with 
T2* greater than 20 ms at the last visit. Overall, majority of the patients treated DFX at all three 
visit  had  T2*  above  20  ms.  The  study’s  design  and  the  manner  in  which  data  was  collected  does 
not  allow  one  to  make  a  conclusion  on  cardiac  efficacy.  The  T2*  results  are  presented  over  time 
but rather at each visit without a possibility to relay them to previous or subsequent visits’ results. 
Liver assessment by MRI for IOL was suggested to be completed at the same frequency as T2* MRI 
at baseline, after 2 years and after 3 years at end of study. The results were referred to “normal” 
or  “abnormal”  based  on  judgment  of  the  physicians.  Notably,  both  categories  were  not  explicitly 
defined. At baseline, liver MRI was performed in 66 patients of whom 62 were treated with DFX. A 
total of 19 (30.6%) DFX patients had a normal assessment. After 2 years, 51 patients treated with 
DFX were evaluated for IOL in liver, of whom 36 (70.6%) were assessed as normal. At the study 
end,  26  (66.7%)  of  39  DFX  patients,  had  a  normal  MRI  assessment  as  reported  by  the 
investigators. 
The  study’s  design  and  the  manner  in  which  data  was  collected  do  not  allow  one  to  make  a 
conclusion  on  liver  efficacy.  The  LIC  results  are  collected  in  a  numerical  way  and  were  not 
presented  over  time  but  rather  at  each  visit  without  a  possibility  to  relay  them  to  previous  or 
subsequent visits’ results. 
CHMP comment 
No specific analyses of the efficacy in pediatric patients have been conducted. This is a prospective, 
multicenter and observational study thus non-randomized and non-controlled with main limitations 
including potential selection bias, missing data. 
At  baseline,  415  patients  with  beta-thalassemia  major  and  24  patients  with  sickle  cell  anemia 
received  DFX.  The  mean  daily  doses  of  DFX  used  in  both  population  were  usual  (recommended 
doses: 20-30 mg/kg/body weight).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
 
Reduction in mean SF was reported for all evaluable DFX treated patients from BL of 2056.6 ng/ml 
to 1636.7 ng/ml at 3 years. 
Change in cardiac overload measured by MRI T2* was provided but the study design cannot allow 
to conclude on cardiac efficacy.  
T2*  MRI  was  performed  at  baseline  in  62  of  68  DFX  patients.  43  (69.4%)  patients  present 
moderate  cardiac  overload  (T2*>20  ms)  and  one  patient  treated  for  a  severe  cardiac  overload 
(T2*<5). After 2 years, T2* MRI was performed in 40 DFX patients. 28 (84.8%) had normal results 
(T2* >20ms). Two patients receiving DFX had 5> T2*<10. After 3 years, T2* MRI was performed 
in 27 of 37 DFX patients 19 (79.2%) patients presented T2* > 20 ms. Five (20.8%) patients had 
T2* between 10 to 20 ms. 
Thus, majority of the T2* MRI evaluable DFX treated patients at all three visit had T2* > 20 ms. 
This observational study provide long-term efficacy T2* results but without possibility to relay them 
to previous or subsequent visits’ results.  
In the same way, percentage of “normal” hepatic T2* MRI (result judged by physicians) increases 
in  evaluable  DFX  treated  patients  after  2  and  3  years  compared  to  baseline  but  there’s  no 
possibility to link the results between each visit and thus to conclude to efficacy of DFX on liver iron 
overload. 
Safety results 
Of the 483 patients enrolled, 30 (6%) discontinued chelation therapy due to serious adverse events 
(SAEs),  29  patients  of  those  were  receiving  DFX.  The  most  frequently  reported  SAE  was  bone 
marrow transplant and stem cell transplant patients who discontinued the study (Hospitalization for 
an elective procedure was wrongly defined as SAEs). 
Three patients discontinued chelation therapy due to administration of intensive chemotherapy.  2 
patients  died  during  the  observational  period  (see  below).  Of  101  patients  who  the  primary 
reasons for withdrawal was “other”, majority 66 (65.3%) withdrew due to lost to follow up. 
Within  the  total  population,  there  were  159  (32.9%)  patients  who  experienced  adverse  events 
(AEs).  Most  of  the  AEs  were  allogeneic  bone  marrow  transplantation therapy  25  (5.2%),  followed 
by  endocrine  10  (2.1%)  and  osteoporosis  10  (2.1%).  Of  note,  allogenic  bone  marrow 
transplantation is an elective procedure and is generally not reported as AE. 
A total of 143 (32.6%) patients of 439 treated with DFX experienced AEs within the study. 
The  most  commonly  AEs  were  allogeneic  bone  marrow  transplantation  therapy  24  (5.5%), 
osteoporosis 10 (2.3%) followed by endocrine 9 (2.1%) and cough 9 (2.1%). 
For other two chelators, AEs were reported in 4 (44.4%) patients out of 9 treated with DFO, and 12 
(34.3%) patients out of 35 who were receiving DFP. 
Fatal cases: 
Two  deaths  were  reported  during  the  study.  A  15  years  old  female  patient  with  beta  thalassemia 
treated  with  DFX  died  due  to  upper  gastrointestinal  bleeding  caused  by  esophageal  variceal.  As 
assessed by the investigator, the event was not suspected to be related to DFX. The cause of death 
for  the  other  beta  thalassemic  patient,  female  18  years  of  age,  was  cardiac  insufficiency  and 
cardiogenic  shock.  This  patient  was  diagnosed  with  cardiac  insufficiency  2  years  ago  and  was 
receiving Digoxin (1x1) and captopril (1x1). At the time of the event the patient was treated with 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 8/21 
 
 
 
 
DFP and DFO and the investigator did not suspect a relationship between the event and DFP/DFO 
combination therapy. 
SAEs,  irrespective  of  relationship  to  DFX  treatment,  were  reported  in  60  (13.7%)  DFX  patients. 
Majority of SAEs were the allogeneic bone marrow transplantation therapy 24 (5.5%) and stem cell 
transplantation 7 (1.6%) and were not suspected to be related to DFX. Of note, those are elective 
procedures and are generally not reported as SAEs.  
Only 2 patients experienced SAEs, both of which were suspected by investigators to be related to 
DFX treatment:  
  O n e   p a t ie n t   e x p e r ie n c e d   a  hepatic  enzyme  increase   at  two  different  time  points;  both  events 
resolved with dose adjustment. 
  Th e   o t h e r   p a t ie n t   p r e s e n t e d   w it h   kidney  tubule  disorder  and  abdominal  pain.  DFX  was 
permanently discontinued and both events were resolved.  
A  total  of  403  DFX  patients  had  serum  creatinine  (SCr)  evaluated  at  baseline  with  mean  0.41 
mg/dl. At the study end, the mean SCr was 0.47 mg/dl , remaining stable over the duration of the 
study.  At  baseline,  the  mean  creatinine  clearance  (CrCl)  was  180.9  ml/min  for  383  evaluable 
patients  who  were  treated  with  DFX.  These  rather  high  CrCl  values  remain  consistent  throughout 
the study and a mean of 179.9 ml/min was reported at the study end. 
A  total  of  394  DFX  patients  had  ALT  evaluated  at  baseline.  The  mean  alanine  aminotransferase 
(ALT) has gradually decreased overtime from 35.0 U/L at baseline to 23.57 U/L at the study end, 
remaining  within  a  normal  range.  Overall,  approximately  80%  of  patients  treated  with  DFX  who 
underwent  assessment  within  the  study  had  a  normal  sexual  development  as  defined  by  the 
investigators.  In  general,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  a  delayed  sexual  maturation  throughout 
the study remained unchanged ranging between 14.5% to 21.3%. 
Importantly to highlight that 31 (14.5%) patient receiving DFX at baseline entered the study with a 
delayed  sexual  assessment  and  9  of  those  were  assessed  by  the  investigators  as  normal  at  the 
study end. Conversely, some patients showed change from normal to abnormal within the study. 
Audiometry and ophthalmology assessments were suggested at baseline (visit 1), after 2 years of 
observation (visit 5) and after 3 years at the end of the study (visit 7).Within the study, a normal 
hearing assessment was observed in approximately 93% of patients treated with DFX. There were 
patients who demonstrated hearing abnormalities at one or more of the three visits: eight patients 
(3.5%)  at  visit  1,  7  patients  (4.9%)  at  visit  5  and  6  (4  new  and  2  previously  reported  after  2 
years)  patients  (6.5%)  at  visit  7.  Most  common  abnormalities  were  hearing  loss.  No  causality 
assessment  was  reported  by  the  investigators.  Below  is  the  summary  of  patients  who 
demonstrated hearing abnormalities at study visits. 
Of these 8 patients with hearing abnormalities at visit 1 (baseline), the assessment for 7 patients 
were either not performed or not reported by the investigators at visit 5 and visit 7; and 1 patient 
who  had  mild  conductive  hearing  loss  on  right  ear  due  to  effusion  at  visit  1  was  reported  by  the 
investigator as normal at visit 5. Of the 7 patients who reported hearing abnormalities at visit 5, 3 
patients were assessed as normal at visit 1 and the visit 1 assessment was unknown for the other 
4 patients  
At visit 7, 2 patients of the 6 had abnormal hearing at visit 5. The other 4 patients had a normal 
hearing at visit 5. Overall, total of 19 patients were reported with audiometry abnormalities within 
the study. Of those 19, eight patients had abnormal assessments at baseline and one of them was 
assessed as normal at the visit 5. New hearing abnormalities were observed in 7 patients who were 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 9/21 
 
 
 
 
assessed with normal audiometry at previous visits. The baseline assessment for the remaining 4 
patients  who  presented  with  abnormal  hearing  assessment  was  either  not  performed  or  not 
reported by the investigators thus one cannot conclude if those were new or existing abnormalities. 
Ocular  evaluation  was  reported  by  investigators  as  normal  in  greater  than  99%  of  DFX  patients 
who  underwent  ophthalmic  examination  throughout  the  study.  Only  1  (0.5%)  patients  within  the 
study  had  fundus  abnormalities  as  assessed  by  the  investigators.  No  ocular  abnormalities  were 
observed at the end of the study in patient treated with DFX 
CHMP comment 
As  a  general  comment,  the  safety  assessment  in  paediatric  population  in  this  study  was  not  the 
primary objective of this study ATR03. Only descriptive data were recorded. 
In  this  observational  study,  all  patients  did  not  receive  Exjade  but  a  vast  majority  (439/483) 
received  an  iron  chelator  therapy  including  Exjade.  The  collection  of  safety  data  was  part  of  the 
secondary  objective  of  this  study.  This  study  enrolled  483  paediatric  patients  (459  beta-
thalassemic  patients  and  24  with  SCD)  and  finally  347  patients  completed  the  study  and  were 
followed during 3 years. 
Among  the  483  paediatric  patients,  433  received  monotherapy  (85%  Exjade,  3.5%  Ferriprox  and 
1%  Desferal)  and  55  received  iron  chelators  combinations  (4%  each:    Exjade+  Desferal  and 
Exjade+ Ferriprox ; 1% Ferriprox+Desferal and 2.3% Exjade+Desferal+ferriprox). 
Currently,  Exjade  is  contraindicated  with  other  iron  chelators  in  Europe  as  the  safety  of  such 
combinations has not been established. Therefore, a thorough safety review of all patients with iron 
chelators  combinations  containing  Exjade  in  this  observational  study  would  be  useful  to  describe 
the  safety  profile  of  such  combinations  in  real  life,  especially  in  those  paediatric  patients  (beta-
thalassemic and SCD). Also the MAH should try to analyse the reasons why prescribers used such 
combinations (in therapeutic strategy). 
During this study, 2 fatal cases were reported :  
1) one GI haemorrhage in a 16 years-old female patient (beta-thalassemic). This case was already 
reported  in  the  previous  PSUR  14  .  The  MAH  claims  that  this  GI  haemorrhage  is  not  related  to 
Exjade  as  it  occurred  in  a  context  of  oesophageal  variceal).  However,  in  CIOMS  form  (in  EV)  no 
information on pre-existing or concomitant oesophageal lesions is mentioned. Therefore, the role of 
Exjade cannot be ruled out. The MAH should clarify.  
2)  one  cardiac  insufficiency  and  cardiogenic  shock  in  a  18  years-old  female  patient  (beta-
thalassemic)  under  the  combination  of  DFP  and  DFO.  No  more  information  are  available  in  the 
clinical safety report. 
A  total  of  143  AEs  were  reported  under  Exjade  therapy:  mainly  are  allogenic  bone  marrow 
transplantation (25), osteoporosis (10 or 11?? in table 103) and endocrine disorders 9 or 10 ?? in 
table 103 / cough (9). Also hepatic disorders were also reported (10). 
Hearing  abnormalities  did  occur  among  paediatric  patients  with  long  term  DFX  treatment  
(7  patients  (/439  ;  1.6%)  have  reported  newly  occurring  hearing  abnormalities  which  should  be 
adequately follow. 
Also at the end of study, delayed sexual development was reported in both genders within 2 age-
group: 7-12 years-old and 13-18 years-old. We agree that these data should be taken with caution 
as we cannot exclude the role of previous chelation therapy (DFO) as 2/3 of patients with Exjade 
were previously treated with DFO and the role of  underlying disease. Also the assessment by the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 10/21 
 
 
 
 
Tanner staging (a standard methodology to evaluate sexual maturation) was not performed in this 
study. However, these finding should be kept in mind as they are not consistent with the previous 
analyses of study 107E1 (follow-up of 5 years of beta-thalassemic patients). 
In this clinical study report of study ATR03, a lot of discrepancies have been noted:  
1) the cross references for tables in the clinical expert overview are not consistent with the tables 
in the clinical study report leading to misinterpretation of data (e;g : cross reference to table 156 
page 8 of the overview while no table 156 is included in the clinical study report). 
2) Discrepancies between the table untitled “treatment with iron chelators” which described action 
taken with iron chelators therapy and the reason to stop treatment and the table untitled “adverse 
events”  which  listed  all  adverse  events  (serious  and  not  serious)  by  patient  with  grade,  action 
taken and relationship with study drug.  
For instance, some adverse events considered as the reason for treatment interruption in the table 
“treatment  with  iron  chelator”  are  not  reported  as  adverse  events  in  the  table  “adverse  events”. 
The  main  AEs  with  Exjade  which  are  not  listed  in  the  table  “adverse  events”  are  ALT  and  AST 
increased  (patient  04-04  ;  08-28;  14-16;  14-23;  15-01;  19-24;  27-02;  45-09;  45-13;…)  ,  renal 
disorders (tubulopathy, 21-16; UPCR: 0.93, 29-31; creatinine increased, 36-04), and neutropenia 
(15-14), allergic rash (08-11), LDH increased (18-01), EBV infection (41-09), influenza (46.02). 
Therefore  the  data  provided  contain  too  many  discrepancies  to  make  a  correct  assessment.  No 
clear conclusion can be drawn from these erroneous descriptive data.  
Even if the study contains only descriptive safety data, the MAH is requested to provide a correct 
comprehensive  safety  analysis  of  this  study  (for  SAE  and  non  SAE  occurring  during  therapy 
including Exjade) with analysis of time to onset, circumstances of occurrence, potential risk factors, 
predisposal  factor,  dechallenge/rechallenge,  outcome,  action  taken  with  the  product.  Also,  an 
additional review of events of interest (such as renal, hepatic disorders, hearing abnormalities, long 
term  events  (related  to  time  exposure)  …  to  name  a  few)  in  this  paediatric  population  should  be 
provided.  
MAH’s conclusion  
The data collected in this paediatric registry are consistent with the efficacy of DFX in reducing IOL 
in both the paediatric and adult patients. Overall, there were no unexpected safety findings in 
pediatric patients following long-term treatment with DFX. Importantly, no clinically significant 
changes in liver or kidney function in the patients receiving DFX. The safety profile for the 
paediatric patients remains consistent with the known profile of DFX. Data collected on sexual 
development by physical examination are not conclusive; Tanner staging, a standard methodology 
for assessment of sexual development, was not mandated by the study protocol and were not 
collected. 
In conclusion, the benefit to risk relationship for DFX remains positive for the currently approved 
indications and justifies continuation of the development program in pediatric patients. 
No changes to the pediatric information of the current Exjade (deferasirox) Core Data Sheet are 
proposed as a result of this registry due to the limitations of the data collected in particular on 
sexual development, and no regulatory consequences of the submitted study are anticipated for 
the pediatric information in the EU SPC. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 11/21 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
Efficacy 
In conclusion, no specific analyses of the efficacy in pediatric patients have been conducted. 
Reduction in mean SF, improvement of cardiac (T2* > 20 ms) parameters relative to cardiac iron 
overload was observed for evaluable DFX treated patients at 3 years. However, the study design 
cannot allow to conclude on efficacy of DFX on cardiac iron overload. Concerning liver assessment, 
the data do not allow to make conclusion on liver efficacy. 
Safety 
This  descriptive  study  is  particularly  of  interest  because  there  is  a  follow-up  of  these  paediatric 
patients  during  3  years  (long  term  exposure).  Delayed  sexual  development  was  reported  in  both 
genders  within  2  age-groups  :  7-12  years-old  and  13-18  years-old.  Even  if  we  take  into  account 
limitation of data collected (Tanner staging not performed), we consider that these finding should 
be kept in mind as they are not consistent with the previous analyses of study 107E1 (follow-up of 
5 years of beta-thalassemic patients). 
Based on the data provided in this descriptive study, we cannot draw any conclusion on the 
safety profile of paediatric patients included in this study and treated by Exjade (in 
monotherapy or in combination).  
Indeed, too many discrepancies have been identified to correctly assess the safety data 
recorded in this study. Therefore, the MAH is requested to provide a correct comprehensive 
safety analysis of this study (for SAE and non SAE occurring during therapy including Exjade) with 
analysis of time to onset, circumstances of occurrence, potential risk factors, predisposal factor, 
dechallenge/rechallenge, outcome, action taken with the product…). Also, an additional review of 
events of interest (such as renal, hepatic disorders, hearing abnormalities, long term events 
(related to time exposure) … to name a few) in this paediatric population should be provided. 
Also, Exjade is currently contraindicated with other iron chelators in Europe as the safety of such 
combinations has not been established. Therefore,  a thorough safety review of all patients with 
iron chelators combinations containing Exjade in this observational study would be useful to 
describe the safety profile of such combinations in real life, especially in those paediatric patients 
(beta-thalassemic and SCD). Also the MAH should try to analyse the reasons why prescribers used 
such combinations (in therapeutic strategy). 
Particularly, the MAH should clarify in the fatal GI haemorrhage case occurring in a 16 years-old 
female patient how the MAH has the information that “GI haemorrhage is not related to Exjade as 
it occurred in a context of oesophageal variceal” while in CIOMs form of the case  in EV, no such 
information is recorded.   
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Efficacy 
As a general comment, efficacy conclusions are difficult to drawn since efficacy of deferasirox is not 
a primary objective of these both observational studies. Only descriptive data are available.  
In the study ATR03, reduction in mean SF, improvement of cardiac (T2* > 20 ms) parameters 
relative to cardiac iron overload was observed for DFX treated patients with b-TM or SCD at 3 
years. However, the study design cannot allow to conclude on efficacy of DFX on cardiac and liver 
iron overload.  
Safety 
As a general comment, safety conclusions are difficult to drawn since safety of deferasirox in 
paediatric population is not a primary objective of these both observational studies. Only 
descriptive data are available.  
In the study ATR03, a vast majority of patients enrolled in this registry in Turkey (439/483) 
received an iron chelator therapy including Exjade. The collection of safety data was part of the 
secondary objective of this study. This descriptive study is particularly of interest because there is 
a follow-up of these paediatric patients during 3 years (long term exposure). Delayed sexual 
development was reported in both genders within 2 age-groups : 7-12 years-old and 13-
18 years-old. Even if we take into account limitation of data collected (Tanner staging not 
performed), we consider that these finding should be kept in mind as they are not consistent with 
the previous analyses of study 107E1 (follow-up of 5 years of beta-thalassemic patients). 
Based on the data provided in this descriptive study, we cannot draw any conclusion on the safety 
profile of paediatric patients included in this study and treated by Exjade (in monotherapy or in 
combination). Too many discrepancies have been identified to correctly assess the safety data 
recorded in this study. 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
Efficacy 
As a general comment, efficacy conclusions are difficult to drawn since efficacy of deferasirox is not 
a primary objective of this observational study. Only descriptive data are available.  
In the study ATR03, reduction in mean SF, improvement of cardiac (T2* > 20 ms) parameters 
relative to cardiac iron overload was observed for DFX treated patients with b-TM or SCD at 3 
years. However, the study design cannot allow to conclude on efficacy of DFX on cardiac and liver 
iron overload.  
Safety 
As  a  general  comment,  safety  conclusions  are  difficult  to  drawn  since  safety  of  deferasirox  in 
paediatric  population  is  not  a  primary  objective  of  this  observational  study.  Only  descriptive  data 
are available.  
In  the  study  ATR03  (transfusion  dependant  hemoglobinopathies  :  beta  thalassemic/SCD 
population), delayed sexual development was reported in both genders within 2 age-groups : 7-12 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 13/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
years-old  and  13-18  years-old.  Even  if  we  take  into  account  limitation  of  data  collected  (Tanner 
staging  not  performed),  we  consider  that  these  finding  should  be  kept  in  mind  as  they  are  not 
consistent  with  the  previous  analyses  of  study  107E1  (follow-up  of  5  years  of  beta-thalassemic 
patients). Also, we cannot draw any conclusion on the safety profile of paediatric patients included 
in this study and treated by Exjade (in monotherapy or in combination) : too many discrepancies 
have been identified to correctly assess the safety data recorded in this study. 
  Fulfilled: 
  Not fulfilled: 
Based  on  the  data  submitted,  the  MAH  should  provide  description  of  the  additional  clarifications 
requested per study as part of this procedure. (see section “Additional clarification requested”) 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Based  on  the  data  submitted,  the  MAH  should  address  the  following  questions  as  part  of  this 
procedure: 
Study ATR03 
1-  Too many discrepancies have been identified to correctly assess the safety data recorded in 
this study ATR03. Therefore, the MAH is requested to provide a correct  comprehensive 
safety  analysis  of  this  study  (for  SAE  and  non  SAE  occurring  during  therapy  including 
Exjade) with analysis of time to onset, circumstances of occurrence, potential risk factors, 
predisposal  factor,  dechallenge/rechallenge,  outcome,  action  taken  with  the  product…). 
Also,  an  additional  review  of  events  of  interest  (such  as  renal,  hepatic  disorders, 
hearing  abnormalities,  long  term  events  (related  to  time  exposure)  …  to  name  a  few)  in 
this paediatric population should be provided. 
2-  A  thorough  safety  review  of  all  patients  with  iron  chelators  combinations 
containing  Exjade  in  this  observational  study  should  be  provided  to  describe  the  safety 
profile  of  such  combinations  in  real  life,  especially  in  those  paediatric  patients  (beta-
thalassemic  and  SCD).  Also  the  MAH  should  try  to  analyse  the  reasons  why  prescribers 
used such combinations (in therapeutic strategy). 
3-  The MAH should clarify in the fatal GI haemorrhage case occurring in a 16 years-old female 
patient how the MAH has the information that “GI haemorrhage is not related to Exjade as 
it occurred in a context of oesophageal variceal” while in CIOMs form of the case  in EV, no 
such information is recorded.   
The timetable is a 30 day response timetable with clock stop. 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
Question 1:  
Too many discrepancies have been identified to correctly assess the safety data recorded 
in  this  study  CICL670ATR03.  Therefore,  the  MAH  is  requested  to  provide  a  correct 
comprehensive  safety  analysis  of  this  study  (for  SAE  and  non  SAE  occurring  during 
therapy  including  Exjade)  with  analysis  of  time  to  onset,  circumstances  of  occurrence, 
potential  risk  factors,  predisposal  factor,  dechallenge/rechallenge,  outcome,  action 
taken with the product…). Also, an additional review of events of interest (such as renal, 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 14/21 
 
 
 
 
hepatic disorders, hearing abnormalities, long term events (related to time exposure) … 
to name a few) in this paediatric population should be provided. 
MAH’s response 
A  statistical  analysis  plan  addendum  for  study  CICL670ATR03  has  been  developed.  The 
complementary data provide additional evidence for deferasirox safety in the CICL670ATR03 study 
population <18 years of age (N= 458). 
Adverse  events  and  serious  adverse  events,  regardless  of  study  drug  relationship,  by  primary 
system organ class, preferred term and treatment are presented in [Tables 1 and 2 of Appendix 3]. 
The  population  for  the  new/revised  analysis  only  includes  patients  <18  years  of  age  treated  with 
Exjade only (N=457) and treated with Exjade combined with other another iron chelator (Desferal) 
(N=1). 
In  this  observational  study  the  majority  of  the  observed  483  pediatric  patients  with  transfusional 
iron overload were diagnosed with beta-thalassemia (n=459). Twenty four patients were diagnosed 
with sickle cell disease (n=24). 
The  observed  safety  profile  of  iron  chelation  including  deferasirox  in  this  paediatric  patient 
population  diagnosed  with  beta  thalassemia  or  sickle  cell  disease  is  in  line  with  the  known  safety 
profile of deferasirox in single agent use and with the known complications and procedures of the 
underying  diseases.  No  new  signals  have  been  observed  in  general,  including  for  sytem  organ 
classes  of  special  interest  inclusing  renal,  hepatic,  ophthalmic  and  acustic  or  skin  related  adverse 
events. 
While  treatment  discontinuations  for  other  reasons  have  been  observed  in  the  study  population, 
discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  were  rare  [Table  3  of  Appendix  3].  Four  patients  were 
observed  to  have  discontinued  iron  chelation  due  to  the  adverse  event  bone  marrow 
transplantation  for  the  underlying  condition  beta  thalassemia.  Bone  marrow  transplantation  is  a 
common treatment option for pediatric patients diagnosed with beta thalassemia. The majority of 
patients  who  were  treated  with  deferasirox  and  underwent  bone  marrow  transplantation  (n=23) 
completed  the  study  prior  to  transplant.  Two  patients  discontinued  due  to  renal  tubular  disorders 
and information is provided below in association with [Table 3 of Appendix 3]. 
In the study population treated with deferasirox, renal adverse events were observed. One patient 
who experienced the event of nephrolithiasis also experienced urinary tract infection. Three events 
of proteinuria and 1 investigation of protein urine presence were described in this study the latter 
was reported to be related to study drug by the investigator. Deferasirox treatment was continued 
or  patients  were  managed  with  dose  reduction  in  the  sole  event  of  proteinuria.  Proteinuria  is  a 
commonly  described  adverse  event  for  patients  treated  with  deferasirox  [Tables  4,  5  and  6  of 
Appendix 3]. 
One  SAE  and  two  AE  of  renal  tubular  disorders  were  reported.  The  patient  with  the  SAE  of  renal 
tubular disorder was reported as renal tubulopathy related to deferasirox by the investigator. This 
11 year old female with beta thalassemia major, experienced kidney tubule disorder and abdominal 
pain. She was receiving 625 mg (26 mg/kg/day) of Exjade daily. The study drug was permanently 
discontinued due to the event renal tubulopathy, and both events resolved. Renal tubulopathy has 
been  reported  in  patients  treated  with  deferasirox.  The  majority  of  these  patients  were  children 
and adolescents with beta-thalassemia and serum ferritin levels <1,500 microgram/L. 
There was no new safety  signal for renal and urinary disorders in the pediatric population treated 
with deferasirox within the 3 year observation period. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
 
Additional analysis for the event of increased liver enzymes indicate that patients may experience 
liver  enzyme  elevation  throughout  the  observational  period.  The  Kaplan-Meier  estimate  supports 
the association of risk to experience an increase of liver enzymes with increasing duration of drug 
exposure [Figure 1 of Appendix 3]. However for the documented 9 cases treated with deferasirox 
the  increase  was  mild  (Grade  1-2)  and  transient  in  nature  for  most  of  the  patients  [Figure  2  of 
Appendix  3]. Most  patients  with  hepatic  enzyme  increase  we  managed  with  dose  interruption.  No 
patient discontinued from study solely due to the event increased liver enzymes. 
Overall, there were no unexpected safety findings based on the additional assessments performed 
in this pediatric patient population under long-term deferasirox treatment. Importantly, no clinically 
significant changes in liver or kidney function were observed in the study period. The safety profile 
for  pediatric  patients  of  study  CICL670ATR03  remains  consistent  with  the  known  profile  of 
deferasirox. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
As  a  general  comment,  the  safety  assessment  in  paediatric  population  was  not  the  primary 
objective of this study ATR03. Only descriptive data were recorded. 
We  consider  that  the  MAH’s  response  is  not  acceptable.  Firstly,  the  MAH  has  not  clarified  all  the 
discrepancies identified by the CHMP in the preliminary assessment report. Secondly, the MAH has 
not provided a comprehensive safety review updated with all key elements requested by the CHMP. 
Indeed,  the  MAH  has  not  provided  serious  adverse  events  with  suspected  relationship  to  study 
drug. Additionally, AEs with suspected relationship to study drug were given succinctly (i.e. without 
circumstances  of  occurrence,  outcome…).  AEs  causing  study  drug  discontinuation,  requiring  dose 
adjustment and study drug interruption are given regardless of study drug. Also the MAH provided 
only a succinct review of events related to renal and hepatic events. 
Therefore,  the  CHMP  cannot  draw  any  conclusion  on  the  safety  profile  of  Exjade  in  paediatric 
population based on this study analysis, as the data are too scarce. 
We can agree that this study is not designed specifically to assess the safety (due to the 
descriptive nature of data). Nevertheless, uncertainties on safety in youngest patients treated with 
Exjade remain due to this incomplete analysis of registry’s results. 
Therefore, we consider with great importance the MAH’s response to the safety questions raised in 
the variation II48 regarding the long term safety in paediatric patient aged from 2 to 6 years-old 
(still ongoing) as the same questions regarding renal and hepatic disorders and long term events 
are requested to be clarify. 
We strongly recommend to MAH to provide a comprehensive safety analysis of A2411 study results 
(with specific analysis of renal/hepatic parameters to name a few) in the context of variation II48. 
Issue partially addressed. 
Question 2:  
A  thorough  safety  review  of  all  patients  with  iron  chelators  combinations  containing 
Exjade  in  this  observational  study  should  be  provided  to  describe  the  safety  profile  of 
such  combinations  in  real  life,  especially  in  those  paediatric  patients  (beta-thalassemic 
and  SCD).  Also  the  MAH  should  try  to  analyse  the  reasons  why  prescribers  used  such 
combinations (in therapeutic strategy). 
MAH’s response 
For  clarification  regarding  the  cases  of  combination  therapy,  a  detailed  medical  review  was 
performed.  It  was  confirmed  that  “combination  therapy”  was  regarded  as  any  supportive  therapy 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 16/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered at any point during the observation period and not specifically as the concomitant use 
of deferasirox with other iron chelators. 
Table 3-1 provides an overview of patients who were confirmed to be treated with an iron chelation 
combination  during  the  study.  Only  one  of  the  initially  reported  55  paediatric  patients  receiving 
more than one iron chelator, actually received deferasirox concomitantly with another iron chelator 
(Desferal). The narrative of this single case of iron chelation combination therapy with deferasirox 
is provided below.  
A total of 12 patients received a combination of iron chelators (i.e. Desferal and Ferriprox) 
not concomitantly with deferasirox therapy (either without deferasirox or with deferasirox in a 
sequential manner). 
• 
• 
Two of the 12 patients received the combination of Desferal (deferoxamine) and Ferriprox 
(deferiprone) simultaneously and no other iron chelation during the study. 
Ten of these 12 patients received the same combination of deferoxamine plus deferiprone 
sequentially too but sequentially to other iron chelators throughout the observation period. 
•  Nine patients received Exjade sequentially to another iron chelator. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 18/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report 
The  initial  report  was  received  from  an  investigator  on  11-Apr-2013  regarding  a  24-year-old 
Caucasian male with aplastic anemia, who experienced infection due to gastroenteritis on 26-Nov-
2012  and  was  hospitalized.  On  04-Dec-2012,  the  patient  was  recovered.  On  17-Jan-2013,  the 
patient  experienced  gastroenteritis  and  was  again  hospitalized.  On  the  same  day,  stool 
examination was performed but no pathogen was identified. 
The patient recovered on 23-Jan-2013. On an unspecified date the patient experienced abdominal 
pain  with  mild  intensity  daily.  Platelet  and  neutrophil  counts  were  below  normal  limits,  consistent 
with  the  underlying  aplastic  anemia.  Iron  chelation treatment  was  continued.  The  outcome  of  the 
events  “infection  due  to  gastroenteritis”  and  “gastroenteritis”  was  reported  as  complete  recovery 
and  for  abdominal  pain  it  was  not  reported.  These  events  gastroenteritis,  infection  were  not 
assessed for seriousness by the investigator, but were conservatively upgraded to SAEs by Novartis 
on processing. The causality of all the events was reported as not suspected by the investigator. 
In  conclusion  the  SAE  of  gastroenteritis  was  treated  adequately  and  the  event  resolved.  Iron 
chelation treatment was maintained. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
The review requested on the combination of iron chelators was performed by the MAH:  
a total of 13 patients received a combination of iron chelators. Twelve of them received Desferal® 
and Ferriprox® and one of them received Exjade® and Desferal®. The single patient who received 
iron  chelator  combination  containing  Exjade®  experienced  gastroenteritis,  infection  due  to 
gastroenteritis  and  abdominal  pain.  The  outcome  of  the  events  “infection  due  to  gastroenteritis” 
and  “gastroenteritis”  was  reported  as  complete  recovery  and  for  abdominal  pain  it  was  not 
reported.  The  causality  of  all  these  events  was  reported  as  not  suspected  by  the  investigator. 
Besides iron chelation treatment was maintained. 
As requested, the MAH has provided reasons why prescribers used iron chelators combinations. It 
was  generally  due  to  a  high  level  of  ferritin  or  an  increase  of  ferritin  value.  For  the  patient  and 
patient, the MAH did not give the reasons of the use of iron chelators combination.   
Issue addressed 
Question 3: 
The  MAH  should  clarify  in  the  fatal  GI  haemorrhage  case  occurring  in  a  16  years-old 
female patient how the MAH has the information that “GI haemorrhage is not related to 
Exjade  as  it  occurred  in  a  context  of  oesophageal  variceal”  while  in  CIOMs  form  of  the 
case in EV, no such information is recorded. 
MAH’s response 
This report refers to a 16-year-old female patient with a medical history of beta-thalassemia major. 
Concomitant medications included folic acid and zinc. The patient started treatment with Exjade in 
2006  at  a  dose  of  30  mg/kg/day  for  the  treatment  of  iron  overload.  Platelet  count  at  baseline 
(unknown  date)  was  normal  with  191,000  cell  per  mm3.  On  25-Apr-2013  (2,491  days  after  start 
treatment  with  Exjade),  the  patient  had  upper  gastrointestinal  system  bleeding;  treatment  with 
Exjade  was  stopped.  At the  time  of  bleed, the  platelet  count  was  elevated  with  704,000  cells per 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mm3.  On  26-Apr-2013,  the  patient  died  due  to  gastrointestinal  hemorrhage.  The  causality  of  the 
event was reported as not related to Exjade by the investigator. 
The apparent discrepancy found by EMA in the medical history in regards to esophageal varices is 
due  to  the  fact  that  the  clinical  database  had  been  subsequently  updated  with  this  historical 
condition and the pharmacovigilance database, from which the CIOMS was generated, was not. 
The company assessed this case as unlikely to be related to Exjade. The event of gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage  in  this  subject  has  a  time  to  drug  intake  that  makes  relationship  improbable  and 
other  disease,  presence  of  esophageal  varices,  provide  plausible  explanations  according  to  WHO-
Uppsala Monitoring Center Causality Assessment System. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
Clarifications have been given. Issue addressed. 
MAH’s conclusion 
Overall, there were no unexpected safety findings based on the additional assessments performed 
in  this  paediatric  patient  population  under  long-term  deferasirox  treatment  analyses  for 
CICL670AUS38 and CICL670ATR03. 
In  conclusion,  the  benefit  to  risk  relationship  for  deferasirox  remains  positive  for  the  currently 
approved indications and justifies continuation of the development program in pediatric patients. 
No changes to the paediatric information of the current Exjade (deferasirox) Core Data Sheet are 
proposed  as  a  result  of  these  additional  data,  and  no  regulatory  consequences  of  the  submitted 
study are anticipated for the pediatric information in the EU Summary of Product Characteristics. 
5.  CHMP overall updated conclusion and recommendation 
Efficacy 
As a general comment, efficacy conclusions are difficult to drawn since efficacy of deferasirox is not 
a primary objective of this observational study. Only descriptive data are available.  
In the study ATR03, reduction in mean SF, improvement of cardiac (T2* > 20 ms) parameters 
relative to cardiac iron overload was observed for DFX treated patients with b-TM or SCD at 3 
years. However, the study design cannot allow to conclude on efficacy of DFX on cardiac and liver 
iron overload.  
Safety 
In  the  study  ATR03  (transfusion  dependant  hemoglobinopathies  :  beta  thalassemic/SCD 
population):    No  unexpected  event  was  observed.  Delayed  sexual  development  was  reported  in 
both  genders  within  2  age-groups:  7-12  years-old  and  13-18  years-old.  Even  if  we  take  into 
account limitation of data collected (Tanner staging not performed), we consider that these finding 
should  be  kept  in  mind  as  they  are  not  consistent  with  the  previous  analyses  of  study  107E1 
(follow-up of 5 years of beta-thalassemic patients).  
Also,  too  many  discrepancies  have  been  identified  to  correctly  assess  the  safety  data  recorded  in 
this  study.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  cannot  draw  any  conclusion  on  the  safety  profile  of  Exjade  in 
paediatric population based on this study analysis, as the data provided by the MAH is too scarce. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We  can  agree  that  this  study  is  not  designed  specifically  to  assess  the  safety  (due  to  the 
descriptive nature of data). Nevertheless, uncertainties on safety in youngest patients treated with 
Exjade remain due to this incomplete analysis of registry’s results. 
Therefore, we consider with great importance the MAH’s response to the safety questions raised in 
the variation II48 regarding the long term safety in paediatric patient aged from 2 to 6 years-old 
(still ongoing) as the same questions regarding renal and hepatic disorders and long term events 
are requested to be clarify. 
We  strongly  recommend  the  MAH  to  provide  a  comprehensive  safety  analysis  of  A2411  study 
results  (with  specific  analysis  of  renal/hepatic  parameters  to  name  a  few)  in  the  context  of 
variation II48. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/331067/2016  
Page 21/21 
 
 
 
 
 
