Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for EXPAREL 
liposomal (bupivacaine prolonged-release dispersion for 
injection) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  EXPAREL  liposomal  (bupivacaine 
prolonged-release  dispersion  for  injection).  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  the  injectable 
dispersion  for  injection,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about EXPAREL liposomal's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
EXPAREL  liposomal's  SmPC  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and patients on how the medicinal product should be used  
This summary of the RMP for EXPAREL liposomal  should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the EPAR.  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  EXPAREL 
liposomal's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
EXPAREL liposomal is indicated as a brachial plexus block or femoral nerve block for treatment of 
post-operative pain in adults, and as a field block for treatment of somatic post-operative pain from 
small- to medium-sized surgical wounds in adults (see SmPC section 5.1).  It contains bupivacaine 
as the active substance and is administered directly into the site of surgery or injected close to the 
nerves that supply that area of the body. 
Further information about the evaluation of EXPAREL liposomal’s benefits can be found in EXPAREL 
liposomal’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/exparel. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  EXPAREL  liposomal,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about the medicinal product's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  If important information that may 
affect the safe use of EXPAREL liposomal is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ 
below.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  EXPAREL  liposomal  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of the injectable dispersion for injection. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Medication errors leading to systemic toxic reactions 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Medication errors leading to systemic toxic reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Medication errors leading to systemic toxic reactions may occur 
with EXPAREL liposomal and include drug interactions with other 
local  anaesthetics,  misadministration  with  immediate  release 
(IR)  bupivacaine,  misadministration  with  propofol  and 
inadvertent intravascular administration. 
The toxic effects of local anaesthetics are additive and their co-
administration  should  be  used  with  caution  to  prevent  or 
minimize  toxic  effects  on  the  central  nervous  system,  cardiac 
system, and respiratory system. EXPAREL liposomal should not 
be  admixed  with  local  anaesthetics  other  than  bupivacaine  as 
non-bupivacaine  based  local  anaesthetics,  including  lidocaine, 
may cause an immediate release of bupivacaine from EXPAREL 
liposomal if administered together locally.  
Medication errors involving misadministration of IR bupivacaine, 
misadministration  with  propofol  or  inadvertent  intravascular 
administration of EXPAREL liposomal could also result in plasma 
bupivacaine  levels  sufficient  to  produce  toxic  effects  on  the 
central nervous system, cardiac system, and respiratory system. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk  factors  for  additional  use  of  local  anaesthetics  following 
administration of EXPAREL liposomal include complex surgeries 
where a large surface area is required to be anaesthetized, or 
where additional surgery/surgeries are required shortly following 
the first surgery. 
Risk 
factors 
for  misadministration  of 
IR  bupivacaine, 
misadministration  with  propofol  or  inadvertent  intravascular 
administration  of  EXPAREL 
liposomal 
include 
insufficient 
healthcare professional training and human error. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.2 where there is guidance about the additive 
effects  of  local  anaesthetics,  not  to  use  EXPAREL liposomal 
interchangeably with other bupivacaine formulations, and to 
administer EXPAREL liposomal by injection only 
•  SmPC  Section  4.3  where  intravascular  or  intra-articular 
administration is contraindicated 
•  SmPC  Section  4.4  where  there  are  warnings  about 
concomitant use  of  local anaesthetics  and  not  to  substitute 
EXPAREL liposomal with other bupivacaine products 
•  SmPC  Section  4.5  where  potential  interactions  with  other 
medicinal products are described 
•  SmPC  Section  4.9  where overdose  with EXPAREL  liposomal 
and  other  local  anaesthetics  is  described  with  treatment 
guidance  
•  Package  Leaflet  Section  2  where  there  is  guidance  about 
other medicines and that the patient should NOT be given if 
EXPAREL liposomal is needed for injection into a blood vessel 
or artery 
•  Restricted medical prescription  
•  Single peel-off vial labels 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  No additional risk minimisation measures 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
EXPAREL liposomal . 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for EXPAREL liposomal . 
 
 
