EMA/547137/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000933 
Extavia (interferon beta-1b) 
An overview of Extavia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Extavia and what is it used for? 
Extavia is a medicine used to treat adults who have multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a disease in which 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
themselves. Extavia is used in patients: 
•  who have experienced the signs of MS for the first time, and these are severe enough to justify 
treatment with injected corticosteroids (anti-inflammatory medicines). It is used when the patient 
is considered to be at high risk of developing MS. Before using Extavia, doctors need to exclude 
other causes for the symptoms;  
•  who have MS of the type known as ‘relapsing-remitting’, when the patient has attacks (relapses) 
between periods with no symptoms (remissions), and with at least two relapses within the last two 
years;  
•  who have secondary progressive MS (the type of MS that comes after relapsing-remitting MS), 
when their disease is active.  
Extavia contains the active substance interferon beta-1b. This medicine is the same as Betaferon, 
which is already authorised in the EU. The company that makes Betaferon has agreed that its scientific 
data can be used for Extavia. 
How is Extavia used? 
Extavia can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the treatment of MS.  
Extavia is available as a powder and solvent that are made up into a solution that supplies a dose of 
250 micrograms. It is given by injection under the skin.  
Treatment should start with 62.5 micrograms (a quarter of the dose) every other day, increasing 
progressively over 19 days to reach the recommended dose of 250 micrograms given every other day. 
The patients can inject Extavia themselves once they have been trained. Extavia treatment should be 
stopped in patients whose condition does not improve.   
For more information about using Extavia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Extavia work? 
The active substance in Extavia is the protein interferon beta-1b, one of a group of interferons that can 
be naturally produced by the body to help it fight against viruses and other attacks. In MS, the 
immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central nervous 
system (the brain, spinal cord and optic nerve [nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain]), 
causing inflammation that damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The exact way that 
Extavia works in MS is not yet known but the active substance, interferon beta-1b, seems to calm 
down the immune system, and prevents relapses of MS. 
What benefits of Extavia have been shown in studies?  
Extavia was studied over a two-year period in 338 patients with relapsing remitting MS who were able 
to walk unaided, where its effectiveness was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). Extavia 
was more effective than placebo in reducing the number of annual relapses: patients receiving the 
medicine had on average 0.84 relapses a year, when patients on placebo had 1.27 relapses. 
Extavia has also been studied in 1,657 patients in two studies involving secondary progressive MS 
patients who were able to walk, where it was compared with placebo. One of the two studies showed a 
significant delay in the time to disability progression (31% risk reduction due to Extavia) and in the 
time to becoming wheelchair bound (39%). In the second study, no delay in the time to disability 
progression was seen. In both studies, Extavia showed a reduction in the number (30%) of clinical 
relapses. 
In a study involving 487 patients with a single demyelinating event, treatment with Extavia for two 
years was shown to reduce the risk of developing clinically defined MS: 28% of the patients who 
received Extavia developed MS, compared with 45% of those who received placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Extavia? 
The most frequent side effects with Extavia are flu-like symptoms (including fever, chills, joint pain, 
malaise [feeling unwell], sweating, headache and muscle pain) and reactions at the site of injection. 
Side effects are common at the beginning of treatment but usually decrease with further treatment.  
Extavia must not be used in patients who have severe depression or have thoughts of suicide. Extavia 
must not be used in patients who have decompensated liver disease (when the liver is damaged and 
can no longer work adequately).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Extavia, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Extavia authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Extavia’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Extavia? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Extavia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Extavia (interferon beta-1b)  
EMA/547137/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Extavia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Extavia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Extavia 
Extavia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 May 2008. 
Further information on Extavia can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/extavia. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Extavia (interferon beta-1b)  
EMA/547137/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
