EMA/458660/2017  
EMEA/H/C/003837 
EPAR summary for the public 
Exviera 
dasabuvir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Exviera. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Exviera. 
For practical information about using Exviera, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Exviera and what is it used for? 
Exviera is an antiviral medicine used in combination with other medicines to treat adults with chronic 
(long-term) hepatitis C, an infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus. 
It contains the active substance dasabuvir. 
How is Exviera used? 
Exviera can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in managing patients with chronic hepatitis C. 
Exviera is available as 250 mg tablets, and the recommended dose is two tablets a day, one in the 
morning and one in the evening for 8, 12 or 24 weeks.  
Exviera is always used in combination with another medicine, Viekirax, which contains the active 
substances ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir. Some patients taking Exviera are also treated with 
another antiviral medicine, ribavirin, in addition to Viekirax. 
Several varieties (genotypes) of hepatitis C virus exist and Exviera is recommended for use in patients 
with virus of genotypes 1a and 1b. The combination of medicines used and the duration of treatment 
will depend on which genotype of hepatitis C virus the patient is infected with, the nature of the liver 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
problems they have (for example, if they have liver cirrhosis (scarring) or their liver is not working 
properly) and  whether they have received previous treatment. For further information, see the 
package leaflet. 
How does Exviera work? 
The active substance in Exviera, dasabuvir, works by blocking the action of an enzyme in the hepatitis 
C virus called ‘NS5B RNA-dependent polymerase’, which the virus needs to multiply. This stops the 
hepatitis C virus from multiplying and infecting new cells.  
What benefits of Exviera have been shown in studies? 
In 6 initial main studies involving around 2,300 patients infected with hepatitis C virus genotypes 1a or 
1b, Exviera in combination with Viekirax was effective in clearing the virus from the blood. Between 
96% and 100% of patients without liver scarring had their blood cleared of the virus after 12 weeks of 
treatment (with or without ribavirin).  
In patients with liver scarring, Exviera treatment in combination with Viekirax and ribavirin resulted in 
a clearance rate of between 93% and 100% after 24 weeks of treatment. In a seventh study, patients 
with liver scarring but stable liver function (compensated cirrhosis) who had genotype 1b infection 
were treated with Exviera and Viekirax without ribavirin and 100% of patients (60 out of 60 patients) 
had their blood cleared of the virus. 
What are the risks associated with Exviera? 
The most common side effects with Exviera when used with Viekirax and ribavirin (which may affect 
more than 1 in 10 people) are insomnia (difficulty sleeping), nausea, pruritus (itching), asthenia 
(weakness) and fatigue (tiredness). For the full list of all side effects, see the package leaflet. 
Exviera must not be used in women taking ethinylestradiol, an oestrogen found in hormonal 
contraceptives. It must also not be used together with medicines that affect the activity of certain 
enzymes that can raise or lower the level of the active substance in the blood. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Exviera approved? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Exviera used in combination with Viekirax is effective in 
clearing the hepatitis C virus genotypes 1a and 1b from the blood with and without ribavirin. Almost all 
the patients in the studies had the virus cleared from their blood after 12 or 24 weeks. The clearance 
rate was particularly high in patients infected with genotype 1b.  
Regarding its safety, although there were some cases of raised liver enzymes in patients treated with 
Exviera in combination with Viekirax and ribavirin, side effects seen with this combination were 
generally well tolerated. The Agency therefore concluded that the benefits of Exviera outweigh its risks 
and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Exviera? 
The company that markets Exviera will carry out a study in patients who previously have had liver 
cancer to evaluate the risk of liver cancer returning after treatment with direct-acting antivirals such as 
Exviera  
EMA/458660/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Exviera. This study is being carried out in light of data suggesting that patients treated with these 
medicines who have had liver cancer could be at risk of their cancer returning early.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Exviera have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
Other information about Exviera 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Exviera on 15 January 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Exviera can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Exviera, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Exviera  
EMA/458660/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
