20 September 2012
EMA/646256/2012 corr
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Assessment report
Eylea
aflibercept  
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/002392/
Note
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
Table of contents
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9
2.2.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 9
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 10
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product................................................................................ 12
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................. 14
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14
2.3. Non-clinical aspects............................................................................................ 14
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 14
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 15
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17
2.3.4. Toxicology...................................................................................................... 19
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 23
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 23
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 24
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 25
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 25
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 26
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics.......................................................................................... 28
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology .................................................................. 29
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology................................................................. 29
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 30
2.5.1. Dose response study(ies) ................................................................................. 30
2.5.2. Main study(ies) ............................................................................................... 30
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy............................................................................ 53
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 55
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 56
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety.............................................................................. 68
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 69
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 70
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................... 78
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 78
4. Recommendations............................................................................... 81
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 2/83
List of abbreviations
Ab
ADA
ADR
AE
AEI
ALT
AMD
ANCOVA
APTC
ATE
AUC
BCVA
BLA
BMI
Capped PRN
CI
Cmax
CNV
CRF
CR/LT
CRT
CRVO
CSR
CVA
DA
DLT
DME
ECG
ELISA
ETDRS
EU
FA
FAS
Fc
FDA
Fixed-dosing phase
Flexible-dosing phase
FSH
GLP
Ig
INR
IOP
IV
IVT
LOAEL
LOCF
LSMean
MAA
MedDRA
MTD
NEI-VFQ-25
NOAEL
NSCLA
NYHA
OCT
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Antibody
Anti-drug antibody
Adverse drug reaction
Adverse event
AE of interest
Alanine aminotransferase
Age-related macular degeneration
Analysis of covariance
Anti-Platelet Trialists’ Collaboration
Arterial thromboembolic events
Area under the drug concentration-time curve
Best corrected visual acuity
Biologic License Application
Body mass index
Term used for flexible-dosing phase in the VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies
Confidence interval
Maximum observed plasma drug concentration
Choroidal neovascularization
Case report form
Central Retinal Lesion Thickness
Central retinal thickness
Central retinal vein occlusion
Clinical study report
Cerebrovascular accident
Disc area (4 DA =10.16 mm2)
Dose limiting toxicity
Diabetic macular edema
Electrocardiogram
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study
European Union
Fluorescein angiography
Full analysis set
Fragment, crystallizable region or constant
Food and Drug Administration
Fixed protocol- specified schedule
Based on specific retreatment criteria “PRN” (as needed) phase
Follicle-stimulating hormone
Good Laboratory Practice
Immunoglobulin
International normalized ratio
Intraocular pressure
Intravenous
Intravitreal
Lowest-observable-adverse-effect level
Last observation carried forward
Least-square mean
Marketing Authorisation Application
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities
Maximum tolerated dose
National Eye Institute 25-Item Visual Function Questionnaire
No-observed-adverse-effect level
Non-small-cell lung adenocarcinoma
New York Heart Association
Optical coherence tomography
Page 3/83
PD
PDT
PFS
PK
PIGE
PMDA
PPS
PPT
PT
PRN
QOL
RAAS
RBC
RECIST
Regeneron
SAE
SAF
SAP
SC
SD
SOC
SPA
TEAE
TJA
ULN
UPCR
US
VEGF - A
VEGFR
VA
VTE
WBC
WET AMD
WHO
WOCF
Pharmacodynamic
Photodynamic therapy
Pre-filled syringe
Pharmacokinetics
Placental growth factor
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency
Per protocol set
Partial thromboplastin time
Preferred term
As need (pro re nata)
Quality of life
Renin angiotensin aldosterone system
Red blood cell
Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Serious adverse event
Safety analysis set
Statistical Analysis Plan
Subcutaneous
Standard deviation
System organ class
Special Protocol Assessment
Treatment-emergent adverse event
Transient ischemic attack
Upper limit of normal
Urine/protein creatinine ratio
United States
Vascular endothelial growth factor – A
VEGF receptor
Visual acuity
VEGF Trap (formulation for IVT injection
White blood cell
Neovascular age-related macular degeneration
World Health Organization
Worst observation carried forward
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 4/83
DOSE GROUPS ABBREVIATIONS
Phase-2 Study VGFT-OD-0508
0.5Q4
2Q4
0.5 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a monthly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
2 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a monthly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
0.5Q12
0,5 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a quaterly basis (ie, every 12 weeks)
2Q12
4Q12
2 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a quaterly basis (ie, every 12 weeks)
4 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a quaterly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
Phase-3 Studies VIEW 1 (VGTF OD 605), VIEW 2 (A36355) – Integrated analysis POOL 1
RQ4
2Q4
0.5Q4
2Q8
0.5 mg ranibizumab dosed on a monthly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
2 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a monthly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
0.5 mg VEGF Trap dosed on a monthly basis (ie, every 4 weeks)
2 mg VEGF Trap dosed every two months (ie, every 0 weeks) after three initial 
monthly doses
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 5/83
1.  Background information on the procedure
1.1.  Submission of the dossier
The applicant Bayer Pharma AG submitted on 31 May 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Eylea, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD).
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application.
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies.
Information on Paediatric requirements
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
(EMEA/56/2008) on the granting of a class waiver. 
New active Substance status
The applicant requested the active substance aflibercept contained in the above medicinal product 
to be considered as a new active substance in itself.
Scientific Advice
Several Scientific Advices were given by the EMA and other regulatory authorities.
EU Scientific Advices 
March and June 2007: MPA advice on clinical questions for the planned Phase 3 trial design and 
non-clinical development programme;
July and August 2007: CHMP advice on the same aspects as discussed with MPA;
May – July 2010: National agency meetings with Denmark, Germany, Spain, Sweden on clinical 
aspects of the submission package for the MAA;
November 2010: EMA pre-submission meeting on regulatory aspects of the MAA;
January 2011:  Rapporteur / Co-Rapporteur meeting on specific issues around the clinical data 
package for the MAA.
US (FDA)
March 2007: Special Protocol Assistance (SPA) for Phase-3 study design VIEW1 support filing.
July 2007: Second SPA for Phase-3 study VIEW1 agreements on amended Phase-3 study design, 
including a change in the VEGF Trap dose regimens
September 2010:  Pre-Biologic License Application (BLA) meeting on specific clinical questions.
Japan (PMDA)
August 2007: Scientific advice meeting with Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) 
on Phase-3 study design.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 6/83
Overall, the clinical development programme appears fairly in compliance with the CHMP and 
national agencies scientific advices. The design/analysis of pivotal studies was widely discussed 
across these consultations. Some topics were thoroughly discussed with the CHMP (e.g. choice of 
primary variable and non-inferiority margin in pivotal studies) as they were slightly controversial. 
Region-specific feedback on each aspect has been implemented as protocols’ local, or if relevant, 
as general amendments to both pivotal studies. Finally, although some preliminary advices were 
not always fully taken into account by the MAA, there were acceptable justifications for such 
deviations.  
Licensing status
Eylea has been given a Marketing Authorisation in The USA in 2011 and in Colombia and Australia
in 2012.
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were:
Rapporteur: Philippe Lechat
Co-Rapporteur: Robert James Hemmings
CHMP Peer reviewer: Conception Prieto Yerro
The EMA Product Team Leader: Francesca Cerreta
The application was received by the EMA on 31 May 2011.
The procedure started on 22 June 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
12 September 2011 (Annex 1). The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
CHMP members on 13 September 2011 (Annex 2). 
During the meeting on 20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on
21 October 2011 (Annex 3).
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 18 April 
2012.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Reports on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 6 June 2012 (Annex 4).
During the CHMP meeting on 18-21 June 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant (Annex 5).
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 20 August 2012.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Reports on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 4 September 2012 (Annex 6).
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Reports to all CHMP members on 
14 September 2012 (Annex 7).
During the meeting on 17-20 September 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Eylea on 20 September 2011.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 7/83
2.  Scientific discussion
2.1.  Introduction
Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a common cause of irreversible blindness 
among the elderly worldwide. Vision loss results from the abnormal growth and leakage of blood 
vessels in the macula. Increasing incidence is reported with increasing age (it is suggested that 
10% of individuals aged 65 to 74 years, and 30% of those aged 75 to 85 years, show signs of 
AMD). The main factor of progression remains age, besides genetics and smoking.
AMD is a disease of the photoreceptors and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). In the aging eye, 
Bruch’s membrane composition changes, and RPE function diminishes. As a consequence of 
reduced RPE function, drusen deposits at the level of the RPE and photoreceptors accumulate. 
Drusen contain lipofuscin and other toxic waste products of metabolism.
There are two forms of AMD, the dry (atrophic) and the wet (i.e. neovascular or exudative) form.
Dry AMD
The dry form is more benign and accounts for 90% of all AMD cases, but only for 10% of cases of 
blindness due to AMD. In the dry form, no abnormal vascularisation occurs in the subretinal space 
and drusen deposits are clustered in and around the macula, and these become larger and more 
numerous over time. Nevertheless, dry AMD with drusen only is generally asymptomatic. If, in 
addition to drusen, RPE cells degenerate and undergo apoptosis, geographic atrophy develops 
which can, if involving the fovea, significantly reduce near and distance vision. Eventually, the RPE 
atrophies. This results in a loss of vision due to the loss of photoreceptor function. 
Patients suffering from an atrophic form of AMD do not benefit from the same therapeutic options 
than wet AMD. Although less progressive, dry AMD is of bad prognosis. Nowadays, treatments 
remain based on optic systems and re-education. There is no drug therapy for dry AMD. 
Wet AMD
Only about 10% of AMD patients have the wet form; however, 80% to 90% of patients with severe 
vision loss due to AMD have wet AMD. In wet AMD, Bruch’s membrane ruptures, and this is 
associated with a localized inflammatory response and release of VEGF (Vascular endothelial
growth factor), which induces choroidal neovascularization (CNV). The CNV is a membrane of 
abnormal and leaky blood vessels, growing from the choroid through the defects in Bruch's 
membrane underneath the RPE and the retina. These new, immature blood vessels leak lipids, fluid 
and blood. This causes edema and elevation of the retina, resulting in blurring and distortion of 
vision. Onset of visual dysfunction in wet AMD is acute and progresses within a few weeks or even 
faster, particularly if bleeding occurs. With bleeding under the retina or persistent edema, the loss 
of central vision becomes permanent.
CNV is characterized clinically, using fluorescein angiography (FA), as occult, mixed or 
classic/visible CNV. Occult CNV is usually limited to the space beneath the RPE, and the degree of 
vision loss is usually mild compared with classic CNV. Classic CNV often penetrates the pigment 
epithelium and grows into the subretinal space with possible retinal serous.
In addition to the gold standard fluorescein angiography test, optical coherence tomography (OCT) 
is a complementary useful tool to make a diagnosis of wet AMD and identify the presence of 
subretinal fluid and the central retinal thickness.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 8/83
Wet AMD Treatments:
Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) is involved in many forms of angiogenesis, both 
physiological and pathological. The role of VEGF-A in promoting pathological neovascularization 
and/or abnormal and excessive vascular permeability in several diseases affecting the eye is now 
well established.
The VEGF / platelet-derived growth factor gene family includes other members (VEGFB, VEGFC, 
VEGFD, VEGFE and PlGF). The activity of VEGF-A is mediated primarily by binding to and activation 
of two transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases, VEGFR1 and VEGFR2. A third related receptor, 
VEGFR3, binds VEGFC and VEGFD, and to a lesser extent VEGF-A, and is mainly involved in the 
regulation of lymphatic vessel development. VEGFA is thought to induce its effects on the vascular 
endothelium primarily by signalling through VEGFR2.
Intravitreal (IVT) anti-VEGF treatments for wet AMD have been introduced in recent years, first 
with Pegaptanib (Macugen; Pfizer), and shortly after with Ranibizumab (Lucentis; Genentech-
Roche/Novartis). Intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy is nowadays the standard of care in the treatment 
of neovascular (wet) AMD.
About the product
Aflibercept (also referred to in this document as “VEGF Trap”) is intended to be marketed as an 
intravitreal injection under the name EYLEA.
VEGF Trap belongs to the pharmacological class of VEGF inhibitors: it is a recombinant protein 
created by fusing the second Ig domain of human VEGFR1 with the third Ig domain of human 
VEGFR2, which is in turn fused to the constant region of human IgG1. 
Aflibercept is a potent, specific inhibitor of VEGF that is active in animal models of ocular 
neovascularisation after systemic and IVT administration. Aflibercept interferes with the biological 
actions of VEGF-A by binding to VEGF-A, preventing it from interacting with its receptors. 
It also binds to other VEGFR1 ligands, notably PlGF. 
Other drugs of this class include, as previously noted, two currently approved treatments for AMD, 
ranibizumab (Lucentis) and pegaptanib sodium (Macugen).
VEGF Trap showed some differences over other VEGF blockers, which might have been expected to 
prolong the interval between two IVT injections up to two or three months, to decrease the number 
of injections needed by year compared to the current regimens: 
-a higher affinity (~ 0.5 pM dissociation constant for VEGF165 and VEGF121) than a humanized 
monoclonal antibody,
-a longer circulating half-life compared to soluble receptor constructs which have been studied in 
animals. 
-a binding to the related factors Placental Growth Factor 1 and 2 (PLGF1 and PLGF2), thought to be 
advantageous in certain disease situations, including retinal neovascularizations.
2.2.  Quality aspects
2.2.1.  Introduction
The drug substance aflibercept is a novel biotechnological product, engineered to act as a decoy 
VEGF receptor. It is a fully human, recombinant fusion protein consisting of sequences derived 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 9/83
from vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor extracellular domains fused to the 
Fc portion of immunoglobulin G1(IgG1). Aflibercept is a member of the pharmacological class of 
VEGF inhibitors formulated for intravitreal (IVT) use.
Its proposed indication is for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration 
in adults.
The drug product is an iso-osmotic sterile solution of 40 mg/mL Aflibercept for IVT injection in an 
aqueous buffered solution. The drug product is presented either in single dose vials or single use
prefilled syringes.
During clinical development, the drug product was supplied primarily in vials. 
A pre-filled syringe was developed in order to improve the ease of drug delivery for retinal 
physicians, and by design of the syringe, to ensure delivery of the correct drug volume to the 
patient.
Following consultation with regulatory authorities and in accordance with the medical practice as 
well as guidance for administration of ophthalmologic products, a pre-filled syringe that is 
terminally sterilised was developed. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance
Aflibercept is a recombinant fusion protein consisting of two identical polypeptide chains, each 
comprising the second Ig domain of the human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor 
1 and the third Ig domain of the human VEGF receptor 2, with both polypeptide chains fused to the 
Fc domain of human IgG1. This fusion protein is synthesized by Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) 
cells as a dimeric, secreted, soluble protein.
Aflibercept functions as a decoy receptor that binds to VEGF ligand, thus inhibiting VEGF from 
binding to its receptor and subsequent stimulation.
Fusion with the Fc region of IgG1 allows prolonging the in-vivo half-life of the molecule.
Manufacture
Manufacturer
The drug substance (DS) is manufactured and released by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., New-
York, USA. 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls
The upstream process consists on expansion of a single vial of Working Cell Bank (WCB) and 
production phase into a bioreactor. It is a fed batch fermentation process using step-wise feeding 
strategy and harvesting. 
The downstream process consists of several chromatography steps (protein A affinity 
chromatography, Cation exchange, Anion exchange, Hydrophobic Interaction and Size Exclusion
chromatographies), viral steps (low pH virus inactivation, one nanofiltration) and ultrafiltration-
diafiltration steps. 
No reprocessing is claimed for the standard manufacturing of the product.
The DS contains sodium phosphate- pH6.2 and is supplied in 1 L polycarbonate (PC) bottle. 
During purification, a DS intermediate can be stored frozen at ≤-20°C up to 9 months in two 
different containers (EVA bags or PC bottles).
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 10/83
The manufacturing process does not directly use any materials of biological origin other than the 
foetal bovine serum used in the freezing medium for the Master Cell Bank (MCB). The development 
of the producer cell line and the construction and control of the MCB and WCB are adequate.  
In general, the in process controls are appropriate and adequate, including those designed to 
prevent or reduce bioburden, mycoplasma and adventitious viruses.
Process Validation
The process validation followed a traditional approach and was performed in two stages on four
consecutive DS intermediates lots and on four consecutive lots of DS manufactured from the P3 
process at commercial scale. The process, including the clearance of potential process-related 
impurities, was considered acceptably validated.
Manufacturing process development
The manufacturing process evolved over the course of development through three process changes 
(designated P1, P2 and P3). The P1 material was used in early toxicology and Phase 1 clinical 
studies. This process was subsequently scaled up and designated P2, while the later replacement of 
the viral filter with one with a tighter porosity and further minor refinements led to the validated 
commercial P3 process. 
Extensive bioanalytical testing studies have shown that aflibercept produced from all three 
processes are comparable and the changed processes are not expected to impact the assessment 
of pre-clinical or clinical studies performed with different process lots. In early 2011, several minor 
changes were made to the upstream cell culture process to implement process improvements 
identified subsequent to the validation of the conformance lots. These minor changes to the 
validated process did not result in changes to the validated performance in terms of cell growth or 
protein production and no difference in the quality of the product pre- and –post changes was 
detected.
Specification
Characterization
Aflibercept was well characterised in terms of mass, extinction coefficient, primary sequence, 
disulphide bond formation, glycosylation, size variants (truncated forms and aggregates), charge 
variants, process-related impurities,  degradation products (fragmented forms, oxidised species 
and deamidation products) and  secondary and tertiary structure. 
The DS is a homodimeric glycosylated protein. The primary structure consists of 432 aminoacids 
for each polypeptide chain. There is 6 methionines, two of which proned to oxidation, and 6 
asparagines proned to deamidation.
The secondary structure is stabilised by 4 intra-chain disulfide bridges in each polypeptide.
The protein chain is glycosylated. The monosaccharide contributing to carbohydrate structures are 
N-acetyl-glucosamine, fucose, galactose, mannose and sialic acids. The N-linked oligosaccharides 
consist of mainly bi-antennary structures with zero, one or two terminal sialic acids.
Impurities
Impurities are separated into potential product-related impurities identified in forced degradation 
studies (molecular variants of aflibercept resulting from various types of degradation) and process-
related impurities.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 11/83
Control of Drug Substance
The analytical procedures used to characterise and control aflibercept quality were appropriately 
validated.
The proposed specifications are in line with international guidance on the setting of specifications 
(ICH Q6B - Note for Guidance on “Specifications: test procedures and acceptance criteria for 
biotechnological products”). 
Routine testing is performed at release for HCP, DNA, Protein A, bioburden, endotoxins. The purity 
is tested by SDS-PAGE and Size Exclusion HPLC, while charge heterogeneity is monitored by 
Isoelectric Focusing. Deamidation is also monitored on a routine basis by enzyme-linked detection 
of isoaspartate with reversed-phase HPLC.  
A cell based assay was designed to evaluate potency.
Reference standards or materials
The reference standards used throughout the process development and manufacturing are 
traceable and well documented.
Stability
Long-term stability data were provided up to 36 months for batches from the P3 process.
The shelf-life has been re-evaluated following a requested re-evaluation of the release 
specifications and trending analysis for potency. 
All data support a storage of 36 months under the proposed conditions at -80°C and protected 
from light.
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product
The drug product (DP) is presented as a solution for intravitreal injection containing 40 mg/ml 
Aflibercept, sodium phosphate, sodium chloride, sucrose and PS20 at pH 6.2.
The DP appears in two presentations differing in terms of primary container type: 2 ml type I glass 
vials and 1ml pre-filled syringes. 
All presentations are single dose/partial use presentations. There is an overfill in the vial and 
syringe presentations compared to the volume required to deliver the appropriate dose i.e. 50 µl. 
These overfills have been justified in both cases as the minimum volumes required in order to 
consistently achieve accurate dosing (user testing by trained individuals) and the fill volume does 
not allow preparing 2 doses. The wording of the SmPC highlights overfills, and that excess solution 
should be discarded. 
Pharmaceutical Development
The commercial formulation was designated IVT-2, while an earlier formulation (ITV-1), was used 
in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies. IVT-2 was developed to provide greater thermal stability 
and resistance to agitation-induced aggregate formation, while maintaining isotonicity.
During clinical development, drug product was supplied primarily in vials.  In 2007, a pre-filled 
syringe has been developed. In 2009, an external sterilization step was added to the proposed pre-
filled syringe manufacturing process after secondary packaging to render the external surface of 
the syringe and the internal surface of the blister as sterile. 
Comparability studies have been performed comparing: 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 12/83
-
-
-
Commercial vials to vials from the clinical development site. Un-sterilised syringes to vials 
from the clinical development site, 
Un-sterilised syringes to syringes sterilised at the commercial site and syringes sterilised at 
a development site,
Syringes sterilised at the development site and at the commercial site
The data provided support the comparability of the products tested.
Manufacture of the product
The manufacturing process of the drug product includes manufacture of formulated bulk 
intermediate (thawing of DS, pooling, formulation, bioburden reduction filtration, and storage at -
30°C up to 36 months), filling of vials or syringes (thawing of formulated bulk, pooling, bioburden 
reduction filtration, sterile filtration, filling) and sterilisation of blister packs of syringes. Only vials 
and PFS externally sterilised are intended to be used for commercial supply.
The manufacturing process was well described and appropriately validated. 
Product specification
Control of drug product
The analytical procedures used to characterise and control the DP quality were appropriately 
validated.
The proposed specifications are in line with international guidance on the setting of specifications.
Testing for sterility and endotoxin content is routinely performed at release.
As for the DS, the purity is tested by SDS-PAGE and Size Exclusion HPLC, while charge 
heterogeneity and deamidation are monitored by Isoelectric Focusing and enzyme-linked detection 
of isoaspartate with reversed-phase HPLC, respectively.  
Potency is determined using a cell-based assay.
Stability of the product
36-month supportive real-time stability data are available for the clinical vials and for PFS that 
were not subjected to a terminal sterilisation step. Long-term stability data have been updated 
with 24-month data for prefilled syringes externally sterilised and vials. 
In general, the results support the shelf-life of 24 months and storage conditions (2-8°C protected 
from light) as defined in the SPC, for both the PFS and vial presentations.
Adventitious agents
The overall viral safety of Eylea is considered satisfactory based on the fact that:
- No product of biological origin is used during the production process,
- Cell banks were extensively controlled and no viral particles other than retroviral-like particles 
normally seen in these cell types were observed,
- The starting materials from animal origin are mainly used indirectly or before the establishment 
of the cell banks,
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 13/83
- The manufacturing process includes several steps shown to be efficient to clear adventitious
viruses (two chromatography steps, low pH treatment and nanofiltration). Global reduction factors 
reported were satisfactory regarding the virus removal/inactivation for enveloped viruses as well as 
for non-enveloped viruses. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
No major objections were raised during the assessment of the quality part of the dossier. 
The Applicant has responded satisfactorily to all of the other quality concerns and questions 
identified in the Day 120 List of Questions and in the Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues.
Concerning the specifications for both the DS and DP, the approach to determine acceptance 
criteria was discussed during the procedure. A re-evaluation together with a review of historical 
drug substance intermediates and DS batches was performed and most specifications were 
subsequently tightened by the Applicant. Likewise, the DP specifications were re-evaluated during 
the course of the procedure and most acceptance limits were tightened. 
Osmolality of the solution is monitored as part of the formulated bulk in-process controls. 
Although below the osmolality in vitreous humor, the lower limit was clinically qualified and the 
proposed acceptance limits were supported by batch data.
The choice of the ligand in the cell based bioassay was justified by the Applicant during the course 
of the evaluation. 
Regarding the sterilisation of the DP in pre-filled syringes, two external sterilisation methods were 
initially developed. A single method has been retained for marketing and only vials and PFS 
externally sterilised by the selected method will be used for commercial supply. 
In conclusion, information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and 
drug product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in 
turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in
the clinic.
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
Based on the review of the data on quality, the manufacture and control of the aflibercept drug 
substance and the Eylea drug product are considered acceptable. 
The Quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform 
clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in satisfactory way. 
Data has been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety.
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects
2.3.1.  Introduction
VEGF Trap interferes with the biological actions of VEGF-A by tightly binding to it, and preventing 
VEGF-A from interacting with its receptors.  Binding of VEGF-A to its receptors leads to endothelial 
cell proliferation and neovascularisation, as well as vascular leakage, all of which are thought to 
contribute to the progression of the neovascular (wet) form of age-related macular degeneration. 
VEGF Trap can also bind to other VEGFR-1 ligands, notably PlGF.  
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 14/83
In order to provide proof of concept and clarify the mode of action, the binding of VEGF Trap and 
effect of phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 have been characterised in a number of in vitro and in vivo 
studies.  The effects of VEGF Trap have also been evaluated in vascular leak and/or 
neovascularisation in animal models of ocular vascular disease.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
A number of in vitro studies have been performed to examine the binding of VEGF Trap to human 
VEGF-A165 and to human PIGF-2. As the protein sequence for Cynomolgus monkey VEGF-A is 
identical to that from humans, the binding affinities can be assumed to also be nearly identical, and 
this has been supported by additional data provided in the Applicant’s responses:
- potential glycosylation sites (Asn and Ser/Thr) in VEGFA are well-conserved among species, are 
not located in VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2 binding interfaces, and have no effect on VEGF function but 
are required for efficient secretion;
- sequence alignment of VEGF-A/PlGF indicates that key residues of VEGF-A/PlGF located in the 
receptor binding interfaces are strictly conserved among species;
- VEGF-A is conserved across species with a sequence homology of approximately 85% between 
human and rodent VEGF-A. Thus, given the sequence identity between monkey and human VEGF-
A, very similar binding affinity of VEGF Trap to monkey VEGF-A is expected.
- VEGF Trap binds to both human and monkey VEGF, at concentrations relevant to support 
pharmacological and toxicological assessment of VEGF Trap.
- an efficacy study of VEGF Trap in a laser induced-choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) model in 
Cynomolgus monkeys further supports the presumption of high affinity of VEGF Trap to monkey 
VEGF. 
VEGF Trap displayed binding affinities with human VEGF-A165 and to human PlGF-2 in the pico-
molar range, for human VEGF-A165 the KD was calculated as 0.497 pM.  For human PIGF-2 the KD 
was 38.8 pM.  VEGF Trap was also shown to bind to VEGF and PlGF isoforms from non-human 
species such as the mouse, rat and rabbit with similar affinities, and this supported the use of 
these species in non-clinical studies during the development of VEGF Trap.  There is high binding 
affinity of VEGF Trap to VEGF-A for human, rat, mouse and rabbit, KD values were very low, in the 
pM range.  Binding to PlGF-2 was also high for human and murine PlGF.  
VEGF Trap does not bind other VEGF family ligands, VEGF-C and VEGF-D, which bind primarily to 
the closely related receptor VEGFR3. Thus it can be concluded that the binding of VEGF Trap is 
selective, even within the VEGF family of ligands. Binding of VEGF Trap to ‘non-target’ protein 
ligands is unlikely. PDGF family is closely related to the VEGF family, although PDGFs and VEGFs 
have been shown to be selective for their own receptors.  The difference is consistent with the low 
sequence homology and the conformational variability of the ligand: receptor binding interfaces 
between PDGFs and VEGFs.  EGF, HGF and NGF are even more distantly related to VEGF, such that 
there is no basis in the literature, or theory that would lead one to expect that they might interact 
with VEGFRs. 
In vitro, VEGF Trap was shown to completely block VEGF-mediated phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 on 
HUVEC, at molar concentrations ≥1:1. VEGF Trap exhibited high affinity binding to VEGFA from 
human, mouse, rat and rabbit with subpicomolar KD values.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 15/83
VEGF Trap has been found to effectively inhibit neovascularisation and/or pathological vascular leak 
in all animal models of ocular neovascular disease and vascular leak tested to date.  VEGF Trap 
inhibits the development of pathological neovascularisation and/or edema in rodent models of 
diabetic and ischemic retinopathy, and corneal injury, as well as in rodent and primate models of 
CNV that resemble the neovascular or ‘wet’ form of age-macular  degeneration (AMD).  Of 
particular relevance, intravitreal (IVT) administration of VEGF Trap has been shown to rapidly 
resolve existing vascular leak in the retinas of diabetic rodents, and in primates with active, laser-
induced CNV.  Moreover, VEGF Trap ameliorated the associated ocular inflammation.  The anti-
inflammatory effect of VEGF Trap is likely attributable to its ability to bind VEGF-A and/or PlGF, 
which are known to mediate leukocyte chemotaxis via VEGFR-1 expressed on the surface of 
subpopulations of leukocytes, particularly macrophages and neutrophils. VEGF Trap was found to 
be effective whether administered directly into the vitreous of the eye, or systemically (e.g. by 
subcutaneous (SC), intraperitoneal (IP) or intravenous (IV) routes).  
VEGF Trap prevented the development of active CNV when given IVT at doses of 50, 250 or 500 
µg/eye every other week, as effectively as 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg given IV weekly.  In mice, VEGF 
Trap was shown to suppress the growth of most tumour xenografts only at doses ≥2.5 mg/kg (SC, 
twice weekly), with maximal suppression of tumour growth generally seen at doses ≥10 mg/kg 
(SC, twice weekly). Similarly, SC doses of VEGF Trap ≥10 mg/kg were required to achieve maximal 
elevations in blood pressure in telemetered rats.  VEGF Trap did not produce detectable elevations 
in blood pressure at doses < 0.5 mg/kg.  
The diabetic retina can cause retinal oedema and ischemia-induced retinal neovascularisation.  
These effects were demonstrated by using i) a single IVT dose of VEGF Trap (3 µg/eye) which 
resulted in normalisation of retinal vascular permeability in streptozotocin-treated, diabetic male 
Sprague Dawley rats; ii) a single IVT dose of VEGF Trap (0.5 or 0.24 µg) prevented the 
development of pathological retinal neovascularisation in a mouse model of oxygen-induced 
ischemic retinopathy.  VEGF Trap (single dose of 12.5 mg/kg IP) also suppressed CNV and reduced 
the inflammatory response in mice with induced corneal injury.
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies
VEGF Trap at doses greater than 2.5 mg/kg (given s.c, twice weekly) administered to SCID mice 
bearing subcutaneously implanted mouse B16F1 melanoma, human A673 rhabdomyosarcoma, or 
mouse MMT mammary carcinoma, were sufficient to achieve maximally attainable VEGF Trap 
complex concentrations (1-2 µg/ml).  Free VEGF Trap concentrations were ≥10 µg/ml at these 
doses and this appeared to have a significant impact in inhibiting tumour growth in these animal 
models.
VEGF Trap elevates blood pressure in both rats and mice in a manner that is dose dependent in 
both amplitude and duration of effect.  This effect is also closely tied to circulating levels of free 
VEGF Trap.  In both species, maximal increases in blood pressure were evident at doses which 
produced peak circulating levels of free VEGF Trap in the excess of 6 μg/ml, and in both species 
blood pressure remained elevated above baseline until the concentration of VEGF Trap in the serum 
fell below approximately 1 μg/ml.  The expected level of free VEGF Trap following IVT 
administration in humans is expected to be 0.0193 µg/ml; this is a 50-fold lower level than that 
determined from the rodent studies.  
Blood pressure data taken after systemic single administration of VEGF-Trap from telemetered 
rodents were sensitive enough (rats>mice) to show a blood pressure increasing effect of VEGF Trap 
thereby revealing a good correlation with the well known blood pressure increasing mode of action 
of a VEGF inhibitor. This was in contrast to the data obtained in toxicity studies with physically or 
chemically restrained Cynomolgus monkeys in which blood pressure was measured with an indirect 
method, the conventional oscillometric cuff system. VEGF Trap plasma levels in Cynomolgus 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 16/83
monkeys exceeded those in rodents. The lack of an effect of VEGF Trap on blood pressure is most 
probably due to the effects of chemical/physical restraint on the cardiovascular system of the 
Cynomolgus monkeys and the limited sensitivity of indirect blood pressure measurement systems 
as compared to direct, e.g. radiotelemetry techniques which has been used in rodents. 
Safety pharmacology programme
In vitro safety pharmacology studies with VEGF Trap have not been carried out, as they are 
considered to be irrelevant for high molecular weight proteins such as VEGF Trap.  CNS safety 
pharmacology has been reviewed from the repeat dose systemic toxicity studies in Cynomolgus 
monkeys dosed subcutaneously and intravenously with VEGF Trap.  The studies did not reveal any 
adverse effect on the CNS in monkeys following administration with VEGF Trap. 
In vitro cardiovascular safety studies with VEGF Trap were not conducted.  The in vivo examination 
in monkeys treated with the VEGF Trap in the systemic toxicity studies in Cynomolgus monkeys for 
up to 26 consecutive weeks showed an absence of ECG abnormalities.  Based on the overall in vivo 
results in monkeys, VEGF Trap is not expected to exert a cardiotoxic effect.  
The potential effects of VEGF Trap on venous and arterial thrombus formation were evaluated in 
New Zealand White rabbits after electrolytic injury.  The animals were treated with VEGF Trap at 
doses of 0.3, 3.0, and 30 mg/kg by 30 minute infusion.  There was no significant effect on venous 
and arterial thrombus formation following VEGF Trap treatment.
In line with ICH S6(R1), respiratory effects have been examined as part of the toxicity studies.  
Following intravenous infusion of VEGF Trap over 30 minutes at 10, 50 or 250 mg/kg in male 
Sprague-Dawley rats had no effects on the respiratory function up to 7 days after administration.
The effects of VEGF Trap on wound repair and healing were evaluated in the New Zealand White 
rabbit incisional and excisional wound healing models.  Wound repair and healing in the rabbit 
incisional model was inhibited after repeat administration with VEGF-Trap at dose levels of 
0.3, 3, and 30 mg/kg as demonstrated by a reduction in blood vessel density and tensile strength 
evaluation.  There was reduced fibrous response, neovascularisation and epidermal hyperplasia, 
resulting in larger wound areas following repeat administration with VEGF-Trap in the excisional 
wound healing model.  In both models, the effects of VEGF Trap resulted in delayed wound repair 
and healing.
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions
Data from formal pharmacodynamic drug-drug interaction studies of VEGF Trap with ophthalmic 
anaesthetic agents, antimicrobial agents and mydriatics is not available. Because topical ocular 
medications do not reach the posterior segment, drug-drug interactions with VEGF Trap within this 
ocular compartment are highly unlikely. In addition, the clinical experience during the clinical 
development program for VEGF Trap Eye included prior administration of topical mydriatic agents 
and concomitant topical administration of anaesthetics and disinfectant antimicrobials with 
intravitreal injection of VEGF Trap Eye. The administration of these topical medications 
concomitantly with VEGF Trap was well-tolerated.
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics
The nonclinical pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of free VEGF Trap were determined following single 
dose IV and SC administration to mice, rats, and Cynomolgus monkeys and following single dose 
IVT administration to rabbits.  As part of repeated-dose toxicology studies in monkeys, plasma and 
vitreous free VEGF Trap and plasma VEGF Trap complex concentrations were determined after IVT 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 17/83
administration to assess drug exposure as well as to develop additional understanding of the in 
vivo disposition of the free and bound forms of VEGF Trap.
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were developed for determining the concentration 
of free VEGF Trap in mouse, rat and monkey serum and in rabbit and monkey plasma from 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies conducted in these species. The methods 
for determining the concentration of free and bound VEGF-trap in rabbit and monkey vitreous 
humour, choroïd and retinal were not evaluated.  
The percentage of recovery and the coefficient of variation were calculated using vitreous humour 
and various eye tissues as matrix for analyzed quality control samples. From these data, it may be 
concluded that these assays have been performed with good precision, accuracy, and 
reproducibility.
Following IV administration to mice, rats and monkeys, VEGF Trap displayed a multicompartmental 
PK plasma or serum profile, as inferred from the serum or plasma concentration vs. time profiles.    
Clearance was slow, t1/2 and MRT long and the Vss was slightly greater than the volume of the 
central compartment. VEGF Trap SC bioavailability was good in mice (94%) and monkeys (85%) 
and moderate in rats (33%).  Following IVT administration to monkeys, VEGF Trap systemic 
absorption appears to be relatively high 
Tissue distribution following IV administration of [125I]-VEGF Trap to rats supported the assertion 
that distribution was limited primarily to the circulation. As expected for a protein-based 
therapeutic, the highest concentration of tissue radioactivity was localized in the liver, followed by 
other highly perfused tissues. Following IVT dosing of VEGF Trap, distribution to the systemic 
circulation is slow and prolonged, resulting in the transfer of a substantial fraction of each IVT dose 
into the blood.  
The applicant has performed a number of studies to examine the distribution of radio-labelled VEGF 
Trap administered systemically to rats.  Other studies investigated the distribution of VEGF Trap 
after IVT administration to rabbits and monkeys.  The bio-distribution of 125I-labeled VEGF Trap 
after IV administration was investigated in female Sprague-Dawley rats.  
However, the PK profile of 125I-labeled VEGF Trap differed from VEGF Trap, and so these findings 
may not be representative of the actual product. Approximately 75% of the total dose of 
radioactivity was found in the serum at 5 minutes post-dosing and steadily declined to approaching 
zero by 168 hours.  Radioactivity was highest in the organs of clearance and other highly perfused 
tissues, predominately in the liver (11.4%), but also the kidney, spleen, lung and heart.  The 
decline seen in serum was also replicated in these organs: at 168 hours post-dosing, only 0.16% of 
the total radioactive dose was detected in the liver.  This indicates rapid clearance and limiting the 
distribution of the labelled VEGF Trap to the circulation.
The distribution of free VEGF Trap in the choroid, retina, vitreous, and plasma after IVT 
administration was investigated in male, pigmented New Zealand rabbits.  The free VEGF Trap 
mean t1/2 was 115 hours in the vitreous and 157 hours in plasma following IVT administration; free 
VEGF Trap plasma concentrations were also detected for up to 28 days post dose.  Vitreous 
humour contained the majority of VEGF Trap (compared to retina, choroid and plasma), suggesting 
accumulation in this compartment.  Free VEGF Trap in plasma was only detected 72 hours after 
dosing, displaying a slow distribution from the vitreous to the plasma in systemic circulation.  
The vitreous and plasma concentrations of free VEGF Trap and the plasma concentrations of VEGF 
Trap complex were determined in 4 separate toxicology studies following single or repeated (either 
monthly or every 6 weeks) IVT dosing to male and female Cynomolgus monkeys.  Peak 
concentration of free VEGF Trap was approximately 24 hours post-dose, levels of free VEGF Trap 
peaked at 1 week in the vitreous, and results were dose proportional.  Approximately 5.5-16% of 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 18/83
applied dose was detectable after 1 week in the vitreous humour.  The estimated t1/2 of free VEGF 
Trap in the vitreous ranged from approximately 40 to 68 hours and was independent of the dose 
applied.  
Plasma free VEGF Trap concentrations increased in a greater than dose proportional manner at IVT 
doses of up to 2000 µg/eye, with concentrations becoming slightly less than dose proportional at a 
doses higher than this.  This shows that at lower doses, the lower levels of plasma free VEGF Trap 
concentrations are due to VEGF Trap binding to endogenous VEGF.
In plasma, concentrations of the VEGF Trap complex increased with increasing dose.  Seven days 
following dosing the total concentration of bound VEGF Trap ranged from 100% (50 µg/eye) to 26-
34% (4000 µg/eye).  Clearance of the bound VEGF Trap was slow as it was detected well into the 
recovery phase unlike the free VEGF Trap.
There were no specific non-clinical studies conducted to examine metabolism of VEGF Trap.  
The expected metabolism of VEGF Trap is expected to be to small peptides and amino acids and so 
further classical biotransformation studies are not required.
Regarding the excretion, single 1 mg/kg IV doses were administered to functionally-
nephrectomized and sham-operated female rats and serial VEGF. Comparison of the key indices of 
VEGF Trap exposure (Cmax, time of maximum serum concentration (Tmax), AUC, and t1/2) revealed 
no apparent differences between the nephrectomized and sham-operated control animals, 
suggesting that renal excretion of VEGF Trap is insignificant.
Single 1 mg/kg IV doses were administered to functionally-nephrectomized and sham-operated 
female rats and serial VEGF. Comparison of the key indices of VEGF Trap exposure (Cmax, time of 
maximum serum concentration (Tmax), AUC, and t1/2) revealed no apparent differences between the 
nephrectomized and sham-operated control animals, suggesting that renal excretion of VEGF Trap 
is insignificant.
There were no specific non-clinical studies conducted to examine potential pharmacokinetic drug 
interactions with VEGF Trap following IVT administration.  No systemic pharmacokinetic drug 
interactions are expected following intravitreal administration with VEGF Trap since only very low 
concentrations of free and bound VEGF Trap will reach the systemic circulation.
2.3.4.  Toxicology
Single dose toxicity
Single-dose toxicity of VEGF Trap following IVT administration was evaluated in Cynomolgus 
monkeys. The evaluation did not reveal any signs of an adverse response. Single dose toxicity 
studies were performed by IV administration (at doses of 50, 150 and 500 mg/kg) to rats. 
Transient skin lesions and discoloration of the tail (administration site) were observed at a dose of 
150 mg/kg. A moderate decrease in body weight gain was noted in both male and female rats at 
both dose levels, and was associated with a moderate decrease in food consumption in male rats at 
a dose of 500 mg/kg.  The Minimum Lethal Dose and the Maximum Tolerated Dose were 
>500 mg/kg.
Repeat dose toxicity
The sub-chronic and chronic toxicity of VEGF Trap was evaluated in the most relevant species, the 
Cynomolgus monkey, using the clinically relevant IVT route of administration.  Further systemic 
toxicity studies with VEGF Trap were undertaken in mice (SCID and CD-1), rats (Sprague Dawley 
and nude) and Cynomolgus monkeys by IV and SC routes. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 19/83
IVT: A number of studies were carried out to examine the subchronic toxicity of VEGF Trap 
following IVT administration was evaluated in monkeys (dosing up to 13 weeks) and the chronic 
toxicity of the test article was evaluated in monkeys treated up to 8 months by the IVT route.  
Following IVT administration with VEGF Trap there was a level of inflammatory response 
characterised as inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber that occurred.  This effect was seen 
predominately in VEGF Trap treated eyes and was not dose-related or treatment duration-related.  
The inflammatory response peaked at 2 days, and in all instances reversed within 3 weeks post-
dosing.  There were no angiographic or electroretinographic changes following IVT treatment, 
however increased ocular pressure was seen in either VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap Placebo treated 
animals.  This effect is due to the increase in vitreal volume following intravitreal injection (volume 
of 50 µl/eye).  Administration of a lower volume (25 μl) of the VEGF Trap test article usually 
resulted in a much smaller immediate post-dose increase in IOP.  This effect was also reversible.  
In the pivotal 8-month repeat dose toxicity study in monkeys, at a dose of 2000 µg/eye there was 
increased incidence of epithelial erosion/ulceration of the respiratory epithelium of the nasal 
turbinates, often accompanied by chronic-active inflammation of the nasal turbinates.  This effect is 
likely a result of local exposure of the nasal epithelium to the nasal cavity by way of anastomoses 
between the ophthalmic and nasal venous plexuses, or leakage from the IVT injection site into the 
nasal lacrimal duct.  A NOAEL of 500 µg/eye was established based on the findings of epithelial 
erosion/ulceration of the nasal turbinates noted at the 2 and 4 mg/eye levels.  Although the 
findings of anterior segment cells were present at all dose levels, this effect may be considered as 
mild and reversible so a tentative NOAEL is proposed.  A LOAEL of 2 mg/eye is acceptable, and 
using this exposure ratios based upon the established LOAEL, Cmax and AUC determined from this 
toxicity study, was compared to the clinical exposure of VEGF Trap following IVT administration of 
2 mg/eye.  Exposure multiples were 231-fold higher (based on AUC and LOAEL values) and 708-
fold higher (based on Cmax and LOAEL values). 
The issue of only reaching 6-times the clinical exposure levels in the monkey intravitreal studies 
had been discussed in a CHMP advice to the Applicant.  Limitations due to the formulation of the 
product, increasing volume or frequency of administration to the monkey eye were discussed in 
order to justify this lower safety margin. 
No significant pharmacodynamic differences are expected between monkeys and humans because 
the VEGF molecules are identical in humans and monkeys. The high degree of conservation 
between species could also be demonstrated by the similar affinity (KD) of VEGF and PlGF from 
mice and humans. PlGF1 and PlGF2 molecules in monkeys and humans only differ by 2 amino acids 
that are located outside of the known sites relevant for receptor binding and therefore this 
difference should not affect binding to VEGF Trap to an appreciable degree.
Systemic: A comprehensive range of systemic toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats and 
monkeys.  Due to the high immunogenicity in the rodent species, the Cynomolgus monkey was the 
preferred species.  Exposure to free VEGF Trap was much higher in these studies compared to IVT 
administration, and allowed to determine systemic toxicities.  Common effects in target organs 
included bone (interference with growth plate maturation of long bones and osteocartilaginous 
exostoses of vertebrae), kidney (frequently increased glomerular mesangial matrix, occasionally 
hyperplasia of parietal epithelium and periglomerular fibrosis), adrenals (decreased vacuolation 
with eosinophilia in the zona fasciculata), ovary (decreased number of maturing follicles, granulosa 
cells and/or theca cells), and nasal cavity (respiratory and olfactory epithelium of nasal turbinates).  
Further microscopic findings were seen in the 6 month monkey study, included vascular alterations 
in the choroid plexus (≥3 mg/kg) and digestive tract (≥10 mg/kg), vascular degeneration and 
fibrosis in several tissues (≥10 mg/kg) including the heart, and hepatic portal inflammation and 
periportal necrosis (30 mg/kg).  No NOAEL could be determined in the systemic toxicity studies due 
to effects seen in each tested dose of VEGF Trap.  Exposure ratios based upon the established 
LOAEL, Cmax and AUC determined from each toxicity study was compared to the clinical exposure 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 20/83
of VEGF Trap following IVT administration of 2 mg/eye.  Exposure multiples ranged from 134- to 
1546-fold (based on AUC and LOAEL values) and 503- to 4902-fold (based on Cmax and LOAEL 
values).  It is also considered that following IVT VEGF Trap administration, levels of free VEGF Trap 
are unlikely to be seen at levels to cause systemic toxicity.  
Genotoxicity
Due to the fact that this is a biotechnology-derived product,  the range and type of genotoxicity 
studies routinely conducted for pharmaceuticals are generally not applicable, as it is unlikely that 
the administration of large levels of proteins would yield any meaningful results.  It is agreed that 
VEGF Trap is unlikely to interact with DNA or chromosomal material.  
Carcinogenicity
Standard carcinogenicity bioassays are generally inappropriate for biotechnology-derived 
pharmaceuticals, and this is the case for VEGF Trap.  This is in line with previous CHMP scientific 
advice obtained by the applicant (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/310870/2007) and the requirements of ICH 
S6 (R1) guideline for preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals.  
Product specific assessment of carcinogenic potential may be required for products that act as 
growth factors or as an immunosuppressive.  Studies conducted with VEGF Trap do not indicate 
that it acts in this way, and due to the high immunogenic potential of VEGF Trap to rodents, 
classical rodent carcinogenicity studies would be of little relevance.  It is acceptable to not perform 
genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies.
Reproduction Toxicity The effects of VEGF Trap on fertility were investigated in the context of the 
6-month toxicity study in sexually mature Cynomolgus monkeys by IV administration. Results 
showed decreased sperm motility and increased spermatozoa morphological abnormalities in males 
and abrogation of ovarian function and follicular development in females during treatment with 
VEGF Trap, along with abrogation of normal menstruation. These findings were reversible after 
cessation of treatment. Decreases in ovary weights were noted. Moreover, some females given 30 
mg/kg/dose had an evident reduction of maturing follicles compared to controls. Uterine 
endometrial and myometrial atrophy and vaginal epithelial atrophy also were common findings in 
VEGF Trap-treated animals. Following recovery, all VEGF Trap-treated females presented normal 
ovarian folliculogenesis and presence of medium to large size corpora lutea. 
There were no test-article related effects on male reproductive hormone levels (FSH, LH, and 
testosterone) at any dose or time.  Weights for the testis, epididymis, prostate and seminal 
vesicles were not different between treated and control groups, and no histopathological changes 
were evident in the male sex organs.  There were profound effects on sperm motility and quality.  
In all doses of VEGF Trap there were decreased levels of sperm motility and increased number of 
abnormalities to sperm.  Although these changes are reversible following up to 13 weeks recovery, 
a clear effect on reduced male fertility is apparent. 
As no NOAEL for effects on ovary/ovarian hormones and to sperm could be determined from this 
study, the applicant has calculated potential exposure ratios based upon the toxicokinetic findings 
from this study and in comparison to Cmax and AUC determined from humans treated with 2 
mg/eye (Study No. VGFT-OD-0702-PK).  Exposure was 4902-fold (Cmax) and 1546-fold (AUC0-
168h) higher in the monkey study after 3 mg/kg dosing, compared to the anticipated human dose.
The main embryo-foetal development study (Study No. VGFT-TX-06002, GLP) was conducted by 
administering doses of 0, 3, 15, or 60 mg/kg/administration of VEGF Trap to mated female New 
Zealand white rabbits once daily 30-minute i.v. infusions on gestational days (GD) 6, 9, 12, 15, 
and 18.  Justification of the dose levels used has been provided by the results of the two range-
finding studies in rabbits (VGFT-TX-05007 & VGFT-TX-06001).  The doses were selected to 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 21/83
determine levels of maternal toxicity, to establish a dose-response relationship and to establish a 
NOAEL.
At doses of ≥3 mg/kg there were dose-related increases in fetal resorptions, pregnancy disruptions 
and numerous foetal (external, visceral and skeletal) malformations observed.  Animals treated at 
the high dose level (60 mg/kg) resulted in abortions and increased levels of skeletal malformations 
in F1 generation.  
A maternal NOAEL is considered to be 3 mg/kg, whereas the developmental NOAEL could not be 
identified.  A calculation of potential exposure ratios based upon the toxicokinetic findings from this 
study and in comparison to Cmax and AUC determined from humans treated with 2 mg/eye (Study 
No. VGFT-OD-0702-PK).  Exposure was 2907-fold (Cmax) and 678-fold (AUC0.5-72h) higher in the 
monkey study after 3 mg/kg dosing, compared to the anticipated human dose.
Recommendation that VEGF Trap should not be used during pregnancy is appropriate from the 
findings of increased disruption to pregnancy and foetal malformations; this has been included in 
the SmPC in section 4.6.  Additional warning to women of child bearing potential to use effective 
contraception during treatment is appropriate.  
For the indication of aged-related macular degeneration (AMD) and target population, pre- and 
post-natal development studies are not required.
Juvenile Toxicity
VEGF Trap was administered IV at doses of 0, 0.5, 3, or 30 mg/kg/administration once weekly for 
3 months in young, skeletally immature Cynomolgus monkeys, with reversibility of systemic 
findings evaluated after an additional 5 month recovery phase. Effects were seen in bone, kidney, 
ovaries, adrenal glands and systemic vascular proliferation. A NOAEL was not determined.  Based 
on Cmax and AUC0-168h  for free VEGF Trap observed at the 0.5 mg/kg IV dose, the lowest dose at 
which finding were observed, the exposure was 503-fold and 134-fold higher, respectively, than 
the systemic exposure observed in humans after an IVT dose of 2 mg/eye.
Toxicokinetic data
Local Tolerance 
The local tolerance of the intended clinical formulation IVT was studied in the context of the pivotal 
8-month study in monkeys after IVT administration. This formulation was well tolerated in the 
animals, and inflammation was mild and transient. The local tolerance of other formulations was 
studied in New Zealand White rabbits by other routes of administration at 24.4, 25 and 100 mg/mL 
(intravenous, intramuscular and subcutaneous routes). The findings resulted in decrease or 
absence of food intake associated with a minimal body weight loss or reduced body weight gain in 
animals receiving the 100 mg/mL solution by all of the routes of administration studied. 
Other toxicity studies
The VEGF Trap formulation did not induce haemolysis and did not cause the formation of 
flocculants or precipitates in either serum or plasma. VEGF Trap was evaluated for possible binding 
to a panel of 33 human tissues. No specific staining was observed with any of the representative 
human tissues at concentrations of 5 or 25 µg/ml.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 22/83
Immunogenicity
In preclinical IVT studies, very few animals were positive in the anti-drug antibody (ADA) assay 
and only 1 animal generated a response that appeared to impact PK. Animals with ADA responses 
that did not affect plasma drug levels did not exhibit these ocular findings. It is noted that 
immunogenicity in monkeys is not predictive of immunogenicity in humans, although the very low 
immunogenicity observed in monkeys was also observed in humans. Following extended 
intravitreal administration of VEGF Trap in clinical trials, positivity rates in the ADA assay were 
similar in patients regardless of treatment (VEGF Trap or ranibizumab). It is therefore agreed that, 
based on the available data, there is no indication that IVT administration of VEGF Trap in patients 
would elicit a serious immune response.
In some pregnant female rabbits, a total of five IV administrations resulted in the presence of anti-
VEGF Trap antibodies associated with decreased levels of free VEGF Trap concentrations.  In no 
case was toxicity in rabbits or monkeys associated with the presence of an anti-VEGF Trap antibody 
response.
No studies were conducted for dependence or with metabolites.
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Aflibercept is exempted from an environmental risk assessment, because it is a protein and 
therefore unlikely to result in a significant environmental risk.
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects
The nonclinical studies were designed to evaluate the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and 
toxicology of VEGF Trap in support of clinical intravitreal (IVT) treatment of VEGF Trap.  Studies 
were conducted in vitro (PD) and in mice, rats, rabbit and monkeys, and their scope is considered 
to be extensive and adequate.
In order to provide proof of concept and mode of action, the binding of VEGF Trap and effect of 
phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 have been characterised in in vitro and in vivo studies. 
The assumption that identical or near identical protein sequences are predictive of very similar, 
if not identical, binding affinities of monkey and human VEGF-A/PlGF has been supported by 
additional data provided by the Applicant in their responses to the CHMP questions. 
The pharmacology studies were acceptable, and the Applicant has shown that the binding of VEGF 
Trap is selective, even within the VEGF family of ligands. It is agreed that binding of VEGF Trap to 
‘non-target’ protein ligands is unlikely. 
Regarding the safety pharmacology, VEGF Trap had no effect on respiratory function or thrombus 
formation, and no effects on the central nervous system were detected in toxicological studies, 
even when VEGF Trap was administered at high doses systemically for several months.  Concerning 
the cardiovascular system, the effect of VEGF Trap on blood pressure was assessed after single 
subcutaneous injections of 2, 5 and 25 mg/kg in telemetered C57BL/6 mice (VGFT-MX-08018) and 
from 0.05 to 25 mg/kg in telemetered Wistar-Kyoto rats (VGFD-MX-08015). Administration of 
VEGF Trap resulted in a statistically significant increase in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure 
dose dependent and lasting several days. In the opposite, single or repeated subcutaneous or 
intravenous injection of VEGF Trap in Cynomolgus monkey do not change blood pressure levels. 
It was concluded that the lack of an effect of VEGF Trap on blood pressure is most probably due to 
the effects of chemical/physical restraint on the cardiovascular system of the Cynomolgus monkeys 
and the limited sensitivity of indirect blood pressure measurement systems as compared to direct, 
e.g. radiotelemetry techniques which have been used in rodents. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 23/83
Data from formal pharmacodynamic drug-drug interaction studies of VEGF Trap with ophthalmic 
anaesthetic agents, antimicrobial agents and mydriatics is not available. This was considered 
acceptable, as topical ocular medications do not reach the posterior segment and drug-drug 
interactions with VEGF Trap within this ocular compartment are therefore unlikely. In addition, the 
clinical experience included prior administration of topical mydriatic agents and concomitant topical 
administration of anaesthetics and disinfectant antimicrobials with intravitreal injection of VEGF 
Trap Eye, which were well-tolerated.
Concerning the pharmacokinetic aspects, SC bioavailability was good in mice (94%) and monkeys 
(85%) and moderate in rats (33%).  Following IVT administration to monkeys, VEGF Trap systemic 
absorption appears to be relatively high.  Tissue distribution following IV administration of [125I]-
VEGF Trap to rats supported the assertion that distribution was limited primarily to the circulation. 
The highest concentration of tissue radioactivity was localized in the liver, followed by other highly 
perfused tissues. No studies were conducted on metabolism. Renal excretion of VEGF Trap is 
insignificant.
Regarding the toxicological aspects, the only treatment related post mortem findings observed in 
the chronic study by intravitreal administration to monkeys were epithelial erosions and/or 
ulcerations with chronic active inflammation of the nasal turbinates. The SmPC section 4.6 
incorporates a warning about women of childbearing potential, following the findings in the rabbit 
reproductive studies.
The fact that it was possible to reach only 6-times the clinical exposure levels in the monkey 
intravitreal studies was discussed in CHMP scientific advice and considered acceptable due to the 
limitations in the formulation of the product, increasing volume or frequency of administration. 
No significant pharmacodynamic differences are expected between monkeys and humans because 
the VEGF molecules are identical in humans and monkeys. 
Regarding the antibody formation to VEGF Trap, in preclinical IVT studies, very few animals were 
positive in the ADA assay and only 1 animal generated a response that appeared to impact PK. 
Animals with ADA responses that did not affect plasma drug levels did not exhibit these ocular 
findings. It is noted that immunogenicity in monkeys is not predictive of immunogenicity in 
humans, although the very low immunogenicity observed in monkeys was also observed in 
humans. Following extended intravitreal administration of VEGF Trap in clinical trials, positivity 
rates in the ADA assay were similar in patients regardless of treatment (VEGF Trap or 
ranibizumab). The CHMP concluded that, based on the available data, there is no indication that 
IVT administration of VEGF Trap in patients would elicit a serious immune response.
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects
In conclusion, VEGF Trap had no effect on respiratory function or thrombus formation, and no 
effects on the central nervous system or cardiac function were detected in toxicological studies, 
even when VEGF Trap was administered at high doses systemically for several months.  However, 
repeated systemic administration of VEGF Trap did impair the rate and/or extent of healing of both 
incisional and excisional wounds in rabbits, in a dose related manner, at all doses tested (0.3, 3 
and 30 mg/kg/administration).  Impairment of wound healing is also a class effect of VEGF 
inhibitors.
A pregnancy warning is included in Section 4.6 of the SmPC.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 24/83
2.4.  Clinical aspects
2.4.1.  Introduction
GCP
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.
A GCP inspection was carried out at two investigator sites, one in Germany (14-17 November 
2011) and in Hungary (28 November-2 December 2011), in relation to the conduct of trial protocol 
n. 311523. The final integrated inspection report was issued on 6 February 2012. According to the 
GCP final integrated inspection report, the outcome of this inspection is satisfactory. The inspected 
investigator sites appeared to be GCP compliant and it was nothing identified to suggest that the 
data collected at the sites are unreliable.
The Inspection report do not suggest that the deficiencies/findings observed during the course of 
inspections may impact on the results of the study and according to the recommendation for use of 
the inspected data, the inspected data of clinical trial 311 523 (VIEW 2) are of an acceptable 
quality to be used for the evaluation by the assessors in connection with the marketing 
authorisation application for Eylea.

Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Summary of clinical studies in age-related macular degeneration (AMD)
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 25/83
Phase
Study
Description
Route/Dose
Frequency
Subjects/Status
I
PDY6656 
Phase I, single centre study to 
assess cardiovascular PD and PK
IV; 
1, 2, 4 mg/kg, 
placebo
Single dose
PDY6655
Phase I, single-centre study to 
compare cardiovascular PD and PK
IV & SC;
2 mg/kg
Single dose
VGFT-OD-0305
Phase I, exploratory study of the 
safety, tolerability and biological 
activity
IV;
0.3, 1, 3, 5, 7, 10  
mg/kg, placebo
Repeat dose 
(4 doses q2w)
48 healthy 
volunteers
Completed
40 healthy 
volunteers
Completed
26 AMD patients
Completed
VGFT-OD-0306
Phase I, safety and tolerability 
study (open label extension of 
VGFT-OD-0305)
IV;
0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg, 
placebo
Repeat dose 
(q2w)
7 AMD patients
Completed
VGFT-OD-0502 
Part A, B, C 
(CLEAR-IT 1)
Phase I, exploratory study of the 
safety tolerability and biological 
effect
0.05, 0.15, 0.50, 1, 
2, 4 mg
IVT;
Single and repeat dose
49 AMD patients
VGFT-OD-0603 
(CLEAR-IT 1b)
Phase I study to assess the safety 
and tolerability of VEGF Trap in the 
ITV-1 and ITV-2 formulations
IVT;
4 mg
II
VGFT-OD-0508 
(CLEAR-IT 2)
Phase II study of the safety, 
tolerability and biological effect
IVT;
0.5, 2, 4 mg 
(in Part C two doses q8w, 
with optional monthly 
dosing for 1 year extension 
period)
Completed
Repeat dose
(3 doses q4w)
20 AMD patients
Completed
Repeat dose
(0.5/2 mg q4w, 0.5/2/4 mg 
q12w, prn dosing from 
Week 12 to Week 52)
157 AMD patients
Completed
VGFT-OD-0702
Phase I/II long-term safety 
extension study, with PK sub-
study. Open to patients previously 
enrolled in VGFT-OD-0502, -508, 
and -0603.
IVT; 2 mg
Repeat dose
120 AMD patients
(q8w for 39 months)
Completed
III
VGFT-OD-0605 
(VIEW 1)
Phase III, active controlled study 
of efficacy, safety, and tolerability
IVT;
0.5, 2 mg
311523 
(VIEW 2)
Phase III, active controlled study 
of efficacy, safety, and tolerability
IVT;
0.5, 2 mg
Repeat dose
(Year 1: 0.5/2 mg q4w or 2 
mg q8w; Year 2  q4w-
q12w)
1038 AMD 
patients
Completed
Repeat dose
(Year 1: 0.5/2 mg q4w or 2 
mg q8w; Year 2  q4w-
q12w)
1025 AMD 
patients
Completed
VGFT-OD-0910
Phase III open label, long-term, 
safety extension of VIEW 1
IVT;
2 mg 
Repeat dose
2 mg capped PRN (at least 
q12w)
323 AMD patients 
(target 960)
Ongoing
In addition, one PK study and three efficacy and safety phase III studies using IVT route were not 
related to the claimed indication (DME : VGFT-OD-0307 and VGFT-OD-0706-DAVINCI / CRVO : 
VGFT-OD-0319-COPERNICUS and 14130-GALILEO)
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics
Absorption, Distribution, Elimination
PKs of VEGF Trap could be considered well characterized based on the investigations performed by 
systemic (mainly IV but also SC) route as well as by IVT (intra-vitreal) routes. These investigations 
consisted in six Phase I, two Phase II and one Phase III studies. Studies by systemic route were 
performed in healthy volunteers and patients. Studies by IVT route were conducted in patients.
Analytical techniques. The analytical techniques used through the PK development programme 
were described and validated. The earlier colorimetric versions of the ELISA techniques used for 
the determination of free and bound VEGF Trap levels from clinical studies involving systemic 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 26/83
administration of VEGF Trap were modified to luminescence based ELISAs which were used to 
analyze systemic levels of free and bound VEGF Trap in AMD clinical studies involving IVT 
administration of VEGF Trap.  The analytical techniques used in the IV and IVT were not formally 
cross-validated. Therefore, the inter-study comparisons should be regarded cautiously. Adequate 
methods were used for pharmacokinetic and statistical data analysis.
Analysis of different formulations and processes. During the development of VEGF Trap, to 
improve stability, the drug substance was manufactured using three different processes (IVT P1, P2 
and P3) and two formulations of the drug product for IVT administration of VEGF Trap were 
developed. Subsequently, the different formulations were evaluated with respect to 
pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD) and immunogenicity, in order to demonstrate 
comparability between the various process and IVT formulations. Considering that VEGF Trap is 
intended for local administration, the contribution of the systemic exposure in the assessment of 
the comparability of the different process (active substance) and formulations (drug product) is 
limited. Reassuringly, the final formulation and process were used for the preparation of the lots 
tested in the pivotal phase III studies (VIEW1 and VIEW2). As a consequence, the comparability of 
early process (active substance) and formulations (drug product) was not of concern. The 
pharmacodynamic and clinical investigations (see relevant parts) revealed no difference between 
products issued from different process and formulations.
Systemic route. The investigation by systemic route confirmed that VEGF Trap PK behaviour is 
consistent with that generally observed with large proteins. The VEGF Trap Vd following IV 
administration is close to plasma volume. At plasma level, VEGF-trap binds to endogenous free 
VEGF with high affinity to form an inert complex. Due to the saturation of this binding to 
endogenous VEGF, Free VEGF-trap exhibits a non-linear PK. Data suggests that free VEGF Trap is 
cleared by relatively rapid, specific and saturable high-affinity binding to VEGF as well as via 
slower, non-saturable clearance mechanisms. These latter mechanisms are expected to be 
proteolytic catabolism processes, which affect both free and bound VEGF Trap. The terminal 
elimination half-life (t1/2) of free VEGF Trap was approximately 1.9 days following an IV dose of 0.3 
mg/kg, and increased with increasing doses, reaching t1/2 estimates of 5 to 6 days after IV 
administration of doses of 2 to 4 mg/kg VEGF Trap.   The systemic exposure to the free VEGF-Trap 
observed at the clinical MTD i.e. 1mg administered by the IV route is approximately 10 to 20 
(µg/mL) for Cmax and 50-80 (day*µg/mL). The systemic exposure observed with the first toxic 
dose i.e. 2 mg by IV route is 45 ± 36 (µg/mL) for Cmax and 180 ±33 (day*µg/mL) approximately.
Intravitreal route. Since VEGF Trap is administered directly into the target site of 
pharmacological activity, the eye, the bioavailability within the target organ is assumed to be 
100%. Following IVT administration of VEGF Trap, a fraction of the administered dose is expected 
to bind to free endogenous VEGF in the eye to form a stable, high affinity VEGF:VEGF-Trap 
complex. Excess free VEGF Trap is available to bind newly synthesized VEGF in the eye or 
endogenously available VEGF in the central compartment. VEGF Trap is slowly absorbed from the 
eye into the systemic circulation after IVT administration and is predominantly observed in the 
systemic circulation as an inactive, stable complex with VEGF. In most patients plasma levels of 
free VEGF-Trap were below the LLOQ. Some measurable plasma levels (up to 0.473 µg/mL) were 
actually observed in patients. Based on Cmax comparison the highest level observed in the clinical 
Phase III study VIEW2 is 200-250 times lower than that observed with the MTD (1 mg, IV route) 
and approximately 100 times lower than that observed with the first toxic dose (2 mg by IV route). 
Therefore, the level of this exposure is deemed to be too low to lead to significant systemic (non-
ocular) side effects. However this needs to be confirmed by safety clinical data.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 27/83
Dose proportionality and time dependencies
Data obtained with the IV route showed that Free VEGF Trap exhibits non-linear PK consistent with 
saturable, target-mediated drug disposition. However, this is not relevant for the IVT route.
Data from phase III study (VIEW 2) revealed no unexpected accumulation at plasma level of VEGF 
Trap  after repeated IVT administration (up to 1 year).
Special populations
Age, sex, body mass index (BMI), renal function, hepatic function and ethnicity are not expected to 
influence the plasma concentrations of free and bound VEGF Trap.
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies
Considering the administration pathway (IVT) and the very low systemic level of VEGF trap, neither 
in vitro nor in vivo interactions studies have been performed.
Since the systemic exposure to both free and bound VEGF Trap following intravitreal injection is 
low, the potential for drug interactions is low. In addition, systemic or topically applied drugs 
usually reach the vitreous cavity in very low concentrations, so interactions within the eye are also 
unlikely. However, some clinicians may manage AMD with concomitant therapies, such as 
verteporfin with PDT or use off label intraocular steroids. The potential for such treatments to 
influence the intraocular effect of VEGF Trap has not been appropriately addressed in the 
documentation provided, therefore clarifying statements have been inserted in the section 4.5 of 
the SmPC.
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
None.
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics
No specific studies dedicated to human pharmacodynamics have been performed for aflibercept. 
The pharmacodynamics data derive from in vitro, animal and human efficacy studies. 
VEGF Trap (aflibercept) exerts inhibitory effects on angiogenesis and stabilizing actions on vessel 
permeability through the blocking of VEGF-A. 
IVT injection permits direct targeting of the areas of abnormal neovascularization in the retina, and 
this route of administration is considered as the more relevant for retinal pathologies. In addition, 
the IVT route of administration also permits to decrease systemic toxicity linked to anti-VEGF 
activity. 
Mechanism of action
Aflibercept belongs to the pharmacological class of VEGF inhibitors. The role of VEGF in promoting 
pathological neovascularization and/or abnormal and excessive vascular permeability in several 
diseases affecting the eye is now well established.
Primary and Secondary pharmacology
Primary pharmacology: 
The clinical pharmacology programme consists of phase I and II studies that were designed to 
explore, in patients suffering from wet AMD, the bioeffects of VEGF Trap on the retina. Central 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 28/83
retinal/lesion thickness and CNV lesion size were assessed using Optical coherence tomography 
(OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FA) as pharmacodynamic endpoints, concomitantly with 
evolution of visual acuity (according to the ETDRS Chart). Retinal thickness is an accepted PD 
marker for neovascular AMD, but it is known to have a variable correlation with visual acuity.
IV injections were firstly explored in studies VGTF OD 305-306-307; a favourable trend of 
improvements in central retinal thickness and visual acuity at the VEGF Trap dose levels of 1.0 and 
3.0 mg/kg was identified in Study VGTF OD 305. 
Single and repeated IVT injections of escalating doses of VEGF Trap (0.05 to 4 mg) were further 
explored in VGTF OD 502, VGTF OD 508 and VGFT-OD-0603 studies, and were shown to reduce 
both retinal thickness and the size of the CNV lesion, in a dose-proportional fashion.
In these studies central retinal thickness was not always well correlated with visual acuity. 
An important lack of correlation was specifically observed in study VGTF OD 508 at the end of the 
fixed dosing phase and at Week 16 for the 4 mg dose administered every 12 weeks. This is thought 
to be probably related to the high variability observed in the results for prolonged interval duration 
beyond 8-week.
Bioeffects were also explored as secondary or additional outcome measures using FA and OCT 
measurements, in pivotal studies VIEW 1 and VIEW 2. After treatment initiation, retinal thickness 
decreased > 100 microns and reduced mean CNV lesion size were observed, consistent with the 
results seen in phase I and II studies.
Secondary pharmacology:
Systemic VEGF inhibition is known to cause dose-related increases in systolic and diastolic blood 
pressure. Although this was observed in subjects following IV and SC dosing with VEGF Trap at all 
dose levels between 0.3 and 3 mg/kg, no such changes were detected when VEGF Trap was 
administered intravitreally. This is likely to be due to the low amounts of free VEGF Trap reaching 
the systemic circulation (approximately 50 ng/mL). The Michaelis-Menten constant (Km – the 
concentration of free VEGF Trap corresponding to the half-maximal binding capacity) value was 
calculated to be 2.91 μg/mL for free VEGF Trap binding to human VEGF.
The Applicant considered that the increase risk of blood pressure in the target population is 
unlikely. However, 15-20% of aflibercept passes to the systemic circulation and during the pivotal 
studies, hypertension have been reported in 14.6% patients. The CHMP considered that systemic 
side effect on blood pressure should not be ruled out and need to be further monitored even if the 
product is locally administered. This is identified as an important potential risk in the RMP.
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology
Intravitreal VEGF Trap has been shown to reduce both retinal thickness and CNV lesion size in 
patients with neovascular AMD in a dose-proportional fashion. Furthermore, the data suggest that 
dosing every 12 weeks may be insufficient to maintain these improvements, and that more 
frequent dosing may be required. Visual acuity results from the Phase II studies were more 
variable, and as a whole the data suggest no additional benefit of the 4 mg dose over a 2 mg dose. 
There is minimal systemic exposure to VEGF Trap following intravitreal administration, making 
systemic pharmacodynamic effects or interactions unlikely.
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address the issues related to 
pharmacology:
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 29/83
The CHMP considered that, systemic side effect on blood pressure should not be ruled out and need 
to be further monitored even if the product is locally administered. This measure is included in the 
RMP.
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies)
Dose-response studies in patients suffering from neovascular age-related macular 
degeneration:
In the early development programme, IV injections of VEGF Trap (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg) were 
compared to placebo in Study VGTF OD 305 over an 8-week duration. These preliminary results 
suggested that the highest dose of 3.0 mg/kg provided the best improvements in visual acuity, 
retinal thickness and macular volume.
A direct head-to-head comparison of the two formulations of VEGF Trap (ITV-1, the first 
formulation and ITV-2, the new formulation used in pivotal clinical studies VIEW 1 and VIEW 2) at 
the same dose was provided in Study VGFT-OD-0603. The results suggested that the ITV-2 
formulation (used in pivotal studies VIEW 1 and 2) would at least provide a similar effect level 
regarding reduction in retinal thickness or improvements in visual acuity than that observed for the 
VEGF Trap administered in the ITV-1 formulation (used for dose escalating studies VGFT-OD-502 
and 508). 
IVT route: Study VGFT-OD-0502 was the first study initiated for a clinical development of 
intravitreally (IVT) administered VEGF Trap in patients suffering from wet AMD. This was an open 
label, single escalating doses study (0.05 mg, 0.15 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg, 2.0 mg and 4.0 mg). The
small sample size/group only allowed preliminary conclusions suggesting that better effects on 
visual acuity or on morphologic endpoints may be provided by higher doses (2, 4 mg) and that 
they may last until week 43. 
IVT route: Study VGFT-OD-0508 was a Phase-2 dose-ranging study which comprised a 12-week 
fixed-dosing phase followed by a flexible-dosing phase up to week 52, designed to assess the 
efficacy in AMD patients of repeated IVT administration of VEGF Trap at different doses and dosing 
intervals. 
In this study subjects who received monthly injections at the start of the study (in the 0.5 and 2 
mg groups) generally had better outcomes at Week 52, supporting the proposal to administer 3 
initial monthly injections of VEGF Trap prior to dosing every 8 weeks. An initial monthly dosing up 
to 12 weeks was therefore chosen for the design of pivotal VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies.
2.5.2.  Main study(ies) 
Studies VIEW 1 and VIEW 2: in patients suffering from neovascular age-related macular 
degeneration:
This application is supported by two pivotal trials of two-year duration and of identical design. 
- Study VIEW 1 (Study VEGF-OD-605) was conducted from 02 August 2007 to 14 September 2010 
(year 1 cut-off) at 154 sites in United States [US] and Canada.
- Study VIEW 2 (Study A36355) was conducted at 186 sites in Asia/Pacific, Europe, and 
South/Latin America (first patient 11 April 2008 – 16 September 2010 (year 1 cut-off).
The Study period covered from start of enrolment and last subject’s last visit was from 31 Jul 2007 
to 22 Jul 2011 (VIEW 1) and to 11 Aug 2011 (VIEW 2).
Both studies were multi-center, randomized, double-masked, active controlled (ranibizumab) non-
inferiority designed, phase III studies. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 30/83
The design of both studies is described below.
Methods
Study Participants 
The inclusion/exclusion criteria were identical in the two Phase III studies.
Subjects eligible were Men and women ≥ 50 years of age had to have subfoveal CNV secondary to 
AMD. “Subfoveal” CNV was defined as the presence of subfoveal neovascularization, including 
juxtafoveal lesions that affect the fovea, documented through confirmed FA by an independent 
reading
center. Only one eye was designated as the study eye. For subjects who met eligibility criteria in 
both eyes, the eye with the worse visual acuity (VA) was selected as the study eye.
The Main exclusion Criteria included prior ocular or systemic treatment or surgery for neovascular 
AMD; total lesion size >12 disc areas (30.5 mm2, including blood, scars and neovascularization); 
any history of ocular retinal disease history other than AMD, Any intraocular or periocular surgery 
within 3 months of Day 1 on the study eye, prior trabeculectomy; Previous therapeutic radiation in 
the region of the study eye; history of corneal transplant or corneal dystrophy in the study eye; 
significant media opacities, including cataract; history or clinical evidence of diabetic retinopathy, 
diabetic macular edema or any retinal vascular disease other than AMD in either eye. Exclusions 
criteria were conventional and as expected for this class of product. Contra-indications for Lucentis 
as reported in the EU SPC were listed as exclusion criteria. 
Treatments
Year-1: Fixed dose/fixed schedule regimens for the first year of the studies were chosen fairly in 
accordance to the results from phase I and II dose-finding studies. Subjects were randomised to 
one of the following regimen: 0.5Q4=0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q4=2 mg VEGF 
Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q8=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks after three initial monthly 
doses and compared to RQ4=ranibizumab 0.5 mg every 4 weeks. This posology corresponds to the 
original dosing regimen used in the pivotal studies Marina and Anchor for ranibizumab registration 
either in Europe or in the US. An aseptic procedure for IVT injection was recommended by the 
Applicant. Nevertheless, a degree of freedom was permitted to take into account the different
practices that vary considerably among practitioners or countries.
Year-2: During the second year of the study, the subjects received IVT injection of study drug or 
comparator at intervals determined by the specific criteria for redosing at the same dose level as 
originally assigned. They were evaluated every 4 weeks. Injections could be given as frequently as 
every 4 weeks, but no less frequently than every 12 weeks (modified quarterly dosing schedule), 
according to the following re-dosing criteria, which were assessed by the investigator:
i) Increase in CRT ≥100 μm compared to the lowest previous value (OCT), or ii) A loss of ≥5 
ETDRS letters from the best previous letter score in conjunction with recurrent fluid as indicated by 
OCT, or iii) New or persistent fluid as indicated by OCT, or iv)New onset classic neovascularization, 
or v) New or persistent leak on fluorescence angiography (FA), or vi) New macular hemorrhage, or 
vii) 12 weeks have elapsed since the previous injection.
Subjects and study personnel remained double masked with regard to the dose level but no sham 
injections were given in the second year for prolonged interval dosing.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 31/83
Objectives
Objectives were identical across both phase-3 pivotal studies: VIEW 1 and VIEW 2
Primary Objective
The primary objective was to assess the efficacy of IVT administered VEGF Trap-Eye compared to 
ranibizumab, in a non-inferiority design, in preventing moderate vision loss (defined as a loss < 15 
letters/3 lines of vision on the ETDRS chart at a distance of 4 meters) in subjects with all subtypes 
of neovascular AMD.
Secondary Objective(s)
The secondary objectives were: 
1/to assess the safety and tolerability of repeated IVT administration of VEGF Trap-Eye in subjects 
with all sub-types of neovascular AMD for periods up to 2 years.
2/to assess the effect of repeated IVT administration of VEGF Trap-Eye on Vision-Related Quality of 
Life (QoL) in subjects with all subtypes of neovascular AMD, as assessed using the NEI VFQ-25 
questionnaire.
Outcomes/endpoints
Primary and secondary efficacy criteria were identical in the two Phase-3 studies: VIEW 1 and 
VIEW 2
Three categories of end points were analysed: Visual, Quality of life and Morphologic 
Primary Endpoint
• The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects who maintained vision (ie, loss of 
fewer than 15 letters on the ETDRS chart compared to Baseline) at Week 52 as assessed in the 
PPS. 
Visual function of the study eye was assessed using the ETDRS chart at 4 meters and a subject was 
classified as maintaining vision if the subject has lost fewer than 15 letters in ETDRS letter score 
compared to baseline.
Secondary Endpoints 
• Mean change from baseline in BCVA as measured by ETDRS letter score at Week 52.
• Proportion of subjects who gain at least 15 letters of vision from baseline at Week 52 on the 
ETDRS chart.
Quality of life
• Mean change in total NEI VFQ-25 score from baseline to Week 52.
(Vision-related Quality Of Life is assessed using the National Eye Institute 25-Item Visual Function 
Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25). 
Morphologic end points
• Mean change in CNV area from baseline to Week 52 as assessed by fluorescein angiography (FA). 
Sample size
Assuming that 90% of subjects treated with 0.5 mg ranibizumab and any VEGF Trap-Eye dose 
would maintain vision (defined as losing fewer than 15 letters of visual acuity) at Week 52 
compared to Baseline, a one-sided alpha level of 0.025, a power of 90% and defining the non-
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 32/83
inferiority margin to be 10%, the sample size estimation resulted in 191 (VIEW1) / 190 (VIEW 
2) subjects per treatment group. Assuming a dropout rate of 30% (a high dropout rate was 
assumed because of the availability of competing, approved therapies), enrolment of 300 subjects 
per group was determined to provide adequate power to achieve the study’s objectives under the 
stated assumptions.
Randomisation
Subjects were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to one of the four treatment groups.
Blinding (masking)
Studies were presented as double masked clinical trial, however a strict blinding was not readily 
feasible:all VEGF Trap-Eye study medication and sham treatments were packaged in identical 
packaging with identical labeling, except for the kit number. The comparator was supplied in 
commercial packaging with over labeling for local languages where necessary.
Study drug injection was to be performed by an unmasked physician. The unmasked physician did 
not play any role in the study beyond the receipt, tracking, preparation, destruction and 
administration of study drug, as well as assessing safety at 30-60 minutes post IVT injection. 
A separate masked physician was assigned to 1) assess AEs and 2) supervise the masked 
assessment of efficacy. Visual acuity assessments were always masked to treatment assignment. 
Statistical methods
The predefined non-inferiority margin was set at 10% and was justified by reference to the results 
of pivotal studies for ranibizumab. A conditional sequence of statistical evaluation of non-inferiority 
was used to control multiplicity (1) 2Q4; 2) 0.5Q4; 3) 2Q8 versus RQ4). A predefined test for 
superiority on secondary criteria was planned using again a conditional sequence of hypothesis to 
control multiplicity.
The following methods were used for  sensitivity analyses: analysis repeated in FAS using LOCF 
and in FAS and PPS using Observed case analysis, Worst observed carried forward, Discontinued 
counted as non-responder, or Treatment failure counted as non-responder.
Results
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 33/83
Patient disposition (all randomized subjects): 
Study VIEW 
RQ4 
2Q4 
0.5Q4 
2Q8 
1
Screened*
Randomized 
306 (100) 
304 (100) 
304 (100) 
303 (100) 
911 (100) 
Treated2 (safety set)
304 (99.3) 
304 (100) 
304 (100) 
303 (100) 
911 (100) 
FAS1
PPS
304 (99.3) 
304 (100)
301 (99.0)
301 (99.3)
269 (87.9) 
285 (93.8)
270 (88.8)
265 (87.5)
906
820
VEGF Trap-Eye 
Combined 
Total 
 2063
 1217 (100) 
1215 (99.8) 
1210
1089
Completed Year 1 
284 (92.8) 
293 (96.4) 
277 (91.1) 
276 (91.1) 
846 (92.9) 
1130 (92.9)
Premature discontinuation within first year 
Total 
22 (7.2) 
11 (3.6) 
27 (8.9) 
27 (8.9) 
Subject withdrawal 
10 (3.3) 
Adverse event 
Deatha 
Lost to follow-up 
4 (1.3) 
3 (1.0) 
1 (0.3) 
Protocol deviation* 
3 (1.0) 
Treatment failure 
0 
Other 
1 (0.3) 
5 (1.6) 
3 (1.0) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.7) 
0 
0 
0 
7 (2.3) 
5 (1.6) 
2 (0.7) 
4 (1.3) 
3 (1.0) 
2 (0.7) 
4 (1.3) 
8 (2.6) 
4 (1.3) 
7 (2.3) 
4 (1.3) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.3) 
65 (7.1) 
20 (2.2) 
12 (1.3) 
10 (1.1) 
10 (1.1) 
4 (0.4) 
4 (0.4) 
5 (0.5) 
Completed study 
medication
Prematurely 
discontinued study 
medication
Withdrawal by Subject
Adverse event 
Lost to follow-up 
Death 
Protocol deviation*
Treatment failure 
Other 
279 91.2)
288 (94.7)
274 (90.1)
273 (90.1)
911 (100) 
27 (8.8) 
16 (5.3) 
30 (9.9) 
30 (9.9)
76 (8.3)
12 (3.9) 
4 (1.3) 
2 (0.7)
3 (1.0) 
3 (1.0) 
1 (0.3)
2 (0.7)
8 (2.6) 
3 (1.0) 
4 (1.3) 
1 (0.3)
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
9 (3.0) 
5 (1.6) 
4 (1.3) 
2 (0.7)
3 (1.0)
2 (0.7) 
5 (1.6) 
9 (3.0)
6 (2.0) 
5 (1.7) 
6 (2.0)  
1 (0.3)
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.3) 
_
14 (1.5)
13 (1.4)
9 (1.0)
4 (0.4)
4 (0.4)
6 (0.7)
87 (7.1)
30 (2.5)
16 (1.3)
13 (1.1)
11 (0.9)
7 (0.6)
4 (0.3)
6 (0.5)
 1114 (91.51)
103 (8.5) 
38 (3.1) 
18 (1.5) 
15 (1.2) 
12 (1.0) 
7 (0.6) 
5 (0.4) 
8 (0.7) 
a An additional four deaths were reported during the study but not captured in the database as a reason for premature discontinuation. 
1 FAS :
RQ4 : 2 subjects excluded from FAS : 144-003 (no leakage) & 227-003 (no baseline value) and 1 subject maintained in FAS 195-001 (treated accidentally by 0.5Q4).
0.5Q4 : 3 subject excluded from FAS : 180-002 (not treated by investigator decision) and 227-006 and 171-005 (no post-baseline value). 2 SAS : 195-001 included.
2Q8 : 2 subject excluded from FAS : 152-003 and 171-004 (no post-baseline value). 
*Protocol deviation i.e violation and Screened i.e. enrolled
RQ4=ranibizumab 0.5 mg every 4 weeks; 0.5Q4=0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q4=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q8=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks 
after three initial monthly doses.
Recruitment
Study VIEW 1 was conducted from 2 August 2007 up to 14 September 2010.
Conduct of the study
Up to the database lock for the year-1 data, there were 3 amendments to the original study 
protocol in response to regulatory agency feedback. 
Baseline data
Baseline demographics were balanced across the treatment groups except for sex that shown a 
more accentuated difference in the 2Q4 group (63.8% vs 58.8% for the total population); most 
patients were white, non Hispanic or Latino, there were more female (58.8 %) than male and the 
mean age was 78.1 years (range :from 49 to 99 years). The overall mean BMI was 27.40 kg/m2, 
the mean weight was 75.39 kg, and the mean height was 165.60 cm. 
Disease characteristics were well balanced among groups. Mean BVCA score was 55.1 letters; 
retinal thickness was 266.6 microns; area of CNV 6.6 mm2, lesion size 6.95 mm2 and NEI VQF 25 
total score 70.7. Lesion subtypes were also balanced across study groups as reported above with a 
predominance of occult lesions in all groups. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 34/83
Numbers analysed
Disposition/Reason
Subjects Randomized
Safety Analysis Set a
Full Analysis Set b
Per Protocol Set c
Ranibizumab
0.5Q4
(N = 306)
306 (100%)
304 (99.3%)
304 (99.3%)
269 (87.9%)
VEGF Trap-Eye
2Q4
(N = 304)
304 (100%)
304 (100%)
304 (100%)
285 (93.8%)
0.5Q4
(N = 304)
304 (100%)
304 (100%)
301 (99.0%)
270 (88.8%)
2Q8
(N = 303)
303 (100%)
303 (100%)
301 (99.3%)
265 (87.5%)
Outcomes and estimation
One-year efficacy results 
VIEW 1 Study: One-year efficacy results
All three hypothesis analyses met non-inferiority criteria in favour of the three VEGF Trap-Eye 
regimens showing upper limits of the 95.1% CI of the difference between each of the three tested 
dosing regimens and the comparator ≤ 3.1%. 
VIEW 1 -Primary efficacy analysis-Proportion of Subjects who Maintained Vision at Week 52
Closed test 
procedure
Treatment Group
a
Subjects who 
Maintained Vision at 
Wk 52; n (%)
Difference
% (95.1% CI)
Statistical Interpretation
b
(LOCF, PPS)
First hypothesis
2Q4 (n=285) 
RQ4 (n=269)
Second 
hypothesis
0.5Q4 (n=270) 
RQ4 (n=269)
Third 
hypothesis
2Q8 (n=265) 
RQ4 (n=269)
271 (95.1)
254 (94.4)
259 (95.9)
254 (94.4)
252 (95.1)
254 (94.4)
-0.7 (-4.4, 3.1)
-1.5 (-5.1, 2.1)
Non-inferiority of 2Q4 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued as confirmatory analysis
Non-inferiority of 0.5Q4 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued as confirmatory analysis
-0.7 (-4.5, 3.1)
Non-inferiority of 2Q8 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued as confirmatory analysis
a: RQ4=ranibizumab  0.5 mg every 4 weeks; 0.5Q4=0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q4=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q8=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye
every 8 weeks after three initial monthly doses
b:  Difference is ranibizumab minus VEGF Trap-Eye.  Negative values favour VEGF Trap-Eye.  CI=Confidence interval calculated using normal approximation.
The different methods used as sensitivity analyses provided consistent results with the primary 
analysis (upper limits ≤ 4.6% and 5.3% for the analyses in the PPS and in the FAS, respectively) 
although these values were less stringent than observed in the primary analysis.
All values stayed well below the pre-specified CI upper bound of 10% but also well below the 7% 
margin discussed with CHMP.
Secondary criteria related to visual acuity:
Since non-inferiority to ranibizumab was met for all VEGF Trap-Eye regimens, a test for superiority 
was authorized for secondary criteria in the FAS. The comparison of the change from baseline to 
Week 52 in BCVA letter score in the 2Q4 and RQ4 groups demonstrated a superior improvement 
from baseline for the 2Q4 regimen (mean =10.9 letters; LS mean =10.97 letters versus mean 
=8.1 letters; LS mean 7.82 letters; LS mean difference = 3.15; 95.1% CI = 0.92 to 5.37; p = 
0.0054). 
The second conditional sequence of superiority was interrupted at the second authorized 
comparison (2Q4 versus RQ4 with respect to the proportion of patients’ group gaining ≥ 15 letters) 
as analyses were no longer statistically significant. 
The 0.5Q4 and 2Q8 regimens did not show difference with the RQ4 regimen (6.9 letters; p=0.479 
and 7.9 letters; p=0.818, respectively).
VIEW 1 - Change from Baseline to Week 52 in ETDRS Letter Score (LOCF) (FAS)
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 35/83
Study View 1
n
Week 52 (change from baseline)
RQ4
304
2Q4
304
O.5Q4
301
2Q8
301
Mean (SD)
8.1 (15.25)
10.9 (13.77)
6.9 (13.41)
7.9 (15.00)
Point estimate for the contrast
a
95.1% CI for difference
p-value vs RQ4
b
3.15
-0.80
0.26
(0.92, 5.37)
(-3.03, 1.43)
(-1.97, 2.49)
0.0054
0.4793
0.8179
a:  Difference is VEGF Trap-Eye minus ranibizumab using least-square means (LSMeans).  Positive values are in favour of VEGF Trap-Eye.  CI=confidence interval calculated
using normal approximation.
b:  ANCOVA, main effect model using LSMeans.
The best result for the change in letter score from baseline, was observed with the VEGF Trap-Eye 
dosed monthly (2Q4 regimen) compared to ranibizumab dosed monthly. The 2Q4 regimen showed 
a superior improvement from baseline in the ETDRS letter score compared to the RQ4 group (a 
mean of 10.9 letters; LS mean 10.97 letters versus a mean of 8.1 letters; LS mean 7.82 letters; LS 
mean difference = 3.15; 95.1% CI = 0.92 to 5.37; p = 0.0054). 
The analysis of the proportion of subjects gaining ≥ 15 letters from baseline showed numeric trend 
in favour of the 2Q4 regimen while the 2Q8 and RQ4 regimens were of similar pattern. All 
sensitivity analyses showed a similar picture.
VIEW 1 – Analysis of the Proportion of subjects gaining ≥ 15 letters from baseline to Week 52
(LOCF/FAS)
Treatment Group
n
RQ4
304
2Q4
304
O.5Q4
301
2Q8
301
Subjects [n (%)] gaining ≥ 15 letters
94 (30.9)
114 (37.5)
75 (24.9)
92 (30.6)
Difference
a
(95.1% CI)
p-value vs. RQ4 [2]
—
6.6
(-1, 14.1)
0.1042
-6.0
(-13.2, 1.2)
0.1037
-0.4
(-7.7, 7.0)
0.93
a: Mantel-Haenszel  estimate for difference ranibizumab minus VEGF Trap-Eye (positive values are in favour of VEGF Trap- Eye); CI=Confidence interval calculated using
normal approximation; [2] Pearson’s Chi-Square Test (2-Sided)
Other secondary criteria (Visual Quality of life, CNV area)
By Week 52 in the FAS (LOCF), the improvement in visual quality of life (as assessed by the NEI 
VFQ-25 total score) was numerically larger in the 2Q4 group (mean change 6.7 points) than in the 
RQ4 group (mean change 4.9 points). Sensitivity analyses showed a similar trend of results.
By week 52, mean CNV area decreased in all treatment groups while better numeric results were 
observed again with the 2Q4 regimen (-4.6 mm2) than with the RQ4 regimen (-4.2 mm2).
Additional Efficacy Endpoints
By week 12, the greatest improvement in BCVA was seen in the 2Q4 group (a mean of 8.7 letters), 
while the RQ4 group reached a mean of 7.3 letters.
The proportion of subjects who gained ≥ 0, 10, or 30 letters was numerically higher and the 
proportion of subjects who lost ≥ 15 or 30 letters was lower in the 2Q4 group than in the RQ4, 
0.5Q4, and 2Q8 groups. 
The proportions of subjects with severe vision loss ≥ 30 letters were higher in the RQ4 and 2Q8 
groups (3%) than in the 0.5Q4 and 2Q4 groups (1%).
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 36/83
VIEW 2 Study: One-year efficacy results
Similarly to VIEW 1 Study, primary criteria analysis met the non-inferiority for all VEGF Trap-eye 
regimens (all upper limits of the 95% CIs <2.6%). All the nine sensitivity analyses provided 
consistent results with the primary analysis showing upper limits of the 95% CI of the difference 
between all VEGF Trap-eye regimens and the comparator ≤ 3.65% and ≤ 8.5% for the analyses in 
the PPS and in the FAS, respectively.
VIEW 2 -Primary efficacy analysis-Proportion of Subjects who Maintained Vision at Week 52
Closed test 
procedure
Treatment Group
a
Subjects who 
Maintained Vision at 
Wk 52; n (%)
Difference
% (95% CI)
b
Statistical Interpretation
(LOCF, PPS)
First hypothesis
2Q4 (n=274) 
RQ4 (n=269)
262 (95.62)
254 (94.42)
-1.20
(-4.86, 2.46)
Second 
hypothesis
0.5Q4 (n=268) 
RQ4 (n=269)
258 (96.27)
254 (94.42)
-1.84
(-5.40, 1.71)
Third hypothesis
2Q8 (n=270) 
RQ4 (n=269)
258 (95.56)
254 (94.42)
-1.13
(-4.81, 2.55)
Non-inferiority of 2Q4 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued
Non-inferiority of 0.5Q4 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued
Non-inferiority of 2Q8 to RQ4 is 
statistically proven, test procedure can
be continued
a: RQ4=ranibizumab  0.5 mg every 4 weeks; 0.5Q4=0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q4= 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every
4 weeks; 2Q8=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks after three initial monthly doses
b:  Difference is ranibizumab minus VEGF Trap-Eye. Negative values favour VEGF Trap-Eye. CI=Confidence  interval calculated using normal  a pproximation.
The 0.5Q4 regimen showed the best numeric result according to proportion of patients who
maintained vision (96.27%) in the primary analysis. It should be noted that the proportion of 
patients who maintained vision in the ranibizumab group was similar to that seen in VIEW 1 Study 
(94.4%) which is in good accordance with the results of Marina Study (by 12 months, 94.6%). 
Numeric results for either the 2Q4 or the 2Q8 regimens were very similar (95.62 and 95.56).
In contrast to VIEW 1 results, no superiority was found in VIEW 2 Study for the first step of 
comparison, which failed to show a statistically significant treatment difference between the 2Q4 
and the RQ4 groups (p=0.076).
Secondary criteria related to visual acuity:
VIEW 2 - Change from Baseline to Week 52 in ETDRS Letter Score (LOCF) (FAS)
 Study View 2
Week 52 (change from baseline)
n
Mean (SD)
Point estimate for the contrast
a
95% CI for difference
p-value vs RQ4
b
RQ4
2Q4
O.5Q4
2Q8
291
309
296
306
9.4 (13.5)
7.6 (12.6)
9.7 (14.1)
8.9 (14.4)
-1.95
-0.06
-0.90
(-4.10; 0.20)
(-2.24; 2.12)
(-3.06; 1.26)
0.076
0.956
0.413
a:  Difference is VEGF Trap-Eye minus ranibizumab using LSMeans. CI=confidence interval calculated using normal approximation.
b:  ANCOVA, main effect model using LSMeans.
Only one comparison was numerically in favour of VEGF Trap-Eye (0.5Q4 group: 9.7 letters versus 
RQ4 group: 9.4 letters); differences between the three VEGF Trap-Eye groups and the ranibizumab 
group were numerically slightly in favour of the ranibizumab group with a maximum difference 
observed in the comparison of 2Q4 vs RQ4 (-1.95 letters) but the 95% CIs for the treatment 
differences remained consistently included zero and all p-values were > 0.05. The PPS followed the 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 37/83
same trends. Overall, the results of the sensitivity analyses were consistent with the main analysis, 
except for the following comparisons which were in favour of ranibizumab were point estimate for 
the difference were (OV: 2Q4 – RQ4::-2.38 (95% CI: -4.61 to -0.14); p=0.0373 and WOCF: 2Q4 –
RQ4: point estimate for the difference: -2.60 (95% CI: -4.78 to -0.42); p=0.0193).
VIEW 2 – Analysis of the Proportion of subjects gaining ≥ 15 letters from baseline to Week 52
(LOCF/FAS)
Treatment Group
a
N
RQ4
291
2Q4
309
O.5Q4
296
2Q8
306
Subjects [n (%)] gaining    15 letters
99 (34.02)
91 (29.45)
103 (34.80)
96 (31.37)
Difference
b
(95% CI)
—
-4.57
0.78
-2.65
(-12.02, 2.88)
(-6.91, 8.46)
(-10.18, 4.88)
a: RQ4=ranibizumab  0.5 mg every 4 weeks; 0.5Q4=0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q4= 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2Q8=2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 8
weeks after three initial monthly doses
b: Mantel-Haenszel  estimate for difference ranibizumab minus VEGF Trap-Eye; CI=Confidence interval calculated using normal approximation
At Week 52, 103 subjects (34.8%) in the 0.5Q4 group and 96 subjects (31.4%) in the 2Q8 group 
had gained ≥ 15 letters. In the PPS, results were consistent.
Other secondary endpoints: Overall, at Week 52, in the FAS/LOCF, the results for the NEI VFQ-25 
total score numerically favoured ranibizumab and when using the LSmeans from the ANCOVA main 
effect model, a significant difference was observed in favour of the RQ4 regimen over the 2Q4 
regimen, p=0.010). All baseline differences nonetheless, remained in the range (≥4-6) of clinical 
relevance as identified from Marina and Anchor published studies while ranibizumab provided the 
higher difference. The results of the sensitivity analyses supported these results.
The results for the change from Baseline to Week 52 in CNV Area numerically slightly favoured all 
VEGF Trap-eye regimens. The lowest mean decrease was observed in the RQ4 group (-4.16 mm2), 
the highest in the 2Q4 group (-5.95 mm2) followed by the 2Q8 (-5.16 mm2). When using the 
LSmeans from the ANCOVA main effect model, a significant difference was observed in favour of 
the 2Q4 regimen over the RQ4 regimen, p=0.004). The results of the sensitivity analyses 
(observed cases and WOCF) were consistent with the results obtained in the main analysis applying 
the LOCF method.
In conclusion, the primary criteria analysis met the non-inferiority for all VEGF Trap-eye regimens 
and all secondary endpoint analyses supported the comparability of the efficacy of ranibizumab 
with the three VEGF Trap-Eye treatment regimens. Sensitivity analyses in the FAS and in the PPS 
of primary and secondary endpoints also supported the main analyses. 
Nevertheless, results in favour of the 2Q4 regimen observed in Study VIEW 1 were not replicated 
in Study VIEW 2. In contrast to the findings observed in VIEW 1 Study, no superiority was 
evidenced from the first conditional ordered test hypothesis. In addition, while results based on 
visual acuity measurements seemed to rather favour the 0.5Q4 regimen, results based on 
morphologic endpoints seemed in favour of the 2Q4 regimen and, to a lesser extent, in favour of 
the 2Q8 regimen showing the greatest mean decrease in classic CNV area.  
Therefore, there were no clear tendencies of results in VIEW 2 Study to favour one dosing regimen 
of VEGF Trap-Eye over the others, apart the number of injections that is reduced in the 2Q8 
regimen.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 38/83
Ancillary analyses
Since all three VEGF Trap-Eye groups were shown to be non-inferior to ranibizumab on the primary 
endpoint, additional comparisons were authorized with respect to secondary endpoints, and these 
have been described above.
Summary of main studies
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy 
as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections).
Summary of Efficacy for trial VIEW1
Title: 
A randomized, double masked, active controlled, phase 3 study of the efficacy, safety, and 
tolerability of repeated doses of intravitreal VEGF Trap-Eye in subjects with neovascular age-
related macular degeneration
Study identifier
14393 (Bayer study ID);  VGFT-OD-0605 (Regeneron study ID)
Design
Multicenter, double-masked, randomized (1:1:1:1), active-controlled, parallel-group 
study 
Duration of main phase:
52 weeks for primary efficacy
Duration of Run-in phase:
21 day maximum screening period
Duration of Extension phase:
1 year after week 52
Hypothesis
Non-inferiority (primary); superiority (secondary)
Treatments groups
RQ4
2Q4
0.5Q4
2Q8
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary endpoint
Maintenance
of vision
Secondary 
endpoints
ETDRS 
change
15-letter gain
NEI VFQ-25 
change
CNV change
Database lock
10 Nov. 2010 (for 1-year database)
During 1st year: Ranibizumab 0.5 mg every 
4 weeks, 306 subjects randomized
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 2.0 mg every 
4 weeks, 304 subjects randomized
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 0.5 mg every 
4 weeks, 304 subjects randomized
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 2.0 mg every 
8 weeks, 303 subjects randomized
Proportion of subjects who maintained vision 
at Week 52, where a subject was classified as 
maintaining vision if the subject had lost 
fewer than 15 letters in the Early Treatment 
Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letter 
score compared to baseline
Change from baseline in best corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) as measured by ETDRS letter 
score at Week 52
Proportion of subjects who gained at least 15 
letters of vision from baseline to Week 52
Change in total NEI VFQ-25 score from 
baseline to Week 52
Change in choroidal neovascularization (CNV) 
area from baseline to Week 52
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 39/83
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description
Primary Analysis
Analysis population and 
time point description
Per protocol set (PPS): All subjects in the full analysis set (see below) who 
received at least nine injections of study drug or sham and attended at least nine 
scheduled visits during the first year, except for those who were excluded 
because of major protocol violations, where a major protocol violation is one that 
may affect the interpretation of study results. The PPS also included subjects 
without major protocol deviations who discontinued due to treatment failure at 
any time during the first 52 weeks of the study. 
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment.
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Effect estimate per 
comparison
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q8
2Q4
Number of subject 
(PPS)
Maintenance of 
vision [no. (%) of 
subjects]
Primary endpoint
maintenance of 
vision
269
285
270
265
254 
(94.4%)
271 
(95.1%)
259 
(95.9%)
252 
(95.1%)
Comparison groups
2Q4 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 2Q4 
-0.7
95.1% CI
P-value
-4.4, 3.1
not applicable
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 0.5Q4 
95.1% CI
P-value
-1.5
-5.1, 2.1
not applicable
Comparison groups
2Q8 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 2Q8 
95.1% CI
P-value
-0.7
-4.5, 3.1
not applicable
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q4
2Q8
Number of subject
ETDRS change
mean
304
8.1 
304
10.9
301
6.9 
301
7.9
Standard deviation
15.25
13.77
13.41
15.00
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 40/83
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
ETDRS change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
3.15
95.1% CI
0.92, 5.37
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.0054
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
-0.8
-3.03, 1.43
0.4793
2Q8 vs RQ4
0.26
-1.97, 2.49
0.8179
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried-forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q4
2Q8
Notes
Analysis description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Number of subject
304
304
301
301
15-letter gain
[no. (%) of subjects]
94 
(30.9%)
114 
(37.5%)
75 
(24.9%)
92
(30.6%)
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
15-letter gain
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
6.6
95.1% CI
-1, 14.1
P-value (Chi-square)
0.1042
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4
95.1% CI
P-value (Chi-square)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4
95.1% CI
P-value (Chi-square)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
-6
-13.2, 1.2
0.1037
2Q8 vs RQ4
-0.4
-7.7, 7
0.93
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 41/83
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q8
2Q4
Number of subject
NEI VFQ-25 change
[mean]
304
4.9
304
6.7
301
4.5
301
5.1
Standard deviation
14.01
13.50
11.87
14.74
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
NEI VFQ-25 change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
1.28
95.1% CI
-0.73, 3.28
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.2090
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
-0.67
-2.69, 1.35
0.5128
2Q8 vs RQ4
-0.60
-2.61, 1.42
0.5579
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 42/83
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set
Treatment group
RQ4
Number of subject
CNV change
[mean]
304
-4.2
2Q4
304
-4.6
0.5Q4
301
-3.5
2Q8
301
-3.4
Standard deviation
5.59
5.47
5.27
6.02
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
CNV change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
-0.33
95.1% CI
-1.04, 0.38
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.3575
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95.1% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
0.71
-0.01, 1.42
0.0507
2Q8 vs RQ4
0.86
0.15, 1.58
0.0173
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
Summary of Efficacy for trial VIEW2
Title: A randomized, double masked, active controlled, phase 3 study of the efficacy, safety, and 
tolerability of repeated doses of intravitreal VEGF Trap-Eye in subjects with
neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD)
VEGF Trap-Eye: Investigation of Efficacy and Safety in Wet AMD (VIEW 2)
Study identifier
311523
Design
Multicenter, double-masked, randomized (1:1:1:1), active-controlled, parallel-group 
study 
Duration of main phase:
52 weeks for primary efficacy
Duration of Run-in phase:
21 day maximum screening period
Duration of Extension phase:
1 year after week 52
Hypothesis
Non-inferiority (primary); superiority (secondary)
Treatments groups
RQ4
2Q4
0.5Q4
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
During 1st year: Ranibizumab 0.5 mg every 
4 weeks, 306 subjects randomized
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 2.0 mg every 
4 weeks, 304 subjects randomized
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 0.5 mg every 
4 weeks, 304 subjects randomized
Page 43/83
2Q8
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary endpoint
Maintenance
of vision
Secondary 
endpoints
ETDRS 
change
15-letter gain
NEI VFQ-25 
change
CNV change
Database lock
10 Nov. 2010 (for 1-year database)
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description
Primary Analysis
During 1st year: VEGF Trap-Eye 2.0 mg every 
8 weeks, 303 subjects randomized
Proportion of subjects who maintained vision 
at Week 52, where a subject was classified as 
maintaining vision if the subject had lost 
fewer than 15 letters in the Early Treatment 
Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letter 
score compared to baseline
Change from baseline in best corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) as measured by ETDRS letter 
score at Week 52
Proportion of subjects who gained at least 15 
letters of vision from baseline to Week 52
Change in total NEI VFQ-25 score from 
baseline to Week 52
Change in choroidal neovascularization (CNV) 
area from baseline to Week 52
Analysis population and 
time point description
Per protocol set (PPS): All subjects in the full analysis set (see below) who 
received at least nine injections of study drug or sham and attended at least nine 
scheduled visits during the first year, except for those who were excluded 
because of major protocol violations, where a major protocol violation is one that 
may affect the interpretation of study results. The PPS also included subjects 
without major protocol deviations who discontinued due to treatment failure at 
any time during the first 52 weeks of the study. 
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment.
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Effect estimate per 
comparison
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q4
2Q8
Number of subject 
(PPS)
Maintenance of 
vision [no. (%) of 
subjects]
Primary endpoint
maintenance of 
vision
269
274
268
270
254
(94.42%)
262
(95.62%)
258
(96.27%)
258
(95.56%)
Comparison groups
2Q4 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 2Q4 
95% CI
P-value
-1.20
-4.86; 2.46
not applicable
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 0.5Q4 
95% CI
P-value
-1.84
-5.40; 1.71
not applicable
Comparison groups
2Q8 vs RQ4
RQ4 minus 2Q8 
95% CI
P-value
-1.13
-4.81; 2.55
not applicable
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 44/83
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q8
2Q4
Number of subject
ETDRS change
mean
291
9.4
309
7.6
296
9.7
306
8.9
Standard deviation
13.5
12.6
14.1
14.4
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
ETDRS change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
-1.95
95% CI
-4.10; 0.20
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.076
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
-0.06
-2.24; 2.12
0.956
2Q8 vs RQ4
-0.90
-3.06; 1.26
0.413
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried-forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q8
2Q4
Notes
Analysis description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Number of subject
291
309
296
306
15-letter gain
[no. (%) of subjects]
99
(34.02%)
91
(29.45%)
103
(34.80%)
96
(31.37%)
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
15-letter gain
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
-4.57
95% CI
-12.02; 2.88
P-value (Chi-square)
0.229
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 45/83
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4
95% CI
P-value (Chi-square)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4
95% CI
P-value (Chi-square)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
0.78
-6.91; 8.46
0.843
2Q8 vs RQ4
-2.65
-10.18; 4.88
0.490
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints, pre-specified
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set (FAS): All randomized subjects who received any study drug and 
had a baseline and at least one post-baseline BCVA assessment
At week 52 using last-observation-carried–forward (LOCF) principle for missing 
week 52 values
Treatment group
0.5Q4
RQ4
2Q4
2Q8
Number of subject
NEI VFQ-25 change
[mean]
291
6.3
309
4.5
296
5.1
306
4.9
Standard deviation
14.8
15.0
13.7
14.7
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
NEI VFQ-25 change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
-2.79
95% CI
-4.90; -0.68
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.010
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
-0.93
-3.07; 1.20
0.392
2Q8 vs RQ4
-1.95
-4.07; 0.17
0.072
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 46/83
Analysis description
Analysis of secondary endpoints
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability
Full analysis set
Treatment group
RQ4
Number of subject
291
2Q4
309
CNV change
[mean]
-4.160
-5.950
0.5Q4
296
-4.236
2Q8
306
-5.160
Standard deviation
5.900
6.116
6.129
5.866
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint
CNV change
Comparison groups
2Q4 minus RQ4 [LS mean]
2Q4 vs RQ4
-1.180
95% CI
-1.979; -0.382
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.004
Comparison groups
0.5Q4 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
Comparison groups
2Q8 minus RQ4 
[LS mean]
95% CI
P-value (ANCOVA)
0.5Q4 vs RQ4
0.170
-0.632; 0.972
0.678
2Q8 vs RQ4
-0.733
-1.534; 0.068
0.073
Notes
Confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a normal approximation.
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), main effect model.  Difference is VEGF Trap-
Eye minus Ranibizumab.
The pairwise comparison is performed as contrast statement in the ANCOVA 
model with treatment group as fixed factor (all 4 treatment groups) and the 
baseline ETDRS letter score as covariate.
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis)
Due to similar design and inclusion criteria, data from VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 pivotal studies were 
pooled in accordance with the pre-defined analysis.
Statistical analyses of differences across studies or between treatment groups were not conducted 
in the integrated analysis data set. 
One-year pooled efficacy results (VIEW 1+VIEW 2)
Data set analysed:
The PPS (used for primary efficacy endpoint) comprised 1089, 1081 or 2170 subjects in the VIEW 
1, VIEW 2 studies and pooled population, respectively).
The FAS (used for the four main secondary analyses) comprised 1210, 1202 or 2412 subjects in 
the VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 and pooled population, respectively). 
In both analysis sets, subjects were analyzed as randomized. A summary of the pooled results is 
provided below:
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 47/83
Primary efficacy analysis: Maintenance of vision at Week 52 – PPS Pooled Efficacy results 
Integrated Analysis    Treatment Group
a
N
RQ4
538
2Q4
559
O.5Q4
538
2Q8
535
Subjects [n (%)] maintaining vision
508 (94.42)
533 (95.35)
517 (96.10)
510 (95.33)
Difference
b
(95% CI)
—
-0.9
(-3.5,1.7)
-1.7
(-4.2 ,0.9)
-0.9
(-3.5 ,1.7)
The results of the integrated analysis reflect the findings of the individual studies either for primary 
or secondary variables. The results of ancillary efficacy endpoints are supportive of the primary and 
secondary endpoints, showing comparable efficacy for all dosages of VEGF Trap-Eye with 
ranibizumab. Subgroup analyses showed that subjects who were younger, with poorer baseline 
vision and smaller lesions were more likely to maintain or gain vision. No important differences 
were seen between the ranibizumab and VEGF Trap-Eye 2Q8 groups in any subgroup. No 
geographical variations were observed in VIEW 2 (conducted in Europe, Asia, Australia and Latin 
America). In no particular group did the efficacy of VEGF Trap-Eye appear to be significantly worse 
than expected. 
Data on certain subgroups are limited, due to the small number of patients: Black race subgroup, 
and history of hepatic impairment. However, this was not a significant concern. Neovascular AMD 
has a far higher prevalence in Caucasians than Black patients and there is no reason to suggest 
that efficacy would differ in the two groups. Systemic exposure to VEGF Trap-Eye following 
intravitreal injection is minimal, and the liver does not play an important role in the elimination of 
VEGF Trap, so hepatic impairment should not affect efficacy.
 Two-year pooled efficacy results (VIEW 1+VIEW 2)
The applicant submitted results of Year 2 of the pivotal studies in which subjects underwent 
examinations every 4 weeks and were retreated with Eylea or ranibizumab according to a capped-
PRN schedule. Injections could be given as frequently as every 4 weeks, but no less frequently 
than every 12 weeks. The retreatment criteria included an increase in CRT of ≥100 µm, a loss of 
≥5 letters with recurrent fluid on OCT, new or persistent fluid, new onset classic CNV, new or 
persistent leak on FA, and new macular haemorrhage.
Subjects disposition and analysis sets for subjects entering in year 2
Of the 2457 randomized subjects, 2419 received at least 1 dose of randomized study medication in 
either VIEW 1 or VIEW 2. In both studies, 2235 (90.0%) of the subjects entered Year 2 (92.0% 
and 89.9%, in VIEW 1 and 2, respectively) and above 80% completed studies in all treatment 
groups.
Between randomisation and Week 96/100, the drop-out rate in VIEW 1 study was lower for 
subjects in the VEGF Trap-Eye 2Q4 arm and in VIEW 2 study, higher in the VEGF Trap-Eye 0.5Q4 
arm.
During the 2-year study period, the overall discontinuation rate was 16.0% (394/2457 randomized 
subjects) and quite similar in both individual studies: 14.7% (179/1217) and 17.3% (215/1240) in 
VIEW 1 and 2, respectively. 
The most frequent primary reasons for premature discontinuation were “withdrawal by subject” 
(4.9% for VIEW 1 and 6.3% VIEW 2) or “adverse event” (3.1% for VIEW 1 and 4.3% for VIEW 2) 
showing consistently higher proportions of subjects who discontinued from the study primarily due 
to adverse events in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups (4.2% - 6.8%) than in the ranibizumab group 
(1.3%).
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 48/83
In both studies, the treatment groups were well balanced with regard to group sizes, proportions of 
subjects continuing treatment in Year 2 and demographic baseline. Slight imbalances already 
present at randomization in VIEW 2 Study persist, in particular poorer baseline anatomical 
parameters, with greater larger total lesion and CNV areas.
The dosing subgroups were determined post-hoc. 
No per-protocol population was defined for the analysis of the data of Year 2.
Efficacy results analysis 
The number of injections given in Year 2 and the time between injections are shown in the table 
below. 
When fixed dosing was changed to a capped-PRN schedule in Year 2, a similar mean number of 
injections (~4), with a similar mean interval duration between injections (~73 days), were 
observed for the 2Q4 and 2Q8 treatments; these appear also rather similar to ranibizumab (i.e. 4.7 
injections and interval of 68 days). Therefore, a prolonged interval of around 10 weeks is observed 
for the majority of subjects in all treatment groups. This tends to confirm the trend observed in the 
dose–response study 508.
Integrated analysis: Number of injections in Year 2 
(Year 2 completers)
R 0.5Q4
VTE
N=513
2Q4
N=529
0.5Q4
N=499
Mean Number of Injections (SD)
4.7 (±2.2)
Median
4.0
Min-max
2-11
Integrated analysis: Mean time between injections (Subjects entering in year 2)
4.1 (±1.8)
3.0
2-11
4.6 (±2.2)
4.0
2-11
2Q8
N=511
4.2 (±1.7)
4.0
2-11
Mean Time between Injections, Days (SD)
Median 
Min-max
Integrated analysis: subjects receiving retreatment at least once in a 4-weeks interval in Year 2 
(Year 2 completers)
2Q4
N=571
73.7 (±17.4)
82.7
28-125
0.5Q4
N=549
68.2 (±19.8)
77.0
27-113
2Q8
N=558
73.2 (±21.6)
77.3
28-311*
0.5Q4
N=557
67.9 (±20.3)
76.0
27-154
N (%)
0.5Q4
N=557
231 (41.5%)
2Q4
N=571
166 (29%)
0.5Q4
N=549
219 (40%)
2Q8
N=558
201 (36%)
Integrated analysis: subjects receiving retreatment at intervals of 8 or 12-weeks in Year 2 
(Year 2 completers)
N (%)
0.5Q4
N=557
291 (52%)
2Q4
N=571
373 (65%)
0.5Q4
N=549
297 (54%)
2Q8
N=558
326 (58%)
Integrated analysis: subjects receiving retreatment at intervals of 12-weeks in Year 2 
(Year 2 completers)
N (%)
311* due to one subject:  440030046
0.5Q4
N=557
218 (39%)
2Q4
N=571
285 (50%)
0.5Q4
N=549
217 (39.5%)
2Q8
N=558
245 (44%)
Nevertheless, the VTE 2Q4 regimen shows the lower proportion of patients (29%) receiving 
retreatment at least once in a 4-weeks interval, and the higher (65%) receiving retreatment at 
intervals of 8 or 12-weeks in Year 2. This suggests that the 2Q4 regimen administered during the 
first year of treatment may yield at the end of Year 2 slightly better results than the 2Q8 regimen 
(36% and 58%) or the competitor ranibizumab (41.5% and 52%).
A similar picture is observed from the Integrated Analysis for post hoc dosing subgroups 
(Year 2 study medication completers) as reported in the table below:
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 49/83
Efficacy endpoint (primary endpoint for Year 1):
At week 96 results show a relevant maintenance of therapeutic effect in all treatment groups, 
although a slight drop off in the proportion of subjects who maintained vision is observed compared 
to week 52. The proportion of subjects maintaining vision was ≥90% in all treatment groups and 
comparable between studies. The 95% CIs for the difference in proportions between the VEGF 
Trap-Eye group and the RQ4 group were consistently well below the boundary of 10%. Results 
show the same trend when the LOCF method was repeated with the observed values only.  
Integrated analysis: Proportion of subjects who maintained vision at Week 52 and 96 (LOCF-FAS)
Treatment Group
N
RQ4
595
2Q4
613
O.5Q4
597
2Q8
607
Subjects [n (%)] maintaining vision 
(W 52)
561 (94.3)
581 (94.78)
568 (95.14)
576 (94.89)
Difference (95% CI)
—
-0.5 (-3.1, 2.1)
-0.9 (-3.4, 1.7)
-0.6 (-3.2, 2.0)
Subjects [n (%)] maintaining vision 
(W 96)
545 (91.6)
565 (92.2)
546 (91.5)
561 (92.4)
Difference (95% CI)
—
-0.6  (-3.6, 2.5)
0.2 (-3.0, 3.3)
-0.8 (-3.8, 2.3)
p-value (Breslow-Day test
0.08
0.79
0.67
The largest differences between the two studies at week 96 were the treatment difference of the 
pairwise comparisons between RQ4 and 2Q4, which was numerically in favour of 2Q4 in VIEW 1 
(FAS, LOCF, -3.3 [-7.7; 1.2] ), but reversed in VIEW 2 (FAS, LOCF, 2.2 [-2.0; 6.5]). Therefore, the 
observed variability between VIEW 1 and 2 studies results at Year 1 still persists in Year 2. 
Other efficacy endpoints (secondary endpoints for Year 1):
Integrated Analysis: Mean change from Baseline to Week 96 in ETDRS letter score (LOCF, FAS)
Decreases (by 1-2 letters) in mean ETDRS letter score occurred in the second year with a similar 
pattern in all treatment groups. 
W52 mean changes in ETDRS letter score:
RQ4:8.7 (14.4); 2Q4: 9.3 (13.3); 0.5Q4: 8.3 (13.8); 2Q8: 8.4 (14.7)
W96 mean changes in ETDRS letter score:
RQ4:7.9 (16.1); 2Q4: 7.6 (15.5); 0.5Q4: 6.6 (15.3); 2Q8: 7.6 (16.2)
The mean change in visual acuity at W96 remained also similar between groups (increase of 7.6 or 
7.9 letters for VTE 2mg and ranibizumab, respectively).
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 50/83
Integrated Analysis: Proportion of subjects who gained at least 15 letters of vision from Baseline to 
Week 52 and 96 (LOCF, FAS)
Treatment Group
a
RQ4
2Q4
O.5Q4
2Q8
595
613
597
607
Integrated Analysis  (N)
From Baseline to Week 52
Subjects [n (%)] gaining at least 15 letters
193 (32.44)
205 (33.44)
178 (29.82)
188 (30.97)
Difference
b
(95% CI)
From Baseline to Week 96
—
1.0
(-4.3, 6.3)
-2.7
(-7.9, 2.6)
-1.5
(-6.8, 3.8)
Subjects [n (%)] gaining  at least  15 letters
188 (31.6)
1 9 1   (31.2)
168 (28.1)
2 0 3   (33.4)
Difference
b
(95% CI)
p-value (Breslow-Day test
—
-0.4
(-5.6,  4 .8)
0.04
-3.5
(-8.7,  1 .7)
0.12
1.8
(-3.5,  7 .1)
0.85
Similarly, a slight decrease occurred in the second year in the proportion of patients who gained 
≥ 15 letters.
Change in total NEI VFQ-25 score (0-100) from Baseline to Week 52 and 96 (LOCF, FAS):
During year 2, improvements remained in the same range for each individual studies (4-6 points) 
or integrated analysis (4-5 points) with nearly identical improvements in all groups.
Change in CNV area (mm
2
) from Baseline to Week 52 and 96 (LOCF, FAS):
At the end of year 2, the decreases in mean CNV area observed at Year 1 (W52) were maintained 
in all groups but no additional improvement was reported.
Therefore, after a second year of treatment, as observed for the primary criteria, all secondary 
endpoints also show a similar effect for Eylea and ranibizumab, when criteria based re-dosing were 
applied.
Additional efficacy endpoints results at Week 96
1/Proportion of subjects with vision gain or loss:
According to the results of the integrated analysis at week 96, the proportion of subjects with 
vision gains ≥ 0 letters or ≥ 10 letters or ≥ 30 letters were maintained to approximately 75-77% 
or 42-51% or 5.2-7.3%. The higher proportion of subjects was observed in the 2Q8 group for gain 
≥ 30 letters (7.3%) or ≥ 15 letters (33.4%)  (LOCF, FAS). 
The proportion of subjects with vision loss ≥ 5 letters or ≥ 30 letters were approximately 16-18% 
or 2.3-3.3% with the highest proportion in the 2Q8 group (3.3%) (LOCF, FAS). 
2/Change from Baseline in central retinal thickness (FAS, LOCF):
At Week 52, the results of the pairwise comparisons were all numerically in favour of the VEGF 
Trap-Eye treatment. By Week 96, the absolute reduction in CRT from Baseline was also most 
pronounced in the 2Q8 groups (-121 ± 116 μm) compared to the RQ4 group (114 ± 110 μm) in 
VIEW 1 study and in the 2Q4 and 2Q8 groups (-146 ± 128 μm and 145 ± 118 μm, respectively) 
compared to the RQ4 group was -121 ± 130 μm. A similar trend was observed in VIEW 2.
Therefore the one year reductions were not completely maintained in all groups over the whole 2-
year treatment period. The largest increase in CRT from Week 52 to Week 96/100 was seen under 
RQ4 treatment (18.3 ± 76.0 μm) while the mean increase in the combined VEGF Trap-Eye 2 mg 
groups (2Q4 and 2Q8) was 8.2 ± 63.0 μm.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 51/83
3/Proportion of subjects without intraretinal cystic edema and/or subretinal fluid (dry retina) on 
OCT:
In both studies, the proportions of subjects with retinal fluid increased between W52 and W96/100 
by about 15-20% or 15% in VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies, respectively, showing that, overall, the 
proportion of subjects with dry retinal fluid status declined from Week 52 to Week 96. At Week 96 
retinal fluid remains present in approximately 40-50% of the subjects. 
Integrated Analysis: Proportion of subjects with dry retinal fluid status on OCT (W52 and 96 – OV 
FAS)
At W52: 
2Q4, 72%; 2Q8, 68% vs RQ4, 62% 
At W96/100:  2Q4, 54%; 2Q8, 50% vs RQ4, 45% 
These results may suggest that the disease is progressing more during year 2. Since no fixed 
regimen was included as comparator arm for treatments through year 2, the link with the change 
in the schedule of administration (capped-PRN regimen applied in the second year) is not 
demonstrated.
4/Proportion of subjects receiving re-treatment within the first 12 weeks of the second year (at 
Weeks 52 or 56 - subjects entering Year 2) of the study
The proportion of subjects receiving their first re-treatment injections prior to the mandatory dose 
after 12 weeks in Year 2 was approximately 10% higher in the RQ4 and 0.5Q4 groups than in the 
VEGF Trap-Eye 2 mg groups (approximately 40% versus approximately 30%), reinforcing the 
choice of the 2 mg VTE dosing.  
Post hoc dosing subgroup analysis (observed values; Year 2 study completers)
Additional analyses were performed on post-hoc determined dosing subgroups in the group of Year 
2 study medication completers with regard to BCVA (changes in ETDRS letter score) and OCT data 
(changes in CRT and retinal fluid status): i) Subjects with ≤ 3 injections in Year 2; ii) Subjects with 
4-6 injections in Year 2; iii) Subjects with ≥ 7 injections in Year 2; iv) Subjects with re-treatment 
always in the interval of 8 or 12 weeks in Year 2 (this subgroups was considered only in the 
integrated analysis).
In these dosing subgroups, as observed in the whole population, increases in BCVA from baseline 
to W96/100 are still observed ranging from 5.5 (2Q4; ≥7 injections) to 10.3 letters (RQ4; 4-6 
injections). Although no meaningful differences between groups were identified, numeric BCVA 
values suggest that subjects receiving ≤ 3 injections or re-treatment every 8 or 12 weeks, in Year 
2, may undergo meaningful improvements in vision with less re-treatments than the other dosing 
groups. The percentage of patients receiving re-treatment every 8 or 12 weeks in Year 2 was > 
58%. 
Vision gain and loss show a similar picture with more than 70% of patients gaining ≥ 0 letters, 
approximately 35-60% of patients gaining ≥ 10 letters and 25-40% of patients gaining ≥ 15 
letters. Overall, visual gains seem to numerically favoured the 2Q8 regimen (year 1), except for 
the dosing group 4-6 injections that show numeric gains favouring RQ4 (83%, 60%, 38 %) vs the 
VEGF trap eye regimens (<76%; 51%; 35%).  Less than 9% of subjects underwent vision gain ≥ 
30 letters (except for 2Q8, ≥7 injections that reached 15%).   Less than 4% of subjects underwent
vision loss ≥ 30 letters in all groups.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 52/83
Changes in CRT: in all treatment groups, subjects who received ≤ 3 injections in Year 2 and 
subjects who received re-treatment every 8 or 12 weeks in Year 2 had the largest decreases in 
mean CRT during the study (130-151 microns and 124-147microns, respectively). In both dosing 
subgroups, the highest decreases in CRT were observed in the 2Q8 treatment groups. 
Changes in retinal fluid status: new or persistent fluid as indicated by OCT was the most frequent 
reason for retreatment (i.e. in approximately 50% of cases). Similarly to what observed for CRT 
changes, the subgroups of subjects who received ≤ 3 injections in Year 2 and those who received 
re-treatment always every 8 or 12 weeks in Year 2 also included the highest proportions of 
subjects without detectable retinal fluid.
Results on dosing subgroups are not surprising since these results may also reflect a more 
aggressive progression of the disease for these patients who need more frequent re-treatments, 
independently of the effect of the drug. Therefore, these results should be interpreted with caution. 
Clinical studies in special populations
No special populations were formally studied. In the two pivotal studies and the integrated
analysis, a number of subgroups were considered for efficacy and safety analyses based on
demographics (eg, age, sex, race ..) and baseline disease characteristics (eg, visual acuity, lesion
type, lesion size).
The only prognostic factor identified for maintaining vision was “age”.
Differences between subgroups were not subjected to formal statistical testing. Overall, no clear 
tendency was identified among these analyses and no consistent pattern of clinically relevant
differences compared to the analyses of the overall population was observed. 
Supportive study(ies)
No formal supportive studies were performed. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy
Design and conduct of clinical studies
The design and the conduct of clinical studies submitted for Eylea were in line with the requirement 
of the scientific advices which were sought by the Applicant and the historical development of 
previous AMD treatments. 
A non-inferiority design with respect to prevention of moderate vision loss (loss < 15 letters of 
vision on ETDRS chart compared to baseline) versus monthly IVT injection of ranibizumab 
(Lucentis) was considered appropriate. The primary criterion selected allowed comparing identical 
study endpoints for VEGF Trap-Eye and ranibizumab since a similar criterion was used in both 
pivotal trials conducted with ranibizumab for European and US registrations (i.e. Marina and Anchor 
studies). In addition, this permitted also to compare data to the two other drugs registered in 
Europe (Macugen and Visudyne) to treat wet AMD. This criterion was also, according to the two 
pivotal placebo-controlled trials BPD OCR 002 A and B, the historical endpoint which was used for 
the first medication registered in Europe and the US to treat neovascular AMD (i.e. PDT with 
verteporfin (Visudyne). 
However, this historical endpoint is based on a large vision loss (<15 letters) which doesn’t 
anymore reflect the current expectations of practitioners. From a practitioners’ view, a more 
stringent primary outcome would be the mean change from baseline in visual acuity at 1 year, with 
a suitable non-inferiority margin chosen and justified by the applicant. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 53/83
Therefore, importantly, the Applicant integrated as first secondary criteria, the “Mean change from 
baseline in BCVA” as measured by ETDRS letter score, at Week 52. This criterion was used also as 
a basis for the first conditional ordered superiority analyses. The second important secondary 
criteria was the “proportion of subjects who gained ≥ 15 letters of vision” from baseline, at Week 
52. Otherwise, “gain ≥ 30 letters or degradation ≥ 30 letters” in visual acuity were additional 
endpoints of importance.
The complete panel of examinations related to visual acuity or to the morphologic aspect of CNV 
lesions explored correlates well with the current clinical practice and the procedures used were 
relevant. The ETDRS procedure is a reliable method for BCVA measurement since it is well 
standardized (e.g. room lightening, optotype distance (4 meters)…) and was used in previous 
studies. In addition to the gold standard -fluorescein angiography examination- optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) is a standard practice of eye specialists to follow the progression of wet AMD 
and adapt the management of patients’ care in case of retinal diseases.
The investigated population and the control treatment in the pivotal studies VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 
were appropriate as well as the large number of patients exposed and the endpoints explored. 
All deficiencies concerning the protocol or the choice or the management of statistics as identified 
during the early review of the one year results have been clarified and resolved by the Applicant. In 
the pivotal studies, the statistical methods used an acceptable ordered sequence of conditional 
tests. While the use of a non-inferiority design was appropriate, the chosen non-inferiority margin 
of 10% could have been considered too wide: however the final results were reassuring in showing
observed non inferiority margins well below 10%.  
The baseline characteristics of subjects in VIEW 2 suggested a slightly more severe disease at the 
beginning of the study than those in VIEW 1, which was accepted since the severity of disease in 
participants of both studies falls within the expected clinical scope of untreated AMD.  This disparity 
between VIEW 1 and 2 was attributed by the MAA partly to differences in the methodology used for 
interpretation of the OCT images by the central reading centres in the assessment of CRT on OCT 
(readers used in VIEW 1 study a center-point thickness measurement while in VIEW 2, they used a 
central subfield approach). These appeared to have affected the results, but a reanalysis of VIEW 1 
data by the applicant using the methodology utilised in VIEW 2 showed that the results were 
comparable when analysed with the same methodology. 
Both studies demonstrated non-inferiority of Eylea 2Q8 versus ranibizumab, and it was accepted 
that differences in the baseline characteristics of subjects in the two studies did not preclude an 
integrated analysis of the results.
Efficacy data and additional analyses
One year results:
One year results from both pivotal studies supported a clinically relevant non-inferiority of all 
dosages and regimens of VEGF Trap-Eye over ranibizumab, administered monthly. The results 
were convincing in terms of preservation of visual acuity. Both trials were successful with regard to 
the primary endpoint using a non-inferiority margin of either 10% or 7%. 95-96% of subjects who 
received 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks maintained vision at Week 52, as compared to 94% 
of subjects who received ranibizumab. 
The applicant provided a short discussion about the variability of results for the primary endpoint 
across the two pivotal studies, particularly when the most conservative analysis was considered 
(with all drop-outs counted as non-responders using the full analysis set) and has clarified that 
inconsistencies observed in the results of the sensitivity analysis in the FAS, counting drop-outs as 
non-responders, especially in the comparison of the 2Q4 dosing regimen of VEGF and ranibizumab, 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 54/83
are explained by the different drop-out rates of the 2Q4 VEGF Trap-Eye groups and ranibizumab 
groups between the studies. This was accepted by CHMP.
The clinically relevant result for the primary endpoint was backed up by secondary endpoints, 
which showed that subjects receiving VEGF Trap-Eye gained an average of 8-9 letters at Week 52, 
with 30-31% of subjects gaining at least 3 lines of vision. These results were comparable to those 
for subjects in the active comparator group who received ranibizumab. Visual function 
questionnaire test scores improved by 5 points for those on VEGF Trap-Eye, and CNV area was 
reduced by 3-5 mm2, again comparable to ranibizumab. 
The results of ancillary efficacy endpoints were generally supportive of the primary and secondary 
endpoints, showing comparable efficacy for VEGF Trap-Eye 2Q8, 2Q4 and 0.5Q4 with ranibizumab. 
The distribution of subjects with varying levels of vision loss and gain were comparable across 
groups and studies. In the VIEW studies a slightly greater proportion of Eylea 2Q8 subjects 
experienced a loss of vision from baseline in the first year than those treated with ranibizumab. 
However, this difference seemed to disappear in Year 2, when PRN treatment was initiated. The 
difference seen in Year 1 was small (around 4 percentage points at most), and was not considered 
relevant. 
Two year results:
Since neovascular AMD is a chronic disease which requires ongoing treatment, the Year 1 results 
needed to be confirmed at two years. 
The proportion of subjects maintaining vision were ≥ 90% in all treatment groups and was 
comparable between individual studies, although a slight drop off in the proportion of subjects who 
maintained vision was observed compared to week 52. Decreases (by 1-2 letters) in mean ETDRS 
letter score occurred in the second year with a similar picture in all treatment groups. Also, a slight 
decrease occurred in the second year in the proportion of patients who gained ≥ 15 letters. 
Discussion on the number of injections received by patients during year two:
According to the integrated analysis of Year 2 completers, the mean number of injections was 
approximately similar in all treatments groups (around 4, range: 4.7 for RQ4 vs 4.1-4.2 for 2Q4 or 
2Q8) with an interval of around 70 days (range: 67.9 for RQ4 vs 73.7-73.2 for 2Q4 or 2Q8), also 
approximately similar between groups.    
About a third of subjects received at least one injection in Year 2 at an interval of one month from 
the previous injection. Of these, most patients received ≤ 6 injections while “4-week interval” was 
only an isolated event for these patients. Nevertheless, it could not be ruled out that a monthly 
regimen may help to stabilize vision in some patients in the long term. To elucidate this point, the 
CHMP requested that the applicant commit to a post authorisation study.
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy
The efficacy of Eylea 2 mg in the treatment of wet AMD was demonstrated over the two years data.
The primary endpoint analysis met the non-inferiority margins for all VEGF Trap-eye regimens, and 
all secondary endpoint analyses support the comparability of the efficacy of ranibizumab with the 
three VEGF Trap-Eye treatment schedules. 
According to study VIEW 1 results, the 2Q4 regimen showed the best results in term of vision, with 
superior gain in the number of letters read at Week 52; retinal morphology evolution showed also 
better results with the 2Q4 regimen than with the other regimens. In the VIEW 2 study however, 
the 52-week numeric results favoured the 0.5Q4 regimen while the 2Q4 and 2Q8 regimens were 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 55/83
very similar and still non inferior to ranibizumab. Wile this result confirmed the efficacy of Eylea 
in the proposed indication, it left a degree of uncertainty in the selection of the most
appropriate dosage regimen. This was also shown by the year 2 data: the possibility of visual 
improvements with less than 3 injections by year is not excluded. Some patients did require 
occasional injections on a monthly basis in Year 2, but it is not clear in which circumstances this 
would be beneficial. As there were no clear tendencies of results to favour one dosing regimen of 
VEGF Trap-Eye over the others, the 2Q8 regimen was chosen as it reduces the number of 
injections.
Therefore the CHMP concluded that for the long term (after the first 12 months of treatment), 
patients should continue to be treated with Eylea every 2 months and that after the first 12 months 
of treatment with Eylea, the treatment interval could be extended based on visual and anatomic 
outcomes. 
The CHMP also considered that there are still uncertainties regarding the choice of dosing schedule, 
as it was not demonstrated whether a proactive or a reactive approach was the most beneficial. 
The SmPC reflects the fact that there is no requirement for monitoring between injections and 
there is the possibility for the patients to receive monthly injections based on clinician evaluation. 
The Applicant also committed to submit a clinical study aimed to compare the proactive regimen 
with injection every 2 months with a reactive regimen based on visual and anatomic outcomes. 
The approved indication reads as follows:
The recommended dose for Eylea is 2 mg aflibercept, equivalent to 50 microlitres.
Eylea treatment is initiated with one injection per month for three consecutive doses, followed by 
one injection every two months. There is no requirement for monitoring between injections. 
After the first 12 months of treatment with Eylea, the treatment interval may be extended based 
on visual and anatomic outcomes. In this case the schedule for monitoring should be determined 
by the treating physician and may be more frequent than the schedule of injections.
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to efficacy:
To perform a post-authorisation randomised study with the primary objective of comparing the 
standard regime of injections every 8 weeks with a reactive regimen based on visual and anatomic 
outcomes, based on a CHMP approved protocol.
The final clinical study report should be submitted by December 31, 2017.
The protocol will be submitted for CHMP agreement by Q1, 2013.
2.6.  Clinical safety
Patient exposure
The clinical safety analysis was based on data pooled from two phase 3 studies (VIEW 1 and VIEW 
2 constituting pool 1) and phase 1/2 studies (pool 2). Overall, 11 ophthalmology studies were 
integrated in the safety analysis, including 7 studies in the requested indication of AMD; 3 of these 
studies are completed (phase 1 and 2) and 4 are still on-going (2 pivotal and 2 extension studies). 
VEGF Trap-Eye was administered intravitrealy in 3237 patients, including 2647 patients in the 
requested indication.  
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 56/83
In pool 1 (pivotal studies), a total of 2457 subjects were distributed as follows: 609 subjects in
the RQ4 group, 617 subjects in the 2Q4 group, 615 subjects in the 0.5Q4 group, and 616
subjects in the 2Q8 group. During the first year of treatment in the pool 1 studies, planned
exposure to VEGF Trap-Eye in the study eye was 2 mg administered monthly (13 IVT injections,
26 mg/yr) or every 2 months (8 IVT injections, 16 mg/yr), or 0.5 mg administered monthly
(13 IVT injections, 6.5 mg/yr),  and planned exposure to ranibizumab was 0.5 mg
administered monthly (13 IVT injections, 6.5 mg/yr). The mean number of injections
administered was similar among the monthly dosing regimens (12.3 in the RQ4, 12.3 in the 2Q4,
and 12.2 in the 0.5Q4 groups) and just over half of that in the 2Q8 treatment group (7.5).  The
total mean exposure was 6.08 mg (RQ4), 24.62 mg (2Q4), 6.08 mg (0.5Q4), and 14.93 mg
(2Q8), over a mean duration of 347 to 353 day.
In pool 2, a total of 230 subjects were randomized (159 in VGFT-OD-0508, 51 in VGFT-OD-0502,
and 20 in VGFT-OD-0603).  A total of 102 subjects from the 3 studies in pool 2 were either
randomized to receive VEGF Trap-Eye at a dose of 4 PRN (31 were from VGFT-OD-0508) or
were eligible to receive 4 PRN of VEGF Trap-Eye in the extension phase of study VGFT-OD-0502. 
In addition in study VGFT-OD-0508, 64 subjects were randomized to receive 0.5 PRN and 64
subjects were randomized to receive 2.0 PRN during the first 12 weeks.
The mean number of injections administered to subjects in pool 2 ranged from 2.5 in the 4 mg 
VGFT-OD-0508 group to 3.6 in the combined 4 mg group, with an overall mean of 3.3 injections. 
The total mean amount of study medication received increased less than dose proportionally:
1.6 mg (0.5PRN), 6.0 mg (2PRN), 10.1 mg (4PRN) and 14.5 mg in the 4 combined PRN, and 8.1
mg in the pool 2 any dose groups.
Long-term safety data: the 2-Year data have been provided in the Response Document. From 
VIEW 1: of the 1217 randomized subjects, 1120 (92.0%) entered Year 2 of the study. Eighty-two 
(7.3%) of these 1120 subjects discontinued the study during the second year. From VIEW 2: of the 
1240 randomized subjects, 1115 (89.9%) entered Year 2 of the study. Ninety (8.1%) of these 
1115 subjects discontinued the study during the second year.
The long-term extension study VGFT-OD-910 was ongoing at the time of authorisation; safety data 
on SAEs and deaths have been provided for 202 subjects treated > 2 years; 15 subjects reported 
23 SAEs; CIOMS forms have been provided. Final, complete data on this phase 3, long-term 
extension study will be provided post authorisation.
Adverse events 
Pool 1: subjects were evaluated every 4 weeks for safety; safety assessments included ophthalmic 
examinations, monitoring of clinical treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) (non-ocular, 
ocular study eye, and ocular fellow eye), and laboratory testing.  Adverse event (AE) information 
were collected up until the termination visit or until 30 days after the last dose of study drug has 
been administered. 
Immunological response was monitored through sampling for potential 
development of anti-VEGF Trap antibodies. ECG and Potential nasomucosal side effects were 
investigated in a sub-set of subjects participating in the ENT sub-study in VIEW 2 trial only.
Overall, when safety results are pooled from the 2 pivotal studies, the rate of ocular and non-
ocular TEAEs appears to be similar between VEGF Trap-Eye and comparator groups.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 57/83
Overall Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Pool 1 (SafetyAnalysis Set)
Number (%) of subjects with:
Any TEAE
Any non-ocular TEAE
Any study drug related
TEAE
Any injection related
TEAE
R 0.5 mg Q4
N=595 (100%)
VTE 2.0 mg Q4
N=613 (100%)
VTE 0.5 mg Q4
N=601 (100%)
VTE 2.0 mg Q8
N=610 (100%)
VTE total
N=1824 (100%)
TOTAL
N=2419 (100%)
538  (  90.4%)
415  (  69.7%)
6  (    1.0%)
555  (  90.5%)
451  (  73.6%)
12  (    2.0%)
535  (  89.0%)
437  (  72.7%)
8  (    1.3%)
565  (  92.6%)
436  (  71.5%)
11  (    1.8%)
1655  (  90.7%)
1324  (  72.6%)
31  (    1.7%)
2193  (  90.7%)
1739  (  71.9%)
37  (    1.5%)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Maximum intensity for any  non-ocular TEAE
Mild
Moderate
Severe
191 (  32.1%)
174  (  29.2%)
50  (    8.4%)
229  (  37.4%)
181  (  29.5%)
40  (    6.5%)
225  (  37.4%)
151  (  25.1%)
59  (    9.8%)
217  (  35.6%)
164  (  26.9%)
55  (    9.0%)
671  (  36.8%)
496  (  27.2%)
154  (    8.4%)
862  (  35.6%)
670  (  27.7%)
204 (    8.4%)
Any ocular TEAE
(study eye)
Any study drug related
TEAE
Any injection related
TEAE
433  (  72.8%)
419  (  68.4%)
408  (  67.9%)
436  (  71.5%)
1263  (  69.2%)
1696  (  70.1%)
39  (    6.6%)
28  (    4.6%)
34  (    5.7%)
33 (    5.4%)
95  (    5.2%)
134  (    5.5%)
275  (  46.2%)
251  (  40.9%)
241  (  40.1%)
252  (  41.3%)
744  (  40.8%)
1019  (  42.1%)
Maximum intensity for any ocular TEAE (study eye)
Mild
Moderate
Severe
280  (  47.1%)
134  (  22.5%)
19  (    3.2%)
274  (  44.7%)
123  (  20.1%)
21  (    3.4%)
283  (  47.1%)
98  (  16.3%)
27  (    4.5%)
286  (  46.9%)
133  (  21.8%)
17  (    2.8%)
843  (  46.2%)
354  (  19.4%)
65  (    3.6%)
1123  (  46.4%)
488  (  20.2%)
84  (    3.5%)
Any ocular TEAE
(Fellow Eye)
Any study drug related
TEAE
Any injection related
TEAE
274  (  46.1%)
261  (  42.6%)
269  (  44.8%)
266  (  43.6%)
796  (  43.6%)
1070  (  44.2%)
1  (    0.2%)
3  (    0.5%)
0
3  (    0.5%)
6  (    0.3%)
7  (    0.3%)
18  (    3.0%)
20  (    3.3%)
12  (    2.0%)
14  (    2.3%)
46  (    2.5%)
64  (    2.6%)
Maximum intensity for any ocular TEAE (fellow eye)
Mild
Moderate
Severe
188  (  31.6%)
71  (  11.9%)
13  (    2.2%)
175  (  28.5%)
76  (  12.4%)
8  (    1.3%)
193  (  32.1%)
64  (  10.6%)
10  (    1.7%)
174  (  28.5%)
86  (  14.1%)
6  (    1.0%)
542  (  29.7%)
226  (  12.4%)
24  (    1.3%)
730  (  30.2%)
297  (  12.3%)
37  (    1.5%)
Any TEAE leading to 
death [1,2]
Any TE SAE
Any non-ocular TE SAE 
Any ocular TE SAE (Study
Eye)
Any ocular TE SAE
(Fellow Eye)
Any TEAE causing disc.
of study drug
Any TEAE causing Disc. 
from the study
Any TEAE of interest
Any TE SAE of interest 
Any non-ocular TE SAE 
of interest
Any ocular TE SAE of 
interest (Study Eye) Any
ocular TE SAE of 
interest (Fellow Eye)
7  (    1.2%)
2  (    0.3%)
3  (    0.5%)
8  (    1.3%)
13  (    0.7%)
20  (    0.8%)
103  (  17.3%)
83  (  13.9%)
19  (    3.2%)
95  (  15.5%)
76  (  12.4%)
13  (    2.1%)
97  (  16.1%)
87  (  14.5%)
11  (    1.8%)
104  (  17.0%)
89  (  14.6%)
12  (    2.0%)
296  (  16.2%)
252  (  13.8%)
36  (    2.0%)
399  (  16.5%)
335  (  13.8%)
55  (    2.3%)
6  (    1.0%)
9  (    1.5%)
5  (    0.8%)
5  (    0.8%)
19  (    1.0%)
25  (    1.0%)
9  (    1.5%)
15  (    2.4%)
19  (    3.2%)
13  (    2.1%)
47  (    2.6%)
56  (    2.3%)
0
0
0
0
0
0
322  (  54.1%)
22  (    3.7%)
11  (    1.8%)
311  (  50.7%)
22  (    3.6%)
15  (    2.4%)
305  (  50.7%)
25  (    4.2%)
21  (    3.5%)
315  (  51.6%)
26  (    4.3%)
18  (    3.0%)
931  (  51.0%)
73  (    4.0%)
54  (    3.0%)
1253  (  51.8%)
95  (    3.9%)
65  (    2.7%)
9  (    1.5%)
7  (    1.1%)
5  (    0.8%)
8  (    1.3%)
20  (    1.1%)
29  (    1.2%)
2  (    0.3%)
0
2  (    0.3%)
0
2  (    0.1%)
4  (    0.2%)
Note: This table is summarizing all subjects with treatment emergent adverse events starting post first injection
[1] SAEs resulting in death or AEs with fatal outcome.
[2] This table only includes deaths associated with fatal SAEs that began within 30 days of the last administration of study drug.  A total of 26
subjects died in the 2 studies combined: 7, 5, 4, and 10 in the RQ4, 2Q4, 0.5Q4, and 2Q8 groups, respectively.
Ocular Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs)
In pool 1, 70.1% of subjects overall reported ocular TEAEs in the study eye, the frequency
of which was similar across treatment groups:  (72.8% [RQ4], 68.4% [2Q4], 67.9% [0.5Q4],
and 71.5% [2Q8].
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 58/83
Ocular Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events in the Study Eye, Pool 1 (in 5% of Subjects in
Any Treatment Group) (by SOC and PT) (Safety Analysis Set)
Primary system organ 
class
Preferred term
MedDRA Version 13.1
Eye disorders
Conjunctival 
hemorrhage 
Eye pain 
Macular 
degeneration
Retinal hemorrhage
Visual acuity 
reduced
Vitreous detachment
Vitreous floaters
Investigations
        Intraocular pressure 
increased
R 0.5 mg Q4
N=595 (100%)
VTE 2.0 mg Q4
N=613 (100%)
VTE 0.5 mg Q4
N=601 (100%)
VTE 2.0 mg Q8
N=610 (100%)
VTE total 
N=1824 
(100%)
TOTAL
N=2419 (100%)
167  (  28.1%)
133  (  21.7%)
157  (  26.1%)
161  (  26.4%)
451  (  24.7%)
618  (  25.5%)
53  (    8.9%)
39  (    6.6%)
66  (  10.8%)
43  (    7.0%)
49  (    8.2%)
40  (    6.7%)
43  (    7.0%)
40  (    6.6%)
158  (    8.7%)
123  (    6.7%)
211  (    8.7%)
162  (    6.7%)
48  (    8.1%)
40  (    6.7%)
36  (    5.9%)
50  (    8.2%)
47  (    7.8%)
57  (    9.5%)
50  (    8.2%)
53  (    8.7%)
133  (    7.3%)
160  (    8.8%)
181  (    7.5%)
200  (    8.3%)
33  (   5.5%)
44  (    7.4%)
44  (    7.2%)
48  (    7.8%)
32  (    5.3%)
30  (    5.0%)
34  (    5.6%)
30  (    4.9%)
110  (    6.0%)
108  (    5.9%)
143  (    5.9%)
152  (    6.3%)
41  (    6.9%)
38  (    6.2%)
27  (    4.5%)
30  (    4.9%)
95  (    5.2%)
136  (    5.6%)
Note: At each level of subject summarization, a subject is counted once if the subject reported one or more events. All events reported by
at least 5% of subjects are displayed.
TEAEs reported in the supportive phase 1 and phase 2 studies were consistent with those seen in
the pivotal phase 3 studies. The most common ocular TEAEs occurring  in  the  study  eye  for 
the  pool  2 (non pivotal studies) any  dose  group  were  conjunctival  haemorrhage (47 
subjects; 23.2%), reduced VA (31 subjects; 15.3%), and increased IOP (26 subjects; 12.8%).
The 4 combined PRN group had a higher incidence than the other doses for eye pain, foreign 
body sensation in eyes, and lacrimation increased.  The 0.5 PRN group had a higher incidence 
than the other doses of retinal haemorrhage and VA reduced. Otherwise, the TEAEs were
reported with similar frequencies across dose groups.
Ocular Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events in the Study Eye, Pool 2 (in 5% of Subjects in
Any Treatment Group) (by SOC and PT) (Safety Analysis Set)
Primary system organ class
Preferred term
MedDRA Version 13.0
Eye disorders
Blepharitis 
Cataract cortical 
Cataract nuclear
Conjunctival hemorrhage
Dry eye
Eye pain
Foreign body sensation in eyes 
Lacrimation increased Photopsia
Punctate keratitis
Retinal hemorrhage
Retinal edema
Visual acuity reduced 
Visual impairment 
Vitreous detachment 
Vitreous floaters
General disorders and administration 
site conditions
Injections site hemorrhage
Injection site pain
Sensation of foreign vbody
Investigations
VTE 0.5 mg
PRN
N=62 (100%)
0
0
2  (    3.2%)
13  (  21.0%)
2  (    3.2%)
2  (    3.2%)
1  (    1.6%)
1  (    1.6%)
1  (    1.6%)
0
10  (  16.1%)
4  (    6.5%)
14  (  22.6%)
2  (    3.2%)
2  (    3.2%)
4  (    6.5%)
4  (    6.5%)
1  (    1.6%)
0
VGFT-OD-0508
VTE 2.0 mg
PRN
N=60 (100%)
VTE 4.0 mg
PRN
N=30 (100%)
VGFT-OD-0502
VGFT-OD-0508
VGFT-OD-0603
VTE 4.0 mg
PRN TOTAL 
N=81 (100%)
VGFT-OD-0502
VGFT-OD-0508
VGFT-OD-0603
VTE ANY
DOSE TOTAL 
N=203 (100%)
3  (    5.0%)
3  (    5.0%)
3  (    5.0%)
16  (  26.7%)
3  (    5.0%)
1  (    1.7%)
0
0
2  (    3.3%)
3  (    5.0%)
3  (    5.0%)
3  (    5.0%)
6  (  10.0%)
0
7  (  11.7%)
3  (    5.0%)
0
1  (    1.7%)
0
1  (    3.3%)
0
0
5  (  16.7%)
0
1  (    3.3%)
0
1  (    3.3%)
2  (    6.7%)
2  (    6.7%)
2  (    6.7%)
0
5  (  16.7%)
2  (    6.7%)
0
0
0
1  (    3.3%)
1  (    3.3%)
2  (    2.5%)
1  (    1.2%)
1  (    1.2%)
18  (  22.2%)
1  (    1.2%)
8  (    9.9%)
5  (    6.2%)
5  (    6.2%)
3  (    3.7%)
2  (    2.5%)
3  (    3.7%)
1  (    1.2%)
11  (  13.6%)
3  (    3.7%)
3  (    3.7%)
3  (    3.7%)
3  (    3.7%)
5  (    6.2%)
6  (    7.4%)
5  (    2.5%)
4  (    2.0%)
6  (    3.0%)
47  (  23.2%)
6  (    3.0%)
11  (    5.4%)
6  (    3.0%)
6  (    3.0%)
6  (    3.0%)
5  (    2.5%)
16  (    7.9%)
8  (    3.9%)
31  (  15.3%)
5  (    2.5%)
12  (    5.9%)
10  (    4.9%)
7  (    3.4%)
7  (    3.4%)
6  (    3.0%)
Intraocular pressure increased
9  (  14.5%)
6  (  10.0%)
4  (  13.3%)
11  (  13.6%)
26  (  12.8%)
Note: At each level of subject summarization, a subject is counted once if the subject reported one or more events. All events reported by at least 5% of
subjects are displayed.
In Pool 1, the number of ocular drug-related TEAEs was rather low (5.5% in total) and similar 
between treatment groups (6.6% ranibizumab vs 5.2% VTE). The most common drug-related 
TEAEs were vitreous floaters, visual acuity reduced and IOP increased with maximum of 1.2% of 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 59/83
rate. The majority of cases were sporadic with a rate < 1%. Of note, macular degeneration was 
observed in 11 (0.5%) patients in VEGF Trap-eye group compared to no case in ranibizumab 
group.
In pool 2, only 14 subjects reported drug-related ocular treatment-emergent AEs (6.9%) including 
3% of IOP increased.
Non-ocular Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events
In Pool 1, 71.8% of subjects overall reported non-ocular TEAEs; the frequency of which was 
similar among treatment groups: (69.7% [ RQ4], 73.4% [2Q4], 72.7% [O.5Q4], and 71.5% 
[2Q8].
The most common non-ocular TEAEs in pool 1 were nasopharyngitis (7.8% overall), hypertension
(6.8% overall) headache (4.2% overall), bronchitis (3.9% overall), and urinary tract infection 
(3.6% overall]).  Treatment-emergent adverse events occurred with similar frequency across all
treatment groups, and were generally characteristic of patients in the age range studied.
Non-ocular TEAEs reported in pool 2 were consistent with those seen in pool 1. The  most 
common  non-ocular  TEAEs  observed  in  subjects  in  pool 2  were  nasopharyngitis (14
subjects; 6.9%), urinary tract infection (13 subjects; 6.4%), bronchitis (11 subjects; 5.4%), 
and hypertension (10 subjects; 4.9%).
Cardiovascular Events: 
(a) Arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs): the incidence of APTC ATEs was similar in the pivotal 
studies: 1.7% in ranibizumab group vs 1.8 in VEGF Trap-eye groups. In the long-term safety study 
(VGFT-OD-0702), 13 patients (8.3%) reported arterial thromboembolic events. 
Arterial thromboembolic events, as defined by ApTC criteria, include nonfatal myocardial 
infarction, nonfatal stroke, or vascular death including deaths of unknown cause).
When TEAEs are analysed as TEAEs of interest in pool 1 (SOC and PT), the global rate of arterial 
thromboembolic events (refer to table 69 of Summary of Clinical Safety), was higher in VEGF Trap-
eye groups (3.2%) when compared to the ranibizumab (1.8%) group. The CHMP listed arterial
thromboembolic events as an important potential risk in the RMP and covered in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC. 
(b) Hypertension. In pool 1, hypertension was frequently reported non-ocular TEAE, observed in 
7.9% of patients in ranibizumab group and 6.5% in VEGF Trap-eye groups. In addition, hypertension 
has been reported in 23 (14.6%) patients in pool 2.
Taking into account the potential role of VEGF in the systemic cardiovascular events and the fact 
that almost 20% of drug substance goes through the systemic circulation, systemic effects of VEGF
Trap-eye cannot be excluded.
2-Year Data
A similar number of subjects with any study drug-related adverse event, with any injection-related 
AE and any AE of interest has been reported in the study groups. However, more subjects 
discontinued the study due to adverse event in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups (2Q4 4.2%, 0.5Q4 
6.5%, 2Q8 4.9%) compared to ranibizumab (3.5%). These AEs were in majority mild and 
moderate with however about 20% of severe AEs (21.7% in ranibizumab, 20.3% in VEGF Trap-Eye 
groups).
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 60/83
With regards to ocular AEs, a similar number of events has been reported between the study 
groups. Conjunctival haemorrhage, retinal haemorrhage, visual acuity reduced and eye pain were 
very frequently reported in all groups. There were some slight differences between the 
recommended dose group (2Q8) and the comparator ranibizumab group in the rate of retinal 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 61/83
haemorrhage (16.2% vs 14.3%), visual acuity reduced (13% vs 11.3%) and eye pain (8.9% vs 
10.4%).
Few of ocular AEs were considered as related to study treatment, 7.4% in ranibizumab group vs 
6.7% in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups and the differences in the percentage are not significant.
The incidence of injection-related TEAEs was significantly higher in VIEW 1 when compared to 
VIEW 2 study. The applicant explained that this was due to the mode of peri-procedural 
anaesthesia that was different between the two studies.
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events
Severe ocular TEAEs
Pool 1: the number of severe ocular TEAEs is low and similar between the treated groups. 
However, more eye disorders were reported in VEGF Trap-eye groups (3%) compared to 
ranibizumab group (2%).
Endophtalmitis was reported in 0.5% of patients in ranibizumab and 2Q4 group, as well as IOP 
increased, retinal haemorrhage and conjunctival haemorrhage. Three cases of cataract were 
reported in VEGF Trap-eye groups and none in ranibizumab group. Severe eye pain occurred more 
frequently in VEGF treated groups (0.5%) compared to comparator group (0.3%).
Pool 2: Only 2 subjects reported severe ocular TEAEs in the study eye:  in study VGFT-OD-0508,
1 subject in the 0.5 PRN group had severe uveitis and 1 subject in the combined 4 PRN group
had severe retinal vascular disorder.
Severe non-ocular TEAEs
Pool 1: 204 (8.4%) subjects experienced severe non-ocular TEAEs:  50 (8.4%) subjects in the 
RQ4 group, 40 (6.5%) subjects in the 2Q4 group, 59 (9.8%) subjects in the 0.5Q4 group, and 55 
(9.0%) subjects in the 2Q8 group. The percentage of subjects in each treatment group reporting
severe non-ocular TEAEs was similar across the treatment groups.
The most common severe non-ocular TEAEs was myocardial
infarction, and this occurred in 
0.5% (12/2419) of subjects, overall.  All other severe non-ocular TEAEs occurred in 0.3% of 
subjects.
One case of transient ischemic attack (TIA) was considered to be related to study drug in the 2Q4 
group. In total, TIA was observed in 10 patients treated with VEGF Trap-eye while no cases 
occurred in comparator group.  
Pool 2: severe n o n -ocular T E A E s w e r e reported  in  7.4%  (15)  of  subjects.The most 
commonly reported severe non-ocular TEAE was congestive cardiac failure (in 2 subjects; 1%). 
All other severe non-ocular TEAEs occurred in only 1 subject each.
Deaths. A total of 26 subjects died in Pool 1 during year 1 (7 subjects in the RQ4 group, 5
subjects in the 2Q4 group, 4 subjects in the 0.5Q4 group, and 10 subjects in the 2Q8 group)
(cut-off date of 10 November 2010). None of the deaths was considered related to study drug.
The reported causes of death were consistent with what would be expected in the elderly
population with AMD: cardiac disorders (cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, cardiopulmonary 
failure), neoplasm (hepatic neoplasm malignant, leukaemia, lung cancer), cerebral haemorrhage.
Most cases of death occurred in the 2Q8 group (10). Slightly more deaths have been reported in 
2Q8 group (1.5%) when compared to 2Q4 (0.7%) and 0.5Q4 (0.5%) groups during the 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 62/83
development programme. As cause of death, 2 cases of vascular disorders were observed in 2Q8 
group, and none in other groups.
A total of 2 subjects died in Pool 2. One subject (in the 4 combined PRN group) with a pre-
existing condition of pulmonary hypertension died 85 days after the last dose of study drug due
to cardiac arrest.   The other subject (in the 2PRN group) died due to pancreatic   carcinoma  
diagnosed   112 d a y s    after  receiving  the  last  dose  of  study  drug.
Long-term study (VGFT-OD-0702): 8 subjects died during the period from baseline of this
study to the cut-off date. Two of the deaths occurred after the subjects had completed the initial
study but before they had received  study  treatment  in  the  long-term  safety  study.
A total of 3 deaths were reported during the first 6 months of VGFT-OD-0706, 1 subject each in 
the   0.5Q4  (multi-organ failure), 2Q4 (sudden death), and 2Q8 (convulsion) groups. None of the
events that led to  death in these subjects were judged  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to 
study  drug.
2-Year Data
Deaths. Full 2-year data showed a total of 68 deaths (2.8%) reported in the 2 studies, including 
20 deaths (3.3%) in 2Q8, 19 (3.2%), 13 (2.1%) and 16 (2.7%) in ranibizumab group. The trend in 
difference in number of deaths was not confirmed during the second year of treatment. Also, the 
total number in Eylea groups is comparable with the ranibizumab group.
Ocular serious TEAEs. In the integrated analysis, 91 study subjects (3.8%) were documented to 
have ocular SAEs in the study eye by the end of Year 2. As seen in the single studies, many of 
these events were likely procedure-related or AMD-related, with "visual acuity reduced" (19 study 
pool subjects [0.8%]), "retinal hemorrhage" (17 study pool subjects [0.7%])), and "cataract" (12 
study pool subjects [0.5%]) being the prevailing events.
Five cases of endophtalmitis, including one case of pseudoendophtalmitis have been reported, 4 in 
VIEW 1 and one in VIEW 2 study. Two cases have been observed in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups 
(0.5Q4 and 2Q4) and 3 cases in ranibizumab group. All cases of endophtalmitis were considered 
related to the study drug procedure. This event is covered in sections 4.4. and 4.8. of the SmPC 
and is mentioned as an important identified risk in the RMP.
Non-ocular serious TEAEs. Non-ocular, drug-related treatment-emergent SAEs occurred at a 
higher frequency in Eylea-treated subjects, though the absolute numbers were low; 7 
cerebrovascular events (0.8%) in Eylea-treated subjects (mostly in VIEW 2), none in ranibizumab-
treated subjects. Furthermore, a higher frequency of TIAs was detected in Eylea-treated subjects in 
VIEW 1 than for ranibizumab: 18 events (2%) versus 1 (0.3%). This trend was not observed in 
VIEW 2, nor is a trend observed when arterial thromboembolic events are analysed according to 
the APTC criteria. 
Laboratory findings
Chemistry
The incidences of pre-defined laboratory abnormalities were low and balanced among treatment 
groups for all clinical chemistry test parameters.
Hypercholesterolaemia was reported as a TEAE in 34 (1.4%) subjects in pool 1 during the first year 
of the studies (RQ4 1.3%; 2Q4 1.0%; 0.5Q4 1.5%; 2Q8 1.8%) and in 51 (2.1%) subjects in the 
2nd year of treatment (RQ4 2.2%; 2Q4 1.5%; 0.5Q4 2.0%; 2Q8 2.8%). The occurrence of
hypercholesterolemia is expected in this elderly population and its rate remains low.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 63/83
No safety signal emerged from haematology and vital signs data. 
The majority of the treated subjects (1371 and 131 subjects, respectively), had a medical history 
of hypertension. Blood pressure changes were presented as the mean and median values, showing 
no apparent trend over time in pool 1 and 2. No increases in SBP and DBP have been observed in 
the sub-group of patients with medical history of hypertension up to 2 years of treatment. However, 
according to the results of the PK studies, there is a possibility that aflibercept might increase blood 
pressure. As part of the pharmacovigilance activities, it is requested that the post-marketing and
study reports which indicate hypertension should be followed up with a targeted questionnaire.
Safety in special populations
Intrinsic Factors
Subgroup analyses were conducted on the following safety variables  for subjects  in pool 1: 
gender; age (< 65 years, ≥ 65 years to < 75 years, ≥ 75 years); race (white, black or African 
American, Asian, American Indian or Alaska native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, or
other); ethnicity (Hispanic or Latino [no / yes]); renal status (CLCR > 80 mL/min [normal], > 50
— 80 mL/min [mild impairment], > 30 - 50 mL/min [moderate impairment], 2 30 mL/min or
requiring  dialysis  [severe  impairment]),  history of diabetes  mellitus,  cataracts,  hypertension, 
CVA/stroke, and myocardial infarction.
The number  of subjects  in the  following  subgroups  within  pool 1 were  too small to  allow 
meaningful comparisons: race     (other);  renal        impairment  (severe  impairment); hepatic impairment, 
and  proteinuria;  although  there  were  few  subjects  in  the  subgroup  of CVA/stroke, analyses
were conducted as this is an adverse event of interest.
Overall, the results of the subgroup analyses of all TEAEs were similar to those seen in the entire 
study population. No clinically relevant imbalances or trends were seen among the treatment 
groups.
Extrinsic Factors
Pre-filled syringes vs. Vials
Although there where differences in the incidence of events comparing  the  vial  to  the  PFS 
group, they appeared random and a pattern was not discerned between the 2 groups. 
Pregnancy, Lactation and Fertility
Aflibercept produced embryo-foetal toxicity in rabbit and effects on male and female fertility in 
monkey after intravenous administration. However, there are large safety margins when compared 
to corresponding values observed in humans after an intravitreal therapeutic dose. Therefore, 
systemic effects are unlikely in patients, including pregnant women. In addition, exposure of a 
woman of childbearing potential to Aflibercept seems to be unlikely given the indication.
It is noted that products of the same therapeutic class are already marketed (Lucentis® and 
Macugen®), whose SmPCs indicate they should not be used during pregnancy unless there is a 
clear benefit. Similar recommendations regarding pregnancy, fertility and lactation were inserted in 
the Product Information.
Overdose
In clinical studies with VEGF Trap-Eye, isolated cases of overdose of up to 10-fold were 
generally well tolerated.  One subject received a single dose of 20 mg VGFT Trap-Eye in 500 μL
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 64/83
volume (instead of the planned 2 mg in 50 μL), which was associated with increased injection 
volume and subsequently with a transient increase in IOP lasting 1 day. No other TEAE were
observed. As of January 2011, all overdosed subjects recovered without sequelae.
The  concentration  of  bound  VEGF Trap  in  plasma  following  IVT  administration  of  up  to 4
mg/eye was about 20-fold lower than those following IV administration of 1 to 4 mg/kg.  Since IV
administration of VEGF Trap at doses ≥1 mg/kg every 2 weeks was required to completely 
saturate  endogenous  VEGF  synthesized  over  the  dosing  interval,  the  IVT  doses  being 
investigated in this development programme did not appear to be able to saturate systemic VEGF. 
This conclusion is supported by the observation that the peak concentration of bound VEGF Trap 
continued to increase in a dose-dependent manner with increasing IVT doses.
Recommended treatment: overdoses of up to 20 mg/eye were generally well tolerated.  
Overdosing was associated with increased injection volume and subsequently with increased IOP. 
Therefore, when overdose is associated with  increased  volume,  IOP  should  be  monitored  and 
if deemed  necessary  by the  treating physician, adequate treatment should be initiated.
Drug Abuse
VEGF Trap-Eye will be administered by a qualified physician. The drug will not be prescribed for 
s e l f -administration In addition, the method of VEGF Trap-Eye administration, IVT injection, is
not conductive to drug abuse.
There has been no evidence of psychotropic properties associated with the study drug. Post-
intraocular-injection, VEGF-Trap binds with VEGF-A to form a complex.  As a protein molecule,
VEGF-Trap and its complex are too large to cross the blood-brain barrier, which limits any
possibility for centrally-mediated effects associated with drug abuse.
Withdrawal and Rebound
Age-related macular degeneration requires lifelong treatment. Cessation of treatment with VEGF
Trap-Eye does not mean that the disease will not recur; VA may again decline over time,
consistent with the disease process. There is a large variability in patient presentation, course of
treatment, and need for re-treatment in cases of wet AMD.
Effects on Ability to Drive or Operate Machinery or Impairment of Mental Ability
VEGF Trap-Eye is an ophthalmologic preparation intended to treat visually impaired patients. 
Subjects may experience temporary visual disturbances after an IVT injection with VEGF Trap- Eye
and the associated eye examinations. As a result, they should not drive or use machinery until
visual function has sufficiently recovered.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 65/83
Elderly population
Table  3:  Number  of  subjects  with  non-ocular  treatment-emergent  adverse  event  in  the  elderly  population 
grouped by age (Year 1 data) - Amended
Age Group
 65 years
 65 –  75 years
 75 –  85 years
 85 years
Ranibizumab
N=71 (100%)
VEGF 
Trap-Eye 
(Total)
N=202 
(100%)
Ranibizum
ab
N=163 
(100%)
VEGF 
Trap-Eye 
(Total)
N=478 
(100%)
Ranibizu
mab
(N=274 
(100%)
VEGF 
Trap-Eye 
(Total)
N=861 
(100%)
Ranibizum
ab
N=87 
(100%)
VEGF Trap-
Eye (Total)
N=283 (100%)
Any non-ocular TEAEs
43 (60.6%)
144 
(71.3%)
105 
(64.4%)
335 
(70.1%)
200 
(73.0%)
623 
(72.4%)
67 (77.0%) 222 (78.4%)
Fatal (ie, deaths)
0
0
1 (0.6%) 1 (0.2%) 3 (1.1%) 5 (0.6%)
3 (3.4%)
7 (2.5%)
Serious
1 (1.4%)
15 (7.4%) 19 (11.7%)
48 
(10.0%)
44 
(16.1%)
117 
(13.6%)
19 (21.8%) 72 (25.4%)
Withdrawals or 
discontinuations
0
4 (2.0%) 1 (0.6%) 6 (1.3%) 3 (1.1%) 14 (1.6%) 1 (1.1%)
9 (3.2%)
Any non-ocular TEAEs by AE grouping
1 (1.4%)
5 (2.5%) 6 (3.7%) 3 (0.6%) 5 (1.8%) 14 (1.6%) 1 (1.1%)
10 (3.5%)
CNS 
(confusion/extrapyramidal)
AE related to falling
Cardiovascular events
Cerebrovascular events
0
0
0
Infections and Infestations 23 (32.4%)
2 (1.0%) 5 (3.1%) 4 (0.8%)
6 (3.0%) 1 (0.6%)
12 
(2.5%)
16 
(5.8%)
11 
(4.0%)
24 (2.8%) 5 (5.7%)
25 (8.8%)
26 (3.0%) 8 (9.2%)
8 (2.8%)
0
0
5 (1.0%) 1 (0.4%) 10 (1.2%) 1 (1.1%)
20 (7.1%)
49 
(24.3%)
54 (33.1%)
140 
(29.3%)
96 
(35.0%)
239 
(27.8%)
27 (31.0%) 86 (30.4%)
Several tables on number of subjects with TEAEs, ocular TEAEs and non-ocular TEAEs in the elderly 
population grouped by age and including year 1 and 2-year data have been provided by the 
applicant. 
No deaths related to ocular TEAEs have been reported in the elderly during 2 years. The rate of 
deaths from non-ocular TEAEs was comparable between the treatment groups during the first and 
the second year of treatment and increased with age.  
Ocular TEAEs were related to the infections; in addition, 3 cases of blepharospasm have been 
observed in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 66/83
The number of cerebrovascular events was higher in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups (35) compared 
with ranibizumab (2 cases) in elderly, especially in the sub-group ≥ 85 years (20 vs 1 case), during 
the first year of treatment. Two-year data showed also the increased number of cerebrovascular 
events in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups vs ranibizumab: 53 vs 12 (27 vs 3 in the sub-group ≥ 85 
years).  One death due to CVA in the 0.5Q4 group and one death due to ischemic stroke in the 2Q8 
group were considered as treatment related.
Immunological events
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential to develop immunogenicity towards VEGF 
Trap-Eye, and this is mentioned in section 4.4 of the SmPC. In  order  to  monitor  subjects  for 
the  potential  appearance of  anti-VEGF Trap antibodies,  serum  samples  were  collected  at 
study-specific  time  points  during  each  of  the VEGF Trap   clinical studies and examined for the 
presence of ADA (Anti-drug antibodies).
The resulting immunogenicity data  reflects  the  percentage  of  subjects  whose  test  results 
were  considered positive for ADA in immunoassays and are highly dependent on the sensitivity
and specificity of the assays. Early studies (pool 2) used a validated, direct ADA enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to assess immunogenicity; no samples from these studies were
confirmed positive for ADA.   For the phase 3 studies (VIEW 1 and 2), a validated, titer-based, 
bridging ADA immunoassay, which is approximately 40-fold more sensitive than the original 
ADA ELISA, was used to assess immunogenicity. In these phase 3 studies the pre-treatment
incidence of immunoreactivity to VEGF Trap-Eye was 1% to 3% across treatment groups.  After
dosing with VEGF Trap-Eye for 52 weeks, treatment-emergent positive responses in the assay
were detected in a similar percentage range of subjects across treatment groups.
The observed low level of positive assay responses in subjects treated with ranibizumab was
similar to the levels  in subjects treated with VEGF Trap-Eye, suggesting that a majority of
these positive assay responses may be due to pre-existing immunoreactivity in these subjects and, 
therefore, not due to an immune response to VEGF Trap-Eye.
The tables on proportion of subjects with maintained vision at week 52 and week 96 by negative or 
positive ADA results have been provided. These 2-year data showed that the majority of subjects 
with positive ADA results maintained their vision. 
However, the analysis was based on the small number of subjects having positive ADA, especially 
during the first year of treatment (41 subjects in VIEW 1 and 38 in VIEW 2). At week 96, 86 
subjects had positive ADA and the majority maintained the vision status (87% to 100%).
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions
No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with VEGF-Trap Eye.
Individuals with AMD are generally older and often have concomitant diseases that are 
characteristic of an older population.  Study subjects in the VEGF Trap-Eye clinical development
programme had  a  mean  age  of  76.0  years  and  a  medical  history  characteristic  of 
individuals   in  the  target   AMD  population.The mean age of  the population in the VEGF
Trap-Eye clinical development programme is similar to that found in the MARINA study range
= 52 — 95 years) (Rosenfeld 2006) and in the ANCHOR study (age=76.0, range = 53-97) (Brown
2006).
Concomitant topical medications (topical anesthetic and antibiotic) given during the injection of
VEGF Trap-Eye do not penetrate the sclera and are not expected to interact with Eylea.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 67/83
Free VEGF Trap binds VEGF to form a stable, inert complex.  As with other large proteins, both 
free and bound VEGF are expected to be cleared by proteolytic catabolism.  Hepatic and renal 
impairment do not impact clearance of the drug, nor does VEGF Trap-Eye interfere with drugs 
metabolized through the hepatic and renal systems.
Discontinuation due to adverse events
A total of 212 (8.6%) subjects discontinued from their study within the first year; the most 
common reason for discontinuation was withdrawal by subject (84 subjects [3.4%]).  A total of
255 (10.4%) subjects prematurely discontinued the study medication within the first year; the
most common reason was “withdrawal by subject” (94 [3.8%]). 
Adverse events leading to withdrawal were generally consistent with events associated with 
disease progression or with the expected consequences of the IVT injection procedure, and were 
characteristic of AEs observed  in the overall AMD subject population.
In pool 1, the most common  TEAEs  leading  to  withdrawal   were  retinal  haemorrhage,  
reduced  VA,  retinal detachment, CVA, angina pectoris, and myocardial infarction, and were
similar among the treatment groups. 
In pool 2, the TEAEs leading to withdrawal were retinal detachment, abscess in a limb,
osteomyelitis, sinusitis, constipation, colon cancer, and cutis laxa. 
The AEs leading to withdrawal in the long-term safety study VGFT-OD-0702 were comparable
with those reported in pools 1 and 2 (macular degeneration, reduced VA, and metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer). None of the AEs that led to permanent withdrawal of study drug was
judged by the investigator to be related to study drug.
The incidence of TEAEs leading to premature treatment discontinuation in the integrated analysis 
over the entire study period of 2 years (116 [4.8%] of the 2419 study subjects) was 3.5% in the 
RQ4 group, 4.2% in the 2Q4 group, 6.5% in the 0.5Q4 group, 4.9% in the 2Q8 group, and 5.2% in 
the VEGF Trap-Eye combined group. Thus, the rate of subjects discontinuing treatment because of 
AEs over 2 years in the integrated analysis was slightly higher with VEGF Trap-Eye than on 
treatment with ranibizumab. However, the overall discontinuation rate and discontinuations due to 
an AE remain low in all study groups.
Post marketing experience
Not applicable
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety
The exposure and safety database size are considered sufficient to allow the safety evaluation.
The safety assessment conducted by the applicant in the 2 pivotal studies is appropriate. When 
safety results are pooled from these studies, the rate of ocular and non-ocular TEAEs seems similar 
between VEGF Trap-Eye and comparator groups. 
In term of ocular TEAEs, the rate of conjunctival hemorrhage, vitreous floaters and IOP increase 
was slightly higher in the comparator group in pool 1, while Visual acuity was more reduced in 
VEGF Trap Eye groups. The number of severe ocular TEAEs is low and similar between the treated 
groups in pool 1. Three cases of cataract were reported in VEGF Trap-eye groups and none in 
ranibizumab group. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 68/83
Five cases of endophtalmitis, 2 for VEGF Trap-Eye and 3 for ranibizumab, have been observed. All 
were considered related to the study drug. This event is covered by sections 4.4. and 4.8. of the 
SmPC and is mentioned as an important identified risk in the RMP.
For vascular disorders, hypertension appeared with similar rates between the ranibizumab and 
VEGF Trap-eye groups (7.9% vs 6.5%). In pool 1 (SOC and PT), the overall rate of arterial 
thromboembolic events was higher in VEGF Trap-eye groups (3.2%) compared to 1.8% in 
ranibizumab group. 
Taking into account the fact that almost 20% of drug substance goes through the systemic 
circulation, systemic effects of VEGF Trap-eye on the circulation cannot be excluded, and 
appropriate monitoring is foreseen in the RMP.
The number of cerebrovascular events was higher in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups (35) compared 
with ranibizumab (2 cases) in the elderly, especially in the sub-group ≥ 85 years (20 vs 1 case), 
during the first year of treatment. Two-year data showed also the increased number of 
cerebrovascular events in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups vs ranibizumab: 53 vs 12 (27 vs 3 in the sub-
group ≥ 85 years).  One death due to CVA in the 0.5Q4 group and one death due to ischemic 
stroke in the 2Q8 group were considered as treatment related. 
Among severe non-ocular TEAEs, TIA (transient ischemic attack) was observed in 10 patients 
treated with VEGF Trap-eye, while no cases occurred in comparator group. The majority of these 
subjects had pre-existing risk factors for cardiovascular disease. No subject had a positive anti-
drug antibody status. Since subjects were randomised to treatment, it is reasonable to assume that 
there would be an equal prevalence of risk factors in those assigned to ranibizumab. 
Arterial thromboembolic events are listed as an important potential risk in the RMP and covered in 
sections 4.4 and  4.8 of the SmPC. The higher proportion of TIAs and cerebrovascular events 
reported within the pooled data is of concern and will be carefully considered within further 
assessments of ATEs during routine pharmacovigilance procedures and PSURs.
No specific studies have been provided in renal and hepatic insufficiency; nor specific interaction 
studies have been performed.
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics.
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety
Overall, the safety profile of aflibercept appears to be similar to the already marketed comparator 
drug, ranibizumab. No dose related effect was observed.
Concerns were raised on potential role of aflibercept on the arterial thromboembolic events, 
cerebrovascular events and TIAs. As routine pharmacovigilance, these events will be subject to m
monitoring and safety evaluation in each PSUR. A targeted questionnaire will be used to follow-up 
on any post-marketing or study reports suspicious for ATEs.
The CHMP has also requested additional pharmacovigilance activities in the form of a non-
interventional study to assess the safety and real-life treatment practice with aflibercept.
Further long term data are expected at the conclusion of extension study VGFT-OD-0910.
Educational material for physicians and patients to allow correct use of the product will be 
prepared. The Applicant has submitted a detailed outline in the RMP, but a study protocol should be 
designed to assess the knowledge and understanding of the key messages by physicians and 
patients, and submitted to the CHMP before study initiation (see Pharmacovigilance section). 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 69/83
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan
The applicant submitted a risk management plan (version 7)
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 70/83
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
Important identified risks
Endophthalmitis
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:  
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation  in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
A targeted questionnaire will be 
used to follow-up on any post-
marketing or study reports 
suspicious for an intraocular 
infection (see Annex 9).
Serious adverse reactions related to 
the injection procedure included 
endophthalmitis.
Uncommon: endophthalmitis
Labeling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
Intravitreal injections, including 
those with Eylea®, have been 
associated with endophthalmitis 
(see section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects). Proper aseptic injection 
techniques must always be used 
when administering Eylea®. Patients 
should be instructed to report any 
symptoms suggestive of 
endophthalmitis without delay and 
these should be managed 
appropriately.
Labeling (Method of administration):
Method of administration
Intravitreal injections must be 
carried out according to medical 
standards and applicable guidelines 
by a qualified physician experienced 
in administering intravitreal 
injections. In general, adequate 
anesthesia and asepsis, including 
topical broad spectrum microbicide 
(e.g. povidone iodine applied to the 
periocular skin, eyelid and ocular 
surface) have to be ensured. 
Surgical hand disinfection, sterile 
gloves, a sterile drape, and a sterile 
eyelid speculum (or equivalent) are 
recommended.
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Transient intraocular 
pressure increase
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8)
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Serious adverse reactions related to 
Page 71/83
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
the injection procedure have 
occurred in less than 1 in 1,000 
intravitreal injections with Eylea and 
included endophthalmitis, traumatic 
cataract and transient increased 
intraocular pressure
IOP increase labeled as ADR 
(frequency category: common)
Labeling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
Increase in intraocular pressure
Increases in intraocular pressure 
have been seen within 60 minutes 
of intravitreal injection, including 
those with Eylea® (see section 4.8). 
Special precaution is needed in 
patients with poorly controlled 
glaucoma (do not inject Eylea®
while the intraocular pressure is ≥ 
30 mmHg). In all cases both 
intraocular pressure and the 
perfusion of the optic nerve head 
must therefore be monitored and 
managed appropriately.
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Conjunctival hemorrhage
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation  in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
Labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: very common)
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Eye pain
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: very common)
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
Page 72/83
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Vitreous detachment
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
Labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: common)
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Vitreous floaters
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
Labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: common)
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Retinal pigment epithelium 
tears
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation  in each PSUR
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8)
Labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: common)
Labeling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
Retinal pigment epithelial tears
Risk factors associated with the 
development of a retinal pigment 
epithelial tear after anti-VEGF 
therapy for wet AMD, include a large 
and/or high pigment epithelial 
retinal detachment. When initiating 
Eylea® therapy, caution should be 
used in patients with these risk 
factors for retinal pigment epithelial 
tears.
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
Page 73/83
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Important potential risks
Hypersensitivity and 
immunogenicity
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labelling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
Immunogenicity
As this is a therapeutic protein, 
there is a potential for 
immunogenicity with Eylea® (see 
section 4.8). Patients should be 
instructed to report any signs or 
symptoms of intraocular 
inflammation, e.g. pain, 
photophobia, or redness, which may 
be a clinical sign attributable to 
hypersensitivity.
Traumatic cataract
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR. 
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
Serious adverse reactions related to 
the injection procedure have 
occurred in less than 1 in 1,000 
intravitreal injections with Eylea®
and included endophthalmitis, 
traumatic cataract and transient 
increased intraocular pressure (see 
section 4.4).
Cataract labeled as ADR (frequency 
category: common)
Additional risk minimization:
Educational program (Physician 
information pack including 
prescriber guide, intravitreal 
injection procedure video, patient 
information audio-CD and patient 
information booklet)
Arterial thromboembolic 
events (ATEs) including 
non-MI ATEs 
(cerebrovascular events 
and TIAs) and 
cardiovascular ischemic 
events
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR. 
Labeling (Undesirable effects, 
section 4.8):
A targeted questionnaire will be 
used to follow-up on any post-
marketing or study reports 
suspicious for ATEs (see Annex 
9).
Additional pharmacovigilance:
Registry/PASS for Eylea® use in 
clinical practice (A non-
interventional study to assess 
the safety and real-life 
treatment practice with 
Arterial thromboembolic events 
(ATEs) are adverse events 
potentially related to systemic VEGF 
inhibition. There is a theoretical risk 
of arterial thromboembolic events 
following intravitreal use of VEGF 
inhibitors.
ATEs, as defined by Antiplatelet 
Trialists’ Collaboration (APTC) 
criteria, include nonfatal myocardial 
infarction, nonfatal stroke, or 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 74/83
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
aflibercept in patients with wet 
age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD))
vascular death (including deaths of 
unknown cause). The incidence in 
the phase 3 wet AMD studies 
(VIEW1 and VIEW2) during the 96 
weeks study duration was 3.3% (60 
out of 1,824) in the combined group 
of patients treated with Eylea®
compared with 3.2% (19 out of 
595) in patients treated with 
ranibizumab (see section 5.1).
Labeling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
There is a potential risk of arterial 
thromboembolic events following 
intravitreal use of VEGF (vascular 
endothelial growth factor) inhibitors 
(see section 4.8).
Venous thromboembolic 
events
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Hypertension
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
No activities currently planned.
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
A targeted questionnaire will be 
used to follow-up on any post-
marketing or study reports 
suspicious for hypertension 
(see Annex 9).
Proteinuria
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Bleeding due to altered 
wound angiogenesis
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Medication error
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Off label use
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Embryo-fetotoxicity
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Pregnancy and lactation):
Pregnancy:
There are no data on the use of 
aflibercept in pregnant women.
Page 75/83
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
Studies in animals have shown 
embryo-fetal toxicity after high 
systemic exposure (see 
section 5.3).
Although the systemic exposure 
after ocular administration is very 
low, Eylea® is not recommended 
during pregnancy unless the 
potential benefit outweighs the 
potential risk to the fetus.
Retinal hemorrhage
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
No activities currently planned.
Important missing information
Use of Eylea® in patients 
with uncontrolled 
glaucoma
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring and safety 
evaluation in each PSUR
Labeling (Special warnings and 
precautions for use, section 4.4):
Concomitant use of 
different anti-VEGF 
therapies and other 
therapies for wet AMD 
Long term safety beyond 2 
years
Special precaution is needed in 
patients with poorly controlled 
glaucoma
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
No activities currently planned.
Ongoing monitoring, safety 
evaluation in each PSUR, 
provide safety results of 
ongoing clinical studies
Additional pharmacovigilance:
Registry/PASS for Eylea® use in 
clinical practice (A non-
interventional study to assess 
the safety and real-life 
treatment practice with 
aflibercept in patients with wet 
age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD))
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
No activities currently planned
Ongoing monitoring, safety 
evaluation in each PSUR, safety 
results of ongoing clinical 
studies
Additional pharmacovigilance:
Registry/PASS for Eylea® use in 
clinical practice (A non-
interventional study to assess 
the safety and real-life 
treatment practice with 
aflibercept in patients with wet 
age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD))
Safety data from the extension 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 76/83
Safety Concern
Proposed pharmaco-
vigilance activities 
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional)
study VGFT-OD-0910
Posology utilized in 
marketed use
Routine pharmacovigilance:
Routine risk minimization:
Ongoing monitoring
No activities currently planned.
Additional pharmacovigilance:
Registry/PASS for Eylea® use in 
clinical practice (A non-
interventional study to assess 
the safety and real-life 
treatment practice with 
aflibercept in patients with wet 
age-related macular 
degeneration (AMD))
Additional activity:
Post authorization efficacy 
study: clinical trial to compare 
the proactive dosing regimen 
with injection every 2 months 
with a reactive regimen based 
on visual and anatomic 
outcomes.
The Applicant reconsidered its position and now agrees to conduct a post-authorisation safety 
study to assess the risk of arterial thromboembolic and cerebrovascular events including TIAs. A 
full study protocol should be submitted to the CHMP before study initiation. 
To answer to the remaining issue regarding the optimal dosing frequency, the Applicant should 
commit to submit a post-authorisation randomised study with primary objective to compare the 
proactive 8-weekly injections to a reactive regimen based on visual and anatomic outcomes. 
The Applicant has agreed to provide educational material for physicians and patients and has 
submitted a detailed outline of the requested educational materials in Annex 8 with the revised 
RMP. 
Moreover, the final cross-sectional observational study protocol to assess the knowledge and 
understanding of physicians and patients of the key messages in the educational material should 
be provided to the CHMP before study initiation. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below 
pharmacovigilance activity(ies) in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns: 
Description
Due date
A non-interventional study to assess the safety and real-life treatment practice 
Final study 
with aflibercept in patients with wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
report 31 
(Included in RMP- Final study protocol: February 2013)
Long-term safety extension study VGFT-OD-0910 (Included in RMP)
December 
2018
Final study 
report:                     
April 2015
A post-authorisation safety study to evaluate physician and patient knowledge 
Final study 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 77/83
Description
Due date
of information on safety and safe use for Eylea in Europe. (Included in RMP -
report 31 
Final study protocol Feb 2013)
December 
2014
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required:
All ophthalmological clinics where EYLEA is expected to be used are provided with a physician 
information pack containing  physician information which includes the Summary of Product 
Characteristics, an intravitreal injection procedure video and -pictogram as well as patient 
information packs. The patient information packs include the patient information leaflet, a patient 
information booklet and an audio-CD. The key safety messages of the educational materials are 
outlined in chapter 4, conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product.
2.8.  User consultation
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by 
the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use.
3.
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits
Beneficial effects
Neovascular age-related macular degeneration is a chronic, progressive, degenerative condition 
affecting the eye, which, left untreated, results in moderate to severe visual loss. Potential benefits
of therapies in this area are prevention of progression of vision loss, and improvement of reduced 
vision. 
Anti-angiogenic therapy with the vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor ranibizumab is 
currently the treatment of choice for neovascular AMD. Monthly injections of ranibizumab have 
been shown to prevent moderate vision loss in over 90% of patients, and improve vision by an 
average of at least 7 letters after 1 year of treatment, with over 30% of patients gaining at least 
15 letters of vision.
The sought indication of “treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
for adults” implies a disease modifying effect, in that inhibition of VEGF reduces neovascularisation 
and vessel leakage, and is accompanied by an improvement in clinical signs and symptoms 
(macular thickness and vision). This is not a first-in-class product and the development program 
has been designed to demonstrate non-inferiority against an existing VEGF inhibitor. As such the 
clinical trials were designed to provide long-term (2-year) data. 
The development plan of the anti-VEGF treatment Eylea is satisfactory and in agreement with the 
historical development of other treatments for Wet AMD. As Ranibizumab (Lucentis) is currently the 
gold standard therapy for patients suffering from wet AMD, it was selected as comparator in the 
pivotal non-inferiority studies. 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 78/83
A total of 1217 and 1098 patients were respectively randomized in two pivotal studies, VIEW 1 and 
VIEW 2. The choice of the primary criteria was discussed and agreed through scientific advices. All 
criteria or methods used for assessment are well validated for the pathology.
The primary endpoint, i.e. proportion of subjects maintaining vision at Week 52, was met for all 
VEGF Trap-Eye treatment regimens and established the non-inferiority of VEGF Trap-Eye to 
ranibizumab (at a pre-specified 10% margin). The statistical test sequence showed confirmatory 
results with narrow confidence intervals (i.e. ≤ 3.1% and ≤ 2.6 %, in VIEW 1 and in VIEW 2, 
respectively). These intervals were well below the more stringent non-inferiority margin of 7% 
which was recommended by the Scientific Advice in 2007 specifically for the pooled analysis, with 
respect to the more modest difference with placebo observed for pegaptanib (i.e. 14%).
Data from the two pivotal studies show that injections of VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks (initiated  
with three monthly injections) were non-inferior to monthly injections of ranibizumab, with 95% of 
patients maintaining vision (ie, losing <15 letters) at Year 1. Results for the secondary endpoints 
show further benefits and support the comparable efficacy of the two therapies; subjects gained an 
average of 8 letters of vision, with 31% gaining at least 15 letters; choroidal neovascularisation 
area decreased by an average of 4 mm2, and visual function questionnaire test scores improved by 
an average of 5 points. These benefits were evident across all subgroups and regions. 
The analysis of the change from baseline in ETDRS letter score in the 2Q4 group vs RQ4 group was 
the first ordered comparison for testing superiority. Results, in study VIEW 1, showed superiority of 
VEGF Trap 2Q4 regimen over ranibizumab (p=0.0054) however, no superiority was found in Study 
VIEW 2. Therefore no superiority of Eylea over ranibizumab could be demonstrated. The 2Q8 
regimen was chosen as it reduces the number of injections.
The two year results show that the efficacy is maintained over the second year of treatment 
despite a slight drop in vision (1-2 letters of ETDRS Chart) and stagnation or slight decrease in 
improvements of the morphologic criteria based on OCT examinations. 
Two Year data from the two pivotal studies show that capped-PRN injections of VEGF Trap-Eye 
given 8-weekly at entry in Year 1 (2Q8) were non-inferior to capped-PRN injections of ranibizumab, 
with respectively, 92.4% vs 91.6% of patients maintaining vision at Year 2. Results for the 
secondary endpoints show that meaningful benefits were also maintained and support the 
comparable efficacy of the two therapies. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects.
The non inferiority over ranibizumab monthly administered was demonstrated by 1-year for all 
fixed proposed dosages and regimens, i.e. 0.5Q4, 2Q4 and 2Q8, and these results have been 
further confirmed at two years. But, as no fixed regimen was maintained as comparator in the 
second year, uncertainties remain whether the proposed fixed 2Q8 regimen offers the best long-
term benefit. Provision of further long term data at the conclusion of study VGFT-OD-0910 should 
help to elucidate this point.
The results of Year 2 of the studies failed in appropriately providing guidance to clinicians in the 
optimal dosing regimen required to maintain initial improvement in vision. Indeed, it is presently 
not totally clarified whether a rigid dosing schedule with a maximum dosing interval of 8 weeks or 
retreatment on a capped-PRN basis, are required to maintain the optimal efficacy of VEGF Trap-Eye 
beyond Year 1. The results submitted for the second year using reactive dosing (PRN), instead of  
proactive dosing in Year 1, suggest that a part of patients may benefit from less or more frequent 
dosing than the 2Q8 dosings.  This is of importance, since the main benefit of this product over the 
existing standard of care would be the reduced frequency of injections required to produce a 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 79/83
similar effect. Therefore, the CHMP recommended that this point be further investigated through a 
post-marketing study.
Risks
Unfavourable effects
The safety database for VEGF Trap-Eye has not highlighted any major safety concerns. Several of 
the commonly reported adverse events are associated with the injection procedure and may be 
considered non-serious or easily manageable (conjunctival haemorrhage, eye pain, transient rise in 
intraocular pressure). Rates of more serious events such as endophthalmitis were low, and there 
does not appear to be any significant risk of intraocular inflammation. 
The risk of clinically significant decrease in visual acuity appeared to be slightly higher in the VEGF 
Trap-Eye groups than in the ranibizumab control group. 
The most common ocular adverse reactions (in at least 5% of patients treated with Eylea) were 
conjunctival haemorrhage, eye pain, cataract, vitreous detachment, vitreous floaters and increased 
intraocular pressure. 
In addition, cases of endophtalmitis have been associated with intravitreal injections of aflibercept 
as well as retinal detachment, retinal haemorrhage and retinal tear. 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity with aflibercept. The 
number of positive anti-drug antibodies (ADA) was similar between the treatment groups in the 
pivotal studies. 
Hypertension was a very common non-ocular adverse event. Hypersensitivity as well as Arterial 
thromboembolic events (ATEs) were commonly reported. One case of transient ischemic attack 
(TIA) was considered to be related to study drug. TEAEs of myocardial infarction, congestive 
cardiac failure were reported in low rate. These events will specifically be monitored post-
marketing.
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects
Aflibercept is a recombinant protein consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors, and acts as a 
soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and PlGF with higher affinity than their natural receptors, 
leading to endothelial cell proliferation and neovascularization. With regards to the fact that almost 
20% of drug substance goes through the systemic circulation and given the potential role of VEGF 
in the systemic adverse events, systemic effects of VEGF Trap-eye cannot be excluded. Adverse 
reactions related to this inhibition: hypertension, arterial thromboembolic events, haemorrhage 
have been reported during the safety review of study data. It has been postulated that a link exists 
between use of intravitreal VEGF inhibitors and an increased risk of arterial thromboembolic 
events.
The global rate of arterial thromboembolic events was higher in VEGF Trap-eye groups (3.2%) 
compared to 1.8% in ranibizumab group. The number of cerebrovascular events was significantly 
higher in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups compared with ranibizumab, especially in the sub-group ≥ 85 
years, during the first year of treatment. Two-year data showed also the increased number of 
cerebrovascular events and TIAs in the VEGF Trap-Eye groups vs ranibizumab.  Two deaths (CVA, 
ischemic stroke) were considered as treatment related. The applicant agreed to conduct a non-
interventional postmarketing study addressing the risk of ATEs, CVAs, and TIAs.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 80/83
Balance
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Data from the two pivotal studies demonstrate that injections of VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks 
(initiated  three early monthly injections) were non-inferior to monthly injections of ranibizumab, 
with 95% of patients maintaining vision (ie, losing <15 letters) and established the non-inferiority 
of VEGF Trap-Eye to ranibizumab (at a pre-specified 10% margin).
Results for the secondary endpoints show further benefits and support the comparable efficacy of 
the two therapies. These benefits were evident across all subgroups and regions. 
The results of Year 2 of the studies failed in appropriately elucidating the optimal dosing regimen 
required to maintain initial improvement in vision. This is the subject of a post-authorisation 
measure.
The safety database for VEGF Trap-Eye has not evidenced any unexpected or major safety 
concerns. Several of the commonly reported adverse events are associated with the injection 
procedure and may be considered non-serious or easily manageable (conjunctival haemorrhage, 
eye pain, transient rise in intraocular pressure). Rates of more serious events such as 
endophthalmitis were low, and there does not appear to be any significant risk of intraocular 
inflammation. 
The applicant agreed to conduct a non-interventional postmarketing study to elucidate the risk of 
ATEs, CVAs, and TIAs.
Benefit-risk balance
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment
The two pivotal studies demonstrated that injections of VEGF Trap-Eye every 8 weeks (initiated 
with three monthly injections) were non-inferior to monthly injections of ranibizumab, with 95% of 
patients maintaining vision (ie, losing <15 letters) at Year 1. Results for the secondary endpoints 
support the comparable efficacy of the two therapies.
Results, in study VIEW 1, showed superiority of VEGF Trap 2Q4 regimen over ranibizumab 
(p=0.0054) however, no superiority was found in Study VIEW 2. Therefore no superiority for the 
2Q8 regimen over ranizumab was demonstrated.
The CHMP would like to further elucidate the optimal dosing to be used beyond one year of 
treatment, as uncertainties remain. A post-marketing study will be performed by the Applicant. 
(Please refer to efficacy conclusions). 
No major or unexpected safety concerns arise from the safety database for VEGF Trap-Eye.
Further elucidation on long term safety and the risk of arterial thromboembolic events, including 
cerebrovascular events and TIAs, will be provided by post-marketing studies.
4. Recommendations
Outcome
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Eylea in the 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 81/83
treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) (see section 5.1)
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions:
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation 
Risk Management System 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market.
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 7 of the Risk Management Plan presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing 
Authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP).
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, 
the updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR).
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted
 When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities
 Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached

At the request of the European Medicines Agency.
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product
Prior to launch in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree the 
final educational material with the National Competent Authority.
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussions and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where EYLEA is marketed, at launch and after launch all 
ophthalmological clinics where EYLEA is expected to be used are provided with a physician 
information pack containing the following elements:




Physician information 
Intravitreal injection procedure video 
Intravitreal injection procedure pictogram 
Patient information packs 
The physician information should contain the following key elements: 





The Summary of Product Characteristics 
Sterile techniques, including periocular and ocular disinfection to minimise the risk of infection 
Use of antibiotics
Use of povidone iodine or equivalent
Techniques for the intravitreal injection 
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 82/83


Patient monitoring after intravitreal injection 
Key signs and symptoms of intravitreal injection related adverse events including 
endophthalmitis, increased intraocular pressure, conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain, vitreous 
detachment, vitreous floaters, retinal pigment epithelium tear and traumatic cataract
 Management of intravitreal injection related adverse events 
The patient information pack should be provided in both the form of a patient information booklet 
and an audio-CD that contain following key elements: 


Patient information leaflet
How to prepare for EYLEA treatment 
 What are the steps following treatment with EYLEA 

Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events including endophthalmitis, increased 
intraocular pressure, conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain, vitreous detachment, vitreous 
floaters, retinal pigment epithelium tear and traumatic cataract 
 When to seek urgent attention from their health care provider 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures:
Description
Due date
To perform a post-authorisation randomised study with the primary objective 
Final study report 
of comparing the standard regime of injections every 8 weeks with a reactive 
regimen based on visual and anatomic outcomes, based on a CHMP approved 
submission: 31 
December 2017
protocol.
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product to be implemented by the Member States.
Not applicable.
New Active Substance Status
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that Aflibercept is qualified as a new active substance.
CHMP assessment report
EMA/646256/2012
Page 83/83
