SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Fabrazyme.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 September 2003. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Fabrazyme  is  a  recombinant  human  α-galactosidase  (r-hαGAL),  INN:  agalsidase  beta,  which  is 
produced by genetically engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. Recombinant hαGAL is a 
highly  purified  recombinant  form  of  the  naturally  occurring  human  lysosomal  hydrolase  enzyme 
responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  globotriaosylceramide  (ceramide  trihexoside;  CTH;  GL-3).  The 
rationale  for  enzyme  replacement  therapy  is  to  restore  a  level  of  enzymatic  activity  sufficient  to 
hydrolyse the accumulated substrate. After administration, agalsidase beta is rapidly removed from the 
circulation and taken up by vascular endothelial and parenchymal cells into lysosomes, likely through 
the  mannose-6-phosphate,  mannose  and  asialoglycoprotein  receptors.    The  proposed  indication  of 
Fabrazyme is long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry 
disease. 
Fabry  Disease  is  a  rare  X-linked  recessive  glycosphingolipid  storage  disorder  that  is  caused  by 
deficient  activity  –  subnormal  or  absent  -  of  the  lysosomal  enzyme,  α-galactosidase  A.  It  is  an 
extremely rare disorder, with an estimated prevalence of 500 to 1000 patients within the EU.  
The  absence  of  the  enzyme  leads  to  progressive  accumulation  of  neutral  glycosphingolipids, 
predominantly  ceramide  trihexoside  (CTH),  in  most  tissues  and  cell  types,  particularly  the  vascular 
endothelial  and  smooth-muscle  cells  leading  to  ischaemia  and  infarction.  Fabry  Disease  is  a 
heterogeneous multisystemic disorder with variable onset of symptoms affecting the nervous system, 
kidneys, heart, skin and gastrointestinal system. There are also atypical variants for which either renal 
or cardiac involvement is the only problem. It is not possible to predict the phenotype based on current 
knowledge  of  the  different  genotypes  described  for  this  disease.  The  presentation  of  the  disease  is 
highly  heterogeneous.  Early  manifestations  in  childhood  or  adolescense  may  include  crises  of 
excruciating pain in the extremities, angiokeratoma, hypohydrosis and corneal and lenticular opacities. 
In the second or third decade of life, early renal accumulation of glycosphingolipids has been observed 
throughout  the  renal  vessels  and  glomeruli,  resulting  on  the  onset  of  renal  insufficiency.  Premature 
death  usually  occurs  in  the  fourth  or  fifth  decade  of  life  and  results  from  renal,  cardiac,  or 
cerebrovascular  complications.  Approximately  one-third  of  heterozygous  female  carriers  of  Fabry 
Disease  ultimately  become  symptomatic.  At  present  there  is  no  specific  curative  treatment  for  the 
condition and patient management is limited to symptom control and supportive measures.  
Fabrazyme treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients 
with Fabry disease or other inherited  metabolic diseases. The recommended dose of Fabrazyme is  1 
mg/kg  body  weight,  administered  once  every  2  weeks,  administered  by  intravenous  infusion. 
Fabrazyme is for intravenous use in adults. No studies in special patient populations including children 
(0-16 years), in patients older than 65 years and those with hepatic impairment have been performed 
and  no  dosage  regimen  can  presently  be  recommended  in  these  patients.  No  dose  adjustment  is 
necessary for patients with renal insufficiency. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Fabrazyme is a lyophilised sterile dosage form. The  active substance agalsidase beta is produced by 
recombinant DNA technology. The finished product is supplied as powder for concentrate for solution 
for infusion that should be reconstituted and diluted prior to infusion. 
One  20ml  glass  vial  of  Fabrazyme  contains  35  mg  of  agalsidase  beta  as  active  ingredient  (5  mg/ml 
after reconstitution with the appropriate volume  of water for  injections. The formulation  used  in the 
pivotal  clinical  trials  is  equivalent  to  the  commercial  formulation.  Initial  clinical  trial  material  was 
1/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
produced  as  a  lower  volume  fill.  In  addition,  the  active  ingredient  of  this  clinical  trial  material  was 
produced at a lower fermentation scale. Biochemical equivalence between the material produced at the 
different scales has been demonstrated. 
Development studies with the excipients showed a stable formulation with good cake properties. The 
excipient  mannitol  is  a  typical  lyoprotectant  and  tonicity  agent.  The  lyophilisation  cycle  initially 
developed for the phase 1 / 2 clinical trial material was optimised for the commercial product. 
The  compatibility  of  r-hαGAL  with  the  0.9%  NaCl  infusion  solution  and  typical  infusion  bags  has 
been verified. 
Active substance 
Introduction 
R-hαGAL is a non-covalently-linked homodimer with an approximate molecular weight of 100 kDa. 
The theoretical mass of the monomeric peptide is 45,349 Da (excluding the mass of the carbohydrate 
chains). The full-length cDNA for each subunit encodes a polypeptide of 429 amino acids. The mature 
r-hαGAL  monomer  is  composed  of  398  amino  acids  with  three  N-linked  glycosylation  sites  at 
asparagines  108,  161  and  184,  with  the  predominant  carbohydrate  structures  at  these  sites  being 
fucosylated  biantennary  bisialylated  complex,  monophosphorylated  mannose7  oligomannose,  and 
biphosphorylated mannose7 oligomannose, respectively. 
Specifications and routine tests 
Each batch of active ingredient is tested for identity, purity, and potency. The specifications according 
to which the tests are performed are justified by batch data as well as data obtained for batches used in 
preclinical studies and clinical trials.  
All  routine  methods  used  as  control  or  release  tests  of  starting  materials,  process  intermediate,  drug 
product and stability samples were validated when appropriate.  
No compendial reference standard of r-hαGAL is currently available. The company has developed its 
own  reference  standards  for  product  testing  purposes.  The  preparation,  storage  conditions, 
characterisation  and  periodic  re-evaluation  of  the  primary  reference  standard  has  sufficiently  been 
described. 
Development Genetics and Cell Bank System 
Agalsidase  beta  is  produced  by  mammalian  cell  culture  using  a  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  (CHO)cell 
line  co  transfected  with  a  recombinant  plasmid  containing  DNA  sequences  encoding  the  α-
galactosidase  protein.  A  stable  subcloned  sell  line  expressing α-galactosidase  was  used  to  prepare  a 
master cell bank (MCB). The MCB has been fully characterised, as were the WCB and EOP (end of 
production) cells. Results  were  typical  for  a cell substrate  of  Chinese  Hamster origin. There was  no 
evidence of fungal, bacterial or mycoplasmal contamination. No viral particles apart from A- and C-
type  particles  were  detected.  A  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  were  negative  for  infective 
endogenous or adventitious viruses, including infective retroviruses. 
Fermentation and Harvesting 
Production of the active ingredient is performed by Genzyme, Framingham, Massachusetts, USA. The 
protein  is  produced  by  a  continuous  harvest  fermentation  using  cells  from  the  Working  Cell  Bank 
(WCB) which is derived from the MCB. 
Comprehensive  details  on  fermentation  conditions,  raw  materials,  growth  media  used  in  cell  culture 
and in-process controls were provided. All materials of animal origin comply with the CPMP note for 
guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via 
medicinal products. Validation data for fermentation lots were provided.  
Harvests  are  stored  in  dedicated  containers  until  further  processing.  The  suitability  of  these  holding 
conditions has been confirmed.  
Purification 
Multiple  days  of  harvest  meeting  specifications  are  collected  from  the  bioreactor  and  after  filtration 
loaded onto the first column. Further purification by 4 column chromatography steps, utilising several 
2/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
modes of separation, takes place before the product is being concentrated, diafiltered and diluted to a 
target  concentration.  Full  details  on  reagents,  column  sanitisation  and  qualification  have  been 
provided.  Storage  times  and  conditions  of  the  intermediates  have  been  validated  satisfactorily.    In 
process control testing is conducted on all column eluates. 
Characterisation 
The  company  to  investigate  the  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  structure  and  post-translational 
modifications  has  performed  comprehensive  structural  analysis  of  agalsidase  beta.  The  amino  acid 
sequence of agalsidase beta was proven to be identical to human α-galactosidase.  
No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  three  r-hαGAL  drug  substance  lots  and  the  reference 
standard in any of the tests performed. 
Process validation 
Three consecutive cell culture runs including cell thawing, inoculum preparation and the subsequent 
culturing  of  cells  using  two  bioreactors  validated  the  cell  culture  process.  Three  consecutive  runs 
including  clarification,  purification  and  formulation  to  produce  the  formulated  drug  substance 
validated the purification process.  
Cleaning  processes  of  the  different  columns  and  ultrafiltration/diafiltration  system  are  appropriately 
validated. Validation of the nanofiltration step, which was added as an additional virus removal step, 
comprises  verification  of  the  physical  parameters  of  the  filtration  process  by  measuring  integrity 
before  and  after  filter  use,  filtration  pressure  differentials  throughout  the  process  and  flux  rates 
throughout the process for three consecutive runs.  
Other ingredients 
Excipients 
The excipients in the finished product are mannitol, sodium phosphate buffer, and water for injection 
and nitrogen gas. There are no Ph. Eur. monographs for the sodium salts used in the phosphate buffer. 
However, the company provides assurance that these salts are tested to meet Ph. Eur. specifications for 
comparable  sodium  phosphate  salts  with  different  degrees  of  hydration.  The  other  excipients  are 
subject to USP/Ph.Eur. test specifications. 
Packaging material 
Type  I  glass  lyophilisation  vials  of  20  ml  capacity  manufactured  from  borosilicate  glass  tubing  and 
sulphur  treated  are  used  to  strengthen  the  glass  and  limit  potential  protein  adsorption.  Butyl 
lyophilisation stoppers that have  been siliconised close the vials and the stoppers are crimped to the 
vials by an aluminium seal that has a plastic 'flip off' button. During the Pharmaceutical Development 
studies, bacteriological tests and sterility tests were carried out to confirm the integrity of the closure 
system. The packaging components comply with Ph. Eur. requirements.  
Product development and finished product 
Method of Preparation 
r-hαGAL active substance is formulated to 5.0 mg r-hαGAL per ml by the addition of mannitol to a 
final concentration of 3% (w/w). This formulated drug substance is 0.22 µm filtered into a sterilised 
vessel.  Sterile  filtration,  filling  and  lyophilisation  takes  place  at  Genzyme’s  Allston  Landing 
Facility.Vials are aseptically filled with a target weight. After filling, the vials are partially stoppered 
and subsequently loaded to the lyophiliser. Filled vials are capped, stored under quarantine at 2-8  oC 
and  subjected  twice  to  a  visual  inspection.  Finally,  the  vials  are  labelled  and  packaged.The 
manufacturing process has extensively been validated and comprised validation of the shipping vessel, 
filters  used,  container  closure  and  package  integrity,  sterilisation  and  depyrogenation  processes,  and 
validation of formulation, sterile filtration and lyophilisation. 
Control tests on the intermediate and finished product 
Acceptable  tests  and  specifications  have  been  defined  for  routine  release  of  the  intermediate  and 
finished product. 
3/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The company has demonstrated that the assays validated for the active substance are also suitable for 
this testing. 
Stability of the finished product 
Three  batches  of  phase  3  finished  product  were  placed  in  stability  at  2-8  oC.  In  addition,  five  lots 
manufactured  using  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  were  placed  on  stability.  The 
stability studies for these lots are ongoing through 36 months. The results indicate that the r-hαGAL 
finished product is stable for 12- 18 months when stored at 2-8 oC.  
Accelerated  stability  data  did  not  show  any  significant  decrease  in  purity  or  specific  activity.  All 
measured parameters remained within the specified limits. 
The stability of the finished product is monitored in real-time studies, which are still ongoing. In the 
light of these results, a provisional shelf life of 18 months at 2-8°C is acceptable. 
Reconstituted medicinal product 
Three lots of Fabrazyme were evaluated for stability after reconstitution. Vials were reconstituted with 
7.2  ml  of  water  for  injections  and  stored  at  2-8°C  or  25°C  for  96  hours.  All  measured  parameters 
remained within the specified limits at both storage conditions.  
The proposed storage of reconstituted Fabrazyme for up to 24 hours at 2-8  oC or at 23-27  oC can be 
accepted. 
Reconstituted and diluted medicinal product for infusion 
Stability data for three lots show that reconstituted Fabrazyme, diluted for infusion, can be kept for 72 
hours at 2-8°C, followed by a six-hour infusion period at room temperature. The proposed storage of 
Fabrazyme,  diluted  for  infusion  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  for  up  to  24  hours  at  2-8  oC  can  be 
accepted. 
Virological documentation 
The cell bank system was determined to be free of microbial contamination. The company provided 
satisfactory  information  to  demonstrate  that  the  materials  of  bovine  origin  are  compliant  with  the 
criteria of the TSE guideline. Virus clearance potential has been investigated of the chromatography 
steps  and  the  nanofiltration  step.  Full  details  on  the  scaled  down,  viral  spiking  studies  on  the  four 
relevant  chromatographic  steps  and 
the  nanofiltration  have  been  provided.  Each  column 
chromatography step was evaluated separately with several model viruses. From these data it can be 
concluded  that  the  combination  of  the  column  steps  and  the  nanofiltration,  which  represent  a  broad 
spectrum of chromatographic separation, provides a considerable potential for virus removal. The viral 
safety of agalsidase beta is sufficiently demonstrated by the extensive test strategy (cell bank system, 
bioreactor  harvest,  and  biological  reagents)  for  viral  contamination  and  the  high  capacity  of  the 
purification process for virus removal. 
Conclusion 
Appropriate  commitments  were  made  by  the  company  to  provide,  after  authorisation,  further 
information on various parts of the documentation.  
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vivo studies 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  were  evaluated  in  a  mouse  model  of  Fabry  disease.  These  mice  have 
considerable  accumulation  of  globotriaosylceramide  (GL-3)  in  the  liver,  skin,  spleen,  heart  and 
kidneys.  After  treatment  with  a  single  low  dose  of  agalsidase  beta,  the  concentration  of  GL-3  was 
significantly  reduced  in  liver,  heart,  spleen  and  plasma.  Furthermore,  multiple  doses  of  0.03  to  3.0 
mg/kg  provided  significant  progressive  reduction  of  GL-3  in    liver,  heart,  spleen,  skin  and  kidney 
(98%,  99%,  83%,  77%  and  24%  respectively).  Agalsidase  beta  reduced  accumulation  of  GL-3  in  a 
dose and time dependent manner. The reduction was maintained for several weeks post administration. 
4/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General pharmacodynamics 
Cardiovascular  and  respiratory  toxicity  were  examined  in  a  cardiac  function  study  in  dogs  with  no 
indications  of  any  potential  safety  pharmacological  problems.  Any  further  safety  pharmacology 
studies to assess the neurological effects of r-hαGAL were not performed, the argument being that r-
hα-galactosidase is a protein and is unlikely to cross the blood-brain barrier. Neurological toxicity is 
therefore not expected.  
Pharmacokinetics 
After intravenous injection in mice and rats, r-hαGAL is rapidly cleared from the circulation uptake 
with distribution predominantly to the liver and to a lesser extent to the spleen and kidneys. Little or 
no r-hαGAL activity is recovered from the brain, heart, or lung. In rats and dogs clearance is rapid and 
serum half-lives are short. Elimination of r-hαGAL from serum in rats and dogs followed first order 
kinetics at lower doses. At higher doses, elimination was biphasic with a relatively slow initial phase 
and a faster terminal phase. After single dosing in rats and dogs, a less than dose-proportional increase 
in serum AUC levels was observed.  
After repeat dosing for 27 weeks in rats, post-dose serum concentrations were 2 fold higher in week 
26  compared  to  post-dose  samples  on  Day  1.  In  addition,  following  27  weekly  doses  levels  of  rh-
αGAL in the liver were also increased (2-fold). This can be explained by the fact that at low doses r-
hαGAL  is  eliminated  by  first  order  kinetics.    At  the  higher  doses  however,  the  elimination  follows 
non-linear  kinetics,  suggesting  a  saturable  process.    At  higher  doses  each  successive  dose 
administration adds to the circulating plasma and/or liver concentration of enzyme remaining from the 
previous  dose  or  doses,  resulting  in  accumulation.    While  accumulation  was  observed  following  27 
weekly  injections  of  high  doses  of  r-hαGAL,  there  was  no  clinical  or  histopathological  evidence  of 
liver toxicity in the rats.   When body weight and body surface area are taken into account, the high 
dose administered to rats is 5 times greater than the dose administered to humans.  In addition, because 
the dosing regimen is every 2 weeks in humans as opposed to the every week schedule in the rat, the 
safety  margin  in  humans  for  liver  accumulation  is  higher.  It  is  not  known  whether  r-hαGAL 
distributes to the foetus nor whether it passes into milk and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
In two acute toxicity studies in rats r-hαGAL was well tolerated at high doses. 
In  the  cardiac  function  study  in  dogs,  no  acute  cardiac  effects  were  observed  following  a  single 
administration  at  intermediate  doses  of  r-hαGAL.  A  transient  and  immediate  hypotension  was 
observed in 5 of 6 dogs administered r-hαGAL at a high dose. Heart rate, respiration rate, and central 
venous  pressure  were  not  affected  significantly  or  to  the  same  degree  as  blood  pressure.  All 
parameters were considered normal 40 minutes post-dose. Moreover, cardiovascular effects were not 
observed in the clinical setting. 
Repeated dose studies 
There is only one repeated dose toxicity study in the dossier. In this study Sprague Dawley rats were 
intravenously  (bolus)  dosed  with  3  different  doses  r-hαGAL  weekly  for  27  weeks.  Severe 
hypoactivity, with associated cyanosis, laboured breathing and swelling of extremities were observed 
after dosing in Week 3.  These symptoms were consistent with a hypersensitivity response and could 
be  prevented  in  subsequent  weeks  by  diphenhydramine  pre-treatment.  There  was  no  mortality  or 
treatment-related findings in clinical pathology parameters, macroscopic or microscopic observations 
or in organ weights. The antibody response in this study was evaluated using an ELISA method. As 
could  be  expected,  the  majority  of  animals  developed  antibodies  to  r-hαGAL  after  12  weekly 
injections. After an initial increase in antibody titer some animals did not show a detectable antibody 
titre at Week 24, which is considered likely to be a result of the development of tolerance. There was 
no obvious relationship between dose and antibody titre or dose and development of tolerance. There 
was  no  obvious  relationship  between  antibody  titre  and  dose  or  antibody  titre  and  sex.    The  no-
observable-adverse-effect-level  (NOAEL)  for  r-hαGAL  following  diphenhydramine  hydrochloride 
pretreatment was the highest dose administered. Although there is no information on possible masking 
5/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
of  toxic  effects  by  the  neutralising  capacity  of  the  antibodies  and  by  the  pretreatment  with 
diphenhydramine,  this  was  considered  acceptable  since  both  factors  occur  also  in  the  clinical 
application.  
The  highest  administered  dose  was  equivalent  to  5  times  (based  upon  equivalent  body  surface  area) 
the  highest  dose  of  1  mg/kg  administered  in  the  Phase  III  study  and  the  maximum  recommended 
therapeutic dose. Moreover, dosing in preclinical studies was performed every week and in the clinical 
situation dosing occurred only once in two weeks.  
Genotoxicity 
Mutagenicity  studies  were  not  performed.  This  is  considered  acceptable  based  on  the  nature  of  the 
compound. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with r-hαGAL, although the compound is intended 
for  long-term  treatment.  However,  carcinogenic  potential  is  not  anticipated  based  on  nature  of  the 
substance. 
Reproductive and development toxicity studies 
No  studies  on  fertility,  embryo-foetal  development,  and  pre-  and  postnatal  development  were 
available.  
The lack of information is adequately reflected in the SPC. In addition,  the 26-week toxicity study in 
rats did not reveal any disturbance of the reproductive organs. It is also not known whether Fabrazyme 
is excreted in human milk.  
Immunotoxicity studies 
The presence and possible effects of antigen/antibody complexes were not directly investigated in the 
preclinical studies.  However, immune complex formation may change renal function and  there was 
no  evidence  of  renal  function  changes  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  study  in  rats.  Furthermore,  an 
evaluation on kidney samples of 13 patients treated with r-hαGAL has been carried out in the pivotal 
study and there was no significant immune complex deposition present in the renal glomeruli of these 
patients.  In  addition,  12-month  human  safety  data  do  not  give  raise  to  concerns  with  reference  to 
immune deposits i.e. serum sickness and vasculitis. 
Information on the long term monitoring for the presence of antibodies to Fabrazyme and their impact 
on  clinical  safety  and  efficacy,  as  well  as  any  clinical  evidence  of  immune  complex  disease  will  be 
reported as part of the Periodic Safety Update reports. 
Local tolerance 
No specific test of local irritancy to veins or the subcutaneous tissues has been performed. However, 
the  findings  in  the  repeated  dose  and  other  studies  have  not  shown  any  signs  of  particular  local 
irritancy to veins, nor has incompatibility with blood been indicated. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment  
Exposure  to  the  environment  is  considered  very  limited  and  therefore  no  risk  of  concern  would  be 
expected. 
Product interactions 
Interaction studies have not been performed, but it was considered acceptable to address this issue in 
the clinical part. However, the theoretical risk of inhibition of intracellular α-galactosidase activity by 
chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or gentamicin is reflected in section 4.5 of the SPC. Any evidence 
of product interactions will be reported in the Periodic Safety Update Reports 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
agalsidase  beta.  The  repeat  dose  toxicity  of  agalsidase  beta  has  been  investigated  only  in  the  rat. 
However, given the availability of the 12-month human safety data, this was considered acceptable.  
6/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
It can be concluded that the package on toxicity data as a whole suffices for this compound, provided 
that careful clinical observations are made and undertakings fulfilled post-marketing.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Fabrazyme  is  indicated  for  long-term  enzyme  replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  Fabry  disease,  a 
disease caused by an inherited deficiency in the activity of the lysosomal enzyme α-galactosidase A. 
The  recommended  dose  for  Fabrazyme  is  1  mg/kg  body  weight,  to  be  administered  by  intravenous 
infusion  over  at  least  2  hours  every  other  week.  Since  Fabry  disease  is  a  genetic  disorder,  the 
replacement therapy is foreseen to be a life long therapy. 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  Good  Clinical  Practise  (GCP)  standards  and  agreed 
international ethical principles. 
Overview of Clinical Trials Programme 
Protocol 
(Country) 
Phase  Design 
FB9702-01 
I/II 
(US) 
dose-
Supportive, 
finding,  single-centre, 
safety study 
III 
AGAL-1-
002-98 
(US, 
Europe) 
randomised, 
Pivotal 
double  blind,  placebo 
multi-
controlled 
study 
centre 
No 
Pts 
15 
58 
IV Dose (mg/kg)  Duration  Status 
5 groups: 
0.3, 1.0, 3.0 qow2 
1.0, 3.0 qod1 
0 or  1 q2w2 
5 inf. 
Completed 
20 wks 
Completed 
AGAL-
005-99 
III 
Open  label  extension 
study 
58 
1 q2w2 
18 
months 
Ongoing 
= 
qod 
1. 
2. Q2w = every other week 
Clinical pharmacology 
every 
other 
day 
(48 
hours) 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies were performed within all three clinical studies.  
Pharmacodynamics 
In the dose-finding study the effects of 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg every 14 days and 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg 
every other day (48 hours) were evaluated. Each regimen was tested in three patients. In the placebo-
controlled  pivotal  phase  III  study  patients  were 
treated  with  1  mg/kg  every  14  days. 
Pharmacodynamics was studied by monitoring the concentrations of GL-3 in plasma and urine and by 
biochemical  and  histological  examinations  of  pre-  and  post-treatment  biopsy  samples  of  several 
organs. In addition, changes in physiological function and clinical parameters such as pain and quality 
of life were employed.  
From the dose-finding study, it can be extrapolated that plasma concentrations of GL-3 were cleared 
rapidly and in a dose-dependent way in the 14 days dosing schedule. Patients showed a reduction in 
plasma GL-3 concentrations following the second infusion in the 1 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg dose groups, 
whereas  in  the  0.3  mg/kg  dose  group  GL-3  did  not  substantially  decrease  until  the  third  or  fourth 
infusion. Patients receiving r-hαGAL every 48  hours showed  a response from the fourth infusion   -
after 8 days of treatment.  
In the phase I/II dose-finding study all three  doses were effective in clearing GL-3 from endothelial 
vasculature, with the lower dose (0.3 mg/kg) cohort demonstrating less consistent clearance.  
In the kidney samples of the Phase I/II study, there was also a general trend for reduction of GL-3 in 
glomerular  mesangial  cells  and  interstitial  cells  as  well  as  in  cells  from  the  tubules  and  collecting 
7/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ducts, which  held the greatest accumulation  of GL-3. In cardiac tissue, the GL-3 clearance occurred 
predominantly  from  the  endothelium  and  to  a  much  lesser  extent  in  cardiomyocytes.  In  the  liver, 
histology samples demonstrated significant GL-3 clearance in endothelial cells and Kupffer cells.  
Treatment  with  r-hαGAL  significantly  decreased  GL-3  deposits  in  the  vascular  endothelium  of 
capillary  beds  in  heart,  skin  and  kidney  in  the  phase  III  pivotal  study.  In  this  study  and  its  ongoing 
open label extension clearance of GL-3 from various other cell types in the kidney, pathologists in a 
blinded fashion assessed skin and heart.  
Preliminary  results  from  this  study  demonstrate  that  clearance  occurred  in  the  various  parenchymal 
cells, however, in some cell types clearance was less complete than in the capillary endothelial cells. 
These  data  suggest  that  the  effects  seen  on  the  deposits  seen  in  the  vascular  endothelium  can  be 
extrapolated  to  the  various  parenchymal  cells,  although  the  clearance  from  some  parenchymal  cells 
seems  slower  and  a  complete  clearance  in  these  subtypes  of  parenchymal  cells  remains  to  be 
demonstrated. 
Because  the  accumulation  of  sphingolipids  is  regarded  as  the  cause  for  the  disease  and  its  clinical 
presentation, the pharmacodynamic results indicate that a clinical improvement or stabilisation among 
patients is to be expected. However, a concluding positive assessment of efficacy is not possible based 
on the pharmacodynamic results alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Following an intravenous administration of agalsidase beta at doses of 0.3 mg, 1 mg and 3 mg/kg body 
weight,  the  AUC  values  increased  more  than  dose  proportional,  due  to  a  decrease  in  clearance, 
indicating a saturated clearance. The elimination half-life was dose dependent and ranged from 45 to 
100 minutes. 
After intravenous administration of agalsidase beta with an infusion time of ca. 300 minutes and at a 
dose  of  1  mg/kg  body  weight,  biweekly,  mean  Cmax  plasma  concentrations  ranged  from  2000  –
3500 ng/ml,  while  the  AUCinf  ranged  from  370-780 µg.min/ml.  Vss  ranged  from  0.12-0.57 l/kg, 
plasma clearance from 1.7-4.9 ml/min/kg and the mean elimination half-life from 80-120 minutes.  
Agalsidase beta is a protein and is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide hydrolysis. 
Consequently, impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of agalsidase beta 
in  a  clinically  significant  way.  Renal  elimination  of  agalsidase  beta  is  considered  to  be  a  minor 
pathway for clearance.  
The inter-subject variability was explained by normal fluctuation and the small subject population size 
(n-11).  No  apparent  correlation  was  found  between  the  AUC  and  the  antibody  titre.  Leukocytes 
appeared to accumulate enzyme activity with repeated administration and this might indicate that the 
uptake of enzyme at the cellular level in the target organs was unaffected by the antibody formation. 
In addition, the applicant has provided sufficient data to show that the presence of antibodies did not 
diminish efficacy in any of these subjects (see clinical part). 
Interaction studies 
Since  agalsidase  beta  is  a  protein,  it  is  not  expected  to  bind  to  other  proteins  and  metabolic 
degradation is expected to  follow the  pathways  of  other  proteins, i.e. peptide  hydrolysis. Agalsidase 
beta is unlikely to be a candidate for drug-drug interactions - due to the influence of cytochrome P450 
enzymes - and neither in vitro interaction studies nor specific in vivo clinical drug interaction studies 
were  therefore  carried  out.  However,  there  is  a  theoretical  risk  of  inhibition  of  intracellular  α-
galactosidase A activity by chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or gentamicin and this is appropriately 
reflected  in  section  4.5  of  the  SPC.  Any  evidence  of  product  interactions  will  be  reported  in  the 
Periodic Safety Update Reports. 
Special groups 
The  influence  of  renal  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  α-galactosidase  was  not  studied.  Renal 
elimination of α-galactosidase is considered to be a minor pathway for α-galactosidase clearance. 
The  influence  of  hepatic  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  α-galactosidase  was  not  studied.  As 
metabolism is expected to occur by peptide hydrolysis, an impaired liver function is not expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of α-galactosidase in a clinically significant way. 
8/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic measurements in children will be included as a part of a study in children. The lack 
of data in children is sufficiently reflected in the SPC. 
Bioequivalence 
Agalsidase  beta  was  produced  at  various  production  scales.  Comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
agalsidase beta produced at two of these scales was performed within the phase I/II study and did not 
reveal significant differences.  
Clinical Efficacy  
The  studies  conducted  involved  a  total  of  73  patients  with  Fabry  disease.  Fifteen  patients  were 
enrolled  in  a  Phase  I/II  open-label,  dose-finding,  single  centre  study  and  58  patients  in  a  Phase  III, 
placebo-controlled,  randomised,  multicentre  study  and  an  open  label  extension  study.  The  clinical 
trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed international ethical principles. 
Dose response study 
The  dose finding  phase I/II study, FB9702-01,  addressed  mainly pharmacokinetics  and initial safety 
and  efficacy.  Patients  were  enrolled  to  receive  agalsidase  beta  in  one  of  five  treatment  regimens  (3 
patients  per  group):  either  0.3 mg/kg,  1.0 mg/kg  or  3.0 mg/kg  administered  once  every  14  days,  or 
1.0 mg/kg  or  3.0 mg/kg  administered  once  every  48  hours,  for  a  total  of  five  infusions.  Plasma 
samples were taken at every infusion, and tissue (skin and liver) biopsy samples were taken at baseline 
and following the fifth infusion. Heart and kidney biopsies were considered as optional. Patients were 
exclusively male and aged 16 and older with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease and with largely 
unaffected kidneys, as determined by clinical and laboratory kidney function parameters.  
The study showed that enzyme replacement with agalsidase beta could be administered safely and that 
it cleared glycosphingolipids accumulated in the vascular endothelium in all organs studied.  
Dose  finding  was  based  on  plasma  GL-3  levels.  Plasma  GL-3  levels  decreased  in  a  dose-dependent 
manner for all three dose levels when the 14 day dosing schedule was used. This is compatible with 
studies  in  the  knock-out  mice.  With  regard  to  the  effect  on  the  tissue  deposit,  however,  the  dose 
dependency was less clear due to the short duration of the study. The selection of the dose 1 mg/kg for 
the phase III study was based on the most favourable benefit-risk ratio for patients as assessed in the 
Phase I/II trial.  The optimal dose in the long term, especially maintenance dosing – after clearance of 
the accumulated sphingolipids – will be further explored, as appropriate. 
Main clinical studies 
Description of the study 
The second study (AGAL-1-002-98) was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised  multi-center 
study  (US  and  Europe)  enrolling  58  patients  for  evaluation  of  safety  and  efficacy  of  r-hαGAL 
administered at a dose of 1 mg/kg every 14 days for 20 weeks (11 doses). Pharmacokinetic parameters 
and  enzyme  leukocyte  uptake  were  assessed  at  three  infusions  in  a  European  sub-cohort  of  eleven 
r-hαGAL  treated  patients.  Biopsies  from  kidney,  heart  and  skin  were  planned  for  all  patients  at 
baseline  and  after  20  weeks  of  treatment.  LM,  TEM  and  biochemical  GL-3  tissue  content  (ELISA) 
were used for GL-3 measurements. In addition, plasma  samples for GL-3 (ELISA) were obtained at 
baseline and weeks 12 and 20. 
Male or female patients (56  men and two women), aged 16 and older, without previous exposure to 
agalsidase  beta  and  a  confirmed  diagnosis  were  included.  Patients  with  kidney  failure  or  renal 
insufficiency  (defined  as  serum  creatinine  >2.2  mg/dl)  or  those  who  had  undergone  kidney 
transplantation or were on dialysis were not included. 
Patients who successfully completed this double-blind study were eligible for entry into an open-label 
extension  study  (AGAL-005-99),  during  which  all  patients,  including  those  previously  receiving 
placebo, receive r-hαGAL and long-term safety and efficacy parameters are monitored for a duration 
of 18 months. All 58 patients from the phase III study participate in the extension, and  patients have 
been on active treatment for a year or more. Assessments for efficacy and safety are being carried out 
as in the original study. A 6-month interim analysis was submitted during the review of this Marketing 
Authorisation Application. 
9/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint for this study was reduction of GL-3 accumulation from the capillary 
endothelium  of  the  kidney  to  score  0  at  week  20,  as  determined  by  LM.  Three  pathologists  who 
measured the GL-3 inclusions in the capillary endothelium by semiquantitative light microscopy using 
a scale of 0-3 evaluated the tissue deposits. The reading was blinded for the treatment allocation and 
the  sequence  of  the  biopsies.  The  secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  defined  as:  the  change  in  the 
composite  score  of  GL-3  inclusions  in  the  capillary  endothelium  of  the  kidney,  skin  and  heart 
(assessed by LM); the change in composite score of kidney tissue and urinary GL-3 levels (measured 
by ELISA); and reduction in pain as assessed by the Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire.  
Several  tertiary  endpoints  were  evaluated:  Quality  of  Life  (SF-36),    change  of  glomerular  filtration 
rate, neuropathy impairment, and autonomic function status. 
Statistical analysis 
As noted in the final study report, a number of treatment dispensing errors occurred at two study sites. 
This  resulted  in  two  patient  population  groups:  Intent-To-Treat  (ITT)  and    As-Treated.  Data  were 
analysed  for  the  groups  separately  and  the  major  results  were  consistent  in  the  two  analyses.  No 
statistically meaningful differences were observed among the treatment groups for demographic or for 
baseline disease characteristics. With the exception of the primary analysis, the data presented in this 
report reflect the data analysed by treatment actually received (As-Treated).  
Results 
Primary endpoint: 
A highly statistically significant greater proportion of patients in the agalsidase beta group achieved a 
final  kidney  majority  score  of  0  at  week  20  (p<0.001).  This  was  achieved  for  both  the  ITT  and  the 
As-Treated analyses. In the ITT analysis, 18 of the 29 (62%) patients in the r-hαGAL treatment group 
compared to 2 of the 29 (7%) patients in the placebo group showed a final majority score of zero. In 
the  As-Treated  population,  no  patients  in  the  placebo  group  demonstrated  a  final  majority  score  of 
zero, as the two  patients randomised to placebo actually had  received r-hαGAL. Thus,  20  of the  29 
(69%)  r-hαGAL-treated  patients  had  a  final  majority  score  of  zero  as  compared  to  none  in  the 
placebo-treated group. 
At baseline, 72% of patients in the r-hαGAL group and 86% of the placebo group had scores of 2 or 3, 
thus indicating a  high level  of GL-3 clearance, as reflected  by a 2 or 3-point reduction. Each of  the 
three  pathologists  independently  achieved  a  statistical  difference  between  treatment  groups  for  the 
primary endpoint (p<0.001).  
These  results  were  confirmed  by  an  interim  analysis  of  an  open  label  extension  of  the  placebo 
controlled trial in which patients from both randomisation groups are scheduled to receive Fabrazyme 
for an additional 18 months. Placebo patients analysed after receiving 6 months of treatment, achieved 
clearance of GL-3 in the vascular endothelium of the kidney. Patients continuing to receive Fabrazyme 
maintained or further improved clearance of GL-3 after 1 year of treatment.  
Secondary endpoints: 
Reductions in GL-3 inclusions by LM were observed in the vascular endothelium of the kidney, skin 
and heart tissue using a combined severity score ranging from 0 to 3 for each organ. A score reduction 
of  86%  was  found  in  the  r-hαGAL  treated  patients  compared  to  no  change  in  the  placebo  patients 
(p<0.001). The significant decrease in GL-3 deposits observed in the tissues combined was also noted 
for  each  individual  organ  (67%  score  reduction  in  heart  and  100%  score  reduction  in  skin  for 
r-hαGAL group, both p<0.001). These results were confirmed by an interim analysis of the open label 
extension of the placebo-controlled trial. 
Another secondary endpoint assessed the change in urinary and kidney GL-3 as measured by ELISA. 
Despite a large variation in urinary GL-3 levels at baseline and at week 20 (most likely explained by a 
sporadic, rather than constant, clearing of GL-3 or GL-3-containing cells into the urine), the r-hαGAL 
treated patients showed a median decrease in urinary GL-3 of 23% compared to an increase of 43% in 
the placebo-treated patients (p=0.005). GL-3 levels in the kidney decreased by 34% with r-hαGAL , 
compared to a decrease of 6% with placebo, but this was not statistically significant. 
10/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Normalisation  of  plasma  GL-3  was  found  in  the  r-hαGAL  treated  patients  compared  to  a  17% 
decrease  in  the  placebo  patients,  a  statistically  significant  difference  (p<0.001).  In  the  r-hαGAL  -
treated group, almost all patients had values below the detection level of 1.2 ng/µl. 
The secondary efficacy analysis also included an assessment of change in pain using the Short Form 
McGill Pain Questionnaire. In many of the pain score categories statistically significant improvements 
from  baseline  were  observed,  but  this  occurred  in  both  treatment  groups.  Pain  was  not  a  selection 
criterion  and  many  of  the  older  patients  were  at  a  stage  of  the  disease  where  pain  is  minimal,  and 
almost  three  quarters  of  patients  assessed  their  pain  at  baseline  as  none  or  mild.  In  addition,  pain 
medication  was  allowed,  but  no  treatment  algorithm  had  been  pre-defined.  However,  in  the  active 
treated  group  the  improved  pain  score,  although  still  non-significant,  stabilised  during  the  first  6 
months of the open extension study, thus suggesting an effect. 
Tertiary endpoints: 
Overall  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  study,  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment 
groups  were  observed  –including  quality  of  life  -  when  analysing  the  tertiary  endpoints.  However, 
patients showed little baseline pathology and the study duration of 20 weeks might not be sufficient to 
detect significant changes.  
When analysing 6-month interim data from the ongoing phase III open-label extension study, results 
indicate that the renal function remained stable during the first year of the treatment thus suggesting a 
clinical effect.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special patient groups were performed although the applicant is currently undertaking a 
study  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  Fabrazyme  in  patients  with  a  more  extensive  form  of  Fabry  disease, 
including renal impairment.  
No studies have  been performed in  children,  which is adequately reflected in the  SmPC. A  study in 
children will be performed post-authorisation.  
Impact of Antibody Development on the clinical efficacy results 
In an attempt to assess whether the formation of IgG antibodies against agalsidase beta could interfere 
with enzyme  activity, an analysis was performed to compare the primary  efficacy endpoint between 
agalsidase  beta  treated  patients  who  seroconverted  and  those  who  did  not  develop  antibodies.  There 
was  no difference in the proportion  of patients achieving a final kidney score of 0 (p=1.000). These 
results are in line with the observation that cellular uptake of agalsidase beta, as measured by uptake 
of enzyme into leukocytes, appeared not to be affected by the formation of IgG antibodies.  
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety  data  were reported  on a  total  of  73 patients from  3  clinical  studies.  One of the  studies is   an 
ongoing open label extension of the placebo controlled trial and only interim safety data from the first 
6 months of this trial (for a total exposure of 12 months) were provided. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
In  clinical  trials  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  r-hαGAL  can  be  administered  safely  at  a  dose  of  1 
mg/kg  every  2  weeks  to  patients  with  Fabry  disease.  Safety  evaluations  included  adverse  event 
monitoring, physical examinations, standard laboratory testing, vital signs, ECG, echocardiograms and 
IgG antibody to r-hαGAL. 
The  majority  of  adverse  events  reported  in  the  pivotal  study  were  assessed  as  mild  or  moderate  in 
severity. The most common adverse event was pain associated with the biopsies that were part of the 
study procedures. Postoperative pain was therefore the most frequently reported adverse event in both 
the  agalsidase  beta  (76%)  and  the  placebo  (55%)  groups.  A  statistically  significant  difference  was 
observed  for  three  adverse  events,  which  were  reported  more  frequently  in  patients  treated  with 
r-hαGAL compared to placebo. These adverse events included chills (rigors), fever and skeletal pain. 
Both  rigors  and,  in  the  majority  of  cases,  fever  were  associated  with  infusion-related  reactions. 
Skeletal pain presented primarily as neck and shoulder pain/discomfort. 
11/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Twenty (69%) patients in the r-hαGAL treatment group had at least one adverse experience that was 
thought related to their study medication versus 11 (38%) in the placebo group. Combining the safety 
data  from  the  placebo  controlled  study  and  the  open  label  extension  phase  thereof,  74%  of  patients 
treated  with  r-hαGAL  had  at  least  one  adverse  experience  that  was  thought  related  to  their  study 
medication. In the latter analysis, the adverse events related to the treatment reported in at least 10% 
were,  rigors,  sensation  of  temperature  change  (verbatim:  feeling  cold  or  warm),  fever,  headache, 
tremor,  nausea,  rhinitis,  pain  at  the  extremities,  oedema  at  the  extremities,  hypertension,  vomiting, 
myalgia, and dyspnoea. Those reported in 5 to 10% were chest pain, somnolence, anaemia, flushing, 
fatigue,    paraesthesia,    tachycardia,  bronchospasm,  abdominal  pain,  pain,  pallor,  back  pain,  throat 
tightness, pruritus, albuminuria and abnormal vision.  Almost all these events were reported as mild to 
moderate in severity.  
No  patients  died  during  these  studies,  and  no  patients  discontinued  treatment  because  of  adverse 
events.  In  the  placebo  controlled  trial  the  number  of  patients  experiencing  an  SAE  was  similar 
between the two treatment groups (five patients in each group) and none of the events were assessed 
as  being  related  to  the  study  medication.  SAEs  reported  were  pain  related  to  the  protocol-required 
biopsies,  hypotension,  chest  pain  and  haemopericardium.  All  patients  experiencing  SAEs  recovered, 
with the exception of one placebo patient who continued to have sequelae due to head trauma at study 
end.  In the extension study 13 patients experienced one or more SAEs, however only the investigators 
as being related judged 4. These four were associated with an infusion.  
The  most  commonly  reported  AE  in  the  phase  I/II  study  was  a  mild  transient  elevation  in  blood 
pressure  in  14  patients  (93%),  among  which  four  had  a  prior  history  of  hypertension.  Other  related 
adverse events were allergic reaction, pain, headache, fever and abdominal pain, all seen in three or 
four patients. 
No  patients  died  during  this  study.  Two  patients  experienced  SAEs;  one  patient  experienced 
symptoms  suggesting  a  possible  allergic  reaction.  The  symptoms  included  abdominal  discomfort, 
nausea,  diaphoresis,  and  pruritus,  vomiting  and  bradycardia.  The  symptoms  resolved  with 
discontinuation of infusion and treatment. A second patient who discontinued anticoagulation therapy 
prior  to  study  participation  developed  pulmonary  emboli;  the  investigator  could  not  rule  out  a 
relationship between study drug and this event. 
Infusion reactions 
The majority of patients developed IgG antibodies specific to r-hαGAL with approximately half of the 
patients  developing  adverse  events  on  the  day  of  the  infusion,  which  is  suggestive  of  a 
hypersensitivity-type  reaction.  The  events  reported  included  rigors,  fever,  headache,  temperature 
changed  sensation,  Fabry  pain,  hypertension  and  were  successfully  managed  with  a  reduction  in 
infusion  rate  and  with  conventional  treatment  including  antipyretics  (i.e.  ibuprofen),  antihistamines 
and/or  corticosteroids.  None  of  these  reactions  resulted  in  discontinuation  of  scheduled  infusions, 
although  2  patients  in  the  Phase  I/II  open-label,  dose  ranging  study  did  not  complete  their  fifth  and 
final infusion. 
Antibody formation 
All patients enrolled in the Fabry studies were evaluated for the development of antibodies specific to 
agalsidase beta. Monitoring included a two-step procedure; patients’ blood samples were screened for 
the presence of antibodies against agalsidase beta using an ELISA and the results were confirmed by 
using radio-immunoprecipitation or Western blot analysis. 
In  the  pivotal  study,  a  total  24  (83%)  of  29  patients  treated  with  agalsidase  beta  developed  specific 
IgG antibodies. Seroconversion was found up to the last infusion, with the first conversion seen at the 
third  infusion.  In  patients  tested,  no  IgE  antibodies  were  detected.  Fifteen  of  the  24  patients  who 
developed IgG antibodies experienced infusion-related adverse events. Eleven of these patients were 
tested for complement activation using a blood sample collected within one hour of the event, with ten 
patients  testing  positive.  The  majority  of  the  events  consisted  of  fever/chills.  Other  events  included 
hypersensitivity-like  reactions,  gastrointestinal,  cardiovascular  and/or  pain  symptoms  and  headache. 
All these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and were most often managed by reducing the 
infusion rate or by administration of antihistamines, antipyretics (e.g. ibuprofen) and, in three patients, 
12/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
the addition of corticosteroids. All 15  patients continued to receive treatment until study completion 
without additional problems. 
Similar results were obtained in the extension phase of the placebo-controlled study. In patients treated 
over 12 months the antibody response was found in general to plateau or even decrease over time. One 
patient with a low titer became negative. 
In  the  dose-ranging,  open-label  study,  eight  of  15  patients  developed  IgG  antibodies.  Of  the  eight 
patients  who  seroconverted,  four  patients  developed  symptoms  suggestive  of  a  hypersensitivity-type 
reaction. All four were negative for IgE.  
These  infusion  reactions  were  thus  not  problematic  since  they  either  subsided  or  were  manageable 
with premedications. There is no evidence of IgE-mediated hypersensitivity. In addition, the available 
human safety data and the immunohistological analysis of tissue samples in a subset of patients do not 
raise  concerns  with  reference  to  immune  deposits,  resulting  in  serum  sickness  or  vasculitis.  The 
company will continue to evaluate any clinical evidence of immune complex disease and results will 
be reported as part of the PSURs. 
Laboratory findings 
No unexpected laboratory findings were reported. The various abnormal findings could be explained 
as being manifestations of Fabry disease. 
Safety in special populations 
No studies in special patient populations were submitted and this has been sufficiently reflected in the 
SPC. A study in children will be initiated.  
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
Depletion of accumulated sphingolipids from cells in key target tissues could be of major advantage 
for the patients, for whom previously only symptomatic therapy has been available. It is evident from 
the studies performed that enzyme replacement therapy with agalsidase beta for Fabry disease resulted 
in  a  significant  and  almost  complete  clearance  of  GL-3  in  the  vascular  endothelial  cells.  Results  of 
histological  evaluation  performed  in  various  other  cell  types  demonstrated  that  GL-3  is  cleared, 
although  longer  treatment  periods  may  be  required  to  obtain  complete  clearance  in  some  cell  types. 
Also plasma GL-3 levels were reduced in patients receiving agalsidase beta.  
The  characteristic  histopathological  finding  in  Fabry  disease  is  the  accumulation  of  sphingolipids, 
ultimately leading to the morbidity associated with this disorder. The demonstrated reduction of these 
tissue deposits may be indicative for a clinical improvement or a stabilisation of the clinical condition.  
The 12-month data available through the interim report from the uncontrolled extension study suggest 
a clinical improvement and/or stabilisation of the disease course. Some improvement in the pain score 
was  maintained  through  one  year  of  treatment,  quality  of  life  scores  slightly  improved  and  kidney 
function remained stable. However, none of these clinical parameters reached a statistical significant 
improvement.  The  lack  of  clear  clinical  benefit  may  be  due  to  the  fact  that  the  patients  were  not 
selected on the basis of a particular symptom. Thus, the variability of the clinical presentation makes it 
difficult  to  demonstrate  clinical  benefits  in  the  short  term.  Longer  follow-up  is  needed  and  special 
patient  groups  need  to  be  studied  for  an  accurate  assessment  of  the  clinical  benefit,  including  the 
reversibility of organ dysfunction. Because severe end organ damage may not be expected to be fully 
reversible, starting treatment before symptoms develop should be considered. 
the  disease 
including  significant  changes 
Critical  manifestations  of 
in  renal,  cardiac  and 
cerebrovascular status and/or death can be considered important endpoints. The applicant is currently 
undertaking a study to evaluate the effect of Fabrazyme in patients, both male and female, with a more 
extensive  form  of  Fabry  disease,  including  renal  impairment.  Annual  updates  on  the  status  of  this 
study will be provided. The Market Authorisation Holder will extend the ongoing open label extension 
study  with  an  additional  follow-up  period.  Data  from  historical  controls  will  be  collected  for 
comparison.  
13/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, potential surrogate markers for the assessment of progress of disease should be explored 
further and validated. 
The dose advised is sufficiently studied and can be considered the optimal dose. The optimal dose in 
the long term, however, will be further studied. The applicant has committed to performing a clinical 
study post-authorisation to evaluate maintenance dosing regimens of agalsidase beta - after clearance 
of the accumulation of sphingolipids- and to explore, if appropriate, alternative dosing regimens. 
Antibody formation seems to be unrelated to clinical efficacy as showed when looking at the primary 
endpoint  as  well  as  uptake  of  agalsidase  beta  on  a  cellular  level.  It  therefore  appears  that 
seroconversion is not associated with in vivo neutralising activity although this possibility cannot be 
completely ruled out. 
Discussion on Clinical Safety 
In clinical trials it has been demonstrated that agalsidase beta can be administered safely at a dose of 1 
mg/kg  every 2  weeks  to  patients with  Fabry disease. No deaths  occurred during the clinical studies. 
The  majority  of  adverse  events  reported  were  assessed  as  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  The  most 
common adverse event was pain associated with the biopsies that were part of the study procedures. 
Laboratory  studies,  electrocardiogram  and  echocardiogram  showed  no  direct  toxic  effect  suggesting 
that agalsidase beta has no intrinsic toxic effect. 
The majority of patients developed IgG antibodies specific to agalsidase beta with approximately half 
of  the  patients  developing  adverse  events  on  the  day  of  the  infusion,  which  is  suggestive  of  a 
hypersensitivity-type reaction.  
The  events  reported  included  rigors,  fever,  headache,  temperature  changed  sensation,  Fabry  related 
pain,  hypertension  and  were  successfully  managed  with  conventional  anti-hypersensitivity  medical 
treatment. However, all patients were able to continue treatment with a combination of infusion rate 
reduction and administration of standard anti-allergic treatment prior to infusion.  In addition, neither 
the  incidence  nor  the  severity  of  the  infusion-associated  reactions  reported  in  patients  previously 
sensitised and re-challenged with r-hαGAL after discontinuation of treatment for up to 2 years warrant 
any  additional  concern  at  this  time.    The  activation  of  complement  noted  in  a  number  of  patients 
warrants careful examination, as this event suggests the formation of circulating immune-complexes, 
which  could  potentially  induce  immune  complex  disease.  It  is  reassuring  that  none  of  the  three 
pathologists who scored the renal biopsies detected signs of inflammation, which could be suggestive 
of  immune-complex  mediated  glomerulonephritis.  In  addition,  an  immunohistological  analysis  of 
renal  tissue  samples  in  a  subset  of  patients  did  not  demonstrate  presence  of  immune  complex 
deposition. It is therefore likely that complement activation is a transient phenomenon linked with the 
development of hypersensitivity reactions, with no  direct impact on the renal structure and function, 
and  that  immune-complexes,  if  formed,  are  rapidly  cleared  from  the  kidney.  There  is  currently 
insufficient information to determine whether patients will develop tolerance over time although data 
provided with the 6-month interim report from the extension study suggest that this may be the case.   
The applicant has indicated that any evidence of the presence of tissue bound-immune complexes will 
be  monitored.  Results  will  be  reported  as  part  of  the  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  together  with 
information on the long term monitoring for the presence of antibodies to Fabrazyme and their impact 
on safety and efficacy. In addition, any evidence of potential for drug interactions will be reported in 
PSURs. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder has committed to performing a clinical study post-authorisation 
to evaluate  maintenance  dosing regimens  of  agalsidase beta -  after clearance of  the accumulation of 
sphingolipids- and to explore, if appropriate, alternative dosing regimens. 
14/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Apart from a number of points, which can all be addressed as part of post-authorisation commitments, 
the quality of Fabrazyme is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  Viral 
safety and batch-to-batch  consistency has been documented and the relevant tests will be performed 
according to the agreed specifications. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the  primary pharmacodynamic and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided adequate evidence for 
efficacy of agalsidase beta since significant clearance of the tissue deposits of GL-3 in the key target 
organs was observed. Because the accumulation of sphingolipids is ultimately leading to the morbidity 
associated  with  the  disease  and  its  clinical  presentation,  the  pharmacodynamic  results  are  indicative 
for clinical efficacy. Although repeated  dose toxicity testing was only performed in one species, the 
overall  results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  particular  concerns  for  the  safe  use  of 
agalsidase beta. Adverse effects were not observed in the toxicity studies with rats. The lack of data on 
reproduction toxicity and consequently the recommendation to stop the medication during pregnancy 
and lactation is adequately reflected in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  agalsidase  beta  in  the  approved  indication  long-
term  treatment  of  Fabry  disease  (α-galactosidase  A  deficiency).  The  demonstrated  reduction  of 
sphingolipids in the target organs is encouraging and may be indicative for a clinical improvement or a 
stabilisation of the clinical condition. However, although positive trends were observed for the clinical 
parameters  investigated  as  secondary  endpoints,  none  of  these  parameters  reached  a  statistically 
significant  improvement.  The  indication  for  which  the  medical  product  in  question  is  intended  is 
encountered  so  rarely  that  the  applicant  cannot  reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive 
evidence/data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. In order to collect additional long-
term efficacy and safety data, the applicant has committed to complete a programme of clinical studies 
post-authorisation,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  the  annual  reassessment  of  the 
benefit/risk profile.  
Safety 
Safety data show a mild adverse event profile and reasonable tolerability to Fabrazyme. However, the 
infusion reactions and anti-agalsidase antibody formation warrant special attention post-authorisation. 
The  period  of  agalsidase  beta  treatment  in  the  clinical  trials  does  not  reflect  the  life-long  treatment 
necessary for Fabry disease. The safety database is not as large as is often the case for new medicinal 
products. However, one should realise that Fabry Disease is rare with an estimated prevalence of 500-
1000  patients  in  the  EU.  Furthermore,  since  the  structure  of  agalsidase  beta  is  very  similar  to  the 
enzyme produced naturally in humans, Fabrazyme is not likely to cause unexpected adverse events. In 
order to collect additional long-term efficacy and safety data, the applicant has committed to complete 
a  programme  of  clinical  studies  post-authorisation,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  the 
annual reassessment of the benefit/risk profile. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  documentation  provided  by  the  applicant,  it  was  concluded  that 
further data was needed to support the quality of the product. After discussing a number of issues at 
the  CPMP’s  Biotechnology  Working  Party,  the  BWP  considered  that  Fabrazyme  is  approvable  at 
present from a quality point of view.  
On the basis of the available information from on-going studies and on relevant commitments from the 
applicant, the CPMP did not consider that further preclinical and/or clinical data were needed prior to 
opinion.  
At a clarification before the CPMP, the applicant focused on the post-authorisation commitments, as 
previously defined by the CPMP.  
15/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A marketing authorisation for Fabrazyme will be granted under exceptional circumstances, subject to 
fulfilling  the  chemical  and  pharmaceutical,  as  well  as  the  clinical  follow-up  measures  and  clinical 
specific obligations undertaken by the applicant. The applicant has committed to complete the clinical 
studies within specified time frames and the results shall form the basis of the annual reassessment of 
the benefit/risk profile.  
In  view  of  the  limited  clinical  data  available,  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  has  been  expanded  in  order  to 
give the treating physician a clearer overview of the anticipated clinical effects of Fabrazyme.   
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Fabrazyme, as long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease, was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
16/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
