EMA/65766/2013 
EMEA/H/C/000370 
EPAR summary for the public 
Fabrazyme  
agalsidase beta  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Fabrazyme. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Fabrazyme. 
What is Fabrazyme? 
Fabrazyme is a medicine that contains the active substance agalsidase beta. It is available as a powder 
to be made into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
What is Fabrazyme used for? 
Fabrazyme is used to treat patients who have Fabry disease, a rare inherited disorder. Patients with 
Fabry disease do not have enough of an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase A. This enzyme normally 
breaks down a fatty substance called globotriaosylceramide (GL-3 or Gb3). If the enzyme is not 
present, GL-3 cannot be broken down and it builds up in the body’s cells, such as kidney cells.  
People with Fabry disease may have a wide range of signs and symptoms, including severe conditions 
such as kidney failure, heart problems and stroke.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Fabrazyme used? 
Only a doctor who has experience in treating patients with Fabry disease or other inherited metabolic 
diseases should give Fabrazyme. 
Fabrazyme is given once every two weeks as an infusion of 1 mg per kilogram body weight. The 
starting infusion rate should be no more than 0.25 mg per minute (15 mg per hour) to reduce the risk 
of infusion-related side effects. The infusion rate may be increased gradually with further infusions. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Fabrazyme is intended for long-term use. The infusions are given in hospital but may be given at home 
if it has been shown that the patient is tolerating the infusions well. 
How does Fabrazyme work? 
Fabrazyme is an enzyme replacement therapy. Enzyme replacement therapies provide patients with 
the enzyme they are lacking. Fabrazyme is designed to replace the human enzyme alpha galactosidase 
A, which is lacking in patients with Fabry disease. The active substance in Fabrazyme, agalsidase beta, 
is a copy of the human enzyme, produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is 
made by cells that have received a gene (DNA), which makes them able to produce the enzyme. The 
replacement enzyme helps to break down GL-3 and stops it building up in the patient’s cells. 
How has Fabrazyme been studied? 
Fabrazyme has been investigated in three studies involving a total of 73 adults. In the main study, 
Fabrazyme was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 58 patients. The study looked at the 
effects of the medicine on clearing GL-3 from the kidney. The effectiveness of Fabrazyme was also 
tested in 16 children aged between eight and 16 years who had Fabry disease. 
What benefit has Fabrazyme shown during the studies? 
In the main study, Fabrazyme produced a highly significant and almost complete clearance of GL-3 in 
the kidney cells after 20 weeks of treatment: 69% of the patients treated with Fabrazyme had the best 
score for clearance, compared with none of the patients in the placebo group. 
Children treated with Fabrazyme also had decreases in levels of GL-3 in the blood, with all children 
having normal levels after 20 weeks of treatment. This was accompanied by improvements in 
symptoms and quality of life. 
What is the risk associated with Fabrazyme? 
The most common side effects with Fabrazyme (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are caused by the 
infusion rather than the medicine. These include fever, chills, headache, paraesthesia (abnormal 
sensations like pins and needles), nausea (feeling sick), vomiting and feeling cold. For the full list of all 
side effects reported with Fabrazyme, see the package leaflet. 
Fabrazyme must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to agalsidase beta or any of 
the other ingredients. 
Why has Fabrazyme been approved? 
The CHMP decided that, for patients with Fabry disease, treatment with Fabrazyme might provide long-
term clinical benefits. The CHMP decided that Fabrazyme’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Fabrazyme 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Fabrazyme on 3 August 2001.  
The full EPAR for Fabrazyme can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
Fabrazyme  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
treatment with Fabrazyme, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2013. 
Fabrazyme  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
