Summary of risk management plan for FABRAZYME (Agalsidase beta) 
This is a summary of the RMP for FABRAZYME. The RMP details important risks of 
FABRAZYME how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about FABRAZYME’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
FABRAZYME’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how FABRAZYME 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for FABRAZYME should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
FABRAZYME’s RMP. 
1. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
FABRAZYME contains the active substance agalsidase beta and is used as enzyme replacement 
therapy in Fabry disease, where the level of α-galactosidase enzyme activity is absent or lower 
than normal. If you suffer from Fabry disease a fat substance, called globotriaosylceramide 
(GL-3), is not removed from the cells of your body and starts to accumulate in the walls of the 
blood vessels of your organs.  
FABRAZYME is indicated for use as long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency). FABRAZYME is indicated 
in adults, children and adolescents aged 8 years and older. It contains agalsidase beta as the active 
substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of FABRAZYME’s benefits can be found in 
FABRAZYME’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicine’s Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/fabrazyme 
2. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of FABRAZYME, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about FABRAZYME’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of FABRAZYME, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, outlined in the next sections. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of FABRAZYME is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ outlined in the next section. 
2.1.  LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION 
Important risks of FABRAZYME are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of FABRAZYME. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
 Table 1   List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risk  Hypersensitivity reactions 
Important potential risk 
Medication errors in the home infusion setting 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
2.2.  Summary of important risks  
 Table 2   Important risk and missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities 
and additional pharmacovigilance activities if any – Important identified risk: Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Clinical trials and postmarketing experience. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Risk factors and risk groups.
Risk minimization measures 
Patients with IgG antibodies to r-hαGAL have a greater potential to experience 
infusion associated reactions, and possibly hypersensitivity reactions. These 
patients should be treated with caution when re-administering FABRAZYME. 
Antibody status should be regularly monitored. Conversely, not all patients with 
symptoms of hypersensitivity have detectable anti- r-hαGAL IgG antibodies. 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of SmPC 
Section 2 and 4 of the PL 
Legal status 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
HCP guide:  
Educational material for HCPs administering FABRAZYME.
Patient/Caregiver guide:
Educational material for patients/caregivers receiving and/or administering 
FABRAZYME in the home setting.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Additional Pharmacovigilance activities  
New evaluation to measure effectiveness of the updated additional risk minimization 
measures.
IgG: Immunoglobulin G; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics; PL: Package Leaflet; r-hαGAL: Recombinant Human 
Alpha-Galactosidase. 
Table 3   Important risk and missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities 
and additional pharmacovigilance activities if any – Important potential risk: Medication errors in 
the home infusion setting 
Medication errors in the home infusion setting 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups.
Risk minimization measures 
Clinical trials and postmarketing data. 
Patients who infuse themselves or with the help of non-HCP, ie, caregivers or family 
members. 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
Legal status 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
HCP guide: 
Educational material for HCPs prescribing home infusions and HCPs administering 
FABRAZYME. 
Patient/Caregiver guide: 
Educational material for patients/caregivers receiving and/or administering 
FABRAZYME in the home setting (as part of key element regarding the 
reconstitution and administration instructions).
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
New evaluation to measure effectiveness of the updated additional risk minimization 
measures.
HCP: Healthcare Professional. 
Table 4   Important risk and missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities 
and additional pharmacovigilance activities if any – Missing information: Use in pregnant and 
lactating women 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
Section 4.6 of SmPC 
Section 2 of the PL 
Legal status 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study MSC12868 (AGAL02603) (Lactation study). 
Study AGAL19211 (FU2 057.4) (FABRY Registry/Pregnancy sub-registry). 
PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.3.  Post-authorization development plan  
2.3.1.  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
FABRAZYME. 
2.3.2.  Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
Table 5   Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
FABRAZYME home infusion educational materials effectiveness evaluation (Category 3) 
Purpose and objectives to be defined 
Lactation Study MSC12868 (AGAL02603) (Category 3) 
The objectives of this study are to determine whether α-GAL activity is present in the breast milk of mothers with Fabry 
disease who are being treated with FABRAZYME during lactation, to measure breast milk production and composition 
(volume, protein and fat content) in women with Fabry disease who receive FABRAZYME during lactation, and to determine 
whether FABRAZYME affects the growth, development, and immunologic response of infants born to mothers with Fabry 
disease who receive FABRAZYME during lactation. 
FABRY Registry/Pregnancy sub-registry, AGAL19211 (FU2 057.4) (Category 3) 
The rationale of the Fabry Registry Pregnancy Sub-Registry is to evaluate the safety of agalsidase beta use during 
pregnancy. The primary objective of this Sub-Registry is to track pregnancy outcomes in women with Fabry disease who 
receive agalsidase beta during pregnancy and in women with Fabry disease who do not receive agalsidase beta during 
pregnancy. Additionally, this Sub-Registry is designed to follow infants born to women with Fabry disease for 3 years 
post-partum. 
α-GAL: Alpha-Galactosidase. 
