EMA/471013/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002097 
EPAR summary for the public 
Fampyra 
fampridine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Fampyra. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Fampyra. 
For practical information about using Fampyra, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Fampyra and what is it used for? 
Fampyra is a medicine used to improve walking ability in adults with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have 
a walking disability.  
MS is a disease of the nerves, in which inflammation destroys the protective sheath around the nerves. 
It contains the active substance fampridine. 
How is Fampyra used? 
Fampyra is available as 10 mg tablets taken without food twice a day, 12 hours apart. 
After two to four weeks, patients are evaluated and those who have not shown an improvement should 
stop treatment. Treatment should also be stopped if a patient’s walking ability worsens or if the patient 
does not report any benefit. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription, and should be prescribed by a doctor 
experienced in treating MS. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Fampyra work? 
For the body’s muscles to contract, electrical impulses are transmitted along the nerves to the 
muscles. In MS, this transmission of electrical impulses is impaired when the protective sheaths around 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the nerves become damaged, which can lead to muscle weakness, muscle stiffness and difficulty 
walking. 
The active substance in Fampyra, fampridine, is a potassium channel blocker. It acts on damaged 
nerves, where it prevents charged potassium particles from leaving the nerve cells. This is believed to 
have the effect of allowing the electrical impulse to continue travelling along the nerves to stimulate 
the muscles, making it easier to walk. 
What benefits of Fampyra have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies in 540 patients with multiple sclerosis showed that Fampyra was more effective than 
placebo (a dummy treatment) at improving walking speed. The patients were treated for 9 or 14 
weeks, with their waking speed measured along a 25 feet (7.5 metres) footpath. 
In one of the studies 35% of patients taking Fampyra had higher walking speed on at least three out of 
four occasions than their quickest speed before treatment compared with 8% of patients taking 
placebo . In the second study the results were similar, with 43% of patients in the Fampyra group 
surpassing their previous best speed on three out of four occasions, compared with 9% in the placebo 
group. 
A third study in 633 patients measured improvements in walking ability over 24 weeks using a rating 
scale known as the multiple sclerosis walking scale (MSWS), where patients rated how well they were 
able to do various activities such as walking, running or climbing stairs. In this study, 43% of patients 
taking Fampyra had at least an 8-point improvement in their MSWS score compared with 34% of those 
on placebo. (An 8-point improvement is considered clinically significant in this scale, which ranges from 
0 to 100). 
What are the risks associated with Fampyra? 
The side effects seen with Fampyra are mostly neurological (relating to the brain or nerves) and 
include seizures (fits), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), anxiety, problems with balance, dizziness, 
paraesthesia (unusual sensations like pins and needles), tremor, headache and asthenia (weakness). 
The most common side effect reported in clinical studies, affecting around 12% of the patients, is 
urinary tract infection. For the full list of all side effects reported with Fampyra, see the package 
leaflet. 
Fampyra must not be used with other medicines that contain fampridine or medicines known as 
‘inhibitors of organic cation transporter 2’ such as cimetidine. It must not be used in patients who have 
seizures or have ever had seizures or in patients with kidney problems. For the full list of restrictions, 
see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fampyra approved? 
The studies with Fampyra showed that the medicine is likely to benefit approximately one third of 
patients with MS who have a walking disability, and that patients benefiting from the treatment can be 
identified at an early stage allowing treatment to be stopped in other patients. With regard to the 
medicine’s safety, serious side effects with Fampyra are rare. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore concluded that the benefits of Fampyra outweigh its risks for 
patients with a walking disability and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Fampyra  
EMA/471013/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Fampyra was originally given ‘conditional approval’ because there was more evidence to come about 
the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the authorisation has 
been switched from conditional to full approval. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fampyra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fampyra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Fampyra 
The European Commission granted a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the 
European Union for Fampyra on 20 July 2011. This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 
22 May 2017. 
The full EPAR for Fampyra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Fampyra, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017 
Fampyra  
EMA/471013/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
