Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Fampridine  Accord  10 
mg prolonged-release tablets (Fampridine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-
release tablets. The RMP details important risks of Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release 
tablets,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained 
about  Fampridine  Accord  10  mg  prolonged-release  tablets  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets should be read 
in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Fampridine 
Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for
Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablet is indicated for the improvement of walking 
in adult patients with multiple sclerosis with walking disability (EDSS 4-7). 
It contains fampridine as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablet’s 
benefits can be found in Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablet’s EPAR, including in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/fampridine-accord 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
II. 
the risks 
Important risks of Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets, together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Fampridine Accord 10 mg 
prolonged-release tablets risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Fampridine Accord 10 mg 
prolonged-release tablets. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
 
Important identified risks 
  None 
Important potential risks 
  None  
Missing Information 
  None 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Fampridine Accord 10 mg prolonged-release tablets. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Fampridine  Accord  10  mg  prolonged-release  tablets  as  post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
