SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  30  November  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Toremifene is an anti-oestrogenic agent chemically derived from tamoxifen. 
Tamoxifen has been the standard therapy for breast cancer in post-menopausal women for the last 20 
years.  Toremifene  as  an  anticancer  agent  is  comparable  to  tamoxifen  with  respect  to  activity  and 
toxicity. 
There is no human clinical data to support that toremifene has a superior safety profile compared with 
tamoxifen.  
Clinical data for the claimed lower oestrogenic activity of toremifene are insufficient. 
Whether  toremifene  has  greater  osteoporotic  effect  than  tamoxifen  with  long-term  use  can  only  be 
assessed when data from adjuvant and prophylactic trials become available. 
Substantial discussion took place on the efficacy of toremifene with respect to the oestrogen receptor 
status of the patient. 
The CPMP agreed that on the basis of the available data, the clinical efficacy of toremifene is proven 
in these patients having oestrogen receptor positive breast tumour. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
The  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  assessment  of  Fareston  has  been  considered  satisfactory.  The 
European Drug Master File was submitted and considered acceptable. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Toremifene,  like  tamoxifen  binds  to  oestrogen  receptors  and  may  exert  oestrogenic  effects  or  anti-
oestrogenic effects, or both, depending on the experimental conditions.  
Toremifene  has  in  vitro  antitumour  properties  in  oestrogen  receptor  positive  line  cells  (MCF-7  and 
ZR 75.1). 
When  tested  on  tamoxifen  resistant  human  MDA-MB-231  cells,  transplanted  into  athymic  mice, 
toremifene had no anti-tumour effect. 
Based  on  the  data,  effects  of  toremifene  and  tamoxifen  on  cell  cycle  kinetics  and  oncogenes  are 
comparable.  
Other general pharmacological effects of toremifene are few, mild and transient. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  toremifene  have  been  investigated  in  detail  after  single  and  multiple  oral 
doses in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys. 
The absorption of toremifene is complete.  
Toremifene is distributed to almost all tissues, including target tissue (tumour). 
The  metabolism  of  toremifene  is  complex,  and  several  metabolites  have  toremifene-like  effects. 
Induction of cytochrome P450 occurs. 
Excretion takes place  via  biliary excretion and enterohepatic  circulation. Final  excretion route is  via 
faeces with minimal amounts excreted via urine.  
Toremifene did not interact with antipyrine elimination in isolated perfused rat liver. 
Toxicology  
Acute and chronic toxicity studies have shown that most of the observed findings were related to the 
hormonal effects of toremifene. 
1/5 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toremifene is devoid of mutagenic or clastogenic activity: an additional study on mutagenic potential 
of  toremifene  in  eukaryotic  cell  confirmed  the  absence  of  such  an  activity;  the  company  provided  a 
preliminary report in October 1995 and the full report circulated in December 1995. 
In  rats,  toremifene  does  not  have  carcinogenic  effects.  It  does  not  cause  DNA-adducts  formation, 
hepatocellular carcinoma or endometrial neoplasia. 
In  mice,  the  observed  carcinogenicity  (testis,  ovaries,  bone)  of  toremifene  is  expected  from  its 
pharmacodynamic effects. Its relevance to clinical use appears low due to the fact that toremifene acts 
mainly as an anti-oestrogen in man.  
In  summary,  Part  III  of  the  dossier  submitted  was  considered  adequate  to  describe  and  assess  the 
pharmaco-toxicological potential of toremifene.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Toremifene (60 mg/day) is an anti-oestrogen with an efficacy profile comparable to that of tamoxifen 
(20 mg/day) in post-menopausal women with disseminated breast cancer. 
It  is,  at  present,  unknown  if  toremifene  therapy,  as  compared  to  tamoxifen  therapy,  will  have 
significant clinical advantages in post-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer. 
Human Pharmacology 
27 phase I studies were conducted on a total of 725 women to determine the pharmacological profile 
and  tolerability  of  toremifene.  In  healthy  post-menopausal  volunteers  it  was  shown  that  toremifene 
20 mg  or  more,  daily,  exerted  an  anti-oestrogenic  effect  (vaginal  cornification  assay  in  oestrogen 
primed vaginal epithelium). 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
In post-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer (18 phase II studies involving 1037 women) 
it  was  shown  that  toremifene  60  mg/day  increased  the  duration  of  response  significantly  in  patients 
with  oestrogen  receptor  concentrations  over  50  fmol/mg  protein.  The  beneficial  effect  of  increasing 
the  daily  dose  of  toremifene  above  60  mg  is  marginal  (maximally  300  mg  daily).  There  were  no 
clinically significant changes in haematological blood chemistry or vital signs either with toremifene 
or tamoxifen in controlled phase I-II clinical trials. No unusual adverse reactions were seen in women 
receiving toremifene. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  orally  given  toremifene  has  been  studied  after  single  and  repeated 
administration in healthy volunteers and breast cancer patients (n= 329 in 14 studies). A sensitive and 
reliable HPLC-method was used for detection of toremifene and its metabolites in serum or plasma. 
Toremifene is rapidly and well absorbed after oral administration and obeys linear serum kinetics at 
oral doses between 11 and 680 mg. Toremifene serum kinetics followed the two-compartment model, 
with a mean distribution half-life of 4-5 days. As a consequence of the slow elimination, the time to 
reach steady-state plasma concentrations was between 1 and 6 weeks. 
The  absolute  bioavailability of toremifene  has not been  calculated due to lack of data  obtained with 
intravenous toremifene (poor solubility of toremifene in water). 
Toremifene  is  extensively  metabolised,  mainly  in  the  liver.  The  main  metabolite  in  serum  is  N-
dimethyl-toremifene, the half life of which is 11 days.  
The pharmacokinetics of toremifene has been described satisfactorily in at-risk patients (women with 
liver and renal insufficiency and women treated with liver enzyme inducers). 
Clinical experience 
Phase  III  studies  including  a  total  of  1869  post-menopausal  women  with  advanced  metastatic  or 
disseminated  breast  cancer.  Three  studies,  considered  as  pivotal  studies  by  the  applicant,  compared 
2/5 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toremifene  40-240  mg  daily  with  tamoxifen  20-40  mg  daily  in  prospective  randomised  trials 
(5/044, 5/049, 5/050).  
Study  5/044  was  a  multicentre  open  randomised  trial.  This  large  clinical  trial  enrolled  648  post-
menopausal  women  who  had  never  received  chemotherapy  or  hormonal  therapy  for  dissemination. 
The  endpoints  studied  were  rate  of  response,  median  time  to  progression,  median  survival  time  and 
median overall survival. 
It may be criticised that the trial was not blinded. However, the data presented strongly suggests that 
toremifene 60 mg daily is clinically equivalent to tamoxifen 20 mg daily as palliative therapy in post-
menopausal  women  with  advanced  breast  cancer.  No  additional  beneficial  effect  was  obtained  by 
increasing the daily dose of toremifene to 200 mg. No unexpected adverse reactions were detected in 
the treatment groups. 
Study  5/049  was  a  double-blind  multicentre  study.  A  total  of  415  post-menopausal  women  with 
metastatic  breast  cancer  (Oestrogen  receptor  positive  or  oestrogen  receptor  unknown  inoperable 
primary metastatic or recurrent mammary cancer) were randomised to receive tamoxifen 40 mg daily 
(n = 201, 184 eligible) or toremifene 60 mg daily (n = 214, 195 eligible). The treatment was given at 
least 8 weeks or until progression or severe toxicity. 
The clinical trial gave evidence of the clinical efficacy of toremifene 60 mg daily in postmenopausal 
women  with  metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  safety  profile  of  toremifene  is  comparable  to  that  of 
tamoxifen. 
Study  5/050  was  a  multi-centre  open  randomised  trial  including  463  post-menopausal  women  with 
advanced  breast  cancer.  Treatment  consisted  of  tamoxifen  40  mg  daily  (n  =  149,  128  evaluable), 
toremifene 60 mg daily (n= 157, 126 evaluable) or toremifene 240 mg daily (n= 154, 139 evaluable) 
for at least 8 weeks or until tumour progression or drug related toxicity. 
Response rate, progression free interval and overall survival were the main end points considered. 
The  efficacy  profile  of  toremifene  60  mg/day  was  comparable  to  that  of  tamoxifen  40  mg/day.  The 
benefit/risk ratio was not significantly improved by increasing the toremifene dose to 240 mg/day. 
Study 5/055 
In this study the efficacy and tolerability of toremifene 40 mg could not be distinguished from those of 
tamoxifen 20 mg. 
Analysis related to hormonal receptor status 
For the studies 5/044, 5/049 and 5/050, a pooled analysis of the two subsets of the patients (Oestrogen 
receptor positive and oestrogen receptor status unknown) including the three primary efficacy criteria, 
response rate, time to progression and survival has been submitted (Table 1). In these studies, patients 
with known oestrogen receptor negative tumours were excluded. 
For the patients with estrogen receptor positive tumours, the criteria for therapeutic equivalence were 
met for each primary efficacy criteria. 
In  the  subsets  of  patients  with  unknown  oestrogen  receptor  status,  in  one  study  (study  5/049)  the 
criteria for equivalence were met for response rate and survival, but not for time to progression. In the 
pooled analysis of all three studies no statistical difference could be seen in this subset of patients. 
The  pooled  analysis  including  all  patients  (oestrogen  receptor  positive  and  oestrogen  receptor 
unknown)  showed  equivalent  efficacy  between  toremifene  and  tamoxifen  in  each  primary  efficacy 
criteria. 
Regarding  particularly  oestrogen  receptor  negative  patients,  two  small  clinical  trials  in  which  this 
subset of patients was included showed no responders.  
Meta-analysis of the pivotal Phase III studies 
A  meta-analysis  performed  on  five  studies  has  confirmed  the  equivalence  of  tamoxifen  20  mg  and 
toremifene 60 mg in terms of efficacy. 
Concerning  the  tolerability,  toremifene  60  mg  could  not  be  distinguished  from  that  of  tamoxifen 
20 mg. 
The  adverse  reactions  were  usually  mild  and  transient.  Except  for  the  expected  anti-oestrogenic 
activity, no signs of systemic toxicity were observed. 
3/5 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical laboratory parameters (haematology, liver function, renal function, electrolytes) were for the 
majority  of  patients  within  the  normal  range,  except  occasional  increases  in  liver  transaminase 
concentrations and hypercalcaemia in patients with bone metastases.  
The long-term toxicity could not be evaluated in the currently available studies.  
It is still unknown if toremifene will differ from tamoxifen with respect to incidence of endometrial 
cancer and bone mineralisation in treated women. 
TABLE 1: 
Toremifene 60 vs. tamoxifen 20/40 
Meta-analysis of studies 05/044, 05/049 and 05/050 
Response Rate Difference  
(toremifene : tamoxifen)  
90% Confidence Interval4 
P-value 
Time to Progression 
Hazard Ratio (toremifene : tamoxifen) 
90% Confidence Interval5 
P-value 
Overall Survival 
Hazard Ratio (toremifene : tamoxifen) 
90% Confidence Interval5 
P-value 
Positive 
ER 
Patients1 
ER  Unknown 
Patients2  
All patients3 
-3.4% 
-9.0% to 2.1% 
0.312 
2.5% 
-3.2% to 8.3% 
0.469 
-0.8% 
-4.8% to 3.2% 
0.744 
0.93 
0.80 to 1.08 
0.407 
1.06 
0.97 to 1.29 
0.651 
0.87 
0.74 to 1.06 
0.267 
0.86 
0.67 to 1.09 
0.294 
0.91 
0.81 to 1.02 
0.158 
1.00 
0.86 to 1.16 
0.966 
1 Number of patients : 318 (tamoxifen) and 335 (toremifene) 
2 Number of patients : 247 (tamoxifen) and 257 (toremifene)  
3 Number of patients : 565 (tamoxifen) and 592 (toremifene) 
4 Equivalence criteria, lower limit 10%  
5 Equivalence criteria, lower limit 0.80 
Post Marketing experience 
Toremifene  has  been  marketed  since  1988  in  Finland.  Two  adverse  events  (one  with  acute 
hypercalcaemia  and  one  with  hepatic  cytolysis)  had  been  reported  during  high-dose  (200-240  mg 
daily) toremifene treatment at the time of the CPMP Opinion. 
Since  then  more  experience  has  been  gained.  With  regard  to  thrombo-embolic  complications  25 
cumulative cases were reported possibly related to toremifene treatment. Also some cases of elevation 
of transaminases have been reported. 
In  the  meantime  two  studies  have  been  published.  They  show  that  in  post-menopausal  toremifene 
treatment  is  associated  with  modest  reductions  in  both  total  serum  cholesterol  and  low  density 
lipoprotein (LDL). 
5. 
Conclusions 
Toremifene  is  a  new  non-steroidal  triphenylethylene  derivative  with  anti-oestrogenic  activity 
developed  for  the  treatment  of  oestrogen  dependent  cancers,  especially  breast  cancer.  Like  the 
triphenylethylene  analogue  tamoxifen,  toremifene  binds  specifically  to  oestrogen  receptor,  thereby 
blocking some of the oestrogen mediated growth stimuli of mammary tumour cells.  
The  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  and  the  preclinical  experience  were  considered  by 
the CPMP as satisfactory. 
In  three  large  clinical  trials  a  clinically  significant  palliative  effect  has  been  documented  in  post-
menopausal  women  with  disseminated  breast  cancer  during  toremifene  (60  mg/day)  treatment.  The 
effect is comparable to that obtained during tamoxifen (20-40 mg/day) treatment. 
4/5 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most of the observed adverse events during toremifene therapy were transient and mostly due to the 
hormonal  effects  of  the  compound.  Increases  in  liver  enzymes  and  hypercalcaemia  can  be  seen  in 
patients with liver and bone metastases. 
Data are insufficient to allow evaluation of the long-term toxicity of toremifene, and it is still unknown 
if  toremifene  will  differ  from  tamoxifen  with  respect  to  incidence  of  endometrial  cancer  and  bone 
mineralisation in treated women. 
There are no data to support an effect for toremifene in pre-menopausal women with advanced breast 
cancer or in post-menopausal women with localised disease. 
It  has  not  been  documented  that  toremifene  at  higher  doses  can  be  used  as  second-line  treatment  of 
mammary carcinomas after failure of other hormonal or cytotoxic treatments. 
The available data suggest that the benefit/risk ratio of toremifene is comparable to that of tamoxifen 
in post-menopausal women with disseminated breast cancer oestrogen receptor positive. 
In the three pivotal studies patients who were found oestrogen receptor negative were excluded. Two 
small  clinical  trials  in  which  oestrogen  receptor  negative  patients  were  included  showed  no 
responders. 
On the basis of these findings the CPMP in its September 1995 meeting had a substantial discussion 
on  the  indication  of  Fareston  and  it  was  agreed  that  Fareston  is  not  recommended  for  patients  with 
oestrogen receptor negative tumours. 
The indication is the following: 
“First  line  hormone  treatment  of  hormone-dependent  metastatic  breast  cancer  in  post-menopausal 
patients. Fareston is not recommended for patients with oestrogen receptor negative tumours”. 
5/5 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
