23 March 2017 
EMA/425022/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): panobinostat 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010409/201608 
Period covered by the PSUR: 23 February 2016 – 22 August 2016  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for panobinostat, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
From the available post-marketing data, the causal association between panobinostat and 
constipation is unclear. However the association between bortezomib and consitpation is well 
established. From the post-marketing data it is not possible to definitively assign causality between 
panobinostat and peripheral neuropathy at this time.  
The reason for changing the panobinostat Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) is to include a statement to clarify that the data presented are the most 
commonly reported adverse effects attributable to panobinostat alone. 
The current panobinostat SmPC section 4.8 (Undesirable effects), the second paragraph states: 
 “The safety data reported below are based on the phase III clinical study (Panorama 1) in 381 
patients with multiple myeloma treated with 20 mg panobinostat once a day three times per week, 
on a 2 weeks on and 1 week off dosing regimen in combination with bortezomib and 
dexamethasone.” 
This implies that the adverse effects shown in Table 7 of the SmPC are for panobinostat in 
combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone. However section 5.1 states that the Panorama 1 
study compared two treatment arms 1) panobinostat + bortezomib + dexamethasone and 2) placebo 
+ bortezomib + dexamethasone. The safety data analyses of the Panorama 1 study are likely to 
identify the most commonly reported adverse effects attributable to panobinostat rather than to the 
overall combination including bortezomib and dexamethasone and therefore, there is potential for 
misinterpretation by prescribers/healthcare professionals in the post-marketing settings. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder confirmed that Table 7 in section 4.8 of the Panobinostat SmPC 
shows adverse drug reactions (ADRs) for Panobiostat i.e. ADRs that occurred more frequently in the 
three treatment arm (panobinostat + bortezomib + dexamethasone ) than in the treatment arm 
(bortezomib + dexamethasone + placebo) in the PANORAMA I study.  Therefore the ADRs 
constipation and peripheral neuropathy for which causal association with panobinostat was not 
suspected but that are known to occur with bortezomib were not included in Table 7.  In order to 
minimise the potential for confusion about the adverse effects data shown in section 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects) in particular, Table 7 of the panobinostat SmPC, a statement has now been added above 
Table 7 to clarify that the data presented are the most commonly reported adverse effect attributable 
to panobinostat alone. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of the medicinal product containing panobinostat were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for panobinostat the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing panobinostat is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/425022/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
