London, 23 August 2018 
EMA/622026/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies 
submitted in accordance with article 46 of regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
International non-proprietary name: benralizumab 
Procedure no.: EMA/H/C/004433/P46 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): AstraZeneca AB 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development programme ........................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 18 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 20 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 2/21 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 8 June 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Fasenra, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The MAH concludes that the submitted study does not provide adequate data to obtain a paediatric 
indication or influence the benefit risk profile for Fasenra. Accordingly, it is the MAH opinion that 
immediate revisions to the SmPC are not warranted. However, the MAH may submit updates to Section 
4.5 of the SmPC in a future post-approval variation to provide additional information to healthcare 
professionals regarding seasonal influenza virus vaccination of patients treated with Fasenra. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development programme 
The MAH stated that study D3250C00033, titled “A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel 
group, placebo controlled, phase 3b study to evaluate the potential effect of benralizumab on the 
humoral immune response to the seasonal influenza vaccination in adolescent and young adult patients 
with severe asthma” (ALIZE) is a stand alone study. 
This study has been conducted as part of a paediatric programme based on an agreed paediatric 
investigation plan (PIP) (PIP number: EMEA-001214-PIP01-11) for benralizumab as add-on treatment 
for uncontrolled asthma with eosinophilic inflammation in children 6 years and older, adolescents (and 
adults). 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The same formulation was used as in adult trials and corresponds also to the marketed product, i.e. 
benralizumab 30 mg/mL solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe with 1 mL fill volume. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for the study described hereafter. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study number: D3250C00033 
Title: A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel group, placebo controlled, phase 3b study to 
evaluate the potential effect of benralizumab on the humoral immune response to the seasonal 
influenza vaccination in adolescent and young adult patients with severe asthma” (ALIZE). 
Description 
Benralizumab is a humanised, afucosylated, monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the human 
IL-5 receptor alpha subunit on the target cell. The IL-5 receptor is expressed almost exclusively on the 
surface of eosinophils and basophils and benralizumab induces direct, rapid, and nearly complete 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 3/21 
depletion of eosinophils in the lung tissue, sputum, blood, and bone marrow via a mechanism of 
enhanced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. 
Benralizumab is indicated as an add-on maintenance treatment in adult patients with severe 
eosinophilic asthma inadequately controlled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids plus long-acting 
β-agonists. The recommended dose is 30 mg administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection every 4 
weeks (Q4W) for the first 3 doses, followed by once every 8 weeks (Q8W) thereafter. 
As benralizumab depletes eosinophils, it is important to determine if benralizumab affects functioning 
of the immune system, especially in adolescents and young adults. In this current Phase IIIb study, a 
functional response of the immune system has been assessed by measuring antibody responses to the 
influenza vaccine in adolescent and young adult patients with severe asthma. 
Methods 
Objectives 
Primary: To evaluate the potential effect of benralizumab on the humoral immune response following 
seasonal influenza virus vaccination in adolescent and young adult patients with severe asthma 
Secondary: To assess the potential effect of benralizumab on asthma control and its safety and 
tolerability 
Study design 
This was a randomised, double-blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled study conducted at 30 centres 
in the US. The treatment duration was 12 weeks, with an additional study follow-up of 8 weeks. 
The study was performed in accordance with the ethical principles that have their origin in the 
Declaration of Helsinki and that are consistent with International Council for Harmonisation/Good 
Clinical Practice (GCP), applicable regulatory requirements and the AZ policy on Bioethics. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 4/21 
 
Study population /Sample size 
The population consisted of 103 female and male patients aged 12 to 21 years, weighing ≥ 40 kg, with 
documented evidence of asthma and treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting β2 
agonists (LABA). Their asthma was not well controlled: Asthma Control Questionnaire 6 (ACQ-6) ≥ 1.5, 
or peak flow (PF) of 60-80% predicted, or ≥ 1 exacerbation requiring oral corticosteroids (OCS) in the 
previous year, or frequent clinical asthma symptoms during the previous 2-4 weeks. 
The main exclusion criteria were clinically important pulmonary disease other than asthma; known 
allergy to the product formulation or influenza vaccine or eggs; history of Guillain-Barre syndrome, 
helminthic parasitic infection, hepatitis, immunodeficiency, cancer; use of immunosuppressive 
medication; receipt of live attenuated vaccine or influenza vaccine within 30 and 90 days, respectively; 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) level ≥ 2.5 times the upper limit 
of normal (ULN); and at randomisation: severe asthma exacerbation or significant active infection or 
known influenza infection during the current flu season. 
Treatments 
Patients received 3 subcutaneous doses of benralizumab or placebo  at Weeks 0, 4 and 8 and one dose 
of seasonal influenza virus vaccine (Flulaval Quadrivalent from GlaxoSmithKline) intramuscularly at 
Week 8. All treatments were administered at the study centre. 
The vaccine is formulated to contain 60 micrograms hemagglutinin (HA) per 0.5 mL dose in the 
recommended ratio of 15 mcg HA of each of the following 4 viruses (2 A strains and 2 B strains): 
•  A/California/7/2009 (H1N1), 
•  A/Hong Kong/4801/2014 (H3N2), 
•  B/Phuket/3073/2013 (Yamagata lineage), and 
•  B/Brisbane/60/2008 (Victoria lineage). 
Changes to asthma background controller regimen were discouraged during the study. Asthma 
medications were restricted on the days of scheduled spirometry visits. Short-acting bronchodilators 
could be used as rescue medication during the study in the event of a worsening in asthma symptoms. 
Eligible patients were allocated to treatment arms in a 1:1 ratio using centralised Interactive Voice 
Response System/Interactive Web Response System. The study was conducted in double-blind fashion 
with procedures to mitigate unblinding on the basis of blood eosinophil counts. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
A summary of the efficacy variables is presented hereafter. 
The vaccine antibody efficacy variables were hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) and microneutralisation 
(MN) antibodies to influenza vaccine. The HAI and MN tests were validated and performed by Focus 
Diagnostics (USA). 
In addition, benralizumab serum concentrations and anti-benralizumab antibodies were measured at 
Week 0, 8, 12, 20, and after premature discontinuation when applicable (PPD Laboratories- USA). 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 5/21 
Efficacy variable summary 
GMFR Geometric mean fold rise; GMT Geometric mean titre 
Statistical Methods 
Antibody analyses 
The GMFRs for the HAI and MN antibody measurements were defined as:  
GMFR = antilogz (mean [logz x]) 
where “x” is the postdose HAI or MN antibody titre fold rise from Visit 5 (Week 8) and “z” is the natural 
logarithm. The GMFR value for each patient was calculated as the GMT ratio between Visit 6 (Week 
12)/Visit 5 (Week 8), where GMT was calculated for each patient at each visit based on the following 
definition: 
GMT = antilogz (mean [logz y]) 
where “y” is the HAI or MN antibody titre and “z” is the natural logarithm. 
The analysis of the HAI or MN antibody endpoints, strain-specific GMFRs and GMTs, was performed on 
the vaccine immunogenicity analysis set. 
For GMFR and GMT, the geometric least-square mean (LSmean) ratio between treatment 
(placebo/benralizumab) along with the corresponding 90% CI was calculated via an analysis of 
covariance (ANCOVA) model on the log transformed variable (antibody titre fold rise from Week 8 or 
antibody titre at Week 12). The linear model effects were treatment group as a fixed effect and age 
group (adolescents and young adults) as a fixed categorical covariate. 
Antibody response was defined as a ≥ 4-fold rise in HAI or MN antibody from Week 8 to Week 12. The 
proportion of patients who experienced a postdose antibody response at Week 12 and corresponding 
90% Clopper-Pearson exact CI were summarised by treatment. Likewise, the proportions of patients 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 6/21 
 
who achieved at Week 12 a postdose HAI antibody titre ≥ 40 and ≥ 320, respectively, were 
summarised by treatment and corresponding 90% Clopper-Pearson exact CIs. 
A post-hoc sensitivity analysis was performed on the primary efficacy variables excluding one placebo 
patient that had a serum benralizumab concentration greater than 30 ng/mL. 
ACQ-6 score 
The analysis of the ACQ-6 score data was performed on the full analysis set (FAS). The ACQ-6 score 
data actual and change from baseline results were summarised by visit and treatment group using 
descriptive statistics. The frequency (number and percentage) of ACQ-6 asthma control responder 
status was summarised at baseline and Week 12 (EOT) by treatment group according to the following 
limits: 
•  ACQ-6 (EOT) ≤0.75 → Well controlled 
•  0.75< ACQ-6 (EOT) <1.5 → Partly controlled 
•  ACQ-6 (EOT) ≥1.5 → Not well controlled 
Analysis sets 
FAS: all patients who were randomised and received any IP. Patients were analysed according to their 
randomised treatment. 
Immunogenicity set: all randomised patients who received at least 1 dose of planned study drugs (ie, 
1 dose of influenza vaccine, plus 1 dose of benralizumab or placebo), had pre- (Visit 5/Week 8) and 
postdose (Visit 6/Week 12) HAI or MN antibody measurements, and had no protocol deviations judged 
to have the potential to interfere with the generation or interpretation of an antibody response. The 
analyses were based on the actual treatment received. 
Sample size 
The study planned a sample size of 50 patients in each treatment group. No formal statistical 
hypotheses were tested. The sample size justification was based on the precision of the estimate of the 
GMTs (as GMTvaccine / GMTbenralizumab+vaccine). With 50 patients per arm, the 90% CI for the 
GMT ratio was 0.67 to 1.48, assuming an observed ratio of 1, and that the log (postdose HAI antibody 
titre or postdose MN antibody titre) is normally distributed with a standard deviation (SD) of 1.2 on the 
natural log scale. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
The first patient was enrolled into the study on 01 July 2016, and the last patient last visit was 24 
January 2017. 
A total of 133 patients were screened and 103 patients were randomised. Out of 30 patients that were 
not randomised, 18 were screen failure, 4 did not meet randomisation criteria, 3 withdrew from study, 
3 had a protocol deviation and 2 were lost to follow-up. 
Of the 103 patients randomised, 51 patients were randomised to benralizumab 30 mg and 52 patients 
to placebo; a total of 100 patients (97%; 50 patients from each treatment group) completed the 
treatment. A total of 3 patients discontinued treatment and did not complete the study: 1 patient was 
lost to follow-up and 2 patients withdrew (1 patient in the benralizumab group discontinued due to 
inability to continue to come to visits, and 1 patient in the placebo group moved out of state). 50 
patients in each treatment group were vaccinated. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 7/21 
A total of 99 patients (96%; 50 patients from benralizumab and 49 patients from placebo group) 
completed the study; 1 patient from placebo group withdrew from the study on Day 58 after receiving 
all 3 doses of benralizumab due to moving out of state and withdrawal of consent (no immune 
response evaluation at Week 12). 
Analysis sets 
Baseline data 
In general, baseline demographic data were balanced between treatment groups and the study 
population was representative of the intended target population. 
The majority of patients in the FAS were White (72%) and male (59%). The mean age was 15.9 years 
(range: 12 to 21 years); 72 (70%) patients were 12 to 17 years (ie, adolescents), and 31 (30%) 
patients were 18 to 21 years of age (ie, young adults). 
The population demographics are summarised in the following table. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 8/21 
 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 9/21 
 
The disease characteristics at baseline were similar between treatment groups. The median time since 
asthma diagnosis was 12 years. In the last 12 months, the majority of patients (63%) had no 
exacerbations and 22% had only one exacerbation; 34% of patients had at least one exacerbation 
requiring systemic corticosteroids treatment and 1 patient had an exacerbation resulting in 
hospitalisation. 
Lung function at baseline was similar between treatment groups. Average baseline pre-BD FEV1 was 
2.7 L; percent predicted normal FEV1 was 78.3%, FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio was 75.4%, 
and percent FEV1 reversibility was 19% for all randomised patients. 
The most commonly reported background concomitant medications were selective β2-adrenoreceptor 
agonists (including LABAs and SABAs) (102 patients [99%]), adrenergics in combination with 
corticosteroids or other drugs, excluding anticholinergics (100 patients [97%]), piperazine derivatives 
(32 patients [31%]), LTRAs (25 patients [24%]), and corticosteroids (22 patients [21%]). 
Vaccine immunogenicity results 
Influenza strain antibody response for hemagglutination-inhibition 
A summary of the influenza antibody responses for HAI GMFRs and GMTs at Week 12 is presented in 
the following tables. 
The estimated geometric LSMeans between benralizumab and placebo for influenza A H3N2 strain 
GMFR at Week 12 were slightly different from other strains (ie, ratio >1 in favour of placebo), but the 
trend was not consistently observed across the other HAI analyses. 
The proportion of patients who experienced influenza strain-specific antibody responses with a ≥4-fold 
rise from Week 8 to Week 12 for HAI were similar across strains and between treatment groups: 
between 44% to 56% in the benralizumab treatment group and between 31%% and 49% in the 
placebo group. 
The proportion of patients who experienced HAI antibody responses ≥40 at Week 12 were similar 
across strains and between treatment groups: between 78% and 100% in the benralizumab treatment 
group and between 80% and 100% in the placebo group. 
The proportion of patients who experienced HAI antibody responses ≥320 at Week 12 was much 
higher for influenza A strains (H1N1 and H3N2) than for influenza B strains (Yamagata and Victoria) in 
both treatment groups. 
Comparable results were seen in the sensitivity analyses excluding the patient with PK anomalies. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 10/21 
Influenza strain antibody response geometric mean ratios by antibody for 
hemagglutination-inhibition, ANCOVA model (Vaccine Immunogenicity Set) 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 11/21 
 
Influenza strain antibody response ≥4-fold rise from Week 8 to 12 for hemagglutination-
inhibition (Vaccine immunogenicity set) 
Influenza strain antibody response of antibody titre ≥40 at Week 12 for hemagglutination-
inhibition (Vaccine immunogenicity set) 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
 
Influenza strain antibody response of antibody titre ≥320 at Week 12 for hemagglutination-
inhibition (Vaccine immunogenicity set) 
Influenza strain antibody response for microneutralisation 
A summary of the influenza antibody responses for MN GMFRs and GMTs at Week 12 is presented in 
the following tables. 
The ratio of the geometric LSMeans GMFR between benralizumab and placebo for the A/H3N2 strain 
and the B-Yamagata strain at Week 12 was >1 in favour of placebo, but the trend was opposite for the 
2 other strains. 
The proportion of patients who experienced influenza strain-specific antibody responses with a ≥4-fold 
rise from Week 8 to Week 12 for MN were similar across strains and between treatment groups: 
between 28% and 44% in the benralizumab group and between 39% and 43% ibn the placebo group. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 13/21 
 
 
Influenza strain antibody response geometric mean ratios by antibody for 
microneutralisation, ANCOVA model (Vaccine Immunogenicity Set) 
Influenza strain antibody response ≥4-fold rise from Week 8 to 12 for microneutralisation 
(Vaccine immunogenicity set) 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 14/21 
 
 
Efficacy results 
Change from baseline in Asthma Control Questionnaire score at Week 12 
Improvement in ACQ-6 scores was noted at Week 4 and maintained through Week 12 for the 
benralizumab and placebo groups. The mean ACQ-6 score change from baseline for the benralizumab 
group was slightly larger than was observed for placebo at Week 12. There was no clear difference 
between benralizumab and placebo in the proportion of patients not well controlled at Week 12. 
Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ-6) by timepoint (Full Analysis Set) 
ACQ-6 control response status at end of treatment (Full analysis set) 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 15/21 
 
 
Safety results 
The majority of patients in each treatment group received 3 administrations of investigational product 
(100/103 patients [97%]); 2 patients in the placebo group (2%) received 1 dose of IP, and 1 patient 
in the benralizumab group (1%) received 2 doses of IP. 
Overview of adverse events 
The number of patients with any AEs were numerically balanced between the benralizumab group 
(43%) and the placebo group (44%). The incidence of the most common AEs (ie, those occurring at a 
frequency of ≥ 3% in any group) regardless of causality, were similar between groups and included 
asthma, headache, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, viral gastroenteritis, and upper respiratory 
tract infection. 
Most common adverse events (frequency of ≥ 3%) by preferred term 
Overall, AEs were most commonly reported within the SOC of infections and infestations (23%; 
24/103) and were numerically imbalanced (difference ≥ 3%) between the treatment groups (25% in 
the benralizumab group and 21% in the placebo group). The second most commonly reported SOC of 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 16/21 
 
 
respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (14%; 14/103) were numerically balanced between the 
treatment groups (13.7% in the benralizumab group and 13.5% in the placebo group). 
The majority of AEs that occurred were assessed as not related to the IP by the Investigator (41%; 
42/103). In the on-study period, 3 patients had AEs assessed as related to IP: injection site pain (1 
patient in the benralizumab group), influenza-like illness (1 patient in the placebo group), and skin 
papilloma (1 patient in the placebo group). 
A total of 2 patients had SAEs in this study, both from the placebo group and occurred after the 
treatment period was complete; these were suicidal ideation and asthma, which were not considered 
causally related to IP. 
With the exception of the expected depletion of eosinophils observed over time in the benralizumab 
treatment group, mean values for haematology and clinical chemistry parameters were similar 
between the 2 treatment groups across the study and no meaningful trends were observed. 
Regarding asthma exacerbations over time, 6 patients (12%) in the benralizumab group and 4 patients 
(8%) in the placebo group experienced an exacerbation requiring systemic corticosteroid therapy; one 
patient in the benralizumab group had 2 exacerbations during the study. 
PK results 
Serum concentrations were quantifiable in all benralizumab treated patients at Week 12, with a 
geometric mean value of 1323.551 ng/mL.  
Arithmetic mean (±SD) serum trough concentrations (ng/mL) of benralizumab 
(PK analysis set) 
Immunogenicity results 
Overall, the prevalence of ADA was 15.7% (8/51 patients) in the study. Two (3.9%) patients were 
ADA-positive at baseline. Post-baseline ADA responses first became evident at Week 12, when 4/51 
patients (7.8%) were newly ADA-positive, with the remaining 2 patients first becoming ADA-positive at 
Week 20. One patient maintained a low 1:50 titre throughout the study, and PK and eosinophils were 
not affected by this low level reactivity. In another patient, Week 12 PK values were well below the 
geometric mean 90% CI but the eosinophils remained depleted. In all 8 of the ADA-positive patients, 
blood eosinophil levels were depleted at the time of the vaccine assessment (Week 12), indicating that 
sufficient benralizumab was present to maintain the PD effect of the drug. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 17/21 
 
Individual data in patients with positive ADAs to benralizumab 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Validation of the immunogenicity assays 
The HAI assay is based on the haemagglutination of RBCs when multiple copies of the haemagglutinin 
protein on the surface of influenza virus bind specifically to sialic acid-containing receptors on the 
surface of RBCs. Antibody binding to specific antigenic determinants on HA blocks haemagglutination in 
a concentration dependent manner. The HAI assays were validated appropriately. The estimates of 
assay precision are within 25% in total, which is better than the 50% threshold specified for each 
sample per parameter (day, technician, RBC lot and repeatability). The variance within the assays is 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 18/21 
 
almost completely due to the inherent characteristics of the assay with its doubling dilutions rather 
than the technician or RBC lot or day. The HAI results were the primary endpoints of the trial. 
The MN assay is not as robust as the HAI assay with substantial variation between different runs 
reflecting for example the difficulties in generating reproducible cell monolayers, virus activity, and 
cytopathic effect detection. Collectively the factors inherent in the assay account for 52% - 75% of 
variability in the incurred sample analysis, together with an overlay of variable technical performance. 
Problems were sufficient to prompt re-evaluation of several of these factors. The MN assay for A/Hong 
Kong/4801/2014 (H3N2) was particularly susceptible to false positives / cross reaction when sheep 
reference antisera for H1N1 (titres <360) or B strains (<570) were used and the negative serum 
sample was weak positive. Thus, any results from the MN assay for A/Hong Kong/4801/2014 need to 
be treated with caution. The issues with the MN assay are considered acceptable given that these 
results are supportive of the HAI results. 
Immune response after flu revaccination 
This study was not designed and powered to show formal equivalence of the immune response after 
injection of benralizumab or placebo. For HAI antibodies, 90% confidence intervals for the geometric 
LSMeans ratios for week 12 GMTs and GMFRs all contain 1 and the ratios fluctuate between 0.80 and 
1.28, with no consistent trend across the 4 strains, thus suggesting random variations of similar 
response. Furthermore, in the benralizumab group, the proportion of patients with ≥ 4-fold rise of HAI 
antibodies from Week 8 to 12 is higher than or comparable to that in the placebo group for the four 
strains. Close similarity is also observed between the proportion of patients with antibody titre ≥ 40 at 
week 12, with a maximum 10% difference and no consistent trend across strains. 
Likewise, for MN antibodies, 90% confidence intervals for the geometric LSMeans ratios for week 12 
GMTs and GMFRs all contain 1 and the ratios fluctuate between 0.86 and 1.43, with no consistent trend 
across the 4 strains. Close similarity is observed between the proportion of patients with ≥ 4-fold rise 
of MN antibodies from Week 8 to 12 except for one strain where the difference is 11% in favour of 
placebo. 
In conclusion, the humoral immune response after flu vaccination does not appear to be affected by 
benralizumab treatment. 
Efficacy 
At week 8, the median improvement in ACQ-6 score was 0.5 in both treatment arms; this difference 
corresponds to the minimally clinically important difference. However, this improvement was not 
sustained with median differences 4 weeks later of -42 and -33 after benralizumab and placebo, 
respectively. In addition, more patients experienced an exacerbation in the benralizumab group (12%) 
compared with the placebo group (8%), with one patient treated with benralizumab having 2 
exacerbations during the 20-week study period. It is noteworthy that a numerical difference in favour 
of placebo was previously found in the adolescent subpopulation of the pivotal exacerbation trials. 
In conclusion, the trial did not suggest any beneficial effect of benralizumab on asthma control or 
exacerbations in this adolescent population. This result is consistent with the data submitted in the 
initial application, which are described in the current SmPC (section 5.1 – Paediatric population). 
Safety 
Almost half the patients experienced treatment-emergent AEs in both treatment groups, most being 
mild or moderate. The only ADR reported with benralizumab was injection site pain, which is listed in 
the SmPC of Fasenra. There is a slight imbalance in the overall infection rate, higher in the 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 19/21 
benralizumab group (25%) than in the placebo group (21%), which was also noted in the pivotal 
exacerbation studies (41% vs 35%, respectively), but without specific pattern of infections. In this 
trial, there were 7 events of upper respiratory infection and 2 events of sinusitis in each treatment 
group; the only imbalance is in the number of gastroenteritis events 4 vs 1. 
In conclusion, these data are consistent with the benign safety profile of benralizumab. 
Immunogenicity of benralizumab 
Early development of ADAs is known with benralizumab and the prevalence in adolescents in this trial 
(about 16%) appears in line with that reported in the pivotal studies mainly conducted in adults 
(13%). These ADAs have been associated with increased drug clearance and increased blood 
eosinophil levels in some cases. 
As expected, the highest ADA titre was measured at week 20 (i.e., 12 weeks after last IP 
administration) in 7/8 patients; in the 8th patient, a stable titre of 50 throughout the trial including pre-
treatment questions the existence of true ADA (without this case, the ADA prevalence would be 14%). 
Four (4) of the patients that developed ADAs had trough levels of benralizumab notably lower at week 
12 (after the 3rd injection) than at week 8 (after the 2nd injection) in contrast to the general population, 
which showed increased or similar drug levels at week 12 compared to week 8. 
Furthermore, eosinophil recovery was observed more rapidly in 5 of the patients that developed ADAs 
in comparison to the general population, which usually showed eosinophil depletion sustained at week 
20; in these 5 cases, blood eosinophil levels at week 20 were higher than or close to baseline levels 
(week 0). However, blood eosinophil levels were still low in all cases at week 12, except for one 
patient, where it was the same as baseline level. 
In conclusion, these data in adolescents and young adults are in line with those obtained in the pivotal 
trials of benralizumab in adults. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Long-lived (or “memory”) plasma cells survive in specialised niches within the bone marrow and 
depend on signals from their environment, most likely cytokines and ligands for adhesion receptors. 
Eosinophils have been reported to function as a critical component of the bone marrow survival niche 
where they are thought to provide pro-survival signals to nearby plasma cells (Nature Immunology 
2011, 12(2): 151-60). However, recent findings argue against a role of eosinophils during the 
maintenance of the plasma cell pool and challenge the hitherto postulated concept of an eosinophil-
sustained bone marrow niche (Eur. J. Immunol. 2018, 48: 815-21 & 822-8). 
The main objective of this placebo-controlled trial requested by the PDCO was to investigate whether 
eosinophil depletion by benralizumab could affect the humoral immune response of adolescents to 
revaccination, as reflected by the anticipated increase in HAI and MN antibodies following one injection 
of seasonal flu vaccine given with a short treatment (3 injections) of benralizumab. 
The study was not designed to formally show equivalent response in the presence of benralizumab or 
placebo but a descriptive summary of the increase in HAI and MN antibodies 4 weeks after the 
vaccination of a population of 100 asthmatic adolescents and young adults was presented. Given that 
the role of eosinophils may be less critical than previously thought, this approach is acceptable and 
indeed the results suggest that the humoral immune response to flu vaccine is not affected by 
benralizumab treatment. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 20/21 
This trial also provided further information regarding the efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of 
benralizumab in adolescents. No evidence of efficacy was shown while the safety and immunogenicity 
profiles appear similar to those observed in adults. These results are consistent with the data described 
in the current SmPC of Fasenra, and therefore, there is no need to amend the SmPC. 
  Fulfilled 
No regulatory action required. 
Preliminary assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with 
article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Fasenra 
Page 21/21 
