EMA/499801/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Fasenra  
International non-proprietary name: benralizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004433/P46/008 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program .............................................................. 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study .............................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................. 3 
Clinical study number: D3255C00001 .......................................................................... 3 
Clinical study title: A Multicentre, Randomised, Double-blind, Parallel-group, Placebo-
controlled Study to Investigate the Use of Benralizumab for Eosinophilic Esophagitis 
(MESSINA). ............................................................................................................. 3 
Description .............................................................................................................. 3 
Methods .................................................................................................................. 4 
Results .................................................................................................................. 10 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 26 
3. CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation ................................... 27 
  Fulfilled: .............................................................................................................. 27 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the development 
programme ................................................................................................ 28 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 2/28 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 1/8/2023, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Fasenra, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  study  D3255C00001,  a  Multicentre,  Randomised,  Double-blind,  Parallel-group, 
Placebo-controlled  Study  to  Investigate  the  Use  of  Benralizumab  for  Eosinophilic  Esophagitis 
(MESSINA) is a stand-alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The  dosage  formulation  corresponds  to  the  marketed  product,  Benralizumab  30  mg/mL  solution  for 
injection,  1  mL  fill  volume,  administered  as  a  single  injection  via  the  accessorised  prefilled  syringe 
(APFS).  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for study D3255C00001: 
• 
A  Multicentre,  Randomised,  Double-blind,  Parallel-group,  Placebo-controlled  Study  to 
Investigate the Use of Benralizumab for Eosinophilic Esophagitis (MESSINA). 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study number: D3255C00001  
Clinical  study  title:  A Multicentre, Randomised, Double-blind, Parallel-group, Placebo-controlled 
Study to Investigate the Use of Benralizumab for Eosinophilic Esophagitis (MESSINA). 
Description 
Eosinophilic  esophagitis  (EoE)  is  a  rare  chronic  allergic  inflammatory  disorder  of  the  oesophagus 
influenced  by  both  genetic  and  environmental  risk  factors  which  predispose  to  allergen  sensitisation 
leading  to  allergic  and  eosinophilic  inflammation  of  the  oesophageal  epithelium,  which  is  normally 
devoid  of  eosinophils 1 .  Eosinophilic  esophagitis  is  clinically  defined  by  symptoms  of  oesophageal 
dysfunction, and histologically by oesophageal inflammation of ≥ 15 eos/hpf, as well as by exclusion of 
secondary  causes  of  oesophageal  eosinophilia.  The  disease  results  in  progressive  transmural 
inflammation  and,  in  some  cases,  fibrostenotic  complications,  which  translate  in  a  range  of  upper  GI 
symptoms  that  vary  with  age1.  Due  to  the  chronic  nature  of  EoE  and  symptoms  recurrency  when 
1 O'Shea, K. M., Aceves, S. S., Dellon, E. S., Gupta, S. K., Spergel, J. M., Furuta, G. T., & Rothenberg, M. E. (2018). Pathophysiology of Eosinophilic 
Esophagitis. Gastroenterology, 154(2), 333–345. https://doi.org/10.1053/j.gastro.2017.06.065 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 3/28 
 
  
 
 
 
treatments  are  discontinued,  maintenance  therapy  should  be  considered  in  all  patients2.  Most  of  the 
current  treatment  approaches  (food  elimination  diets,  oesophageal  dilation,  and  medications)  are 
either burdened with limited efficacy, compliance problems, inadequate availability, or reserved for the 
treatment of complications.  
Benralizumab  is  a  humanised,  afucosylated,  mAb  that  binds  specifically  to  the  IL-5Rα  on  the  target 
cell  and  directly  depletes  eosinophils  through  ADCC.  The  eosinophil-depleting  ability  of  benralizumab 
which  has  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  eosinophilic  asthma  could  be  also  effective  in  EoE  and 
eosinophilic-driven GI diseases. 
Study  D3255C00001  (MESSINA)  was  a  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  double  blind,  parallel-group, 
multicentre,  Phase  III  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  repeat  dosing  (Q4W)  of 
subcutaneously administered benralizumab 30 mg versus placebo in male and female patients 12 to 65 
years of age with symptomatic and histologically active Eosinophilic Esophagitis.  
Methods 
The aim of Study D3255C00001 (MESSINA) was to investigate the use of benralizumab as a treatment 
for patients with EoE. The effect of doses of benralizumab on EoE histologic signs and symptoms were 
to be assessed over a 52-week treatment period (including a 24-week double-blind placebo-controlled 
treatment period and a 28-week open-label treatment period). Upon completion of the initial 52-week 
treatment period, patients were to be offered an additional Open Label Extension period  of at least 1 
year with benralizumab treatment. The aim of the study was based on the rationale that benralizumab 
would  deplete  eosinophils  from  GI  tissue(s),  improve  the  symptoms  of  dysphagia,  and  improve 
endoscopy scores as well as other markers of disease activity.  
Study participants 
Inclusion Criteria:  
Patients  12  to  65  (inclusive)  years  of  age,  male  or  female  were  eligible  for  inclusion  in  study 
D3255C00001, if they fulfilled the following criteria: 
•  Diagnosis  of  EoE  documented  before  randomization  by  endoscopy  (esophageal  count  of  ≥  15 
eos/hpf  on  at  least  1  oesophageal  level)  and  confirmed  diagnosis  by  a  centrally  read  oesophageal 
biopsy for the purposes of this study (oesophageal count of ≥ 15 eos/hpf at 2 or more oesophageal 
levels).  Two  to  4  biopsies  were  to  be  obtained  from  proximal  and  distal  oesophagus  and  the  mid-
oesophagus if additional evaluation was necessary.  
•  Must have been symptomatic at Visit 1 (screening) and Visit 2 (randomisation): 
−  A patient-reported average of at least 2 days per week with an episode of dysphagia over the 4 
weeks prior to Visit 1. 
AND 
−  An average of at least 2 days per week with an episode of dysphagia (daily DSQ ≥ 2) between 
Visit 1 and Visit 2, and at least 2 days per week with an episode of dysphagia (daily DSQ ≥ 2) 
in each of the 2 weeks immediately prior to randomisation. 
•  Must have been adherent to daily diary assessments: 
−  Must have completed 70% of daily DSQ diaries between Visit 1 and Visit 2. 
2 Dellon, E. S., Gonsalves, N., Hirano, I., Furuta, G. T., Liacouras, C. A., Katzka, D. A., & American College of Gastroenterology (2013). ACG clinical 
guideline: Evidenced based approach to the diagnosis and management of esophageal eosinophilia and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). The 
American journal of gastroenterology, 108(5), 679–693. https://doi.org/10.1038/ajg.2013.71 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 4/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
AND 
−  Must have completed at least 8 of 14 daily DSQ diaries in the 14 days prior to randomisation. 
•  May  have  been  for  at  least  4  weeks  prior  to  screening  (8  weeks  for  PPI)  on  stable  background 
medications for EoE and related treatments without change of medication type or dosage during the 
run-in  period  and  for  the  first  52  weeks  of  the  study,  unless  medically  indicated.  In  case  of 
discontinuation  of  background  medication  prior  to  screening  a  washout  period  of  at  least  8  weeks 
was necessary. 
Exclusion Criteria 
Key exclusion criteria were as follows: 
•  Other  GI  disorders  such  as  active  Helicobacter  pylori  infection,  history  of  achalasia,  oesophageal 
varices, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, inflammatory bowel disease, or celiac disease. 
•  Any clinically significant abnormal findings in physical examination, vital signs, haematology, clinical 
chemistry, or urinalysis during the run-in period, which in the opinion of the Investigator may have 
put the patient at risk, or influenced the study results, or the patient’s ability to complete the study. 
•  Oesophageal  stricture  that  prevented  the  easy  passage  of  a  standard  endoscope  or  any  critical 
oesophageal stricture that requires dilation during the run-in period. 
•  Oesophageal  dilation  performed  within  8  weeks  prior  to  screening  and  prior  oesophageal  surgery 
that would have impacted the assessments for EoE. 
•  Use of a feeding tube or a pattern of not eating solid food daily during the run-in period. 
•  Hypereosinophilic syndrome, defined by multiple organ involvement and persistent blood eosinophil 
count > 1500 eos/μL. 
•  Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis vasculitis. 
•  Eosinophilic gastritis, gastroenteritis, enteritis, or colitis documented by biopsy. 
Treatments 
The clinical study consisted of 4 periods: 
•  A 2- to 8-week run-in period 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 5/28 
 
  
 
 
 
•  A 24-week placebo-controlled, DB, parallel-group treatment period (DB period) 
•  A 28-week OL benralizumab treatment period (OL period) 
•  An additional OLE treatment period (OLE period) (optional) 
Patients  received  either  benralizumab  30  mg  or  placebo  at  4-week  intervals  for  a  24-week  treatment 
period  (DB  period).  Patients  who  completed  the  DB,  placebo-controlled  treatment  period  on  IP  were 
eligible  to  continue  into  an  OL  treatment  period  with  benralizumab  30  mg  Q4W  until  Week  52  (OL 
period). 
All patients who completed the 52-week treatment period (the 24-week DB treatment period and the 
28-week OL treatment period; DB + OL treatment periods) on IP were to be offered the opportunity to 
continue into an OLE period on benralizumab 30 mg Q4W (OLE), intended to allow each patient at least 
1 additional year of treatment with OL benralizumab.  
Adult  patients  were  offered  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  an  Early  Time  Point  Sub-study,  which 
aimed  to  generate  early  time  point  evidence  and  demonstrate  the  impact  of  eosinophil  depletion  in 
tissue and to understand its relationship with endoscopic findings and symptom response. 
The flowchart of the study design and the sequence of treatment periods are shown in Figure 1 below: 
Q4W every 4 weeks; V Visit; EoT End of Treatment; FU Follow up, *Only for patients in the Early Time Point Sub-
study. Note: The first dose of open-label benralizumab occurred at Visit 8 (Week 24), following completion of all 
double-blind treatment period assessments. 
Objective(s) 
Primary Objective 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  benralizumab  30  mg  Q4W  on 
histological  signs  and  clinical  symptoms  of  EoE  in  patients  with  symptomatic  and  histologically  active 
EoE. 
Secondary Objectives 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 6/28 
 
  
 
 
 
The secondary objectives of the study were to: 
−  To  evaluate  the  effect  of  benralizumab  30  mg  Q4W  on  clinical  features  of  EoE  and  disease 
activity. 
−  To evaluate the effect of benralizumab 30 mg Q4W on patient reported QOL measures. 
−  To  evaluate  the  effect  of  benralizumab  30  mg  Q4W  on  healthcare  resource  utilization  due  to 
EoE. 
−  To  evaluate  the  effect  of  benralizumab  30  mg  Q4W  on  patient  reported  measures  of  disease 
severity and health status. 
−  To assess the PK and immunogenicity of benralizumab 30 mg Q4W in patients with EoE. 
Safety Objective 
To assess the safety and tolerability of benralizumab 30 mg Q4W in patients with EoE 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Dual primary efficacy Endpoints 
• Proportion  of  patients  with  a  histological  response  at  Week  24,  defined  as  a  peak  oesophageal 
intraepithelial eosinophil count ≤ 6 eos/hpf 
• Changes from baseline in DSQ score at Week 24 
Secondary efficacy Endpoints 
Key secondary endpoint: Percent change from baseline in tissue eosinophils at Week 24 
• Key secondary endpoint: Changes from baseline in EoE-HSS grade score at Week 24 
• Key secondary endpoint: Changes from baseline in EoE-HSS stage score at Week 24 
• Key secondary endpoint: Changes from baseline in centrally-read EoE EREFS at Week 24 
•  Key  secondary  endpoint:  Treatment  responder  rate  at  Week  24,  defined  as  a  composite  of 
histological  response  (≤  6  eos/hpf)  and  clinically  meaningful  improvement  from  baseline  in  DSQ 
score (30% improvement). 
• Centrally-read biopsies for additional histopathology including tissue eosinophil counts at Week 24 
• Dysphagia-free days as captured by the DSQ 
• Frequency of dysphagia episodes as captured by the EoE-3D 
• Changes from baseline in dysphagia associated pain, discomfort, and overall severity as captured by 
the EoE-3D at Week 24 
• Changes from baseline in abdominal pain and nausea as captured by the daily diary at Week 24 
• Changes from baseline in PEESS at Week 24 
• Changes from baseline in EoE-QoL-A at Week 24 
• SF-36-v2 Health Survey at Week 24 
•  Percent  of  patients  with  relevant  concomitant  procedures  and  healthcare  resource  utilisation  during 
the study through Week 24 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 7/28 
 
  
 
 
• PGI-S at Week 24 
• PGI-C at Week 24 
• Serum benralizumab concentration 
• ADA and nAb 
ADA  anti-drug  antibody;  DSQ  Dysphagia  Symptom  Questionnaire;  EoE  eosinophilic  esophagitis;  EoE-3D 
Eosinophilic  Esophagitis  -  Daily  Dysphagia  Diary;  EoE-HSS  Eosinophilic  Esophagitis-  Histology  Scoring  system; 
EoE-QoL-A  Adult  Eosinophilic  Esophagitis  Quality  of  Life  Questionnaire;  eos  eosinophils;  EREFS  Endoscopic 
Reference  Score;  hpf  highpower  field;  nAb  neutralising  antibody;  PEESS  Pediatric  Eosinophilic  Esophagitis 
Symptom Severity Module, Version 2.0, Children and Teens Report; PGI-C Patient Global Impression of Change; 
PGI-S Patient Global Impression of Severity; PK pharmacokinetics; Q4W every 4 weeks; QOL Quality of Life; SF-
36 v2 Short Form-36 Version 2.0. 
Additional  objectives  and  endpoints  were  also  defined  for  the  longer-term  effects  (Week  52  efficacy 
objective & endpoints) of benralizumab 30 mg Q4W in patients with EoE. 
Safety Endpoints 
• Safety and tolerability were to be evaluated in terms of AEs, vital signs, and clinical laboratory values 
• Assessments related to AEs covered: 
−  Occurrence/frequency 
−  Relationship to IP as assessed by Investigator 
− 
Intensity 
−  Seriousness 
−  Death 
−  AEs leading to discontinuation of IP 
•  Vital  signs  parameters  including  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure,  and  pulse,  as  well  as 
respiration rate, body temperature, body weight, and height 
• Assessments related to vital signs covered: 
−  Observed value 
• Absolute and percent change from baseline values over time 
AE adverse event; EoE eosinophilic esophagitis; IP investigational product; Q4W every 4 weeks. 
Sample size 
Approximately 170 patients* were planned to be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to benralizumab or 
matching  placebo.  This  would  provide  >  95%  power  for  the  first  primary  endpoint  (proportion  of 
patients achieving histological response) to demonstrate an increase from 20% or less on placebo, to 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 8/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
50% on benralizumab at the 2-sided 5% significance level (lower placebo rates have been reported in 
previous EoE studies3,4).  
*The planned sample size was exceeded as the recruitment period was extended to enrol the targeted 
number  of  adolescent  patients  and  adult  patients  for  the  Early  Time  Point  Sub-study  (see  below 
Participant Flow). 
The  power  calculation  for  the  second  primary  endpoint  (change  from  baseline  in  DSQ  score  at  Week 
24)  was  based  on  detecting  similar  effect  sizes  (mean  difference  in  change  from  baseline  of  the 
PRO/SD)  as  seen  in  previous  studies.  Assuming  an  effect  size  of  0.6,  which  equates  to  a  7.2-point 
difference  in  change  in  the  DSQ,  85  patients  per  treatment  group  would  allow  >  95%  power  for 
statistical  significance  at  the  5%  2-sided  level.  The  high  level  of  power  for  the  primary  endpoints 
ensured stronger statistical evidence could be demonstrated in the Phase III study.  
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
All  patients  were  centrally  assigned  to  randomised  IP  using  an  interactive  web  response  system. 
Randomisation  for  adults  was  stratified  by  region  (North  America  versus  ROW)  and  use  of  swallowed 
steroids at baseline (categorical, Yes/No). Adolescents were randomly assigned in a separate stratum 
with no other factors included. 
During  the  first  study  period  of  24  weeks  (DB),  benralizumab  and  placebo  were  not  visually  distinct 
from each other. All packaging and labelling of the IP were done in such a way as to ensure blinding 
for all Sponsor and study centre staff, and all patients. All personnel involved with the analysis of the 
study  remained  blinded  until  the  primary  database  was  locked,  and  CSP  deviations  were  identified. 
Originally, study centre staff and patients were to remain blinded until the last patient completed Week 
52  of  the  study.  However,  after  the  primary  analysis  was  completed  and  the  decision  was  made  to 
terminate  the  study,  treatment  allocations  were  shared  with  all  study  centres  to  enable  unblinding  of 
all randomized patients if needed to inform future treatment options. 
Statistical Methods 
The Statistical plan of study D3255C00001 followed the general principles mentioned below: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
The  primary  efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  the  DB  period.  All  efficacy  analyses  used  the  FAS 
(see Results: Number analysed), and patients were analysed according to their randomly assigned 
treatment, following the ITT principle. 
A  composite  estimand  strategy  was  used  for  all  endpoints  that  were  statistically  analysed  and 
included time points up to Week 52. 
To  account  for  multiplicity  testing  for  the  dual-primary  endpoints  and  the  key  secondary 
endpoints,  a hierarchical  testing  strategy  was  applied  to  strongly  control  the  overall  type  1  error 
rate at the 0.05 level. 
Hypothesis  testing  for  the  dual-primary  analyses  and  key  secondary  analyses  was  performed  at 
the  2-sided  5%  significance  level.  If  the  p-value  was  less  than  0.05,  the  null  hypothesis  was 
rejected and the alternative hypothesis was accepted. 
3 Dellon, E. S., Katzka, D. A., Collins, M. H., Hamdani, M., Gupta, S. K., Hirano, I., & MP-101-06 Investigators (2017). Budesonide Oral Suspension 
Improves Symptomatic, Endoscopic, and Histologic Parameters Compared With Placebo in Patients With Eosinophilic 
Esophagitis. Gastroenterology, 152(4), 776–786.e5. https://doi.org/10.1053/j.gastro.2016.11.021 
4 Hirano, I., & Furuta, G. T. (2020). Approaches and Challenges to Management of Pediatric and Adult Patients With Eosinophilic 
Esophagitis. Gastroenterology, 158(4), 840–851. https://doi.org/10.1053/j.gastro.2019.09.052 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 9/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
Results  of  formal  statistical  comparisons  of  non-primary  or  key  secondary  endpoints  were 
presented with 2-sided 95% CIs and nominal (ie, not multiplicity adjusted) p-values. 
All analyses of Week 52 endpoints used the FAS; analyses were descriptive as no placebo control 
was available at that time point and therefore no hypothesis testing was performed.   
The  statistical  analysis  of  the  DB  period  was  designed  to  compare  both  efficacy  and  safety  of 
benralizumab  to  placebo,  while  the  OL  period  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  long-term  safety, 
tolerability and persistence of effect of benralizumab in this patient population. The OLE would provide 
an opportunity to assess long term safety and tolerability. 
All safety variables were summarised descriptively using the safety analysis set or the OL benralizumab 
analysis  set  (see  below:  Results,  Number  analysed).  It  should  be  mentioned  that  the  study  was  not 
designed or powered to detect differences in any individual AE. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Of the 404 patients enrolled in study D3255C00001, 211 were randomly assigned to study treatment 
and  210  received  treatment  during  the  DB  period  (103  received  benralizumab  and  107  received 
placebo;  Table  14.1.1).  A  total  of  207  patients  (98.1%)  completed  the  24-week  DB  period.  The 
proportions  of  patients  who  discontinued  study  treatment  during  the  DB  period  were  similar  between 
treatment groups (1.9% for the benralizumab group and 1.9% for the placebo group). Patient decision 
was the only reason for discontinuation of DB treatment (4 patients [1.9%]).  
Of  the  211  patients  randomly  assigned  to  study  treatment,  206  patients  (97.6%)  completed  DB 
treatment  with  study  treatment,  and  205  patients  (97.2%)  enrolled  in  the  OL  treatment  period  on 
study treatment and 1 patient (0.5%) enrolled in the OL period off study treatment. As of the primary 
analysis data cut-off date, 99 patients (46.9%) were ongoing in the OL period on study treatment, 98 
patients  (46.4%)  completed  OL  treatment  with  study  treatment,  8  patients  (3.8%)  discontinued  OL 
treatment with study treatment, and 3 patients (1.4%) withdrew from the study during the OL period. 
Patient decision was the most common reason for discontinuation of OL treatment during the OL period 
(6  patients  [2.8%]).  Of  the  89  patients  who  completed  the  OL  period,  79  patients  enrolled  in  the 
optional OLE period (Table 14.1.1). 
In the FAS and during the DB period, 34 patients (33.0%) in the benralizumab group and 42 patients 
(39.3%)  in  the  placebo  group  had  important  protocol  deviations;  during  the  OL  period,  11  patients 
(11.0%)  in  the  benralizumab  group  and  11  patients  (10.5%)  in  the  placebo/benralizumab  group  had 
important protocol deviations. 
A  total  of  25  adult  patients  participated  in  the  Early  Time  Point  Sub-study  (11  patients  in  the 
benralizumab group and 14 patients in the placebo group).  
The  first  participant  enrolled  on  13  September  2022.  After  the  primary  analysis  was  completed 
(primary analysis population consists of the complete population of all patients randomised in the trial, 
including  the  complete  sub-study  population)  a  decision  was  made  to  terminate  the  study  on  25 
October  2022,  however  patients  returned  to  study  centres  for  a  follow-up  visit  12  weeks  (±  7  days) 
following  the  last  dose  of  Investigational  Product  (IP),  after  which  the  patient  discontinued  from  the 
study. The study completion date, as defined by the last patient last visit date, was 6 February 2023. 
Once  the  last  patient  had  their  last  visit,  a  final  analysis  was  performed  (data  lock  date:  03  March 
2023). 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 10/28 
 
  
 
 
  
Recruitment 
Patients  were  recruited  in  12  countries.  The  majority  of  patients  in  the  Full  Analysis  Set  were  White 
(93.2%), male (74.8%), and not Hispanic or Latino (92.3%) (Table 15). The median age was 33 years 
(range:  12  to  62  years).  The  recruitment  of  patients  under  eighteen  was  markedly  lower  than  adult 
patients: 28 patients (13.3%) were < 18 years of age whereas 182 patients (86.7%) were ≥ 18 years 
of age. A total of 160 patients (76.2%) were > 21 years of age.  
Demographic  characteristics  were  evenly  balanced  between  treatment  groups.  The  study  population 
was representative of the intended target population. Consistent with the prevalence of EoE, the study 
recruited more male than female patients. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 11/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 12/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Overall, baseline disease characteristics were similar between treatment groups (Table 16). The mean 
(SD)  BMI  was  25.67  (5.64)  kg/m2,  the  median  baseline  peak  oesophageal  intraepithelial  eosinophil 
count  was  77  eos/hpf,  and  the  median  baseline  blood  eosinophil  count  was  310  ×  109  cells/L.  At 
baseline, the majority of patients reported no swallowed steroid use (184 patients [87.6%]) and  113 
patients [53.8%] reported presence of strictures. 
Both  treatment  groups  reported  similar  profile  for  EoE  disease  history  which  was  reflective  of  the 
protocol-intended patient population having symptomatic and histologically active EoE, with an overall 
mean time since first EoE symptoms and time from diagnosis of 10.8 and 4.9 years, respectively.  
In  the  benralizumab  and  placebo  groups,  76  and  74  patients,  respectively,  had  1  or  more  atopic 
conditions  (defined  as  current  asthma,  rhinitis  [seasonal  or  all  year  round],  seasonal  conjunctivitis, 
atopic dermatitis, eczema, and allergy test-based diet).  
Overall baseline values of efficacy variables were similar between treatment groups. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 13/28 
 
  
 
 
 
Overall  medical  and  surgical  history  were  similar  between  patients  in  the  benralizumab  and  placebo 
groups:  a  total  of  61  patients  (29.0%)  reported  a  previous  medical  history,  the  most  commonly 
reported  being  COVID-19  and  Helicobacter  infections  (each  reported  for  1.9%  of  patients)  and 
cholecystitis  and  tonsilitis  (each  reported  for  1.4%  of  patients).  Overall,  a  total  of  143  patients 
(68.1%)  reported  a  current  medical  history  with  food  allergy  (18.1%)  being  the  most  common, 
followed  by  anxiety  (10.0%),  and  hypertension  (8.6%).  Overall,  a  total  of  116  patients  (55.2%) 
reported  a  surgical  history.  The  most  commonly  reported  surgical  history  was  oesophageal  dilation 
procedure (21.4%).  
The most frequently used type of prior MINT (Medications of Interest) were PPIs (21.9%), swallowed 
ICS  (9.0%),  and  swallowed  orodispersible  corticosteroids  (8.1%%),  with  a  frequency  of  use  similar 
between the benralizumab and placebo groups. 
Number analysed 
Six patient populations were defined below:  
All subjects analysis set: all subjects screened for the study, and used for the reporting of disposition 
and screening failures. 
Full  analysis  set  (FAS):  All  randomized  subjects  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  IP,  irrespective  of 
their  protocol  adherence  and  continued  participation  in  the  study.  Subjects  would  be  analysed 
according  to  their  randomized  treatments  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  they  have  been  prematurely 
discontinued,  according  to  the  Intent-to-Treat  (ITT)  principle.  Subjects  who  withdraw  consent,  or 
assent  when  applicable,  to  participate  in  the  study  would  be  included  up  to  the  date  of  their  study 
termination.  All  efficacy  analyses  were  to  be  performed  using  an  ITT  approach  based  on  the  full 
analysis set (FAS). For consistency, demographic and baseline characteristics were presented using the 
FAS. 
Safety analysis set: All subjects who have received at least 1 dose of IP. Erroneously treated patients 
during  the  DB  period  (e.g.,  those  randomized  to  treatment  A  but  actually  given  treatment  B)  were 
accounted  for  in  the  treatment  group  of  the  treatment  they  actually  received.  A  subject  who  had  on 
one  or  several  occasions  received  active  IP  was  classified  as  active.  Safety  summaries  and  ADA  data 
were based on this analysis set. 
Pharmacokinetic  analysis  set:  All  subjects  who  received  benralizumab  and  from  whom  PK  blood 
samples  were  assumed  not  to  be  affected  by  factors  such  as  protocol  violations  (e.g.  received  wrong 
dose)  and  who  had  at  least  1  quantifiable  serum  PK  observation  post  first  dose.  All  PK  summaries 
would be based on this analysis set. 
Open-label benralizumab analysis set: All subjects who started or carried on receiving at least 1 dose 
of benralizumab after the end of the Week 24 double blind treatment period. 
Open-label extension benralizumab analysis set: All subjects who carried on receiving at least 1 dose 
of benralizumab after the end of the Week 52 double blind + open label treatment periods. 
Additionally,  Early  time  point  sub-study  analysis  set  was  defined  as  all  subjects  who  had  Week  4  or 
Week 12 endoscopy performed. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 14/28 
 
  
 
 
Efficacy results (primary analysis) 
Efficacy  analyses  were  performed  using  the  FAS  for  the  DB  and  the  OL  periods.  Efficacy  results  are 
presented for the 24-week DB period for all patients and for all available data up to Week 52 from the 
OL  period  (Weeks  24  to  52)  by  the  data  cut-off  date  for  the  primary  analysis  (19  September  2022). 
After the primary analysis was completed, the decision was made to terminate the study. Despite the 
demonstration  of  robust  blood  and  tissue  eosinophil  depletion,  no  statistically  significant  or  clinically 
meaningful difference between benralizumab and placebo in symptom endpoints was observed.  
It is clarified that no updated efficacy, PK, PD, or immunogenicity analyses were performed at the final 
analysis; all analyses for these endpoints in the report relate to the primary analysis data cut-off (19 
September 2022). 
Dual primary endpoints 
The  proportion  of  patients  who  achieved  histological  response  (≤  6  eos/hpf)  at  Week  24  was 
statistically significantly higher in the benralizumab group compared with the placebo group (difference 
versus  placebo:  80.8%,  95%  CI:  72.9%,  88.8%;  p  <  0.0001,  Table  18)  and  the  robustness  of  the 
results were supported by sensitivity analyses.  
At  baseline,  the  mean  DSQ  score  was  35.9  and  34.1  in  the  benralizumab  and  placebo  groups, 
respectively. The mean change from baseline in DSQ scores at the primary time point at Week 24 and 
overall,  in  the  24-week  DB  period  was  similar  between  treatment  groups  (LS  mean  changes  from 
baseline of -12.1 versus -15.1 for benralizumab versus placebo, respectively, Figure 3). The difference 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 15/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
in  LS  mean  change  from  baseline  in  DSQ  score  at  Week  24  (3.0)  was  not  statistically  significant 
between treatment groups (95% CI: -1.36, 7.35; p = 0.1770, Table 18). Sensitivity analyses showed 
consistent results with the primary change in DSQ analysis. Additionally, no clear differences between 
treatment groups were seen in any of the subgroups assessed. 
Key secondary endpoints 
A greater LS mean percent reduction from baseline in tissue eosinophils was observed at Week 24 in 
the benralizumab group compared with the placebo group with a difference between treatment groups 
which reached nominal statistical significance (-96.2, 95% CI: -114.5, -77.9; p < 0.0001). 
A  greater  LS  mean  change  from  baseline  in  EoE-HSS  total  grade  score  at  Week  24  observed  in  the 
benralizumab  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group,  and  the  observed  difference  reached  nominal 
statistical significance (-0.18, 95% CI: -0.21, -0.14; p < 0.0001). 
A greater LS mean reduction from baseline in EoE-HSS total stage score was observed at Week 24 in 
the  benralizumab  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  and  the  observed  difference  reached 
nominal statistical significance (-0.12, 95% CI: -0.16, -0.09; p < 0.0001). 
Both  scores  in  EoE  Histology  Scoring  System  (EoE-HSS)  relate  to  the  presence  of  eosinophils 
(eosinophil  inflammation,  eosinophil  abscess,  and  eosinophil  surface  layering)  in  the  benralizumab 
group compared to the placebo group. No clear differences between treatment groups were observed 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 16/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
for features related to epithelium (surface epithelial alteration and dyskeratotic epithelial cells), while a 
trend  for  greater  improvement  in  lamina  propria  was  observed  for  the  benralizumab  group  but  was 
limited by the small number of samples with available lamina propria tissue. 
The difference in LS mean change from baseline in centrally-read EREFS total scores at Week 24 was 
similar between the two treatment groups (-0.1, 95% CI: -0.52, -0.37; p = 0.7322). 
The proportion of patients considered treatment responders at Week 24 (ie, achieved both histological 
response  [≤  6  eos/hpf]  and  clinically  meaningful  improvement  in  symptom  response  [≥  30% 
improvement  in  DSQ  score  from  baseline])  was  greater  in  the  benralizumab  group  compared  to  the 
placebo group driven by the histological response in the benralizumab group, but with no statistically 
significant or clinically meaningful difference in DSQ between  the groups. The difference in treatment 
responder  rate  between  treatment  groups  reached  nominal  statistical  significance  ((39.0%,  95%  CI: 
28.6%, 49.4%; p < 0.0001). 
The results for the dual-primary and key secondary variables/endpoints are summarized in Table 18: 
a A positive result in rate difference, > 1 result in odds ratio, a negative difference in LS means would favour the benralizumab 30 
mg group. 
b A histologic response was defined as a peak oesophageal intraepithelial eosinophil count ≤ 6 eos/hpf across all available 
oesophageal levels. Patients with no biopsy data at Week 24 or with intercurrent events prior to Week 24 such as changes to 
background medications or additional new therapies for EoE were considered non-responders. 
c For any patients with intercurrent events, the scores after the occurrence of these events were imputed using return-to-baseline 
multiple imputation. Missing data not due to intercurrent events were imputed using MI (MAR). 
d A treatment response was defined as composite of histologic response and clinically meaningful improvement (30% reduction) 
from baseline in DSQ score. Patients with missing data at Week 24 or with intercurrent events prior to Week 24 such as changes to 
background medications or additional new therapies for EoE were considered non-responders. 
ANCOVA analysis of covariance; Benra benralizumab; CI confidence interval; CMH Cochran-Maentel-Haenszel; DSQ Dysphagia 
Symptom Questionnaire;  EoE eosinophilic esophagitis; eos eosinophils; EREFS endoscopic reference score; hpf high-power field; 
HSS histology scoring system; LS means least square means; MAR missing at random; MI multiple imputation; N number of 
patients in treatment group who could have made it to that time point by the data cut-off; n number of patients with data at that 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 17/28 
 
  
 
 
visit (including patients with imputed values post intercurrent events) for continuous endpoint. For binary endpoints n represents the 
number of patients in the analysis. 
The secondary efficacy variable PEESS was summarized only descriptively since there were not enough 
paediatric  subjects  available: the  PEESS  assessments  were  completed  by  the  29  patients  who  were 
age ≤ 18 years at the time of Visit 1. The mean change from baseline in PEESS scores at Week 24 was 
similar between treatment groups. 
As  statistical  significance  was  not  achieved  on  the  DSQ  endpoint  (at  the  5%  level),  other  secondary 
endpoints in the testing hierarchy could not be formally tested. 
Based on the results from the Early Time Point Sub-study (not component of the dual-primary or key 
secondary  endpoints)  treatment  with  benralizumab  resulted  in  a  greater  LS  mean  reduction  from 
baseline  in  peak  oesophageal  intraepithelial  eosinophil  counts  starting  at  Week  4  compared  with 
placebo  (-69.8  versus  +0.07  eos/hpf,  respectively),  and  this  greater  mean  reduction  was  maintained 
through Weeks 12 and 24. 
PK results (primary analysis) 
Serum benralizumab concentrations by time Point during the 24-week DB period and the 28-week OL 
period were based on the PK analysis set and are summarized in Table 26. Based on geometric mean 
serum concentrations, PK steady state for patients treated with benralizumab was reached by Week 16 
during the DB period. However, the lack of an OL equivalent for the DB Week 16 PK time-point did not 
allow for a conclusion for the placebo/benralizumab group. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 18/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic results (primary analysis) 
Changes  in  tissue  eosinophil  and  blood  eosinophil  counts  observed  over  time  during  the  24-week  DB 
period  and  the  28-week  OL  period  were  assessed  for  the  primary  analysis  to  evaluate  the  PD  of 
benralizumab. 
Results  for  the  primary  analysis  showed  a  greater  LS  mean  percent  reduction  from  baseline  in  tissue 
eosinophils  at  Week  24  in  the  benralizumab  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  and  a  similar 
effect  was  also  observed  in  the  Early  Time  Point  Sub-study  (Week  4)  (see  Efficacy  results:  Key 
secondary endpoints). For patients in the placebo group who switched to benralizumab in the OL period 
and  had  tissue  biopsy  data  available  at  Week  52,  near  complete  eosinophil  depletion  was  also 
demonstrated.  The  mean  reduction  from  baseline  in  tissue  eosinophils  in  the  placebo/benralizumab 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 19/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
group at Week 52 was consistent with the reduction from baseline in the benralizumab group at Week 
24. 
Benralizumab treatment resulted in near complete depletion of blood eosinophils at the first time point 
assessed  (Week  8)  following  the  start  of  treatment  (mean  change  from  baseline:  -0.3  ×  109  cells/L) 
that  was  maintained  through  Week  24  (mean  change  from  baseline:  -0.3  ×  109  cells/L;  see  Figure 
14.3.7.1.1 from Hematology safety testing). Mean changes from baseline in blood eosinophils was 0.0 
× 109 cells/L in the placebo group over the course of the DB period. Based on available laboratory data 
at Week 52, the near complete depletion of blood eosinophils was maintained through Week 52 in the 
benralizumab group (mean change from baseline: -0.3 × 109 cells/L).  
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic relationship 
Exposure-response  analyses  were  performed  with  PK  concentration  subgroups,  for  the  dual-primary 
endpoints (histological response at Week 24 and change from baseline in DSQ score at Week 24). It is 
clarified  that  the  study  was  not  designed  or  powered  to  assess  efficacy  within  any  of  the  pre-defined 
subgroups  and 
therefore 
these  analyses  were  considered  exploratory:  subgroup  analyses 
demonstrated  that  the  proportion  of  patients  with  histological  response  at  Week  24  for  the 
benralizumab  group  for  both  the  >  median  and  the  ≤  median  benralizumab  serum  concentration  at 
Week 24 versus placebo subgroups was consistent with the overall analysis results. Subgroup analyses 
demonstrated that there  was no difference in the  DSQ score LS mean change from baseline at Week 
24 observed for the benralizumab group for both the > median and the ≤ median benralizumab serum 
concentration  at  Week  24  versus  placebo  subgroups.  Substantial  overlap  in  the  95%  CIs  of  the  PK 
concentration subgroups for each of the dual-primary endpoints support that there is no clear evidence 
of a difference in effect by benralizumab serum concentration subgroups. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 20/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity results (primary analysis)  
Potential impact of ADA on benralizumab PK was investigated by the analysis of serum concentrations 
in  ADA  subgroups: benralizumab  geometric  mean  serum  concentrations  were  lower  in  subgroups  of 
ADA-positive  patients  compared  to  ADA-negative  patients  starting  at  Week  16  through  Week  52, 
particularly  within  the  subgroup  of  high-titred  ADA-positive  patients  in  the  benralizumab  group; 
however,  numbers  of  patients  with  serum  concentration  results  within  each  ADA  positive  subgroup 
were low. 
Assessment  of  the  anti-drug  antibody  effect  on  PD  showed  that:  a)  median  decreases  in  blood 
eosinophils  were  numerically  lower  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  high  ADA  titre  (titre  >  than  the 
median of the maximum titre), ADA-persistently positive patients, and nAb-positive patients compared 
to the median decreases in the subgroup of ADA-negative patients and b) median decreases in tissue 
eosinophils at week 24 were similar in the overall subgroup of ADA-positive patients and ADA-negative 
patients in the benralizumab group but numerically smaller in the subgroup of high-ADA titre patients.  
Additionally, the proportions of patients with histological response were numerically lower in the ADA-
positive  subgroups  compared  to  the  ADA-negative  subgroup  at  Week  24,  however  no  difference  was 
noted at  Week 52. Although no marked differences were observed in DSQ between ADA positive and 
ADA negative subgroup of patients, further interpretation is confounded by the absence of a treatment 
effect in the overall population. 
Safety results  
All  safety  analyses  for  the  DB  period  and  DB  +  OL  +  OLE  periods  were  performed  using  the  safety 
analysis set, which included all patients who received at least 1 dose of IP. Safety data were presented 
for the primary analysis, which included complete data for the 24-week DB period for all patients and 
all  available  data  for  the  28-week  OL  period  and  for  the  OLE  period  that  had  accumulated  by  the 
primary analysis data cut-off date (19 September 2022). Additionally, cumulative safety data available 
at the time of the final clinical data lock date (03 March 2023) are referred to as the final analysis. No 
meaningful  differences  were  identified  in  safety  information  based  on  results  for  the  final  analysis 
compared to the primary analysis. 
In  line  with  the  balanced  disposition  between  treatment  groups,  the  mean  duration  of  on-treatment 
exposures  to  IP  during  the  24  weeks  of  the  DB  period  was  similar  between  the  benralizumab  and 
placebo groups. Similarly, the mean durations of on-treatment exposures to IP during the 28-week OL 
period,  when  all  patients  received  benralizumab,  were  similar  between  the  benralizumab  and 
placebo/benralizumab groups.  
Adverse Events  
The  proportion  of  patients  with  AEs  with  onset  during  the  DB  period  was  similar  in  the  benralizumab 
group  compared  with  the  placebo  group.  The  numbers  of  patients  with  SAEs  were  low  in  both 
treatment  groups.  There  were  no  patients  with  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  of  IP.  No  deaths  were 
reported during the study (Table 31). 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 21/28 
 
  
 
 
 
Adverse  events  with  onset  during  the  OL  period,  by  category,  were  generally  similar  in  the 
placebo/benralizumab  group  compared  with  the  benralizumab  group  (Table  33).  SAEs  were  reported 
for a total of 5 patients during the OL period (Table 33). 
The most common AEs by Preferred Term with onset during the DB period and OL period are shown in 
Tables 34 and 37 respectively: 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 22/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  few  patients  with  AEs  with  onset  during  the  DB  period  that  were  assessed  as  possibly 
related to IP by the Investigator; there were no notable differences between treatment groups. 
For  the  final  analysis,  the  most  common  AEs  reported  during  the  DB  +  OL  +  OLE  period  were 
consistent with AEs with onset during the DB period and those with onset during the OL period. There 
were no notable differences in AEs reported at the time of the final analysis compared to the primary 
analysis. 
Deaths, Serious Adverse Events, Discontinuation of Investigational Product Due to Adverse Events, and 
Other Significant Adverse Events 
No patients had an AE with an outcome of death during the study based on the information from both 
the primary and final analysis. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 23/28 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
The SAEs reported during the DB and OL periods in all treatment groups are summarized in Tables 38 
and  39  below.  None  of  the  SAEs  with  onset  in  the  DB  period  were  assessed  by  the  Investigator  as 
possibly related to IP, none led to discontinuation and all patients recovered.  
Of note, four SAEs with onset during the OL period were reported at the time of the primary analysis 
for 1 adolescent patient in the benralizumab group: suicide attempt, affective disorder, depression and 
oppositional defiant disorder. Although the patient had no prior medical history of psychiatric disorders, 
an underlying diagnosis of depression was established during hospitalisation for the suicide attempt. All 
SAEs  for  this  patient  were  resolved,  none  were  assessed  as  related  to  IP  and  study  treatment  was 
continued.  However,  2  additional  SAEs,  suicide  attempt  and  disruptive  mood  dysregulation  disorder 
were  reported  for  the  above  patient  following  the  data  cut-off  for  the  primary  analysis  (OLE  period). 
The second suicide attempt included in the final analysis was considered resolved, while the disruptive 
mood dysregulation disorder was not recovered/not resolved at the time of the final analysis. 
In addition, four SAEs with onset during the same period (OL) were reported for 1 adult patient in the 
placebo/benralizumab 
group: 
oesophageal 
food 
impaction, 
oesophageal 
perforation, 
pneumomediastinum and pneumoperitoneum. Following the endoscopic procedure for food impaction, 
the  patient  developed  oesophageal  perforation,  pneumomediastinum  and  pneumoperitoneum.  All  
SAEs were resolved and assessed as not related to IP, however study treatment was discontinued due 
to the oesophageal food impaction. 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 24/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
During the DB + OL + OLE periods, a total of 8/208 patients (3.8%) who received benralizumab at any 
point  during  the  study  reported  SAEs  while  receiving  benralizumab.  After  the  data  cut  off  for  the 
primary analysis, 1 additional patient in the placebo/benralizumab group reported 1 SAE (anaphylactic 
reaction) which was resolved. 
The analyzed Adverse Events of interest included:  
− 
serious infections: for the AEs reported during each study period and the respective treatment 
groups see Table 38 for the DB period AEs (infectious pleural effusion and pneumonia bacterial 
and Table 39 for the OL period AEs (gastroenteritis).  
−  helminth  infections:  No  cases  of  helminth  infections  were  reported  during  the  DB,  OL,  or  the 
DB + OL + OLE periods. 
−  malignancy: an AE of basosquamous carcinoma was reported for 1 patient in the benralizumab 
group  during  the  OL  period  and  an  AE  of  malignant  melanoma  in  situ  was  reported  for  1 
patient in the placebo group during the DB + OL + OLE periods. Neither patient had a medical 
history of malignancy. Both events were recovered/resolved and did not require treatment. 
Hypersensitivity  AEs  with  onset  during  the  DB  period  were  reported  in  3.9%  of  patients  in  the 
benralizumab group and for 6.5% patients in the placebo group. The most frequently reported (ie, for ≥ 
2 patients) hypersensitivity AEs during the DB period were eczema (3 patients in placebo group), rash 
(2 patients in benralizumab group), and rhinitis allergic (2 patients in placebo group). 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 25/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Additional  hypersensitivity  AEs  with  onset  during  the  OL  period  were  reported  for  2  patients  in  the 
benralizumab group (rhinitis allergic and injection site urticaria, reported for 1 patient each) and for 4 
patients  in  the  placebo/benralizumab  group  (hypersensitivity  reported  for  2  patients,  and  idiopathic 
urticaria and injection related reaction, reported for 1 patient, each). 
The proportion of patients with injection-site reaction AEs reported during the DB period was low and 
similar for the benralizumab patients (2.9%) and placebo patients (1.9%) groups. At the time of the 
final analysis, during the DB + OL periods, injection-site reactions were reported for 8.7% of patients 
in the benralizumab group and for 4.7% of patients in the placebo/benralizumab group, and for a total 
of  14  patients  (6.7%)  while  receiving  benralizumab.  None  of  the  additional  injection  site  reactions 
reported for the final analysis were SAEs and none resulted in discontinuation of IP. 
Overall, there was no consistent pattern or trend in the hypersensitivity and injection-site reaction AEs 
observed in the benralizumab and placebo groups during the study. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluation 
Analyses on the changes in blood eosinophils are presented in the section of efficacy results. 
At  the  time  of  the  primary  analysis,  low  values  for  post-baseline  neutrophils  were  observed  for  20 
patients in the benralizumab group and for 11 patients in the placebo/benralizumab group during the 
DB  +  OL  periods  without  a  pattern  for  the  timing  of  the  mean  value  decrease.  The  decreases  in 
neutrophils were transient and resolved over the course of the study for most patients in the study.  
There  were  no  clinically  meaningful  trends  in  clinical  chemistry  values  over  time  during  the  DB  +  OL 
periods.  There  were  no  clinically  meaningful  trends  in  urinalysis  findings  over  time  and  no  individual 
clinically important findings were identified in any treatment group during the DB and DB + OL periods. 
Few  patients  reported  AEs  related  to  vital  signs,  their  incidences  were  similar  between  treatment 
groups, and none were clinically significant. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study  D3255C00001  (MESSINA)  was  a  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  DB,  parallel-group, 
multicentre,  Phase  III  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  repeat  dosing  of  benralizumab 
versus placebo in male and female patients 12 to 65 years of age with symptomatic and histologically 
active Eosinophilic Esophagitis.  
The primary analysis of the MESSINA study performed when all randomised patients completed the 24-
week DB period, evaluated the effect of benralizumab on histologic signs and clinical symptoms of EoE 
at  the  end  of  the  DB  period.  In  summary  for  the  dual  primary  efficacy  endpoints,  treatment  with 
benralizumab  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant  increase  in  the  proportion  of  patients  achieving 
histological  response  at  Week  24  compared  to  placebo,  yet  statistical  significance  or  clinically 
meaningful  difference  in  DSQ  LS  mean  change  from  baseline  was  not  demonstrated  between 
benralizumab  and  placebo  treatment  groups.  Analysis  for  secondary  endpoints  supported  the  dual-
primary  endpoint  results  with  improvement  only  in  histology-related  endpoints  and  no  difference  in 
endoscopic  appearance  and  symptom-related  endpoints  at  Week  24  for  benralizumab  compared  with 
placebo. Challenges in the interpretation of the OL period data i.e the incomplete follow-up through 52 
weeks  and  the  absence  of  placebo-control  did  not  have  a  major  impact  on  the  overall  conclusions  of 
the study. 
There was evidence of an effect of ADA on PK, particularly in those patients with high titres, though the 
number of patients in ADA subgroups were low. Decreases in blood and tissue eosinophil counts were 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 26/28 
 
  
 
 
noted  in  all  ADA-positive  subgroups  in  the  benralizumab  group;  decreases  were  smaller  in  the 
subgroup of high-titred ADA positive patients. There was no effect of ADA on safety.  
The safety data presented for the primary analysis and the cumulative data available at the time of the 
final clinical data lock date are consistent with the known safety profile of benralizumab. No new safety 
findings associated with benralizumab treatment were identified during the study. 
Upon completion of the primary analysis, the decision was made by the sponsor to terminate the study 
on  the  grounds  of  absence  of  any  statistically  significant  or  clinically  meaningful  difference  in  clinical 
symptom endpoints between benralizumab and placebo, despite the demonstration of robust blood and 
tissue eosinophil depletion.  
At the time of study design, the central finding in EoE was eosinophilic inflammation, and the presence 
of  eosinophils  in  the  esophageal  epithelium  considered  pathogenic1.  The  results  from  the  MESSINA 
study  demonstrate  that  depletion  of  esophageal  eosinophils  did  not  translate  to  improvements  in 
dysphagia symptoms. A recent review article5 provides insight into the pathogenesis of EoE, supporting 
the  view  that  EoE  being  a  Th2-mediated  disease  is  defined  by  many  more  disease  features  than 
eosinophilic  infiltration.  In  the  same  article  eosinophil  targeting  treatments  are  discussed  i.e,  IL-5 
appears  to  have  a  key  role  in  eosinophil  trafficking  and  eosinophil  survival,  however  EoE  treatments 
targeting  this  cytokine  had  minor  impact  on  the  improvement  of  clinical  symptoms  in  EoE  trials.  A 
possible  association  between  altered  neuroimmune  activity  of  cells  overexpressed  in  type  2 
inflammation and dysphagia as the major clinical disease presentation in EoE is described in a review 
article 6 .  Both  articles  suggest  a  more  complex  pathophysiological  mechanism  of  esophageal 
eosinophilia.  
3.  CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
MESSINA  was  the  first  clinical  study  to  demonstrate  the  effect  of  benralizumab  in  the  depletion  of 
eosinophils  in  GI  tissue,  after  just  1  dose.  Nevertheless,  benralizumab  did  not  succeed  to  reduce 
dysphagia  symptoms  or  resolve  non-eosinophilic  histologic  or  structural  features  of  EoE.  Treatment 
with benralizumab in EoE patients was well tolerated with no new safety findings. 
The submitted Phase III study does not change the benefit risk profile for FASENRA. It is agreed that 
revisions to the Summary of Product Characteristics are not warranted. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
5 Salvador Nunes, V. S., Straumann, A., Salvador Nunes, L., Schoepfer, A. M., & Greuter, T. (2023). Eosinophilic Esophagitis beyond Eosinophils - 
an Emerging Phenomenon Overlapping with Eosinophilic Esophagitis: Collegium Internationale Allergologicum (CIA) Update 
2023. International archives of allergy and immunology, 184(5), 411–420. https://doi.org/10.1159/000529910 
6 Kim, B., Rothenberg, M. E., Sun, X., Bachert, C., Artis, D., Zaheer, R., Deniz, Y., Rowe, P., & Cyr, S. (2023). Neuroimmune interplay during type 2 
inflammation: symptoms, mechanisms and therapeutic targets in atopic diseases. The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology, S0091-
6749(23)01070-9. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaci.2023.08.017 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 27/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development programme 
Clinical study 
Product Name:  Fasenra  
Active substance: benralizumab 
Study title 
MESSINA 
Study number  Date of completion 
D3255C00001  6 February 2023 
Date of submission of final study report 
21 July 2023 
EMA/499801/2023  
Page 28/28 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
