SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Faslodex.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
This marketing authorization application concerns Faslodex, solution for injection 250 mg/5ml, which 
contains the active substance fulvestrant (ICI 182,780, ZD9238). This is a full application for approval 
of  a  new  active  substance.  The  therapeutic  indication  for  Faslodex  is  for  the  treatment  of 
postmenopausal women with oestrogen receptor positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
for disease relapse on or after adjuvant antioestrogen therapy or disease progression on therapy with 
an antioestrogen. The proposed dose is 250 mg to be administered intramuscularly into the buttock at 
intervals of 1 month as a single 5 ml injection. 
Breast cancer 
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women with as many as one in eight women in 
developed  countries  being  affected  by  the  disease  at  some  point  during  their  lifetime.  The  aging 
population is set to give rise to an increase in the prevalence of breast cancer with estimates suggesting 
an annual rise of 1%, particularly among postmenopausal women. 
Treatment of breast cancer is determined by the extent of the disease. Early or localized breast cancer 
is  treated  by  a  combination  of  surgery  and  radiotherapy.  Adjuvant  systemic  therapy,  consisting  of 
chemotherapy  and/or  endocrine  therapy,  in  tumours  deemed  hormone  responsive,  can  prolong  the 
disease-free  interval  and  improve  overall  survival.  However,  approximately  30%  to  40%  of  patients 
with early breast cancer will ultimately relapse, with either local recurrence or distant metastases, and 
require further systemic treatment for advanced disease (ref: Forbes 1997).  Since breast cancer that 
recurs  or  progresses  after  initial  treatment  is  considered  incurable,  the  therapy  options  available  for 
advanced disease are concerned with disease control and palliation of symptoms (ref: Osborne, 1998). 
Hormonal  therapy  has  become  the  treatment  of  choice  in  postmenopausal  women  with  hormone 
sensitive  breast  cancer.  Historically,  the  selective  oestrogen  receptor  modulator,  tamoxifen  has  been 
used extensively with success to treat advanced disease (ref: Litherland and Jackson, 1988; Osborne, 
1998). Resistance to tamoxifen develops and the mechanism is complex. For postmenopausal women 
with  breast  cancer  whose  disease  has  recurred  or  progressed  following  treatment  with  tamoxifen  or 
related  non-steroidal  anti-oestrogen,  the  choice  of  additional  hormonal  treatment  lies  between 
aromatase  inhibitors  (eg,  anastrozole,  examestane,  letrozole)  and  progestins  (eg,  megestrol  acetate, 
medroxyprogesterone). Progestins can be poorly tolerated because of adverse effects, notably weight 
gain, oedema, and thromboembolic complications.  As a result, progestins are often reserved as third-
line treatment or are avoided if the patient is deemed at risk of these complications. Even though the 
treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women has improved with the introduction of 
agents  such  as  aromatase  inhibitors,  these  agents  still  have  limitations,  and  disease  management 
continues to be sub-optimal. 
About the product 
Fulvestrant  is  claimed  to  be  the  first  agent  in  a  new  class  of  anti-oestrogen  described  by  the  term 
Oestrogen Receptor Downregulator (ER Downregulator [ref: Wakeling, 2000]). It is an anti-oestrogen 
without agonist properties. It blocks the trophic actions of oestrogens without itself having any partial 
agonist (oestrogen-like) activity on the endometrium of post-menopausal women. Fulvestrant binds to 
oestrogen  receptors  (ERs)  in  a  competitive  manner  with  a  high  affinity  comparable  with  that  of 
oestradiol. Data from pre-clinical studies have shown that fulvestrant is effective against human breast 
cancer cells and xenografts displaying acquired resistance to tamoxifen or letrozole  (ref: Osborne et 
al, 1994, 1995; Long et al, 2002).  A lack of significant issues from single and multiple  dose safety 
studies in animals indicates a potential for a good safety profile. These data have provided a rationale 
for  clinical  development  of  fulvestrant  in  breast  cancer  patients  whose  disease  has  recurred  or 
progressed following endocrine treatment.  
1/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Faslodex  is  presented  as  a  sterile  oily  solution  in  a  5  ml  pre-filled  syringe.  It  is  a  long  acting  (LA) 
injection, designed to deliver the required dose of 250 mg of fulvestrant over a 1 month period from a 
single intramuscular injection into the buttock.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition  
Faslodex is presented as a sterile oily solution for intramuscular injection containing 50 mg/ml of the 
active  substance  fulvestrant.  Other  ingredients  include  ethanol,  benzyl  alcohol,  benzyl  benzoate  and 
castor oil. 
Faslodex is packaged in a single use pre-filled syringe consisting of a siliconised Type I glass barrel 
fitted  with  a  tamper  evident  closure/luer  lock  connector,  a  siliconised  bromobutyl  rubber  plunger,  a 
bromobutyl/synthetic  isoprene  rubber  tip-cap,  a  polystyrene  plunger  rod  and  a  polypropylene  back 
stop. Each pre-filled syringe is enclosed in a black line carton to provide light protection. 
Active substance 
The  chemical  name  of  fulvestrant  is  7α-[9-(4,4,5,5,5-Pentafluoropentylsulphinyl)  -nonyl]estra-
1,3,5(10)-triene-3,17β-diol. It is is a white crystalline solid compound with very high lipophilicity and 
extremely low aqueous solubility; it does not ionise except at very high pH. The compound is stable to 
hydrolysis,  but  has  some  susceptibility  to  oxidation.  It  contains  6  asymmetric  carbon  atoms  and  a 
stereogenic  sulphoxide  in  the  side  chain.  The  active  ingredient  is  a  mixture  of  2  diastereoisomers: 
Fulvestrant  Sulphoxide  A  and  B,  having  the  same  absolute  configuration  at  each  of  the  stereogenic 
centres  in  the  steroid  system  but  different  absolute  configurations  at  the  sulphur  atom.  The  ratio  of 
Fulvestrant  Sulphoxide  A  :  Fulvestrant  Sulphoxide  B  in  fulvestrant  is  controlled  by  the  clause  for 
optical purity by HPLC. 
The synthesis of fulvestrant is a 6-stage process, which will give a mixture of the two diastereoisomers 
(Fulvestrant Sulphoxide A and B), whose ratio is tightly controlled by HPLC.  The route of synthesis 
has  been  sufficiently  described,  and  the  major  steps  in  the  synthesis  of  Fulvestrant  are  adequately 
controlled during the reaction.  
There are thirty-four potential synthetic and degradation impurities, which may arise from the route of 
synthesis.  Only  13  of  these  impurities  have  been  detected  in  batches  of  fulvestrant  during 
development.  The  presence  or  absence  of  impurities  has  been  examined  by  spectroscopy  and/or 
chromatography in all batches used in toxicological or clinical studies.  
Active substance specification 
The  specification  of  the  active  substance  includes  tests  for  description,  identification  (IR),  assay 
(HPLC),  organic  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  optical  purity  (HPLC),  water  content 
(Karl Fischer titration), sulphated ash, microbial content and endotoxins (LAL). 
The limits for the identified and unidentified but specified impurities are justified by toxicological and 
stability studies. Batch analysis data have been provided for 23 batches of fulvestrant. The analytical 
results for these batches comply with the proposed specification. 
In  conclusion  it  has  been  proven  that  the  tests  and  limits  in  the  specification  are  appropriate  for 
controlling the quality of the active substance. 
Stability 
Stability studies have been performed on 6 batches of fulvestrant in accordance with ICH guidelines. 
Samples were stored at 25 oC/ 60% RH for up to 36 months, 30 oC/ 60 and 80% RH for 12 months and 
40  oC/ 75% RH for 6 months. Additional sudies were performed for six months under thermal stress 
(50 and 60oC) and humidity stress conditions (50 and 60 oC/ 80% RH). 
The parameters tested are description, assay, organic impurities (HPLC), degradation products (TLC), 
specific optical rotation, optical purity, water content, appearance, colour and clarity of solution and 
melting point. The methods used are the same as those used for routine control of fulvestrant with the 
2/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
addition  of  TLC  as  a  complementary  technique  to  HPLC  for  detection  of  degradation  products.  All 
methods employed were stability indicating. 
All parameters evaluated comply with the active substance specification. The stability data presented 
support the proposed re-tests period for fulvestrant, when stored in a double polythene liner inside an 
aluminium foil lined fibreboard drum under the specified conditions. 
Other ingredients 
All materials used are of non-animal origin.  Ethanol, benzyl alcohol and benzyl benzoate comply with 
the Eur. Ph. requirements. The castor oil complies with USP. 
Product development and finished product 
As already discussed the active ingredient is a mixture of two diastereoisomers. The use of the mixture 
of these diastereroisomers is justified from the fact that the manufacture of individual diastereoisomers 
is  not  practical,  their  ratio  is  consistent,  adequately  controlled  and  does  not  change  during  storage 
neither in the drug substance or the drug product nor in vivo and the individual diastereoisomers have 
similar pharmacological potency. 
Oral  delivery  has  been  explored,  but  this  route  could  not  achieve  adequate  bioavailability.  Faslodex 
has therefore been developed for administration by intramuscular injection.   
The goal of the development was to achieve effective and convenient delivery of fulvestrant, using the 
formulation to control the rate of drug input and reduce the frequency of administration. Achievement 
of  drug  solution  at  the  target  formulation  concentration  of  50  mg/ml  is  the  key  of  this  formulation 
approach.  Studies  were  carried  out  to  measure  fulvestrant  solubility  in  a  range  of  oils,  esters  and 
alcohols  suitable  for  inclusion  in  intramuscular  injection  formulations.  It  was  found  that  castor  oil 
together with co-solvent (benzyl alcohol, ethanol and benzyl benzoate) were the most suitable to allow 
a fulvestrant concentration of 50 mg/ml. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  finished  product  follows  conventional  pharmaceutical  practices, 
which include a solution compounding step, sterile filtration and aseptic filling into syringes followed 
by stoppering.  Processing is carried out under an inert gas (nitrogen) overlay, which has been shown 
to minimize formation of the oxidative degradation product Fulvestrant Sulphone.  Sterility is assured 
by  means  of  sterilisation  by  filtration  and  aseptic  processing,  as  terminal  sterilisation  by  heat  or 
irradiation  has  been  shown  to  be  unsuitable  for  this  product.  The  critical  parameters  were  identified 
during  development  and  the  manufacturing  process  has  been  optimised  to  ensure  control  of 
degradation products and co-solvent levels. 
The  process  validation  of  Faslodex  50  mg/ml  solution  for  injection  has  been  performed  on  three 
commercial  batches  having  the  same  composition  and  method  of  manufacture  as  the  proposed 
commercial  formulation.  The  process  validation  criteria  were  met  in  all  cases  and  all  samples  met the 
pre-defined acceptance criteria.  
The  batches  used  in  the  clinical  studies  have  the  same  formulation  as  the  product  intended  for  the 
market. 
Product specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  the  description,  assay  (HPLC), 
identification  (IR),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  sterility,  endotoxins  (LAL),  pre-filled  syringe 
function test, residual solvents (GC) and volume of injection in containers. 
The specification and control tests applied for the finished product at time of release and throughout 
the life of the product, are in compliance with pharmacopoeial standards (including Ph Eur) and ICH 
guidelines.    The  limits  for  each  specification  test  are  supported  by  data  derived  from  toxicological, 
biopharmaceutical, and stability studies.   
Batch  analysis  data  from  4  pilot  and  4  production  scale  batches  of  the  finished  product  have  been 
provided. All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology 
valid at the time of batch release.  
3/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Three  primary  batches  and  three  supporting  batches  of  Faslodex  have  been  subjected  to  stability 
studies using a range of stability conditions: long term (5 oC) for up to 36 months, accelerated (30 oC/ 
60% RH), thermal stress (30 oC/ 60% RH and 50 oC) for up to 6 months, humidity stress (30 oC/ 80% 
RH and 40  oC/ 75% RH) and accelerated (25  oC/ 60% RH) for up to 12 months. Two of the batches 
have also been placed under light stress testing according to ICH guidelines. 
The  parameters  studied  were  description,  volume  of  injection  in  containers,  sterility,  degree  of 
coloration of liquid, average weight change, viscosity, assay, degradation products, residual solvents, 
the content of free fatty acids, water content and optical purity. The tests performed are the same as 
those used for the release of Faslodex. 
Based on the results of the above-mentioned studies it has been concluded that the proposed shelf life 
for the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC is acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The  quality  of  Faslodex  is  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The  active  substance  is  a  mixture  of  two  diastereoisomeers  with  consistent  ratio  and  similar 
pharmacological  activity.  It  is  stable,  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  excipents  have  been 
chosen to control the rate of drug input and reduce the frequency of administration.  The  packaging 
material is commonly used and well documented. The manufacturing process of the finished product 
has been adequately described. 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacology  
include 
Fulvestrant is a competitive inhibitor of oestradiol binding to the oestrogen receptor (ER) with an IC50 
value of 9.35 x 10-9M. The relative binding affinity to the oestrogen receptor is approximately similar 
for oestradiol (RBA=1) and fulvestrant (RBA=0.89), and 35 times lower for tamoxifen (RBA=0.025). 
Multiple  changes  in  ER  function  in  the  fulvestrant-ER  complex  contribute  to  the  blockade  of 
oestrogen  action.  These  changes 
impaired  receptor  dimerisation,  disrupted  nuclear 
localisation,  an  increased  rate  of  receptor  degradation,  impaired  DNA  binding  and  inactivation  of 
activation  functions  AF1  and  AF2.  Increased  receptor  degradation  leading  to  the  rapid  loss  of  ER 
following treatment with fulvestrant occurs in breast cancer cells in culture, in the uterus after in vivo 
treatment  and  in  human  breast  tumours.  Hence,  the  drug’s  mode  of  action  appears  to  lead  to 
downregulation of oestrogen receptor protein. The mode of action on the molecular level thus seem to 
differ  from  that  of  tamoxifen  and  oestradiol  which  bind  with  high  affinity  to  the  ER  and  displaces 
receptor associated proteins. However, the clinical relevance i.e. in terms of efficacy, of this difference 
in mode of action is not clear and has to be investigated in patients. It should be emphasised that this 
discussion  involves  ERα,  while  no  data  is  available  concerning  an  eventual  interaction  between 
fulvestrant and ERβ. As to date it seems that there is no clear picture about the role of ERβ in breast 
cancer. According to one reference (Fugua et al 2003) ERβ could serve as an independent marker for 
malignacy, for instance, the rate of aneuploidy was marginally higher in ERα negative/ERβ positive 
breast cancer samples suggesting that ERβ positive breast cancers might be more aggressive than other 
receptor  types.  It  may  be  speculated  that  the  ERβ  could  serve  as  a  marker  of  endocrine  therapy 
resistance.  Sub-typing  studies  have  not  been  carried  out  but  would  be  welcomed  in  prospective 
studies.  
Fulvestrant is a reversible inhibitor of the growth of oestrogen-sensitive human breast cancer (MCF-7) 
cells  and  tamoxifen-resistant  MCF-7  cells  in  vitro.  At  maximum  effect,  fulvestrant  induced  a  80% 
4/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction in number of MCF-7 cells, whereas tamoxifen induced a 50% reduction in cell number. The 
Applicant cites studies showing that tamoxifen-resistant cells remain sensitive to the growth inhibitory 
effect  of  fulvestrant,  whereas  fulvestrant-resistant  cells  are  cross-resistant  to  tamoxifen.  Hence, 
tumors,  which  have  relapsed  during  fulvestrant  treatment,  may  not  respond  to  treatment  with 
tamoxifen, and this treatment sequence can not be recommended based on non-clinical data. 
Moreover,  fulvestrant  prevents  the  establishment  of  tumors  from  xenografts  of  human  breast  cancer 
cells  in  nude  mice  in  vivo.  The  efficacy  of  fulvestrant  (single  5  mg  s.c.  injection)  in  preventing  the 
growth  of  tumors  from  grafts  of  MCF-7  cells  after  4  weeks  was  comparable  to  that  seen  in  mice 
treated daily with a high dose of tamoxifen (10 mg/kg/day p.o.) for 8 weeks.  
Fulvestrant is a non-agonist antioestrogen that blocks the uterotrophic action of oestradiol in mice, rats 
and  monkeys  without  having  significant  partial  agonist  oestrogen-like  activity.  Hence,  no  adverse 
effects  on  the  uterus  endometrium,  or  on  development  of  resistance  due  to  agonist  effects  on  the 
tumour,  can  be  anticipated  from  the  non-clinical  data.  In  monkeys,  measurements  of  plasma 
fulvestrant showed that inhibition of the trophic effects of oestradiol required drug concentrations in 
the range 1-2 ng or greater. Extrapolation of this data to humans predicts a monthly i.m. injection of 
200 to 300 mg of fulvestrant, which is line with the dose proposed for marketing (250 mg). 
Fulvestrant  is  a  racemate  showing  similar  potency  as  the  individual  enantiomers  in  three 
pharmacodynamic assays. None of the 4 metabolites tested showed any oestrogenic activity. The 17-
ketone showed antioestrogenic activity 4-5 fold less potent than fulvestrant. 
To conclude, the non-clinical data presented, both in vitro and in vivo, in animal species considered 
relevant  for  pharmacodynamic  studies,  is  consistent  with  the  compound  having  efficacy  in  the 
proposed indication of treatment of advanced breast cancer in women whose disease has progressed 
following endocrine therapy. 
Limited studies did not indicate any significant secondary pharmacodynamic effects of fulvestrant. No 
interactions  with  histamine  H2  receptor,  β1,  β2  adrenoreceptors,  5-HT1  and  5-HT2  receptors  were 
reported,  but  a  weak  non-competitive  inhibition  of  responses  mediated  by  muscarinic,  histamine  H1 
and  adrenergic  α1  receptors  was  observed.  Safety  pharmacology  studies  (see  also  section  on 
toxicology)  in  male  animals  addressed  possible  effects  on  the  cardiovascular,  neurological, 
respiratory,  renal  and  gastrointestinal  systems.  Potential  interactions  with  the  cardiovascular  system 
were assessed in studies in dog and in vitro in sheep Purkinje fibres stimulated at 1 Hz, models and 
study conditions that can be expected to be relatively insensitive to potential effects. No statistically 
significant  effects  were  observed.  No  marked  effects  of  fulvestrant  with  regard  to  the  CNS  were 
reported. However, in rats fulvestrant was shown to increase locomotor activity, the relevance of this 
observation is unclear. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No issues concerning the two diastereomers, sulphoxide A and sulphoxide B that represent fulvestrant 
in  a  45:55  ratio  have  been  identified.  Studies  indicate  these  do  not  undergo  interconversion  and 
disposition appears achiral. Fulvestrant has a low oral bioavailability. Absorption after intramuscular 
doses is good and distribution is wide. The pharmacokinetics of fulvestrant were studied using a short-
acting  (SA)  formulation  and  the  long-acting  (LA)  formulation.  Only  the  long-acting  formulation  is 
intended for clinical use.  
Fulvestrant  did  neither  inhibit  CYP450  enzymes  nor  act  as  an  enzyme  inducer.  Fulvestrant  was 
extensively metabolised with sulphate, glucuronide and ketosulphone derivatives identified as primary 
metabolites  in  all  species.  Metabolism  appears  complex.  After  intramuscular  injections  in  rat  the 
metabolism involved oxidation, hydroxylation and conjugation reactions. Oxidative metabolism at C-2 
and  C-4  position  of  the  A-ring  and  at  the  C-17  was  suggested  to  produce  a  ketone  while  a  similar 
reaction  at  the  sulphoxide  was  proposed  to  produce  a  sulphone.  Parent  compound  and  some 
metabolites were conjugated at C-2, C-3 and C-4 positions to produce glucuronides and sulphates. The 
17-keto compound had pharmacological activity lower than the parent compound while other putative 
5/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolites  tested  had  no  oestrogenic  activity.  Overall  the  metabolite  profile  appeared  comparable 
qualitatively across species. 
Fulvestrant is highly protein bound in all species with 98.83% binding using human plasma, indicating 
a  potential  for  drug  displacement  interactions.  In  vitro  fulvestrant  demonstrates  non-physiological 
binding properties and interactions based on displacement do not seem readily studied in vitro. In both 
the albino and pigmented rat, rapid and extensive distribution was evident with highest levels detected 
in  liver,  mesenteric  lymph  nodes  and  kidney.  Distribution  into  the  CNS  and  the  spinal  cord  seemed 
limited  with  the  protocol  used,  a  single  intramuscular  dose  of  fulvestrant  in  the  SA-formulation. 
Fulvestrant passes into the milk of lactating rats and crosses the placenta after intramuscular injections 
in rat and rabbit. 
Possible interference with P-gp or any other clinically relevant transporter system (BSEP, MRPs) has 
been  discussed.  Fulvestrant  is  not  currently  indicated  for  co-administration  with  other  anticancer 
agents known to be P-gp substrates or inhibitors. If such developmental programme will be established 
these potential interactions should be resolved. In non-clinical studies some signals of hepatotoxicity 
were  observed  in  rat,  dog  and  monkey studies.  Although  the  drug  is  administered  via  intramuscular 
injections it may interfere with different transport proteins and compete with excretion of other exo-
/endogenous compounds. 
In all species, including humans, the primary excretion route is faecal with less than 2% of label found 
in urine. Elimination appeared more rapid in rat than in dog and the apparent long elimination half-life 
was probably due to slow absorption from the injection site. 
In  rat,  day  1  and  day  28  AUC  values  were  comparable  after  daily  doses  of  the  SA-formulation.  No 
gender  differences  were  apparent  when  using  the  RIA  assay.  In  a  6-  month  rat  study  using  the  LA-
formulation  and  the  HPLC  assay,  higher  AUC  values  were  reported  after  multiple  doses  than  after 
single doses. There were indications that female rats achieved a higher exposure than males using the 
LA-formulation  and  intramuscular  injection.  In  dog,  daily  intramuscular  injections  of  the  SA-
formulation  as  well  as  monthly  injections  of  the  LA-formulation  resulted  in  accumulation  as 
determined by AUC values. Limited data in the dog did not indicate any significant gender differences 
in exposure. 
The  systemic  exposure  and  Cmax  in  various  toxicity  studies  exhibited  significant  variations  despite 
similar doses being used. This was partly explained by different analytical methods (LSC RIA and a 
HPLC  MS-MS).  Other  data  indicated  very  marked  interindividual  variations  in  plasma  levels  after 
intramuscular  doses,  e.g.  Cmax  levels  were  15.5,  38.5  and  135  in  three  dogs  all  treated  with  a  single 
dose  of  2  mg/kg.  Notwithstanding  uncertainties  with  respect  to  specificity  of  the  RIA-assay  and  the 
origin of some of the great interindividual variations in plasma levels, that could partly be explained 
by differences in absorption from the injection sites, it can overall be accepted that sufficient exposure 
was achieved in the pivotal toxicity studies. For the LA-formulation the highest dose levels used (10 
mg/rat/15  days)  and  dog  (40  mg/kg/28  days)  corresponded  to  exposure  ratios  of  x4-10  the  expected 
human maximal dose (250 mg/month).  
The data indicate overall that from the pharmacokinetic point of view the species used in preclinical 
studies are valid models to study the toxicological profile of the compound.  
Toxicology 
The  potential  of  fulvestrant  to  cause  local  or  systemic  toxic  reactions  when  administered  by  the 
intramuscular route was investigated in toxicity studies in rat and dog of up to 12 months duration. In 
addition studies in mouse, rat, dog and monkey are available to assess the potential of fulvestrant to 
cause pathological effects when administered by oral, intravenous or subcutaneous routes. Most of the 
studies included saline and vehicle controls and the long-acting (LA) formulation intended for clinical 
use, was used in the main pivotal toxicity studies. The LA-formulation was composed of fulvestrant 
(5% w/v), ethanol (10% w/v), benzyl alcohol (10% w/v), benzyl benzoate (15% w/v) and castor oil to 
100.  The  pivotal  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  used  the  intramuscular  route  and  included  1  and  6 
6/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
month rat studies given total doses of up to 120 mg/rat in a 6-month period. The dog represented the 
non-rodent  species  and  the  highest  dose  given  in  the  pivotal  12-month  study  was  40mg/kg/28  days. 
The  maximum  doses  were  limited  by  solution  characteristics  of  the  formulation  and  the  maximum 
volume that could possibly be administered by the intramuscular route. The selection of the high dose 
was justified and corresponded to approximately x8 (dog) and x40 (rat) on a monthly dose basis, or 
approximately  x4-11  on  a  systemic  exposure  basis.  The  studies  are  overall  considered  sufficient  for 
evaluation of the toxicological profile of fulvestrant. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  (see  also  section  on  pharmacology)  indicated  a  limited  potential  of 
fulvestrant  to  interfere  with  the  function  of  major  organ  systems.  The  studies  all  used  male  animals 
and  addressed  possible  effects  on 
the  cardiovascular,  neurological,  respiratory,  renal  and 
gastrointestinal  system.  Locomotor  activity  in  male  rats  was  increased  by  intramuscular  doses  of  20 
mg/kg, the relevance of which is unclear. Single dose pharmacokinetic studies indicated very limited 
passage  into  the  CNS  using  the  SA-formulation.  However,  there  were  some  indications  in  repeated 
dose  toxicity  studies  such  as  pituitary  effects  that  suggest  fulvestrant  and/or  metabolites  have  the 
capacity to either directly or by secondary hormonal activity, interact with the CNS. In the literature it 
is reported that fulvestrant may have effects on the brain such that the effect of oestrogens is blocked 
in the hippocampus, but not in the frontal cortex. Further, neuroprotective effects of oestradiol were 
blocked by fulvestrant in a model of stroke-like ischemic injury in female rats. In view of the proposed 
new principle of action and in case of future extended indications it would be of interest to clarify the 
potential  effects  of  fulvestrant  on  the  central  nervous  system  based  on  known,  expected  hormonal 
actions.  
Myocardium  is  a  target  tissue  for  oestrogens.  Potential  interactions  with  the  cardiovascular  system 
were  assessed  in  studies  in  the  dog  and  in  vitro  in  sheep  Purkinje  fibres  stimulated  at  1  Hz.  No 
statistically significant effects of fulvestrant doses up to 20 mg/kg (LA-formulation) in anaesthetized 
dogs monitored up to 120 minutes post-dose, were observed. Heart rate was somewhat increased. In 
an in vitro study in sheep Purkinje fibres stimulated at 1 Hz, no effects on QT intervals was reported. 
Both test systems and study conditions can be expected to be relatively insensitive to potential effects. 
In  an  intravenous  tolerance  study  in  dogs  there  was  evidence  of  transient  cardiovascular  effects  and 
clinical signs of panting and flushing were recorded. ECG measurements in the 12-month dog study 
did not show any effects. It is reported in literature data that fulvestrant can block the inhibitory effect 
of oestradiol at concentrations that inhibit oestradiol metabolism to precursors of methoxyoestradiols 
on  human  coronary  vascular  smooth  muscle  cells.  Fulvestrant  has  been  shown  to  activate  large 
conductance  Ca(2+)  activated  K(+)  (BK(Ca))  channels  in  smooth  muscle  cells  further  suggesting 
potential  for  interactions  on  the  vascular  level.  Further  retrospective  characterisation  with  respect  to 
the  cardiovascular  system  is  not  warranted  in  the  context  of  the  present  application  concerning 
treatment of advanced or metastatic breast cancer. 
Toxicity studies with repeated administration indicate that with the possible exception of effects on the 
kidney,  apparently  restricted  to  males,  adverse  effects  could  mainly  be  attributed  to  the 
pharmacological  activity.  Increased  kidney  weights  and  vacuolation  was  noted  in  male  mice  and  an 
increased  incidence  of  chronic  progressive  nephropathy  was  reported  in  male  rats  in  the  2-year 
carcinogenicity study. In the event of an extended use these changes should be further evaluated as to 
the mode of action. Moreover, in the 12- month study in dogs, 6 animals were stated to have arteritis 
(or  vasculitis),  considered  unrelated  to  treatment,  affecting  a  variety  of  organs.  The  Applicant  has 
discussed the reasons why arteritis was not considered related to treatment, and attributed changes as 
related to an underlying disorder, precipitated by treatment and specific for the strain of Beagle dogs 
used. In the 6 month study the incidence of arteritis did not seem increased in treated dogs while in the 
12 month study lesions in the urinary bladder vessels affected 3 of 6 dogs with arteritis or vasculitis. 
Although  arteritis  might  not  be  a  specific  drug  induced  effect,  a  treatment  related  effect  can  not  be 
excluded. The potential of fulvestrant to exacerbate or induce these  kinds of changes is likely a late 
effect  with  doubtful  significance  for  the  general  safety  profile  of  the  compound  in  the  present 
indication.  
A high dose female dog in the 12-month study was noted for multifocal hepatic granuloma. In other 
studies  occasional  decreases  in  spleen  weight  was  observed  possibly  secondary  to  anti-oestrogenic 
pharmacology  and  indicative  of  immunological  effects.  There  are  theoretical  mechanisms  for 
7/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunotoxicity  due  to  fulvestrant,  but  these  likely  are  not  relevant  for  the  target  population.  It  is 
accepted that immunotoxicology studies are not conducted but in case of future extended indications 
these issues might be reconsidered.  Fulvestrant had no antigenic potential in studies in guinea-pig and 
mouse. 
Histopathological  changes  related  to  treatment  with  fulvestrant  were  recorded  in  the  uterus  (uterine 
atrophy affecting endometrium and myometrium), cervix (atrophy, increased stromal density), vagina 
(atrophy, increased stromal density and organ reduced in size), ovaries (disturbance in the maturation 
of  the  Graafian  follicle,  formation  of  follicular  cysts,  degenerate  corpora  lutea,  cystic  and 
haemorrhagic), adrenal glands (atrophy in males, zona fasciculata of the cortex), and pituitary gland 
(atrophy,  increase  in  the  number  of  castration  cells).  These  effects  seemed  primarily  related  to  the 
pharmacologic  activity  of  fulvestrant.  The  increase  in  red  blood  cell  parameters  recorded  in  some 
studies in females likely also as suggested was related to the anti-oestrogenic activity. In the majority 
of  toxicity  studies  a  no  effect  level  could  not  be  established,  but  effects  recorded  were  mostly  local 
reactions or changes related to the pharmacological activity of the compound. The Applicant suggests 
that fulvestrant has no effect on bone density at relevant doses in rat. In vitro studies reported in the 
literature have shown that fulvestrant may reverse oestrogen-induced expression of proteins central to 
osteoclast formation and function. However, fulvestrant did not impair the long-term bone-protective 
effects of testosterone in young orchidectomized male rats.  
The  local  tolerance  of  fulvestrant  (5%  w/v)  was  studied  in  rabbit  and  dog.  Local  reactions  were 
dependent on the vehicle used, but severity and frequency increased with increasing concentrations of 
fulvestrant.  Adverse  local  reactions  appeared  dependent  also  on  species,  site  of  administration  and 
frequency of administration. In rat 1 and 6 month studies injection site fibrosis was evident.  In the 2-
year  rat  carcinogenicity  study  changes  consisted  of  local  inflammation,  plantar  epithelial  ulceration 
and  multiple  cysts  at  times  associated  with  mild  local  inflammation  and  degeneration  or  atrophy  of 
skeletal  muscle. In the 6-month dog study myositis, present also after a  6-month withdrawal  period, 
and necrosis was evident. In the 12 month dog study changes at the injections site were described as 
"multifocal inter and intrafasicular granulomatous foreign body response." 
Fulvestrant  was  evaluated  for  genotoxic  activity  in  the  Ames  test,  the  mouse  lymphoma  test,  in  the 
chromosomal aberration test using human lymphocytes and in the rat micronucleus test after a single 
oral  dose  of  2000  mg/kg.    All  tests  were  negative  for  genotoxic  potential.  In  a  2-year  rat 
carcinogenicity study an increase in the incidence of ovarian granulosa cell tumours in females and in 
Leydig cell tumours in low and mid dose males were observed. The incidence of mammary gland and 
pituitary gland tumours was decreased. No carcinogenic activity that could not be associated with the 
pharmacological activity was identified. Literature data indicate that fulvestrant treatment of mice may 
increase serum levels of LH consistent with a hormone-mediated increase in male tumour incidence. 
Tamoxifen,  another  anti-oestrogen,  has  been  shown  to  be  hepatocarcinogenic  in  the  rat.  In  contrast 
fulvestrant did not induce liver cancers in rat, but the incidence of altered eosinophilic foci in liver was 
increased in males. 
Reproduction  toxicity  studies  in  rat  and  rabbit  were  conducted.  Fulvestrant  was  given  by 
intramuscular  injections  prior  to  mating,  through  mating  and  implantation  and  through  weaning. 
Fertility  in  female  rats  was  reduced  and  embryonic  survival  decreased  at  doses  ≥  0.01  mg/kg/day. 
Following  a  29-day  withdrawal  period  fertility  and  embryonic  survival  was  restored.  Male  fertility 
was  not  specifically  studied,  but  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  indicated  loss  of  spermatozoa  and 
epididymides  degeneration.  In  a  rat  study  that  included  administration  during  organogenesis,  live 
foetuses  were  decreased  at  a  dose  of  2  mg/kg/day.  The  number  of  foetuses  with  torsal  flexure  was 
increased.  A  NOEL  of  0.001  mg/kg/day  in  rat  was  identified  for  female  fertility  and  embryonic 
survival, foetal survival and development. Rabbits treated with 1mg/kg/day had no live foetuses and at 
0.25 mg/kg/day post-implantation loss increased. Foetal development was not affected. An increased 
incidence of foetal variations was noted at 0.25 mg/kg/day. 
In a rat post natal development study pup survival was lower after maternal treatment with fulvestrant. 
Pregnancy  in  F1  animals  was  not  affected  by  maternal  treatment,  but  pre-implantation  loss  was 
increased.  There  were  no  effects  on  fertility,  sperm  counts  or  gonadal  histopathology  of  F1  males. 
8/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separate  studies  showed  that  fulvestrant  passes  into  milk  of  lactating  rats.  The  lack  of  effect  of 
potential exposure to an oestrogen receptor antagonist during neonatal life contrasts with the findings 
from  the  oestrogen  receptor  knockout  mice  that  are  infertile  and  have  testis  degeneration.  Faslodex 
should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  and  lactation,  and  this  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  with  a 
contraindication for pregnancy and in breast-feeding. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The fulvestrant clinical study programme was primarily designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
fulvestrant in the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women and the pivotal study 
data was provided by 2 Phase III studies examining the efficacy of fulvestrant for the key endpoints of 
time to progression, objective response rate, and time to death. The programme comprises the 
following studies: 
2 Phase III pivotal efficacy studies (Studies 0020 and 0021) 
2 Phase II efficacy studies (Studies 0004 and O-15-22) 
18 Clinical pharmacology studies 
• 
• 
• 
(Studies 0001, 0002, 0003, 0007, 0008, 0012, 0017, 0018, 0023, 0024, 0026, 0029, 0031, 0034, 0036, 
0038, 0039 and O-15-11) 
Scientific Advice was sought from the CPMP in 1997. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Eighteen clinical pharmacology studies, involving premenopausal and postmenopausal healthy female 
volunteers and male volunteers have been performed. Pharmacokinetic data has also been collected in 
two  phase  II  and  two  phase  III  studies.  Specific  studies  in  special  populations  have  not  been 
performed.  The 
the 
pharmacokinetics of fulvestrant was evaluated in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 
phase III studies.  
influence  of  decreased  renal  function  and  demographic  factors  on 
Absorption 
After  administration  of  Faslodex  250  mg  intramuscularly  (LA  formulation),  fulvestrant  is  slowly 
absorbed. Maximum  plasma concentrations are reached  after about 7 days. Single dose studies  have 
demonstrated  that  absorption  continues  for  more  than  one  month  and  that  the  terminal  half-life  is 
about  50  days.  Repeated  administration  once  a  month  results  in  an  approximately  2-3  fold 
accumulation.  Steady  state  is  reached  after  about  6  months  with  the  major  part  of  the  accumulation 
achieved after 3-4 doses. At steady state there was an approximately 2-fold difference between mean 
Cmax  and  Cmin.  Unfortunately,  a  more  frequent  dosing  than  once  a  month  has  not  been  tested.  With 
more  frequent  dosing  during  the  first  months,  steady  state  (and  potentially  more  effective 
concentrations) could be reached earlier, possibly resulting in better efficacy. 
Absolute  bioavailability  has  not  been  determined.  The  bioavailability  has  roughly  been  estimated  to 
about 90-100% by between study comparison. The variability in exposure after the first dose of an i.m. 
Administration  of  the  LA  formulation  is  large.  CV%  was  between  25  and  70%  for  AUC0-28d  and 
between  28  and  83%  for  Cmax  suggesting  a  large  variability  in  absorption  rate.  Considerably  lower 
variability in exposure is observed at steady state, CV% about 15%. The exposure was approximately 
proportional to dose in the studied range 50 to 250 mg. Dose proportionality above the intended dose 
has not been studied. Results from phase III studies suggest time independent pharmacokinetics. 
Distribution 
Fulvestrant has a high volume of distribution, Vss is 4.1±1.6 l/kg. The plasma concentration declines in 
a tri-exponential fashion with rapid distribution into peripheral tissues. In vitro studies demonstrated 
high protein binding, 99%, with lipoproteins being the major binding component. 
9/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Fulvestrant  is  eliminated  mainly  by  metabolism,  and  to  a  smaller  extent  by  biliary  excretion 
unchanged.  The  major  route  of  excretion  is  via  the  faeces  with  less  than  1%  being  excreted  in  the 
urine.    Fulvestrant  has  a  high  clearance,  11±1.7  ml/min/kg,  suggesting  that  it  is  a  drug  with  high 
extraction ratio. The metabolism of fulvestrant includes ketone and sulphone metabolites, 3-sulphate, 
3- and 17-glucuronides. In plasma, fulvestrant was the largest component. Identification of metabolites 
in  plasma  was  not  possible  due  to  low  concentrations  of  radioactive  material.  Characterisation  of 
radioactivity in faeces demonstrated at least 15 components after iv dosing, none of which amounted 
to more than 10% of the dose and over 20 components following im administration. Only 28% of the 
extracted  radioactivity  (24%  of  the  dose)  was  identified  after  im  administration.  Although  enzyme 
hydrolysis  and  mass  spectroscopic  analysis  showed  that  a  number  of  the  metabolites  were  probably 
sulphate  and/or  glucuronide  conjugates  of  unchanged  [14C]-fulvestrant  and  its  ketone  and  sulphone 
metabolites,  the  identity  and  potential  activity  of  a  large  part  of  the  metabolites  is  not  known.  The 
applicant has concluded that fulvestrant is extensively metabolised, primarily by routes analogous to 
those  of  endogenous  oestradiol  and  is  excreted  in  the  faeces.  None  of  the  identified  metabolites  are 
likely to contribute to a significant extent to drug activity. 
Target population 
A  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  on  data  from  two  phase  III  studies  resulted  in  similar  or 
somewhat  lower  estimate  of  clearance  than  observed  in  other  studies.  Based  on  this  analysis,  the 
estimated steady state exposure in the target population is AUC 328±48 ng⋅d/ml, Cmax 15.8±2.4 ng/ml 
and Cmin 7.4±1.7 ng/ml.  
Special populations 
The  influence  of  decreased  renal  function  and  demographic  factors  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
fulvestrant  was  evaluated  in  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  data  from  phase  III  studies. 
The  population  included  subjects  with  mild  and  moderate,  but  not  severe  renal  impairment,  and 
covered an age range of 33-89 years and a weight range of 40-127 kg. The population analysis did not 
identify any covariate influencing the clearance of fulvestrant to any significant extent.  
Interactions 
An  in  vitro  inhibition  study  showed  no  relevant  inhibition  of  CYP1A2,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6  or  3A4  by 
fulvestrant.  Other  CYP450  isoenzymes  were  not  studied  and  the  applicant  intends  to  evaluate  the 
influence  of  fulvestrant  on  CYP2A6,  2C8  or  2E1  as  a  post-authorisation  commitment.  The  lack  of 
inhibition of CYP3A4 was confirmed in an in vivo interaction study with midazolam. CYP3A4 was 
the only enzyme identified as having a capacity to metabolise fulvestrant in vitro. Interaction studies 
with rifampicin (CYP3A4 inducer) and ketokonazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor) demonstrated no effect on 
fulvestrant pharmacokinetics.  
The  potential  for  interaction  with  sulphate  conjugation,  drugs  that  influence  hepatic  blood  flow  and 
protein binding displacement appears to be low.  
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  study  programme  was  designed  to  demonstrate  both  the  antioestrogenic 
potential  of  fulvestrant  and  also  to  confirm  the  absence  of  oestrogen  agonist  activity  in 
postmenopausal women in various oestrogen-sensitive target organs. 
Following  a  single  dose  of  short-acting  (Study  0002)  or  long-acting  (Study  0018)  fulvestrant,  there 
was  evidence  of  dose-dependent  down-regulation  of  oestrogen  receptor  (ER)  and  effect  on  the  ER 
pathway  as  evidenced  by  a  reduced  expression  of  PgR,  and  a  decrease  in  the  Ki67  (an  anti-
proliferative marker) labelling index in postmenopausal women with primary breast cancer. Only the 
250 mg dose showed a statistically significant reduction in ER index compared to tamoxifen. 
The  effects  of  one  dose  of  fulvestrant  (250  mg)  on  tumour  markers  were  also  studied  in 
premenopausal  women  with  ER-positive  primary  breast  cancers  in  Study  0041.  Fulvestrant  did  not 
exert any statistically significant anti-tumour or anti-proliferative effect as evaluated by effects on the 
ER, PgR and Ki67 labeling indices.  
10/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Short-term studies of 2 weeks’ treatment with the long-acting formulation in post-menopausal women 
showed that fulvestrant antagonised the effect of exogenous and endogenous oestrogen stimulation, as 
judged by ultrasound measurement of endometrium thickness. Fulvestrant did not have any effect on 
endometrial thickness or fibroid volume in pre-menopausal women after 12 weeks of treatment while 
goserelin had a statistically significant effect on both indices. 
In postmenopausal women, fulvestrant (including long-term treatment in the phase 3 studies) did not 
appear  to  have  significant  effects  on  gonadotropins,  which  tended  to  increase,  but  remained  within 
normal postmenopausal limits. This, and the decrease in SHBG, was interpreted as indirect evidence 
of  an  absence  of  a  (significant)  oestrogen  agonist  activity.  These  results,  however,  were  not 
conclusive,  partly  because  of  the  high  attrition  rate  of  the  study  participants  and  partly  because  of 
methodological issues. 
The relationship  between fulvestrant  plasma concentration and effect was evaluated in studies 0018, 
0036 and the two-phase III studies. The PK/PD evaluations in studies 0018 and the phase III studies 
did  not  show  any  evidence  for  a  relationship  between  fulvestrant  plasma  concentration  and  effect. 
However, in study 0036, increased concentrations were related to a better anti-oestrogenic effect.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Valid information regarding impact of hepatic impairment on fulvestrant pharmacokinetics is lacking, 
and use in severe hepatic impairment has been contraindicated (see SPC). Use in mild and moderate 
hepatic  impairment  should  be  approached  with  caution.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  an 
open  label,  phase  I  study  to  compare  the  pharmacokinetics  of  a  single  18  mg  short-acting 
intramuscular dose of fulvestrant in patients with hepatic impairment to controls with normal hepatic 
function.  
Very limited data are available on the effects of fulvestrant on endometrium thickness and no data are 
available  regarding  endometrium  morphology.  While  these  short-term  data  cannot  exclude  the 
possibility  of  adverse  effects  of  long-term  treatment  on  the  endometrium  and  ovaries,  the  lack  of 
agonist activity of fulvestrant means that further evaluation of endometrial safety could be included in 
post-marketing  clinical  studies.  Based  on  the  12-week  study  of  biochemical  markers  of  bone 
resorbtion  in  pre-menopausal  women,  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  on  the  effect  of  long-term 
fulvestrant on bone density in post-menopausal women. The applicant committed to further evaluate 
endometrial and bone safety. 
A clear deficiency of the clinical development program is the lack of dose finding studies. While the 
results of an uncontrolled Study 0004 were presented as the basis for selecting the 250 mg dose for the 
pivotal studies, efficacy data were collected at the 250 mg dose without any comparative efficacy data 
at the lower doses. A dose higher than 250 mg monthly was not studied. As stated by the Applicant, 
there  were  formulation  issues  that  restricted  concentrations  greater  than  50  mg/ml,  and  practical 
standards in-patient care that limit intramuscular injection volume. The question is whether a shorter 
dosing  interval  or  a  regime  involving  two  injections  to  deliver  a  higher  dose  could  have  been 
investigated. Results from Study 0036 on post-menopausal endometrium discussed above and the two 
pivotal studies were consistent in showing that 250 mg fulvestrant had a larger effect size than the 125 
mg  dose,  and  the  possibility  of  an  even  larger  effect  size  with  a  higher  dose  can  not  be  excluded. 
Furthermore, study of dynamic markers in Study 0018 did not conclusively show that the effect of 250 
mg  fulvestrant  was  larger  than  tamoxifen,  and  as  will  be  discussed  later.Moreover,  the  population 
pharmacokinetic  analysis  evaluated  the  relationship  between  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and 
response  using  estimated  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  the  first  dose  and  at  steady  state.  The 
absorption  rate  is  highly  variable  and  time  to  reach  steady  state  is  up  to  6  months.  Many  patients 
progress  in  their  disease  before  steady  state  has  been  reached.  From  the  evaluations  provided  (first 
dose and steady state only), no conclusions can be drawn regarding actual concentration prior to and at 
time  of  progression.  Nor  can  conclusions  be  drawn  regarding  if  there  is  a  difference  in  plasma 
concentration  between  patients  progressing  in  their  disease  and  patients  responding  to  therapy  at 
different time points on the way to steady state. If the high initial variability in exposure and long time 
until  steady  state  is  reached  are  potential  reasons  for  treatment  failure,  a  better  response  could  be 
obtained  by  a  more  optimal  posology,  e.g.  with  more  frequent  dosing  during  the  first  months.  The 
Applicant has committed to conduct a phase III study comparing the 250 mg monthly dose with a 500 
11/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
mg  monthly  dose  in  combination  with  a  loading  dose  in  the  second  line  treatment  setting.  Using 
simulation models, the proposed dosage in the new study seems appropriate. 
Clinical efficacy 
Main clinical studies  
The  efficacy of fulvestrant was investigated in two  randomised  multicentre  controlled clinical  trials, 
Studies  0020  and  0021,  in  comparison  to  the  selective  aromatase  inhibitor  anastrozole  in 
postmenopausal  women  with  locally  invasive  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  (Table  1).  Study 
0020 was an open trial conducted in Europe while Study 0021 was a double-blind trial conducted in 
North America. The 250 mg dose was administered as a single intramuscular injection in the European 
study while two serial injections, one per buttock, were administered in the North American study, in 
accordance with the North American nursing guidelines on intramuscular injections. The studies were 
otherwise  similar  in  design  and  a  combined  analysis  was  prospectively  defined.  These  two  studies 
were initially designed to study both 125 mg and 250 mg monthly dose groups.  Study of the 125 mg 
group was terminated early because of insufficient evidence of activity in the first 30 patients enrolled 
across the two trials as prospectively defined. These patients were either withdrawn from the trial or 
were permitted to continue on the 125 mg dose, but not to increase to the 250 mg dose. Both studies 
were originally designed to investigate the potential superiority of fulvestrant over anastrozole but the 
results  did  not  reach  statistical  significance.  A  switch  to  a  claim  of  non-inferiority  was  made  and 
analysis performed using a non-inferiority margin that was assigned retrospectively by an independent 
expert group.  
Table 1 Summary of efficacy studies 
Study ID  
Design 
Subjects 
No.  Dosage 
Phase III 
9238IL/0020 
83 centres 
Europe 
Multicentre, open-label, 
randomised, parallel-group 
Efficacy and safety; and 
PK  
9238IL/0021 
84 centres 
North 
America 
Multicentre, double-blind, 
randomised, parallel-group 
Efficacy and safety; and 
pharmacokinetics (PK)  
Phase II efficacy studies 
9238IL/0004
2 centres UK 
Open-label, uncontrolled 
Phase II study in 2 parts: 
Part 1: Single dose  
Part 2: Up to 6 monthly 
doses  
Postmenopausal women 
with advanced breast 
cancer who relapsed or 
progressed following prior 
hormonal therapy 
Postmenopausal women 
with advanced breast 
cancer who relapsed or 
progressed following prior 
hormonal therapy 
 541 
Fulvestrant 250 mg LA im injection 
monthly  
Anastrozole 1 mg orally daily  
Discontinued fulvestrant 125 mg  
473  
Fulvestrant 250 mg LA im injection 
monthly with daily oral placebo 
Anastrozole 1 mg orally daily with 
placebo im injection monthly 
Discontinued fulvestrant 125 mg  
Part II: Post-menopausal 
women  with advanced 
breast cancer who had 
relapsed on tamoxifen 
23 
Part 1: Fulvestrant 50 mg as a single 
LA im injection (5 ml) 
Part 2: Fulvestrant LA im injection:  
100 mg x 1, then 250 mg every 28 days 
(4 pts) or 
250 mg every 28 days (19 pts) up to 6 
months 
30 
Fulvestrant LA im (5 ml) 250 mg 
42 
250 mg LA im monthly 
O-15-22  
13 centres 
Japan 
SZ0001 
8 centres 
Europe 
Open-label, multicentre 
uncontrolled Phase II study 
An open, multicentre, non-
comparative European 
Phase II Investigator 
Initiated study  
Postmenopausal women 
who had relapsed on 
tamoxifen (or toremifene) 
therapy 
Post-menopausal women 
with  advanced breast 
cancer who had failed on 
prior therapy with non-
steroidal or steroidal 
aromatase inhibitors. 
12/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study participants and eligibility criteria. Eligible patients were postmenopausal women with hormone 
sensitive  locally  invasive  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  who  had  progressed  following 
hormonal therapy for advanced disease or had relapsed after adjuvant endocrine therapy with a non-
steroidal  anti-oestrogen.  Breast  cancer  had  to  be  confirmed  histologically  or  cytologically.  Each 
patient had to have at least 1 measurable or evaluable lesion in order to be eligible for inclusion.  
Evidence of hormone sensitivity was defined as (a) at least 12 months of adjuvant hormonal therapy 
before relapse, (b) tumour remission or stabilisation after at least 3 months of hormonal therapy before 
progression,  or  (c)  a  tumour  status  of  oestrogen-receptor  positive  (ER+)  or  progesterone-receptor 
positive (PgR+).  Patients with a tumour status of ER negative or ER unknown were permitted to enter 
the studies as long as they fulfilled either criteria (a) or (b).  
In addition, selection criteria included  a World Health Organisation (WHO) performance status of  0 
(fully  active),  1  (ambulatory,  able  to  do  light  work  or  pursue  a  sedentary  occupation),  or  2 
(ambulatory,  capable  of  self-care  but  unable  to  work)  (ref:  WHO  1979)  and  a  life  expectancy  of 
greater  than  3 months.  Patients  were  to  be  excluded  from  study  participation  if  they  had  serious 
concurrent  medical  illnesses  or  laboratory  abnormalities  that  would  compromise  safety  or  interfere 
with the collection or interpretation of efficacy and safety data. Patients were also to be excluded in 
case  of    previous  treatment  with  the  following:  fulvestrant  or  aromatase  inhibitors;  two  or  more 
regimens  of  endocrine  therapy  for  advanced  disease  (excluding  oophorectomy,  ovarian  radiation,  or 
luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone [LH-RH] analogue therapy), radiation or chemotherapy within 
4  to  6  weeks  of  baseline  tumour  assessment;  or  oestrogen  replacement  therapy  (within  4  weeks  of 
randomisation [Study 0021], ongoing at entry [Study 0020]); or investigational drug therapy within 4 
weeks of randomisation. 
Treatments. In both studies, patients received monthly intramuscular long-acting fulvestrant at 250 mg 
or  125  mg,  or  the  selective  aromatase  inhibitor  anastrozole  at  1  mg  orally  per  day.  Patients  also 
received,  in  addition  to  active  treatment,  either  placebo  tablets  or  placebo  injections  to  maintain 
blinding  to  treatment  in  study  0021.  Study  0020  was  an  open  study  while  Study  0021  was  double-
blind.  
Frequency of clinical assessments. Patients were assessed at baseline and monthly for 3 months and 3-
monthly thereafter for 12 months or until withdrawal or progression of disease or death.  
Objectives  and  endpoints.  The  primary  objective  was  to  compare  time  to  disease  progression.  The 
secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  the  objective  response  rate,  duration  of  response,  time  to 
treatment failure, time to death, symptomatic response, quality of life, tolerability (local and systemic) 
and pharmacokinetic assessment.  
Time to disease progression was defined as the number of days from date of randomisation until date 
of  objective  disease  progression  (as  first  documented),  or  until  death  from  any  cause,  whichever 
occurred first. The date of progression was determined using the earliest of dates where there was an 
increase  in  size  of  more  than  25%  for  a  measurable  lesion,  progression  of  an  evaluable  non-
measurable  lesion  or  a  new  lesion  as  indicated  by  the  investigator.  For  patients  who  had  not 
progressed at the time of data cut-off, data were right censored for analysis purposes to last assessment 
date.  Objective  tumour  assessments  were  first  completed  in  the  4  weeks  that  preceded  the  first 
administration of study treatment.  Post-treatment assessments were then repeated every 3 months (±2 
weeks)  until  disease  progression.    Patients  with  physically  assessable  soft-tissue  lesions  were  also 
assessed  monthly  for  the  first  3 months  of  treatment.    The  treatment  was  continued  until  objective 
evidence  of  disease  progression  or  other  events  requiring  treatment  withdrawal.  Patients  were 
followed  up  for  survival  until  death.  The  disease  was  designated  as  measurable;  evaluable  but  not 
measurable; or neither measurable nor evaluable. Patients taking bisphosphonate treatment could enter 
the trial and their bone lesions could be evaluated for disease progression but not for tumour response. 
The radiological data were read locally. 
Measurable  disease  was  defined  as  lesions  that  were  clinically  measurable  in  2  perpendicular  axes 
with  at  least  1  dimension  being  greater  than  or  equal  to  2.5  cm  or  measurable  using  imaging  in 
2 perpendicular axes with both dimensions being greater than or equal to 1.0 cm.  Up to 4 measurable 
lesions  [largest  and  most  clearly  defined]  were  assessed  per  patient  and  monitored  throughout  the 
13/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
study.  Assessment  of  tumour  response  was  made  for  both  measurable  and  non-measurable  disease 
based on response categories defined according to the Union Internationale Contre Le Cancer (UICC) 
criteria for Complete response, partial response, stable disease or disease progression. 
Time to treatment failure was defined as the time between randomisation and the earliest occurrence 
of disease progression, withdrawal of study treatment for any reason, or death from any cause. Patients 
who  have  not  failed  treatment  at  data  cut  off  would  be  right-censored  at  the  most  recent  date  of 
assessment.  Time  to  death  was  defined  the  number  of  days  from  randomisation  to  death.  This  was 
analysed in the same way as the time to progression. Patients who were alive at data cut off will be 
right-censored at the latest date they were known to be alive. Duration of response was calculated for 
those  who  had  a  best  response  of  complete  response  or  partial  response.  Symptomatic  response 
comprising analgesic use, global pain score and performance status was summarised without statistical 
analysis. 
QOL was assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B), consisting 
of  the  FACT-G  ‘general’  QOL  tool  for  cancer  patients  and  the  Breast  Cancer  Sub-scale  (BCS) 
questionnaires.  
Sample size. The estimation of sample size was based on the primary end point of time to progression.  
Assuming  a  median  time  to  progression  for  anastrozole  of  140  days  (ref:  Buzdar  1996),  490  events 
were considered necessary to detect a hazard ratio of greater than or equal to 1.43 or less than or equal 
to  0.70,  at  a  significance  level  of  5%  with  90%  power.  Given  that  both  studies  had  an  estimated 
accrual  time  of  24  months,  with  6-month  follow-up  periods,  patient  requirements  were  196  patients 
per treatment group per study or at least 588 patients per study.  When the 125-mg treatment group 
was  dropped,  196  patients  would  be  required  in  each  of  the  remaining  2  groups,  and  the  analysis 
would  be  performed  when  at  least  340  end  point  events  had  occurred  across  each  of  the  remaining 
2 groups.  Patients  were  randomised  1:1:1  into  Faslodex  125  mg,  Faslodex  250  mg  or  anastrozole  1 
mg. 
Statistical analyses 
The  primary  analysis  was  a  Cox  proportional-hazards  model  with  baseline  covariates  (age, 
performance  status,  measurable  compared  with  non-measurable  disease,  receptor  status,  previous 
response to hormone therapy, previous use of cytotoxics and use of bisphosphonates for bone disease), 
based  on  the  ITT  population  (on  the  basis  of  randomised  treatment  for  all  randomised  patients, 
regardless of treatment actually received). Secondary analyses were conducted for a subset of patients 
who  did  not  significantly  violate  or  deviate  from  the  protocol  (also  known  as  the  per-protocol 
population),  by  treatment  received,  and  for  the  ITT  population  with  data  unadjusted  for  baseline 
effects.  Secondary analyses were used to assess whether the conclusions from the primary analyses 
were robust.  
Time  to  progression  (TTP)  was  summarised  by  trial  treatment  using  the  Kaplan-Meier  method.  The 
treatment  comparisons  was  performed  using  the  Cox  proportional-hazards  model,  adjusting  for 
baseline  prognostic  covariates:.  The  Log-Rank  test  was  used  to  provide  a  comparison  of  treatment 
groups  without  adjusting  for  potential  prognostic  factors.  A  global  test  for  treatment-by-baseline 
covariate interactions was performed.  
Objective  responders  were  patients  with  a  best  objective  response  of  complete  response  or  partial 
response. A logistic regression model was used for analysis of objective response rate and covariates 
were included in the model. Objective response rates would also be assessed for a subgroup of patients 
excluding patients with bone only disease treated with biphosphonates. 
The  effects  of  centre  and  treatment-by-centre  interaction  were  not  investigated.    Additionally,  no 
analyses were performed for individual centres or for any centre sub-grouping. Except where noted, 
all significance levels were 2-sided. 
As prospectively planned, data from Studies 0020 and 0021 were combined for an overall evaluation 
of fulvestrant effects at the 250-mg dose  
14/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Results  
A  total  of  1014  patients  from  83  centres  in  North  America  and  83  centres  in  Europe,  Australia,and 
South Africa were randomised to treatment in Studies 0020 and 0021 (Figure 1 and 2). Of these,428 
patients  were  randomised  to  monthly  treatment  with  fulvestrant  250  mg  (Study  0021,  206  patients; 
Study  0020,  222  patients),  423  to  daily  treatment  with  anastrozole  1  mg  (Study  0021,  194  patients; 
Study  0020,  229  patients),  and  163  to  monthly  treatment  with  fulvestrant  125  mg  (Study  0021,  73 
patients; Study 0020, 90 patients). 
Nearly all patients who were randomised to either fulvestrant 250 mg or anastrozole 1mg received the 
allocated treatment and were included in the intention to treat analysis as shown in the following flow 
chart. Only one patient was lost to follow-up. The major reason for withdrawal was objective disease 
progression.  
Fig 1. Flow chart of participants (Study 20) 
15/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 2. Flow chart of participants (Study 21) 
Baseline characteristics 
Baseline  patient  and  tumour  characteristics  are  shown  in  Tables  2  -  7.  The  median  age  for  patients 
randomised to anastrozole in Study 0021 was 61 years, compared with a median age of 64 years for 
patients randomised to fulvestrant (both studies) and 65 years for patients randomised to anastrozole in 
Study  0020.  The  mean  weight  in  each  of  the  treatment  groups  was  about  70  kg  and  the  North 
American  patients  were  3  to  5  kg  heavier  than  the  European  patients.  The  most  common  previous 
hormonal  therapy  was  tamoxifen  in  all  groups:  95%  of  the  fulvestrant  group  and  96  %  of  the 
anastrozole  group  in  study  0021  and  97%  and  98%  in  the  fulvestrant  and  tamoxifen  groups, 
respectively  (Table  3).  The  other  hormonal  agents  used  were  droloxifene,  goserelin,  idoxifen, 
megestrol, and toremifene in isolated cases.  
Table 2. Demographic characteristics by randomised treatment (Study 0020) 
Table 1 
Age, weight, and race of patients, by individual efficacy study and studies combined 
Demographic 
characteristic 
Age (y) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Age distribution, n (%) 
<45 
≥45 to <65 
≥65 to <75 
≥75 
Weight (kg) 
Mean 
Study 0021 
Study 0020 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=206a 
N=194a 
N=222a 
N=229a 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=423 
  63 
  11 
  64 
  33 
  89 
  12 
  96 
  61 
  37 
  62 
  12 
  61 
  36 
  94 
63 
10 
64 
35 
86 
64 
11 
65 
33 
89 
(5.8)    12 
(6.2) 
8 
(3.6)   
8 
(3.5)   
(46.6)    102 
(52.6) 
107 
(48.2)   
103 
(45.0)   
(29.6)    48 
(24.7) 
(18.0)    32 
(16.5) 
74 
33 
(33.3)   
(14.9)   
77 
41 
(33.6)   
(17.9)   
63 
11 
64 
33 
89 
20 
203 
135 
70 
63 
11 
64 
33 
94 
20 
205 
125 
73 
(4.7)  
(47.4)  
(31.5)  
(16.4)  
(4.7) 
(48.5) 
(29.6) 
(17.3) 
  71.7 
  72.7 
68.9 
67.8 
70.2 
70.0 
16/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic 
characteristic 
SD 
Median 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Race, n (%) 
  White 
Black 
Hispanic 
Asian/Oriental 
Otherb 
Study 0021 
Study 0020 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=206a 
N=194a 
N=222a 
N=229a 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=423 
  14.7 
  72.1 
  36.8 
  126.8 
  177 
  20 
8 
0 
1 
  16.3 
  70.7 
  43.1 
  134.0 
13.0 
67.0 
40.9 
123.5 
11.8 
67.0 
40.0 
110.0 
(85.9)    157 
(80.9) 
214 
(96.4)   
218 
(95.2)   
(9.7)    24 
(12.4) 
(3.9)    10 
1 
2 
(0.5)   
(5.2) 
(0.5) 
(1.0) 
0 
0 
1 
7 
(0.5)   
(3.2)   
0 
1 
2 
8 
(0.4)   
(0.9)   
(3.5)   
13.9 
69.1 
36.8 
126.8 
391 
20 
8 
1 
8 
14.3 
68.0 
40.0 
134.0 
(91.4)  
375 
(88.7) 
(4.7)  
(1.9)  
(0.2)  
(1.9)  
24 
11 
3 
10 
(5.7) 
(2.6) 
(0.7) 
(2.4) 
a For Study 0021 weight calculations: N=199, fulvestrant group; N=185, anastrozole group.  
For Study 0020 weight calculations: N=214, fulvestrant group; N=221, anastrozole group. 
b Includes mixed race and race unknown. 
SD Standard deviation. 
Table 3. Previous treatment history, by individual study and studies combined 
Breast cancer 
history 
Study 0020 
Study 0021 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=222 
Anastrozole
1 mg 
N=229 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=206 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=194 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=423 
Previous treatment, n (%)a 
Surgery 
Cytotoxic 
chemotherapy 
Radiotherapy 
Loco-regional 
For metastatic 
disease 
204(91.9) 
94(42.3) 
200(87.3) 
98(42.8) 
194(94.2) 
129(62.6) 
182(93.8) 
122(62.9) 
398(93.0) 
223(52.1) 
382(90.3) 
220(52.0) 
128(57.7) 
40(18.0) 
125(54.6) 
47(20.5) 
99 (48.1) 
68 (33.0) 
91(46.9) 
53(27.3) 
227(53.0) 
108(25.2) 
216(51.1) 
100(23.6) 
a Patients may appear in more than 1 previous-treatment category. 
Table 4. Receptor status at study entry, by individual study and studies combined 
Breast cancer 
history 
Study 0020 
Study 0021 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=222 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=229 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=206 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=194 
  Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 1 
mg 
N=423 
Receptor status, n (%) 
86  (38.7)    95  (41.5) 
35  (15.8)    43  (18.8) 
35  (15.8)    35  (15.3) 
ER+, PgR+ 
ER+, PgR− 
ER+, PgR   
unknown 
Total ER+ 
ER−, PgR+ 
ER−, PgR− 
ER−, PgR 
unknown 
ER unknown, 
PgR+ 
ER/PgR 
unknown 
ER Oestrogen receptor; PgR Progesterone receptor. 
156  (70.3)    173  (75.5) 
(4.4) 
(3.2)    10 
(3.1) 
7 
(2.7)   
(0.9) 
2 
(0.9)   
51  (23.0)    37  (16.2) 
7 
6 
2 
0 
0 
13 
  128  (62.1) 
37  (18.0) 
(2.4) 
5 
  170  (82.5) 
(4.4) 
9 
14 
(6.8) 
0 
  106  (54.6) 
  40  (20.6) 
(5.2) 
  10 
  156  (80.4) 
(6.2) 
  12 
(4.6) 
9 
(0.5) 
1 
214  (50.0)   201 
83 
72  (16.8)  
45 
(9.3)  
40 
(47.5)
(19.6)
(10.6)
326  (76.2)   329 
22 
(3.7)  
16 
16 
(4.7)  
20 
3 
(0.5)  
2 
(77.8)
(5.2)
(3.8)
(0.7)
0 
1 
(0.5) 
0 
1 
(0.2)
(6.3) 
  15 
(7.7) 
64  (15.0)  
52 
(12.3)
17/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Previous hormonal treatment and tumour remission, relapse during adjuvant hormonal 
treatment, and WHO status, by individual study and studies combined 
Breast cancer history 
Study 0021 
Study 0020 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant  
250 mg 
N=206 
Anastrozole  
1 mg 
Fulvestrant  
250 mg 
Anastrozole  
1 mg 
N=194 
N=222 
N=229 
Fulvestrant  
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=423 
110(53.4) 
97 
(50.0) 
  126 
(56.8) 
  129 
(56.3) 
  236 
(55.1) 
226(53.4) 
6  (2.9) 
10 
(5.2) 
7 
(3.2) 
6 
(2.6) 
13 
(3.0) 
16  (3.8) 
104(50.5) 
87 
(44.8) 
  119 
(53.6) 
  123 
(53.7) 
  223 
(52.1) 
210(49.6) 
122(59.2) 
  116 
(59.8) 
  121 
(54.5) 
  119 
(52.0) 
  243 
(56.8) 
235(55.6) 
Previous hormonal treatment  
for advanced disease, n (%) 
Tumour remission  
<3 mo 
Tumour remission  
≥3 mo 
Relapse during adjuvant 
 hormonal treatment, n (%) 
Relapse after <12 mo  
t 16(7.8) 
13 
(6.7) 
10 
(4.5) 
9 
(3.9) 
26 
(6.1) 
22  (5.2) 
Relapse after ≥12 mo  
t 106(51.5) 
  103 
(53.1) 
  111 
(50.0) 
  110 
(48.0) 
  217 
(50.7) 
213(50.4) 
WHO performance status,  
n (%)a 
0 
1 
2 
90(43.7) 
94(45.6) 
84 
(43.3) 
  104 
(46.8) 
  104 
(45.4) 
  194 
(45.3) 
188(44.4) 
95 
(49.0) 
93 
(41.9) 
98 
(42.8) 
  187 
(43.7) 
193(45.6) 
25 
a WHO status unknown for 1 fulvestrant-treated patient in Study 0021 
WHO World Health Organization; mo Month. 
21(10.2) 
(7.7) 
15 
(11.3) 
27 
(11.8) 
46 
(10.7) 
42  (9.9) 
Table 6. Metastatic disease at entry, by individual efficacy study and combined 
Disease at entry 
Study 0020 
Study 0021 
Combined studies 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=222 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=229 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=206 
Anastrozole
1 mg 
N=194 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=428 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=423 
Sites of metastatic disease,a
 n (%) 
Breast 
21  (9.5)   
30 
(13.1)   
8 
(3.9) 
  8 
(4.1) 
29 
(6.8)   
38 
(9.0) 
Skin and soft tissue 
40 (18.0)   
35 
(15.3)   
43 
(20.9) 
  41 
(21.1) 
83 
(19.4)   
76 
(18.0) 
Bone 
  Viscerab 
115 (51.8)   
117 
(51.1)   
90 
(43.7) 
  85 
(43.8) 
205 
(47.9)   
202 
(47.8) 
Liver involvement 
48 (21.6)   
56 
(24.5)   
47 
(22.8) 
  45 
(23.2) 
95 
(22.2)   
101 
(23.9) 
Lung involvement 
56 (25.2)   
60 
(26.2)   
63 
(30.6) 
  60 
(30.9) 
119 
(27.8)   
120 
(28.4) 
Lymph nodes 
78 (35.1)   
83 
(36.2)   
58 
(28.2) 
  56 
(28.9) 
136 
(31.8)   
139 
(32.9) 
  Otherc 
27 (12.2)   
18 
(7.9)   
22 
(10.7) 
  8 
(4.1) 
49 
(11.4)   
26 
(6.1) 
Extent of metastatic disease, n (%)  
Soft tissue only 
11  (5.0)   
8 
(3.5)   
12 
(5.8) 
  13 
(6.7) 
23 
(5.4)   
21 
(5.0) 
Bone only 
38 (17.1)   
40 
(17.5)   
47 
(22.8) 
  43 
(22.2) 
85 
(19.9)   
83 
(19.6) 
  Viscera only 
30 (13.5)   
41 
(17.9)   
39 
(18.9) 
  45 
(23.2) 
69 
(16.1)   
86 
(20.3) 
Lymph node only 
22  (9.9)   
21 
(9.2)   
15 
(7.3) 
  17 
(8.8) 
37 
(8.6)   
38 
(9.0) 
  Mixed 
  Unknown 
121 (54.5)   
118 
(51.5)   
92 
(44.7) 
  74 
(38.1) 
213 
(49.8)   
192 
(45.4) 
0 
1 
(0.4)   
1 
(0.5) 
  2 
(1.0) 
1 
(0.2)   
3 
(0.7) 
a And recurrent disease; patients may be in more than one category. 
b Defined as liver or lung metastatic, or recurrent, disease. 
C Include ascites, lymphoedema, pleural effusion and other non-measurable, non-evaluable metastases. 
18/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients underwent bone scan at entry followed by X-rays if hot spots had been identified. The number 
of patients found to have metastatic lesions in each of the treatment groups was higher than identified 
at baseline. The number of patients found to have metastatic bone lesions and the use of phosphonates 
in each of treatment groups is displayed in Table 7. 
Table 7. Patients with metastatic bone lesions and use of bisphosphonates 
Study 0021 
Study 0020 
Metastatic bone 
lesions 
Bisphosphonates 
Fulvestrant  
103 (68%) 
Anastrozole 
105 (70%) 
Fulvestrant  
129 (79%) 
Anastrozole 
117 (77%) 
26 (11.8%) 
17 (7.5%) 
62 (30%) 
66 (34%) 
Primary end- point -Time to Progression TTP 
Patients were followed up for a median of 439 days in Study 0020 (min 0, max 901) while the median 
was 510 days in Study 0021 (min 0, max 1093). A follow-up of zero could be due to withdrawal of 
consent at base-line visit. The first patient was recruited into Study 0020 on 11 June 1997 and the last 
on 8 September  1999  with a data  cut-off  date of  31 December  1999.  The first  patient was  recruited 
into Study 0021 on 15 May 1997 and the last on 13 August 1999. At the data cut-off dates, 374 events 
and 339 events had occurred in Study 0020 and Study 0021, respectively. A summary of TTP results 
is shown in Table 8-9 and Figure 3. 
The two individual studies showed that similar proportion of patients progressed. The combined data 
showed that, 355 (82.9%) of 428 patients in the fulvestrant group and 358 (84.6%) of 423 patients in 
the  anastrozole  group,  had  disease  progression.  Tumour  progression  during  treatment  was  the  most 
common progression event, accounting for progression in 77.6% of the fulvestrant group and 79% of 
the anastrozole group. Death as a progression event occurred in less than 5% in each group.  
Table 8 Time to progression: Primary analyses, by individual study and studies combined 
Assessment 
Study 20 
Study 21 
Combined analysis 
Time to Progression (TTP): 
Proportion of patients 
progressed 
F 
A 
F 
A 
F 
A 
(n=222) 
(n=229) 
(n=206) 
(n=194) 
(n=428) 
(n=423) 
82%        
83% 
83%        
86% 
83%       
85% 
TTP days 
166 
156 
165 
103 
166 
126 
Estimated hazard ratio 
(HR)a 
95.14% confidence 
interval for HR  
0.98 
0.92 
0.95 
(0.80-1.21) 
(0.74-1.14) 
(0.82-1.10) 
p-value 
0.84 
0.43 
0.48 
F  fulvestrant 250 mg administered intramuscularly monthly. A  anastrozole 1 mg administered orally daily. 
a Expressed as the ratio of fulvestrant to anastrozole; i.e. hazard ratio (HR) <1 favours fulvestrant.   
Results  of  the  per  protocol  analyses  were  consistent  with  those  of  the  primary  analysis  in  the 
percentages  of  patients  who  had  progressed.  Combined  data  for  the  per-protocol  population  showed 
that 85.3% (307 patients) in the fulvestrant group and 86.0% (307 patients) in the anastrozole group 
had  progression,  with  most  patients  progressing  during  treatment  (fulvestrant  group,  83.3%  [300 
patients]; anastrozole group, 82.6% [295 patients]). The hazard ratios for these analyses are presented 
in table 9. 
19/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Time to progression: secondary analyses, by individual study and studies combined 
Secondary populations by study 
Hazard ratioa 
95.14% CIb,c 
p-value 
Study 0020 
Per-protocol, adjustedd 
ITT, unadjusted 
Study 0021 
Per-protocol, adjustedd 
ITT, unadjusted 
Studies combined 
Per-protocol, adjustedd  
ITT, unadjusted for baseline covariates 
0.97 
0.94 
0.95 
0.88 
0.95 
0.91 
0.78 to 1.21 
0.76 to 1.15 
0.74 to 1.21 
0.71 to 1.10 
0.81 to 1.11 
0.78 to 1.05 
0.7888 
0.5210 
0.6602 
0.2594 
0.5138 
0.2076 
ITT, adjustedd with study as a stratified variable 
0.95 
a Fulvestrant/anastrozole. B CI Confidence interval (lower limit to upper limit): 95.14% CI accounts for the interim analysis. 
c The upper limit of the 95.14% CI corresponds to the one-sided 97.57% CI for non-inferiority. 
d For baseline covariates. ITT Intention to treat. 
0.82 to 1.10 
0.4789 
3.1 
Figure 3. Kaplan-Meier plot for time to progression (Studies 0020 and 0021 
combined) 
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.2
0
0
0
Fulvestrant 250 mg
Fulvestrant 250 mg
Fulvestrant 250 mg
Anastrozole 1 mg
Anastrozole 1 mg
Anastrozole 1 mg
Estimated median TTP: Fulvestrant  5.5 months
Estimated median TTP: Fulvestrant  5.5 months
Anastrozole  4.1 months
Anastrozole  4.1 months
HR 0.95; 95.14% CI 0.82–1.10; p=0.48
HR 0.95; 95.14% CI 0.82–1.10; p=0.48
i
i
i
n
n
n
o
o
o
s
s
s
s
s
s
e
e
e
r
r
r
g
g
g
o
o
o
r
r
r
p
p
p
t
t
t
u
u
u
o
o
o
h
h
h
t
t
t
i
i
i
w
w
w
n
n
n
o
o
o
i
i
i
t
t
t
r
r
r
o
o
o
p
p
p
o
o
o
r
r
r
P
P
P
0
0
0
200
200
200
400
400
400
600
600
600
800
800
800
1000
1000
1000
1200
1200
1200
Time to progression (TTP) (days)
Time to progression (TTP) (days)
Time to progression (TTP) (days)
Secondary endpoint - Objective tumour response  
Overall, 20 (4.7%) patients in the fulvestrant group compared with 11 (2.6%) in the anastrozole group 
achieved  a  complete  response  (CR),  and  62  (14.5%)  in  the  fulvestrant  group  compared  with  59 
(13.9%)  in  the  anastrozole  group  achieved  a  partial  response  (PR).  These  differences  between 
treatments  for  objective  response  were  not  statistically  significant.  The  results  of  the  per  protocol 
analyses were consistent with those of the primary ITT analysis. Results are summarised in Tables 10-
11. 
20/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Tumour response by individual study and combined– ITT population 
Assessment 
Study 20 
Study 21 
Combined analysis 
F 
A 
F 
A 
F 
A 
(n=222) 
(n=229) 
(n=206) 
(n=194) 
(n=428) 
(n=423) 
Tumour response: 
Response rate (CR+PR) 
Estimated odds ratiob 
95.14% confidence limit 
for odds ratio 
p-value 
Estimated difference in 
response ratesc 
95.14% confidence limit 
for difference in response 
rates 
20.7% 
15.7% 
17.5% 
17.5% 
19.2% 
16.5% 
1.38 
(0.84-2.29) 
0.20 
+4.8% 
1.01 
1.21 
(0.59-1.73) 
(0.84-1.74) 
0.96 
+0.2% 
0.31 
+2.8% 
(-2.2%, +14.2%) 
(-6.3%, +9.3%) 
(-2.3%, +9.0%) 
F  fulvestrant 250 mg administered intramuscularly monthly. A  anastrozole 1 mg administered orally daily. 
b Odds ratio >1 favours fulvestrant 250 mg. c Difference in response rates >0 favours fulvestrant 250 mg. 
n  Number of patients. CR  Complete response. PR  Partial response 
Table 11. Objective tumour response: secondary analyses 
Population 
Odds 
ratio 
95.14% CIa,b 
(odds ratio) 
Difference in 
response ratesc 
95.14% CIa,b 
(difference in 
response rates) 
p-value 
Study 0020 
Per protocol, adjustedd 
ITT, unadjusted 
Study 0021 
Per protocol, adjustedd 
ITT, unadjusted 
Studies combined 
1.54 
1.40 
1.05 
1.00 
0.91 to 2.64 
0.86 to 2.29 
0.58 to 1.91 
0.59 to 1.68 
6.50% 
5.00% 
0.76% 
-0.05% 
-1.25% to 17.08% 
-1.83% to 14.17% 
-6.43% to 11.26% 
-6.34% to 8.77% 
Per protocol, adjustedd 
1.33 
0.90 to 1.97 
4.21% 
-1.43% to 11.39% 
1.20 
ITT, unadjusted 
-2.27% to 8.75% 
0.84 to 1.71 
a CI Confidence interval (lower limit to upper limit); 95.14% CI accounts for interim analysis. 
b The lower limit of the 95.14% CI corresponds to the one-sided 97.57% CI for non-inferiority. 
c Estimated; fulvestrant rate minus anastrozole rate. d For baseline covariates. 
2.63% 
0.1087 
0.1684 
0.8622 
0.9895 
0.1550 
0.3170 
Duration of objective response 
Within and across studies, median durations of response from date of randomisation and from date of 
objective  response  were  consistently  greater  among  patients  in  the  fulvestrant  groups  (Figure  4). 
Overall, for the 82 patients in the fulvestrant group who had objective tumour responses, the median 
duration  of  response  was  458  days  (approximately  1  year,  3 months),  and  for  the  70  patients  in  the 
anastrozole  group  who  had  objective  tumour  responses,  the  median  duration  of  treatment  was 
392 days (approximately 1 year, 1 month), a difference of 2 months. 
21/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Kaplan-Meier plots for duration of response from randomisation until objective 
disease progression (Studies 0020 and 0021 combined –patients included: all patients 
randomised to fulvestrant 250 mg or anastrozole). 
Survival 
The  results  are  summarised  in  Table  12-13,  and  Figure  5.  The  protocol  required  analysis  of  time  to 
death  was  delayed  until  sufficient  events  had  occurred.  For  Study  0020,  167  (75.2%)  patients 
randomised to the fulvestrant 250 mg group and 173 (75.5%) patients randomised to the anastrozole 1 
mg  group  had  died.    The  estimated  median  time  to  death  was  67  days  longer  for  patients  in  the 
fulvestrant  group,  compared  with  patients  in  the  anastrozole  group.  In  Study  0021,  140  (68.0%) 
patients  randomised  to  the  fulvestrant  250  mg  group  and  127 (65.5%)  patients  randomised  to  the 
anastrozole 1 mg group had died.  The estimated median time to death was 67 days longer for patients 
in the anastrozole group, compared with patients in the fulvestrant group. 
Combining  both  studies,  307  (71.7%)  patients  randomised  to  the  fulvestrant  250-mg  group  and 
300 (70.9%) patients randomised to the anastrozole 1-mg group had died.  The estimated ITT median 
time  to  death  was  similar  for  patients  in  the  fulvestrant  group  compared  with  patients  in  the 
anastrozole group (833 vs. 839 days). The estimated hazard ratio for fulvestrant 250 mg in relation to 
anastrozole 1 mg was 1.01 with a 2-sided 95% confidence interval of 0.86 to 1.19 (p=0.87).  
22/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Number of deaths and time to death for patients in Studies 0020 and 0021, separately 
and combined: ITT population 
Assessment 
Study 20 
Study 21 
Combined analysis 
F 
A 
F 
A 
F 
A 
(n=222) 
(n=229) 
(n=206) 
(n=194) 
(n=428) 
(n=423) 
Time to death 
Proportion of patients 
progressed 
Median days to death 
167 
(75.2) 
803.0 
173 
(75.5)  
736.0 
140 
(68.0) 
844 
127 
(65.5) 
911 
307 
(71.7) 
833.0 
300 
(70.9) 
839.0 
Estimated hazard ratio 
(HR)a 
95% confidence interval 
for HR  
p-value 
a Fulvestrant/anastrozole. 
0.97 
1.03 
1.01 
0.78 to 1.21 
0.81 to 1.32 
0.86 to 1.19 
0.8166 
0.7852 
0.8707 
Table 13. Secondary analyses of time to death for patients in Studies 0020 and 0021, separately 
and combined 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CIb 
p-value 
Population 
Study 0020 
Per-protocol, adjustedc  
ITT, unadjusted for baseline covariates 
Study 0021 
Per-protocol, adjustedc  
ITT, unadjusted for baseline covariates 
Studies 0020 and 0021 combined 
Per-protocol, adjustedc  
0.96 
0.96 
0.99 
1.05 
0.75 to 1.22 
0.78 to 1.19 
0.75 to 1.30 
0.83 to 1.34 
0.98 
0.82 to 1.17 
0.7160 
0.7015 
0.9419 
0.6638 
0.8045 
0.9733 
0.8628 
ITT, unadjusted for baseline covariates 
ITT, adjustedc with study (trial) as a 
stratified variable 
a Fulvestrant/anastrozole. b CI Confidence interval (lower limit to upper limit).  
c For baseline covariates. ITT Intention to treat. 
1.01 
1.00 
0.85 to 1.17 
0.86 to 1.19 
23/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2 
Figure 5. Kaplan-Meier probability of time to death (Studies 0020 and 0021 
combined – all patients randomised to fulvestrant 250 mg or anastrozole 1 mg) 
Interim analyses 
There were 2 planned interim analyses. The first was the review of the effect of the 125 mg monthly 
dose after treating 30 patients (across Studies 0020 and 0021) for a minimum of 3 months because 
there was no previous response data at this dose. The second interim analysis was performed after 170 
end point events in each of the studies were recorded across the remaining 2 treatment groups. 
Data review of the fulvestrant 125 mg dose group 
The objective was to assess whether 125 mg fulvestrant would produce a response in 10% of the target 
population.  Had  the  dose  produced  a  10%  or  greater  response  rate,  a  95%  chance  that  1  or  more 
objective tumour responses would be obtained in 29 successive patients was estimated. At the time of 
the review, 1 (3.3%) patient had withdrawn, 9 (30%) had stable disease, and 20 (66.7%) had disease 
progression.  Randomisation  to  the  125-mg  dose  group  was  dropped  from  both  studies  on  29  April 
1998 because no tumour responses were observed. These patients were switched from fulvestrant 125 
mg  to  the  most  appropriate  subsequent  therapy  as  determined  by  the  individual  investigator  and 
patient, and no further efficacy data were collected.  
Although  no  tumour  responses  were  observed  among  the  first  30  patients  randomised  to  fulvestrant 
125 mg followed-up for a minimum of 3 months, further examination of tumour response data up to 
29 April 1998 indicates tumour shrinkage of 50% or greater; i.e. tumour response, in 4/161 (2.5%) of 
patients in this treatment group. 
Final analyses and switch from superiority to non-inferiority 
Superiority was not demonstrated and treatment with fulvestrant was retrospectively assessed for non-
inferiority, compared with anastrozole, for the pre-defined efficacy end points of time to progression, 
objective  response,  and  time  to  treatment  failure.  The  Applicant  convened  a  group  of  independent 
clinical  and  statistical  experts  in  breast  cancer  to  discuss  the  design  of  a  potential  clinical  study 
programme to demonstrate non-inferiority of a new hormonal agent for post-menopausal women with 
advanced breast cancer, when compared with standard therapy. These participants were selected also 
on  the  basis  of  lack  of  previous  connection  with  the  clinical  development  of  fulvestrant,  and,  at  the 
time of the forum, no knowledge of the results from the fulvestrant Phase III clinical programme. 
The participants reached a consensus that “it would be reasonable to use anastrozole as the reference 
arm”.  Anastrozole  was  the  first,  and  remains  the  most  widely  prescribed,  third  generation  non-
steroidal aromatase inhibitor, and was selected as the active comparator in both studies.  Based on the 
24/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
historical  performance  of  anastrozole,  when  previously  compared  with  megestrol  acetate  in  two 
published  studies using similar  patient  population as  the  fulvestrant  program, this  corresponded to  a 
median TTP of approximately 5 months.   
In the absence of data for placebo, the group speculated that the median TTP for ‘no treatment’ would 
be approximately 3 months. The group then indicated that at least one half of the presumed benefit for 
the new agent should preserve anastrozole over ‘no treatment’. The 2-sided 95% confidence interval 
for  the  TTP  hazard  ratio  should  allow  a  median  TTP  of  less  than  4  months  for  the  new  agent  to  be 
ruled out. This corresponds to a maximally acceptable hazard ratio of 5/4 = 1.25 for the new agent in 
relation to anastrozole. Continuing this line of reasoning, a hazard ratio of 3/5 = 0.60 for anastrozole in 
relation  to  ‘no  treatment’  would  apply.  The  Applicant  also  justified  the  choice  of  non-inferiority 
margin by citing that a similar margin of 0.25 was used in the assessment of toremifene for approval 
as  a  regulatory  precedent.  The  Applicant  used  post-hoc  comparisons  of  time  to  progression  using 
fulvestrant  250  mg  or  anastrozole  with  fulvestrant  125  mg  to  support  the  speculated  effect  of  no 
treatment proposed by the independent expert group (Table 14).  
Table 14  
and 21 combined) 
Results for Time to Progression comparisons with fulvestrant 125 mg (Studies 20 
Comparison 
Hazard ratio 
Confidence interval 
p-value 
Fulvestrant 250 mg – Fulvestrant 125 mg 
Anastrozole 1 mg – Fulvestrant 125 mg 
0.59 
0.63 
(0.44 – 0.80) 
(0.47 – 0.84) 
<0.001 
0.002 
Table 15 illustrates the TTP results from the ‘Intention to Treat’ and ‘Per Protocol’ analysis 
populations (Studies 20 and 21 combined) 
Table 15 
Results from Intention to Treat and Per Protocol populations 
Analysis Population 
Fulvestrant 
(n) 
Anastrozole 
(n) 
Hazard 
Ratio 
Confidence 
Interval 
p-value 
Intention To Treat 
Per Protocol 
428 
360 
423 
357 
0.95 
0.95 
(0.82 – 1.10) 
(0.81 – 1.11) 
0.48 
0.51 
It can be concluded that non-inferiority of fulvestrant 250 mg is demonstrated even for the most 
conservative estimation for the following reason. Using the upper confidence limit of anastrozole over 
“no treatment” of 0.84, the non-inferiority margin for 50% of the least benefit of anastrozole over “no 
treatment” is set as 0.92. As the lower confidence limit of anastrozole over fulvestrant 250 is 0.91 
(1/1.10), this lies just to the right of the non-inferiority margin as shown in Figure 6.  
25/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Non-inferiority margin and estimatimated hazard ratio for time to progression 
Anastrazole 1mg vs Fulvestrant 125 mg: HR 0.63 (95%CI 0.47; 0.84)
Non-inferiority margin: 50% of the least benefit (upper 95% CI-limit) of
Anastrzole vs Fulvestrant 125mg: 0.92
Anastrazole 1mg vs Fulvestrant 250mg: HR 1.05 (95%CI 0.91; 1.22)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
 1
1.2
1.4
Non-inferiority region
Hazard Ratio
Ana 1mg vs
Ful 125 mg
Ana 1mg vs
Ful 250 mg
Furthermore,  the  performance  of  the  anastrozole  arm  in  this  program  is  comparable  to  historical 
performance. The Kaplan-Meier plot for Time to Progression from the combined analysis of the two 
registration studies, in which anastrozole 1 mg was compared with megestrol acetate, is superimposed 
on  the  corresponding  plot  for  anastrozole  1  mg  in  the  combined  analysis  of  both  studies  in  the 
fulvestrant Phase III clinical programme in Figure 7. Although this type of visual assessment is subject 
to the limitations of cross-study comparisons, there appears to be no evidence that the performance of 
anastrozole  in  the  fulvestrant  Phase  III  clinical  programme  is  inconsistent  with  the  anticipated 
performance of the drug, based on historical data. 
Figure 7. Performance of anastrozole 1  mg in historical setting (Studies 4 and 5 versus 
megestrol acetate) and in the fulvestrant phase III clinical programme (Studies 20 and 21) 
Anastrozole Studies 4 & 5 
Fulvestrant Studies 20 & 21 
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
d
e
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
t
o
n
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
0.0 
0 
100 
200 
300
400
500
600
Time to progression (days) 
700 
800 
900 
26/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical benefit: Patients designated as responders (complete response or partial response) plus those 
with  a  best  response  of  stable  disease  for  24  or  more  weeks  (calculated  from  the  date  of 
randomisation)  were  considered  to  have  achieved  clinical  benefit.    Combined  data  showed  that  a 
similar  proportion  of  fulvestrant-treated  patients  [186  (43.5%)]  achieved  clinical  benefit  compared 
with  anastrozole-treated  patients  [173  (40.9%)].  Median  duration  of  clinical  benefit  (time  between 
randomisation and first observation of progression) was 20 days longer for patients in the fulvestrant 
group (combined data) compared with that for patients in the anastrozole group. 
Time  to  treatment  failure:  The  estimated  median  time  to  treatment  failure  (combined  data)  was  31 
days longer for patients in the fulvestrant group (141 days) compared with patients in the anastrozole 
group  (110  days);  however,  time  to  treatment  failure  was  not  statistically  significantly  different 
between  treatment groups (p=0.6149). 
Quality  of  life:  QOL  was  assessed  using  the  Functional  Assessment  of  Cancer  Therapy-Breast 
questionnaires.  QOL  was  maintained  for  patients  who  received  treatment.    Time  to  deterioration  in 
QOL  (combined  data)  was  not  statistically  significantly  different  between  treatment  groups 
(p=0.6051).    The  median  times  to  deterioration  in  QOL  were  186  and  191  days  for  patients  in  the 
fulvestrant and anastrozole groups, respectively.  The pattern of deterioration appeared to follow that 
for progression, suggesting that deterioration in QOL was a function of disease progression rather than 
treatment.  The similarity in QOL measures between Studies 0020 and 0021 shows that the use of an 
injection versus an oral treatment does not lead to an adverse effect on QOL.  
Supportive studies 
There  were  three  supportive  non-comparative  efficacy  studies,  namely  0004,  SZ001  and  O-15-22, 
involving small number of patients.  
Study 0004 was a dose-exploring, non-comparative Phase II efficacy study. In Study 0004, three doses 
of fulvestrant-50, 100, and 250 mg-were evaluated in a dose-escalating fashion. Among patients who 
received  the  250-mg  dose  (n  =19),  7  had  partial  responses  and  6  had  stable  disease  for  at  least  6 
months. 
Study  O-15-22  was  an  open,  non-comparative,  Japanese  Phase  II  bridging  study  involving  30 
postmenopausal  Japanese  women  with  advanced  breast  cancer,  who  had  relapsed  on  tamoxifen  (or 
toremifene) therapy after initial response to the therapy.  For the primary endpoint of objective tumour 
response, the response rate was 23.3%, with supportive data provided by the secondary endpoints of 
clinical benefit, time to progression, duration of response, and time to response.   
Study  SZ0001  (currently  ongoing),  is  an  open,  multicentre,  non-comparative  European  Phase  II 
investigator  initiated  study,  with  46  subjects  recruited  to  date  in  postmenopausal  women  with 
advanced  breast  cancer  who  had  failed  on  prior  therapy  with  non-steroidal  or  steroidal  aromatase 
inhibitors (anastrozole, letrozole or aminoglutethimide).  Preliminary analyses of data from 32 eligible 
patients,  indicated  the  following  responses:  partial  response  6%,  stable  disease  28%,  progressive 
disease 66%, and clinical benefit 34%. 
Other studies 
Study  0025  compared  250  mg  fulvestrant  with  tamoxifen  as  first  line  treatment  in  post-menopausal 
women  with  advanced  breast  cancer.  A  total  of  587  patients  were  randomised  in  this  double-blind 
study.  The  results  showed  that  fulvestrant  had  anti-tumour  effect  but  neither  superiority  nor  non-
inferiority  of  fulvestrant  250  mg  relative  to  tamoxifen  could  be  concluded  for  the  primary  endpoint 
time  to  progression.  The  hazard  ratio  for  time  to  progression  was  1.18  (95%  CI  0.98  to  1.44). 
Statistically  significant  differences  in  the  secondary  endpoints,  time  to  treatment  failure  and  clinical 
benefit, favoured tamoxifen. The criterion for non-inferiority of fulvestrant relative to tamoxifen was 
met for objective response rate. The hazard ratio for objective response rate was 0.87 (95% CI 0.61 to 
1.14). The study was not sufficiently mature to assess survival at the time of data cut-off. 
Study  0042  was  a  study  that  compared  fulvestrant  with  tamoxifen  as  neoadjuvant  treatment  in  post 
menopausal women with primary breast cancer. This study was terminated early after enrolling three 
patients on ethical grounds because results from the 0025 study showed that equivalence to tamoxifen 
could not be claimed.  
27/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy of fulvestrant was investigated in  two  randomised  multicentre  controlled clinical  trials, 
Studies  0020  and  0021,  in  comparison  to  the  selective  aromatase  inhibitor  anastrozole  in 
postmenopausal women with locally invasive advanced or metastatic breast cancer. All patients were 
accounted for and followed up in the two pivotal studies. Combined analysis of the two trials showed 
that both treatment groups were comparable with respect to baseline data. 355 (82.9%) of 428 patients 
in  the  fulvestrant  group  and  358  (84.6%)  of  423  patients  in  the  anastrozole  group,  had  disease 
progression.  Tumour  progression  during  treatment  was  the  most  common  progression  event, 
accounting for progression in 77.6% of the fulvestrant group and 79% of the anastrozole group. Death 
as a progression event occurred in less than 5% in each group. The per protocol analyses confirmed 
that the most conservative estimate of time to progression for patients treated with fulvestrant 250 mg 
was unlikely to be more than 11% higher than that for patients treated with anastrozole. The difference 
in median time to progression in the two arms in the two studies was noted but the hazard ratios were 
similar and the Kaplan-Meier plots for the two arms were similar and the point differences observed at 
the medians were not sustained. 
Both  studies  were  originally  designed  to  investigate  the  potential  superiority  of  fulvestrant  over 
anastrozole but the results did not reach statistical significance. A switch to a claim of non-inferiority 
was  made  and  analysis  performed  using  a  non-inferiority  margin  that  was  assigned  retrospectively. 
The non-inferiority criterion 0.25 as proposed by the Applicant is acceptable based on an independent 
definition  of  delta  using  published  data  and  the  approval  of  toremifene  using  a  delta  of  0.25  as 
regulatory  precedent.  The  choice  of  0.25  as  the  margin  is  also  consistent  with  the  EMEA  Concept 
Paper  (CPMP/EWP/2158/99)  on  the  choice  of  delta.  The  true  effect  of  placebo  in  this  setting  is 
unknown  but  the  Sponsor  was  able  to  use  post-hoc  analysis  of  the  effect  of  fulvestrant  125  mg  to 
justify the speculated placebo effect, even though fulvestrant 125 mg was unlikely to be worse than no 
treatment. Because of an absence of dose-finding studies, these two studies were initially designed to 
study both 125 mg and 250 mg monthly dose groups.  Study of the 125 mg group was terminated early 
because  of  the  lack  of  objective  response  in  the  first  30  patients  enrolled  across  the  two  trials  after 
prospectively defined interim data analysis. 
It  can  be  concluded  that  non-inferiority  of  fulvestrant  250  mg  is  demonstrated  even  for  the  most 
conservative estimation for the following reason. Using the upper confidence limit of anastrozole over 
“no treatment” of 0.84, the non-inferiority margin for 50% of the least benefit of anastrozole over “no 
treatment”  is  set  as  0.92.  As  the  lower  confidence  limit  of  anastrozole  over  fulvestrant  250  is  0.91 
(1/1.10), this lies just to the right of the non-inferiority margin. 
Combining  both  studies,  the  estimated  ITT  median  time  to  death  was  similar  for  patients  in  the 
fulvestrant group compared with patients in the anastrozole group (833 vs. 839 days). The per protocol 
analyses were consistent with the primary ITT analysis and the death rate for fulvestrant was unlikely 
to  be  more  than  19%  higher  than  that  of  the  anastrozole  treatment  group.  The  hazard  ratios  for  the 
individual studies and the combined analysis were approximately 1 and the Kaplan-Meier curves were 
similar. As the two studies were not designed to show superiority with respect to survival, there was 
limited power to detect treatment difference in time to death. 
Overall, 20 (4.7%) patients in the fulvestrant group compared with 11 (2.6%) in the anastrozole group 
achieved  a  complete  response  (CR),  and  62  (14.5%)  in  the  fulvestrant  group  compared  with  59 
(13.9%)  in  the  anastrozole  group  achieved  a  partial  response  (PR).  These  differences  between 
treatments for objective response were not statistically significant. A trend in favour of fulvestrant was 
obtained in the open study but not in the double-blind study.  The odds ratios were 1 or larger in the 
individual  and  combined  studies,  in  favour  of  fulvestrant  although  none  of  these  results  reached 
statistical significance. The per protocol analysis of the combined results was consistent with the ITT 
analysis and the objective response rate obtained from fulvestrant was unlikely to be 2.3% below that 
of anastrozole. 
For both treatments, numerical comparisons between subgroups suggested a greater objective response 
among  patients  with  history  of  previous  hormonal  treatment,  patients  without  visceral  disease,  and 
patients  with  measurable  disease  only,  although  the  latter  should  be  considered  cautiously given  the 
small number of patients. Median duration of response from the date of randomisation and from date 
of objective response were consistently longer among patients in the fulvestrant groups compared with 
28/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
those  in  anastrozole  groups  (2  months  and  28  days  longer,  respectively,  favourable  to  fulvestrant).  
There were too few patients younger than 45 years to perform any age comparisons. 
Clinical safety  
A total of 1559 subjects, male and female, received fulvestrant at various doses and of these subjects 
1149  were  postmenopausal  women  with  breast  cancer.    In  the  2  pivotal  studies,  a  total  of  423 
postmenopausal women were exposed to monthly injections of the LA formulation of fulvestrant 250 
mg;  this  corresponds  to  a  median  treatment  duration  of  approximately  6  months,  but  some  patients 
were given treatment for up to approximately 5 years. An overview of the adverse events in the two 
main clinical trials is presented in Table 16. 
Table 16 Overview of adverse events in the 2 pivotal controlled efficacy studies 
Study 0020 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
188 (85.8) 
All adverse events 
Drug-related 
adverse 
93 (42.5) 
events 
Deaths due to adverse events  4 (1.8) 
Adverse  events  leading  to 
withdrawal 
8 (3.7) 
Serious adverse events 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=230 
n (%) 
199 (86.5) 
78 (33.9) 
Study 0021 
Fulvestrant 
250 mg 
N=204 
n (%) 
198 (97.1) 
109 (53.4) 
Anastrozole 
1 mg 
N=193 
n (%) 
181 (93.8) 
95 (49.2) 
5 (2.2) 
6 (2.6) 
1 (0.5) 
5 (2.5) 
3 (1.6) 
6 (3.1) 
a Categories are not mutually exclusive. n = Subset of subjects. N = Total number of subjects exposed. 
41 (18.7) 
37 (16.1) 
41 (20.1) 
31 (16.1) 
There  were  a  total  of  39  adverse  events  that  resulted  in  death  in  the  entire  clinical  development 
program.  Five  deaths  occurred  in  the  fulvestrant  arm  compared  to  8  in  the  anastrozole  arm  in  the 
pivotal  trials.  All  causes,  in  descending  frequency,  included  heart  failure,  myocardial  infarct, 
arrhythmia,  pulmonary  embolus,  infections,  cerebrovascular  disease,  and  isolated  cases  of  renal 
failure, hypercalcemia, haemorrhage and radiation injury.  
Serious  adverse  events  regardless  of  association  with  treatment  were  reported  in  82  (19.4%)  of  the 
fulvestrant  group  compared  with  68  (16%)  of  the  anastrozole  group.  Apart  from  nausea,  vomiting, 
dehydration, pneumonia or pathological fractures that occurred in more than 5 patients in either one of 
the  two  treatment  groups,  a  difference  in  the  profile  between  fulvestrant  and  anastrozole  can  not  be 
concluded.  However,  although  drug-related  pulmonary  embolism  was  equally  uncommon  (0.5%)  in 
both  groups,  deep  thrombophlebitis/pulmonary  embolus  was  reported  as  SAE  in  a  slightly  higher 
number  of  patients  in  the  fulvestrant  group:  pulmonary  embolism  fulvestrant  N=5  (1.2%)  versus 
anastrozole  N=2  (0.5%);  deep  venous  thrombosis  fulvestrant  N=5  (1.2%)  versus  anastrozole  N=3 
(0.7%).  As  many  of  these  patients  had  predisposing  factors,  a  treatment-related  effect  can  not  be 
concluded nor excluded.  
The  commonest  adverse  events  affecting  both  fulvestrant  and  anastrozole  treatment  groups  were 
nausea,  asthenia,  pain  vasodilatation,  and  headache.  These  were  consistent  with  the  effects  of 
oestrogen deprivation. In general, there were small differences in incidences between the two groups 
except  for  a  50%  higher  incidence  of  joint  disorders  in  the  anastrozole  group.  Joint  disorders  are 
known to be associated with the use of aromatase inhibitors.  
29/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17. Adverse events and intensity of events that occurred at an incidence of ≥5% during 
treatment or the specified follow-up period in the 2 pivotal controlled efficacy studies 
Body system 
and adverse eventa 
Fulvestrant 250 mg 
N=423  
n (%) 
Anastrozole 1 mg 
N=423 
n (%) 
All intensities 
Severe 
  All intensities 
Severe 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (0.9) 
1 (0.2) 
25 (5.9) 
91 (21.5) 
6 (1.4) 
6 (1.4) 
3 (0.7) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
10 (2.4) 
8 (1.9) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
5 (1.2) 
9 (2.1) 
9 (2.1) 
7 (1.7) 
4 (0.9) 
1 (0.2) 
6 (1.4) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
3 (0.7) 
0 
12 (2.8) 
12 (2.8) 
5 (1.2) 
7 (1.7) 
7 (1.7) 
0 
7 (1.7) 
1 (0.2) 
5 (1.2) 
2 (0.5) 
4 (0.9) 
291 (68.8) 
118 (27.9) 
95 (22.5) 
75 (17.7) 
65 (15.4) 
56 (13.2) 
29 (6.9) 
42 (9.9) 
30 (7.1) 
24 (5.7) 
29 (6.9) 
26 (6.1) 
136 (32.2) 
79 (18.7) 
24 (5.7) 
211 (49.9) 
114 (27.0) 
52 (12.3) 
50 (11.8) 
59 (13.9) 
48 (11.3) 
62 (14.7) 
295 (69.7) 
104 (24.6) 
86 (20.3) 
70 (16.5) 
68 (16.1) 
54 (12.8) 
48 (11.3) 
47 (11.1) 
36 (8.5) 
32 (7.6) 
32 (7.6) 
23 (5.4) 
135 (31.9) 
78 (18.4) 
23 (5.4) 
228 (53.9) 
119 (28.1) 
64 (15.1) 
59 (13.9) 
59 (13.9) 
42 (9.9) 
66 (15.6) 
Body as a whole 
Asthenia 
Pain 
Headache 
Back pain 
Abdominal pain 
Injection-site painb 
Pelvic pain 
Flu syndrome 
Chest pain 
Fever 
Accidental injury 
Cardiovascular system 
Vasodilatation 
Hypertension 
Digestive system 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Anorexia 
Haemic and lymphatic 
systems 
Anaemia 
Metabolic and  
nutritional disorders 
Peripheral oedema 
Musculoskeletal system 
Bone pain 
Myalgia 
Arthritis 
Nervous system 
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
Paresthesia 
Depression 
Anxiety 
Respiratory system 
Pharyngitis 
Dyspnoea 
Cough increased 
Sinusitis 
Skin and appendages 
Rash 
Sweating 
Urogenital system 
Urinary tract infection 
0 
a A patient may have had more than 1 adverse event. n = Subset of patients. N =Total number of patients. 
b In Study 0020 treatment was not blinded, patients on anastrolzole did not receive placebo injections, and fulvestrant 250 mg 
was delivered in a single 5-ml injectins.  In Study 0021 where 2x2.5 ml injections (1 in each buttock) were administered 
monthly to patients in both fulvestrant 250 mg and anastrozole (placebo injections)  groups.  The incidence of injection-site 
events in Study 0021 was higher comopared to Study 0020.  It is presumed to be due to the greater number of injections (2 
per visit for all patients) in Study 0021. 
46 (10.9) 
123 (29.1) 
76 (18.0) 
19 (4.5) 
16 (3.8) 
161 (38.1) 
35 (8.3) 
34 (8.0) 
30 (7.1) 
27 (6.4) 
23 (5.4) 
172 (40.7) 
73 (17.3) 
68 (16.1) 
52 (12.3) 
16 (3.8) 
102 (24.1) 
39 (9.2) 
22 (5.2) 
85 (20.1) 
29 (6.9) 
48 (11.3) 
134 (31.7) 
65 (15.4) 
21 (5.0) 
29 (6.9) 
157 (37.1) 
42 (9.9) 
31 (7.3) 
37 (8.7) 
33 (7.8) 
20 (4.7) 
151 (35.7) 
53 (12.5) 
57 (13.5) 
51 (12.1) 
22 (5.2) 
109 (25.8) 
38 (9.0) 
24 (5.7) 
80 (18.9) 
20 (4.7) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
4 (0.9) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
0 
0 
9 (2.1) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
0 
5 (1.2) 
2 (0.5) 
0 
8 (1.9) 
0 
3 (0.7) 
6 (1.4) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
24 (5.7) 
89 (21.0) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
30/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fulvestrant injections were reasonably well tolerated. 11% of the fulvestrant group reported pain at the 
injection site but these cases were typically mild to moderate in intensity. There was one patient who 
withdrew  because  of  pain.  So  far,  only  one  case  of  local  necrosis  requiring  debridement  has  been 
reported  in  a  diabetic  patient  for  whom  there  was  some  doubt  on  whether  the  injection  was 
administered correctly into the muscle.  
Immunogenicity  events  had  not  been  specifically  studied.  Two  cases  of  angioedema  had  been 
reported, one in the clinical trial program and another post-marketing. A total of 5 cases of urticaria 
have been reported in the post-marketing program.  
The shift tables on haematology, biochemistry and liver enzymes from baseline to withdrawal showed 
similar  trends  for  changes  in  both  treatment  groups.  A  few  cases  of  leucopenia  were  reported  in 
patients who received cytotoxics treatment soon after withdrawal from treatment and that would have 
been the more likely cause. Analyses of AST, ALT in those patients with or without liver metastases 
did  not  point  to  any  significant  hepatotoxic  risk  for  fulvestrant.  The  currently  available  data  do  not 
suggest any significant diabetogenic potential for fulvestrant. 
The  switch  from  tamoxifen  was  followed  by  changes  in  total  cholesterol,  LDL-cholesterol  and 
lipoprotein  A  increased  in  both  the  fulvestrant  group  and  anastrozole  group  and  that  was  not 
unexpected.  
There were no drug interactions of note reported in the clinical trial program.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  total  number  of  patients  exposed  to  fulvestrant  in  the  clinical  trial  programme  is  sufficient  for 
preliminary assessment of safety in view of the proposed therapeutic indication. However, due to the 
patient  population  with  advanced  breast  cancer,  the  median  duration  of  exposure  is  not  high 
(approximately  6  months).  Many  potential  risks  of  treatment  (such  as  cardiovascular  undesirable 
effects,  including  venous  thromboembolism,  adverse  effect  on  bone  density,  effects  on  ovaries  and 
endometrium) may not be readily assessable based on the database. 
The  number  of  deaths  due  to  adverse  events  was  too  low  to  allow  comment  on  difference  between 
groups  but  patients  who  died  in  the  fulvestrant  group  were  younger  than  those  in  the  anastrozole 
group.  The  cause  of  death  was  reported  heart  arrest,  heart  failure,  ventricular  arrhythmia  and 
pulmonary embolism in the four cases of cardiovascular death in the fulvestrant group.  
Concerning  the  observed  serious  adverse  events,  both  arterial  and  venous  thromboembolic  events 
should  be  kept  under  observation  in  the  post-marketing  program.  The  applicant  has  committed  to 
provide  cumulative  review  of  these  adverse  events,  within  the  post-marketing  surveillance  program. 
Cumulative  review  will  also  be  provided  for  cardiovascular  events  (arrhythmia,  heart  failure, 
ischaemic heart disease), hypersensitivity, fractures and osteoporosis, and local reactions.  
The  Applicant  proposed  to  assess  the  effect  of  fulvestrant  on  the  endometrium  in  the  neoadjuvant 
setting and this is supported. In view of the mechanism of action of fulvestrant, the study duration of 4 
months is acceptable.  
A  negative  effect  on  bone  mineral  density  with  long-term  fulvestrant  treatment  is  considered  to  be 
likely  because  of  its  antioestrogenic  effect.  The  recently  published  randomised  trial  of  letrozole  in 
postmenopausal  women  after  5  years  of  tamoxifen  therapy  for  early-stage  breast  cancer  reported  a 
numerically  increarse  in  the  rate  of  new-onset  osteoporosis  in  the  letrozole  group  (5.8%)  in 
comparison  with  placebo  (4.5%,  p=0.07)  (Goss  et  al.,  2003).  The  Applicant  committed  to  study 
biochemical markers of bone turnover in the neoadjuvant setting. It is agreed that it would be difficult 
to  interpret  changes  in  bone  mineral  density  in  the  metastatic  disease  setting.    A  warning  has  been 
included  in  the  SPC  that  .    Due  to  the  mode  of  actions  of  fulvestrant,  there  is  a  potential  risk  of 
osteoporosis. 
31/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the benefit risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Fulvestrant is a non-agonist antioestrogen and has no other discernible pharmacological effects. The 
mode of action appears related to estrogen receptor downregulation. The non-clinical data presented is 
consistent  with  the  compound  having  efficacy  in  the  proposed  indication  of  treatment  of  advanced 
breast cancer in women whose disease has progressed following endocrine therapy.  
Fulvestrant  has  low  acute  and  chronic  toxic  potential.  The  pivotal  toxicology  studies  have  been 
conducted in appropriate species and have shown that there are no major issues of concern from a pre-
clinical perspective.  Overall, adverse findings can be considered to be linked to the pharmacological 
mode  of  action.  In  the  present  set  of  non-clinical  studies  no  toxicological  findings  can  be  identified 
that may be considered real safety issues. 
Clinical documentation 
Pharmacology 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  fulvestrant  has  been  studied  appropriately.  Two  follow-up  measures  are 
related to influence of hepatic impairment on fulvestrant pharmacokinetics and potential for inhibition 
of CYP2A6, CYP2C8 and CYP2E1.  
The  optimal  dose  and  regimen  of  fulvestrant  in  terms  of  benefit/risk  is  still  not  clarified  but  the 
applicant has committed to resolve this through a post-marketing study. 
Efficacy 
The  overall  conclusion  on  efficacy  is  that  fulvestrant  250mg  monthly  treatment  is  non-inferior  to 
anastrozole 1mg daily treatment in postmenopausal women with locally advanced or metastatic breast 
cancer  whose  disease  has  progressed  following  hormonal  therapy  or  had  relapsed  after  adjuvant 
endocrine  therapy  with  an  anti-oestrogen.  This  second-line  indication  is  restricted  to  those  patients 
with ER positive breast cancer, consistent with the mechanism of action of fulvestrant and the analysis 
of results according to ER status.  
Safety 
fulvestrant  pharmacokinetics, 
The available safety data suggest that fulvestrant LA im 250 mg once a month has an acceptable safety 
profile in the context of the proposed therapeutic indications. Data on endometrial and bone safety are 
limited,  and  further  evaluation  is  required  as  post-marketing  studies.  The  absence  of  safety  data  in 
patients with hepatic impairment, especially in view of expected major impact of hepatic impairment 
reactions 
further 
on 
(angioedema and urticaria), cardiovascular reactions (including arterial and venous thromboembolism, 
arrhythmia and heart failure), cerebrovascular events and hepatic adverse drug reactions must continue 
to be closely monitored with reporting of cumulative incidences. Adverse effect on bone density and 
fractures  with  long-term  use  is  not  unexpected  and  monitoring  of  these  events  should  also  be 
undertaken.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  a  post-marketing  surveillance  programme  to  monitor 
these events.  
investigations.  Hypersensitivity 
requires 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Fulvestrant  250mg  monthly  treatment  is  non-inferior  to  anastrozole  1mg  daily  treatment  in 
postmenopausal  women  with  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  whose  disease  has 
32/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
progressed following hormonal therapy or had relapsed after adjuvant endocrine therapy with an anti-
oestrogen.  This  second-line  indication  is  restricted  to  those  patients  with  ER  positive  breast  cancer, 
consistent  with  the  mechanism  of  action  of  fulvestrant  and  the  analysis  of  results  according  to  ER 
status.  
The optimal dose and regimen of fulvestrant in terms of benefit/risk is still not clarified. In response to 
the CPMP’s list of outstanding issues, the Applicant has proposed a new study (0064) to compare the 
250mg monthly dose with a 500mg monthly dose in combination with a loading dose in the second-
line treatment setting. The Applicant has also submitted an outline to a neoadjuvant study (0065) and 
it  is  agreed  that  this  study  will  provide  useful  and  relevant  information  on  the  relationship  between 
exposure,  ER  receptor  down-regulation  and  efficacy.  The  results  of  both  of  these  studies  will  be 
submitted as post-marketing commitments.  
The dose comparison study was discussed within the CPMP therapeutic advisory group in oncology. 
The advisory group considered that proposed new study to compare the 250 mg monthly dose with a 
higher dose in combination with a loading dose in a second-line indication is considered useful. The 
study  should  be  adequately  powered  to  detect  a  risk  reduction,  which  is  considered  clinically 
meaningful.  
While  the  available  safety  profile  of  the  250mg  monthly  dose  is  acceptable  in  the  context  of  the 
proposed  therapeutic  indication,  data  on  endometrial  and  bone  safety  are  limited,  further  evaluation 
has therefore been included in the proposed post-marketing clinical studies. The Applicant’s proposal 
to commit to further investigate endometrial safety and bone safety as part of a neoadjuvant study is 
acceptable. Due to limited experience, hypersensitivity reactions, cardiovascular reactions (including 
arterial  and  venous  thromboembolism,  arrhythmia  and  heart  failure),  cerebrovascular  events,  and 
hepatic ADRs will be closely monitored in a post-marketing surveillance program.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Faslodex  in  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  women  with  oestrogen 
receptor positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer for disease relapse on or after adjuvant 
antioestrogen therapy or disease progression on therapy with an antioestrogen was favourable.  
33/33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
