EMA/507875/2017  
EMEA/H/C/000540 
EPAR summary for the public 
Faslodex 
fulvestrant 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Faslodex. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Faslodex. 
For practical information about using Faslodex, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Faslodex and what is it used for? 
Faslodex is an anti-oestrogen medicine used to treat advanced or metastatic breast cancer (cancer 
that has spread to other parts of the body) in the following patients: 
• 
postmenopausal women with a type of breast cancer known as ‘oestrogen-receptor positive cancer’ 
who have not previously had hormonal treatment, or whose cancer had come back after treatment 
with another anti-oestrogen; 
•  women with a type of breast cancer known as ‘HR-positive, HER-2 negative cancer’ who have 
previously had hormonal treatment. In women with this type of breast cancer, Faslodex is used in 
combination with palbociclib (another cancer medicine). 
Faslodex contains the active substance fulvestrant.  
How is Faslodex used? 
Faslodex is available as a solution for injection in prefilled syringes (250 mg). The recommended dose 
is 500 mg given once a month, with an additional 500-mg dose two weeks after the first dose. The 
dose is given as two injections, each given into the muscle of one buttock over one to two minutes. 
Faslodex can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Faslodex work? 
Most types of breast cancer are stimulated to grow when the hormone oestrogen attaches to targets 
(receptors) on cancer cells. The active substance in Faslodex, fulvestrant, is an anti-oestrogen. It 
blocks the receptors for oestrogen on cells and causes the number of oestrogen receptors to fall. As a 
result, the cancer cells are not stimulated to grow by oestrogen and this slows down the growth of the 
tumour. 
What benefits of Faslodex have been shown in studies? 
Five main studies showed that Faslodex is effective at prolonging the length of time patients live 
without their disease getting worse.  
Two of these studies in 851 women showed that Faslodex was as effective as another medicine, 
anastrozole: women receiving Faslodex lived for an average of 5.4 months without their disease 
getting worse, compared with 4.1 months for those taking anastrozole.  
A third study in 736 women showed that the higher dose of 500 mg of Faslodex was more effective 
than 250 mg: women receiving the higher dose lived for an average of 6.5 months without their 
disease getting worse, compared with 5.5 months in those receiving the lower dose. 
The fourth study, in 462 women with advanced or metastatic breast cancer who had not been treated 
with hormonal therapy, showed that women treated with Faslodex (500 mg once a month) lived for an 
average of 16.6 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 13.8 months for women 
given anastrozole. 
Finally, a study investigating the use of Faslodex in combination with palbociclib in 521 women with 
(HR)-positive (HER2)-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer showed that women treated with 
Faslodex plus palbociclib lived for an average of 9.2 months without their disease getting worse, 
compared with 3.8 months for women given Faslodex on its own. 
What are the risks associated with Faslodex? 
When Faslodex is used on its own, the most common side effects (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) 
are injection-site reactions (such as pain or inflammation), weakness, nausea (feeling sick) and 
increased liver enzyme levels in the blood (a sign of liver problems). When used in combination with 
palbociclib, the most common side effects with Faslodex (seen in more than 2 patients in 10) are low 
levels of white and red blood cells, low blood platelet counts, infections, tiredness, nausea, stomatitis 
(inflammation of the lining of the mouth) and diarrhoea. The most common serious side effects were 
low levels of white and red blood cells, low levels of blood platelets, infections, increased liver enzyme 
levels and tiredness. 
Faslodex must not be used in women who are pregnant or breast-feeding, or in patients who have 
severe liver disease. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Faslodex, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Faslodex approved? 
Studies showed that Faslodex, an anti-oestrogen medicine, is effective at prolonging the time patients 
with oestrogen-receptor positive breast cancer can live without their disease getting worse. In addition, 
the medicine is effective in combination with palbociclib in patients with HR-positive, HER-2 negative 
breast cancer. The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits seen in studies with 
Faslodex are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation.  
Faslodex  
EMA/507875/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Faslodex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Faslodex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Faslodex 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Faslodex on 10 March 2004.  
The full EPAR for Faslodex can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Faslodex, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2018. 
Faslodex  
EMA/507875/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
