23 April 2009 
EMA/208737/2009  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Fasturtec 
(rasburicase) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000331/A45/39 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
On 15 December 2008, the MAH submitted two completed paediatric studies for Rasburicase 
(Fasturtec,  SR29142),  in  accordance  with  Article  45  of  the  Regulation  (EC)No  1901/2006,  as 
amended  on  medicinal  products  for  paediatric  use.  With  the  exception  of  the  EFC5339  and 
ACT5080 study reports, no further documentation has been provided by the MAH. 
No critical expert overview neither an annex with SPC has been provided by the MAH. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  studies  do  no  influence  the  benefit  risk  for 
Fasturtec and that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
II. 
RECOMMENDATION 
In view of the Rapporteur, the analyses of the results of studies ACT5080 and EFC5339 do not 
affect  the  benefit/risk  for  Fasturtec  under  the  currently  authorized  indication  in  the  European 
Union. Therefore, no further regulatory action is required.  
III. 
INTRODUCTION 
In patients with rapid proliferating malignancies hyperuricemia can be caused by the increased 
cell turnover with high catabolism of nucleic acids and/or may be the result of rapid tumor cell 
lysis following chemotherapy regimens.    
Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) is a metabolic disorder caused by the rapid destruction of malignant 
cells and release of intracellular contents into the extra-cellular space. TLS is characterized by 
hyperuricemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, hyperkalemia, and acute renal failure. Acute 
renal failure is essentially caused by precipitation of crystals of uric acid in renal tubules and is 
treatment  of  haematological 
the  most 
malignancies (frequency up to 30% in absence of prevention/treatment of hyperuricemia). Lethal 
cardiac arrhythmias are also reported in patients with TLS as consequence of hyperkaliemia. 
The combination of allopurinol with alkaline hydration (facilitating the renal clearance of uric acid) 
has  been  used  for  the  prophylaxis/treatment  of  hyperuricemia  in  patients  with  hematologic 
malignancies  at  risk  of  TLS.  However,  allopurinol  (a  xanthine  oxidase  inhibitor)  blocks  further 
uric acid production but has no effect on the existing hyperuricemia.  
immediate  complication  occurring  during 
feared 
Rasburicase  is  a  recombinant  form  of  the  enzyme  urate  oxidase  produced  in  Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae  cloned  with  cDNA  of  Aspergillus  flavus.  Rasburicase  catalyses  the  oxidation  of  uric 
acid  to  allantoin  (a  water-soluble  product  that  is  easily  excreted  by  the  kidney),  thus  acting  as 
uricolytic agent. 
In clinical studies treatment with rasburicase has been associated with more rapid onset of anti-
hyperuricemic  action  and  significantly  lower  mean  plasma  uric  acid  levels  compared  with 
allopurinol,  especially  in  patients  presenting  hyperuricemia  prior  to  chemotherapy.  In  several 
trials, control of uric acid level was obtained in 95-99% of patients treated with rasburicase for 
prophylaxis/treatment of hyperuricemia.  
Fasturtec  was  approved  for  the  E.U.  in  February  2001  for  the  “treatment  and  prophylaxis  of 
acute  hyperuricemia,  in  order  to  prevent  acute  renal  failure,  in  patients  with  hematological 
malignancy with a high tumor burden and at risk of a rapid tumor lysis or shrinkage at initiation of 
chemotherapy”.  
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
In  July  2002  also  the  U.S.  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  approved  rasburicase  for  the 
“initial  management  of  plasma  uric  acid  levels  in  paediatric  patients  with  leukemia,  lymphoma, 
and  solid  malignancies  who  are  receiving  anti-cancer  therapy  expected  to  result  in  tumor  lysis 
and subsequent elevation of plasma uric acid” (trade name: Elitek).  
The  recommended  posology  for  Fasturtec,  either  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients,  is  0.20 
mg/kg/day as a 30 minute intravenous infusion; the duration of treatment may be up to 7 days, 
based  upon  adequate  monitoring  of  uric  acid  levels  in  plasma  and  clinical  judgment.  It  is 
recommended to use rasburicase immediately prior to and during the initiation of chemotherapy 
only, as at the present, there is insufficient data to recommend multiple treatment courses. 
IV. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
IV.1 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the clinical studies 
1. 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted reports for: 
-  Study  ACT5080:  open-label,  multicenter  study  of 
rasburicase  as  uricolytic 
therapy/profylaxis  for  hyperuricemia  in  paediatric  patients  with  newly  diagnosed 
haematological malignancies at high risk for Tumor Lysis Syndrome; 
-  Study  EFC5339:  evaluation  of  single  agent  resburicase  in  treatment/prevention  of 
hyperuricemia associated with tumor lysis syndrome in adult and paediatric patients with 
lymphoma/leukemia/solid malignancies at their first relapse or refractory disease. 
2. 
Clinical studies 
Study  ACT5080:  open-label,  multicenter  study  of 
resburicase  as  uricolytic 
therapy/prophylaxis  for  hyperuricemia  in  paediatric  patients  with  newly  diagnosed 
haematological malignancies at high risk for Tumor Lysis Syndrome; 
  Description - study ACT5080 
Study  ACT5080  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  open-label  study  conducted  in  30  paediatric 
Japanese patients with haematological malignancies and at high risk of TLS in order to evaluate 
efficacy  and  safety  of  raburicase  as  urocolytic  agent  (i.e.,  in  prevention  and/or  treatment  of 
hyperuricemia) when administered at two dose levels (0.15 mg/kg/day and 0.20 mg/kg/day) for 
five days.  
  Methods - study ACT5080 
  Objective(s) 
Primary  objective  of  study  ACT5080  was  response  rate.  Responders  were  defined  as 
patients  with  a  plasma  uric  acid  level  decreased  to  the  endpoint  (uric  acid:  ≤  7.5  mg/dL  in 
patients ≥13 years and ≤ 6.5 mg/dL in patients <13 years) by 48 hours after the start of first 
drug infusion and lasting until 24 hours after the final (day 5) drug infusion. 
Patients who fail to complete the 5-days treatment for reason other than hyperuricemia were 
counted as non-evaluable for response rate. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints were safety, evaluation of AUC of plasma uric acid and rate of uric acid 
reduction  at  4  hours  after  study  drug  infusion,  evaluation  of  anti-SR29142  and  anti-SCP 
(Saccaromyces cerevisiae protein) antibody, pharmacokinetics. 
  Study design 
Study  ACT5080  was  a  open-label,  multicenter,  parallel  group  and  repeated  dose  trial 
conducted  in  three  centers  in  Japan.  Thirty  paediatric  patients  with  haematological 
malignancies and at high risk of TLS were randomized to two rasburicase dose groups (0.15 
mg/kg/day or 0.20 mg/kg/day, respectively). Response rate and pharmacokinetic parameters 
were evaluated. 
The  original  protocol  of  study  ACT5080  was  amended  twice,  on  August  4th,  2005  and  
November  17th,  2005.  Both  amendments  were  introduced  after  inclusion  of  some  patients 
and  they  consisted  of  modification  in  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria,  preparation  of  the 
compound,  modification  of  prohibited  concomitant  treatments  and  corrections  of  the 
statistical  model  of  accumulation  of  PK  parameters.  Evaluation  of  pharmacokinetics  was 
performed in 10 evaluable patients at each dose level which had a weight > 10 kg at time of 
enrolment. 
  Study population /Sample size 
The ACT5080 study population included 30 patients < 18 years of age with newly diagnosed 
haematological  malignancies  presenting  with  hyperuricemia  (as  defined  as  uric  acid  >  7.5 
mg/dL  in  patients  ≥13  years  or  >  6.5  mg/dL  in  patients  <13  years)  OR  with  high  tumor 
burden,  defined as:  
a) Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma stage IV (according to modified Murphy’s classification); or  
b)  Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  stage  III  with  at  least  one  lymph  node  or  mass  >5  cm  in 
diameter or lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) ≥ 3 x ULN (IU/L); or  
c) acute leukemia with white blood cell (WBC) count ≥ 50000/mm3 or LDH ≥ 3 x ULN (IU/L)).  
to  receive 
induction  chemotherapy  (including  cytoreductive 
Patients  were  required 
corticosteroids)  no  sooner  than  4  hours  and  no  later  than  24  hours  after  resburicase 
administration, and to have a Performance Status (PS) ≤ 3 according to ECOG scale or ≥ 30 
according to the Lansky score. Patients who had received allopurinol within 72 hours prior to 
the  first  dose  of  rasburicase,  with  known  history  of  allergic  reaction  and/or  severe  asthma, 
with  personal  of  family  history  of  G6P-deficiency  or  hemolysis  and  methemoglobinuria,  as 
well as patients with severe liver and kidney disorders were excluded from the study. 
Of note: patients were stratified by body weight at time of enrolment.  
  Treatments 
Patients  were  randomized  to  two  rasburicase  dose  groups  (0.15  mg/kg  or  0.20  mg/kg, 
respectively) which received rasburicase as 30 minutes intravenous infusion once daily for 5 
days.  Whenever  possible  rasburicase  was  administered  via  a  separate  line  in  order  to 
prevent  drug-drug  interactions.  Chemotherapy  including  cytoreductive  corticosteroids  were 
to  be  started  no  sooner  than  4  hours  and  no  later  than  24  hours  after  rasburicase 
administration. Corticosteroids as supportive treatment and anti-emetics were allowed. 
Other anti-hyperuricemia agents (e.g., allopurinol) or treatment with sodium bicarbonate for 
urine  alkalization  was  not  permitted  from  start  of  the  trial  until  the  final  blood  sampling  for 
plasma uric acid level at day 6.  
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Statistical Methods 
Assuming  a  response  rate  of  95%  in  each  dose  group  (0.15  mg/kg  and  0.20  mg/kg),  a 
sample size of 15 patients per group had the following statistical properties: 
- probability of observing at least 1 failure in the study was 0.79. 
- expected lower 95% confidence limit for response rate in each dose group was 0.71. 
The probability of observing at least one Adverse Event (AE) for various incidence rates is 
reported in Table 1. For example, when a rare event occurred 3% of the time, the probability 
that  at  least  1  patient  in  a  treatment  group  reported  the  event  would  have  been  36%  for 
N=15. 
Table 1. Probability of observing at least 1 adverse event for various incidence rates 
(N=15 per dose group) 
  Results - study ACT5080 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Thirty-one  patients  were  enrolled  and  30  patients  were  randomized  and  treated.  Fifteen 
patients  were  allocated  to  each  treatment  group.  One  patient  did  not  fulfil  the  inclusion 
criteria prior to randomization (elevated ALT level).  
One  patient  in  the  0.20  mg/kg  group  discontinued  treatment  while  on  study  due  to  lack  of 
white  blood  cell  count  at  baseline  found  on  day  1  after  the  first  administration  of  the  study 
drug. A total of 13 patients presented protocol deviations: of note: one patient enrolled in the 
0.15 mg/kg group had concomitant use of other anti-hyperuricemic agents, and one patient 
in the 0.20 mg/kg group did not fulfil all the inclusion criteria. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Baseline data 
Overall,  the  mean  age  of  the  patients  enrolled  was  8.8  years  (range:  2  months-17  years), 
about  two-thirds  of  the  patients  (63.3%)  were  male,  and  the  majority  of  patients  had  an 
ECOG scale PS of 0 (40%) or 1 (40%). There were no notable differences between the two 
dose  groups  in  terms  of  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics,  whereas  differences  in 
diagnosis  and  baseline  disease  status  between  the  two  study  arms  were  observed  (see 
Table  2).  At  baseline,  43.3%  of  patients  were  hyperuricemic.  All  patients  (100%)  were 
classified as at high risk for TLS.  
Table 2. Summary of initial diagnosis and baseline disease status 
No significant differences were observed in prior and concomitant medications between the 
two study groups. A list of chemotherapeutic regimens co-administered to the patients during 
study ACT5080 has also been provided.  
  Pharmacokinetics 
In 20 of the 30 Japanese patients enrolled in study ACT5080 (10 patients in the 0.15 mg/kg, 10 
patients  in  the  0.20  mg/kg  dose  group)  blood  samples  for  the  determination  of  plasma 
concentrations  of  rasburicase  were  obtained.  The  mean  age  of  the  patients  was  10  years 
(range: 3-16 years) in the 0.15 mg/kg group and 7 years (range: 2-16 years) in the 0.20 mg/kg 
group.  The  weight  range  of  the  patients  was  11.8  kg  to  58.8  kg.  Plasma  sampling  was 
performed on : 
- Day 1: Before administration (within 10 minutes), end of infusion (within 10 minutes), 4 hours ± 
  10 minutes after starting administration, 8 hours ± 10 minutes after starting administration; 
- Day 2: Before administration (within 10 minutes). 
- Day 5: Before administration (within 10 minutes), end of infusion (within 10 minutes), 4 hours ±  
  10 minutes after starting administration at day 5, 8 hours ± 10 minutes after starting  
   administration at day 5. 
- Day 6: 24 hours ± 10 minutes after starting administration at day 5. 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were determined:  
  AUC0-24  (Area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve,  calculated  using  the 
trapezoidal method from time zero to 24 hours after administration): day 1 and day 5;  
  Cmin  (plasma  concentration  observed  before  treatment  administration  during  repeated 
dosing): day 1 and day 5; 
  Ceoi (plasma concentration observed at end of the i.v. infusion): day 1 and day 5;  
 
t1/2z (terminal half-life): day 5. 
Rasburicase concentrations were measured using a validated ELISA method with a lower limit of 
quantification (LLOQ) of 1.4 ng/mL.  
Mean  plasma  concentration  time  curves  of  rasburicase  are  shown  in  Figure  1  and  descriptive 
statistics of the pharmacokinetic parameters are summarized in Table 3.  
Table  3.  Mean  (SD)  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  once  daily  30  min  intravenous 
infusion of rasburicase (5-day treatment) in Japanese paediatric patients. 
Rasburicase  pharmacokinetics  was  dose  proportional.  Rasburicase  exhibited  slight 
accumulation  on  day  5  as  measured  by  AUC0-24  and  Ceoi  (mean  ratios  day  5/day  1  were  1.13 
and 1.17, respectively); t1/2z was comparable for both groups. The elimination half life of 11 hours 
observed  in  study  ACT5080  is  shorter  compared  with  data  submitted  previously  (t1/2:  16-21 
hours in paediatric patients, see also Pui et al. J Clin. Onc, 2001) but this is most likely due to 
the shorter sampling period performed in study ACT5080. Variability in AUC0-24 and Ceoi values 
was small (total-patient variability < 20% for both parameters) indicating that dose administration 
based on kg bodyweight is adequate.  
Figure  1  Plasma  concentration  –  time  profile  of  rasburicase  in  Japanese  paediatric 
patients (study ACT5080). 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, after five days of administration of rasburicase as a 30-min intravenous infusion to 
Japanese  paediatric  patients  at  the  doses  of  0.15  and  0.20  mg/kg/day,  no  unexpected 
accumulation  was  observed.  Variability  in  AUC0-24  and  Ceoi  values  were  small  (total-patient 
variability < 20% for both parameters). Elimination half-life was comparable for both groups (11 
hours). The results of ACT5080 study performed in Japanese paediatric patients are in line with 
the data described in section 5.2 of the currently approved SPC.  
  Efficacy results 
The  population  included  in  the  efficacy  and  safety  analyses  consisted  of  all  patients  who 
received at least one dose of study drug. Fifteen patients for the 0.15 mg/kg group and 15 for 
the 0.20 mg/kg group were considered evaluable for response. 
Primary Objective: Response Rate 
The overall response rate was 96.6%. Response rate was 93.3% (14/15) and 100% (14/14) 
in the 0.15 mg/kg and 0.20 mg/kg groups, respectively. One patient in the 0.20 mg/kg group 
withdrew  from  the  study  after  the  first  administration  of  study  drug  due  to  violation  of 
inclusion  criteria  and  was  classified  as  non-evaluable  for  response  rate.  One  patient  in  the 
0.15  mg/kg  group  did  not  meet  the  primary  endpoint,  therefore  was  considered  as  a  non-
responder. See Table 4. 
Table 4. Response Rate Study ACT5080  
Response rate in patients with hyperuricemia at baseline was 87.5% (7/8) in the 0.15 mg/kg 
and 100% (5/5) in the 0.20 mg/kg group. See Table 5. 
Table 5. Response Rate by hyperuricemia status at baseline, study ACT5080 
Moreover  in  subgroup  analyses,  response  rates  by  age  category,  sex,  diagnosis,  stage  of 
lymphoma,  acute  leukemia  and  ECOG  Performance  Status  were  high  and  similar  in  both 
dose groups.  
Secondary Objectives:  
At  both  dose  levels,  rasburicase  produced  a  rapid  decrease  in  plasma  uric  acid 
concentrations with uric acid levels remaining low throughout treatment periods in all patients 
with  the  exception  of  a  non-responder  patient  in  the  0.15  mg/kg  group.  (Fig.2)  Moreover, 
another  patient  in  the  0.20  mg/kg  group  showed  transient  initial  elevation  of  uric  acid  level 
(11.8  mg/dL)  at  24  hours  followed  by  low  uric  acid  level  from  48  hours  through  120  hours 
(day 6). At 4 hours post the first dose of rasburicase, mean plasma uric acid concentration 
was reduced by 84.79% and 92.86% compared to baseline in the 0.15 mg/kg and the 0.20 
mg/kg groups, respectively. 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Mean plasma uric acid concentrations by dose over time, study ACT5080 
  Safety results 
All treated patients had at least 1 AE regardless of relationship to rasburicase. However, the 
majority  of  AEs  could  be  attributed  to  the  patients’  underlying  cancer  state  and/or  to  the 
concomitant administration of cytotoxic drugs. In general, AEs were similar at the two doses 
of rasburicase administered. Only one patient in the 0.15 mg/kg group reported Serious AEs 
(SAEs) of multiple cerebral haemorrhage, brain oedema, brain herniation, which have been 
considered not related to rasburicase. No patient died during study period.  
Hypersensitivity-associated  reactions,  regardless  of  relationship  to  investigational  product, 
occurred in 20 patients (66.7%), with grade 3 or 4 reactions in 2 patients (13.3%) in the 0.15 
mg/kg group, and none in the 0.20 mg/kg group. The most frequent AE in hypersensitivity-
associated reactions was pyrexia (40.0%).  
Drug  related  AEs  occurred  in  6  patients  (20.0%).  Two  patients  in  0.15  mg/kg  group  had 
hypersensitivity and haemoglobin decreased before chemotherapy, respectively. One patient 
experienced hemolysis during the study that was judged by the Investigator to be related to 
rasburicase. However, a G6P-deficiency was not found in this patient. 
Anti-SCP  antibodies  were  detected  before  rasburicase  administration  in  one  patient.  In 
another  patient  anti-SR29142  antibodies  were  found  on  day  29;  however,  anti-SR29142 
were  not  detectable  six  months  later.  Moreover,  both  patients  did  not  report  any 
hypersensitivity-AEs.  Of  note:  no  deterioration  of  renal  function  parameters  and  serum 
electrolytes was observed. 
Study  EFC5339:  evaluation  of  single  agent  rasburicase  in  treatment/prevention  of 
hyperuricemia associated with tumor lysis syndrome in adult and paediatric patients with 
lymphoma/leukemia/solid tumor malignancies at their first relapse or refractory disease 
  Description - study EFC5339 
Study  EFC5339  was  a  multicenter,  open-label,  two-arm  trial  conducted  as  post-marketing 
commitment  requested  by  the  US  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA) 
in  order  to 
evaluate/compare  efficacy  and  safety  of  Rasburicase  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  with 
haematological  or  solid  malignancies  at  risk  of  tumor  lysis  syndrome  (TLS),  and  being  either 
previously 
treated  with  an  uricolytic  agent  (Uricozyme  or 
Fasturtec/Elitek).  
treated  or  not  previously 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Methods - study EFC5339 
  Objective(s) 
Primary  objective  of  study  EFC5339  was  response  rate.  Responders  were  defined  as 
patients who achieved and/or maintained plasma uric acid concentration ≤ 7.5 mg/dL within 
48  hours  from  treatment  with  rasburicase  up  to  144  hours  after  the  end  of  treatment.  If  at 
least  1  plasma  uric  acid  level  at  48h  through  144h  was  >7.5  mg/dL,  the  patient  was 
considered as treatment failure. 
fixed 
time-points, 
Secondary endpoints were safety, evaluation of AUC of plasma uric acid and rate of uric acid 
reduction  at 
immune  response 
(immunoglobulin  G  [IgG],  immunoglobulin  E  [IgE],  and  neutralizing  antibody)  as  well  as 
efficacy and safety of rasburicase in relation to antibody generation and antibody titer.  
Of  note:  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  of  rasburicase  in  adults  was  introduced  as  secondary 
objectives with protocol amendment 4; however, the study was stopped due to poor accrual 
before implementation of such amendment, therefore PK data were not collected.  
incidence,  duration,  and 
type  of 
  Study design 
Study EFC5339 is a multicenter, open-label, 2-arm study. In the original protocol 85 patients 
previously treated with an uricolytic agent (arm A, pretreated) and 85 patients not previously 
treated with an uricolytic agent (arm B, naïve) were to receive rasburicase at 0.20 mg/kg/day 
for 5 days and up to 7 days in case of uric acid plasma level above 7.5 mg/dL after the first 5 
days of treatment.   
On 16 May 2006, the DSMB recommended to early terminate the study due to poor accrual 
in  arm  A  (patients  previously  treated  with  rasburicase).  Due  to  the  early  stop  of  the  study, 
evaluation of secondary endpoints has not been performed by the MAH.  
  Study population /Sample size 
The  EFC5339  study  population  included  patients  with  recurrent  or  refractory  malignancies, 
either at high or potential risk for TLS (according to specified criteria), previously treated or 
not  with  an  uricolytic  agent,  and  with  a  Performance  Status  (PS)  ≤  3  according  to  ECOG 
scale or ≥ 30 according to the Lansky score. Patients with known history of severe allergic 
reaction  and/or  severe  asthma,  with  personal  of  family  history  of  G6P-deficiency  or 
hemolysis and methemoglobinuria, as well as patients in treatment or treated with rituximab 
within 12 months prior to study entry were excluded from the study. 
A  total  of  85  patients  were  assigned  to  each  study  arm,  with  a  minimum  of  35  high-risk 
patients per arm. 
  Treatments 
Patients were assigned to arm A or B by the Investigator depending on previous treatment 
with an uricolytic agent, and started rasburicase 0.20 mg/kg/day. Rasburicase treatment was 
administered i.v. over 30 minutes once a day for 5 days, and up to 7 days in case of uric acid 
plasma  level  above  7.5  mg/dL  after  5  days  of  rasburicase.  However,  in  this  last  case  the 
patient was considered as non-responder in the primary efficacy analysis. All cytoreductive 
chemotherapy  agents  should  have  been  initiated  within  4-24  hours  after  the  first  dose  of 
rasburicase. Recommendations for hydration before starting chemotherapy were provided in 
the  protocol;  however,  optimal  hydration  was  at  the  investigator’s  discretion.  Concomitant 
administration of allopurinol, other uricolytic agents, or urine alkalinisation was not allowed.   
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Statistical Methods 
Based on combined data from previous studies with rasburicase showing an overall rate of uric 
acid maintenance at 48 hours of 96.6 % (256/265), response rate to rasburicase was estimated 
at  95%  in  both  arms.  To  determine  a  minimum  acceptable  level  of  response  with  rasburicase, 
allopurinol  has  been  used  as  a  historical  control:  according  to  Smalley  et  al.  response  rate  to 
allopurinol  was  71.4%  in  hyperuricemic  patients,  and  93.5%  in  46  non-hyperuricemic  patients. 
Therefore,  in  a  study  with  approximately  40%  of  patients  being  hyperuricemic  the  expected 
response  rate  for  allopurinol  would  be  85%.If  85  patients  were  enrolled  into  each  arm  of 
EFC5339  study  (minimum  35  high  risk  patients)  and  the  expected  95%  response  rate  was 
achieved,  then  the  lower  95%  confidence  limit  of  the  observed  rate  would  have  been  86.8%, 
exceeding the expected response rate of 85% with the historical control, allopurinol. 
EFC5339 study protocol was amended four times, mostly due to requirements of the FDA.  
  Results - study EFC5339 
Analyses were performed in the following populations: 
 
  Modified Intent-to-Treat (mITT) Population, which consisted of all patients who received 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population, which consisted of all enrolled patients. 
at least one dose of study drug. 
  Per  Protocol  (PP)  Population,  which  excluded  any  patients  who  did  not  receive  study 
therapy  as  planned,  or  who  had  one  or  more  missing  uric  acid  samples  and  no  other 
samples showing lack of uric acid control. 
  Safety  (exposed)  Population,  which  consisted  of  all  patients  who  receive  at  least  one 
dose of study drug. 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A  total  of  94  patients  were  enrolled  in  the  study,  9  in  the  pre-treated  group  and  85  in  the 
naïve  group:  ITT,  mITT,  and  safety  populations  all  consisted  of  94  patients  (Table  6).  No 
patients were excluded from any of the analyses. 
Table 6. Overall patient disposition 
Treatment  was  stopped  in  six  cases  due  to  the  following  adverse  events:  bone  pain, 
bradycardia,  convulsions,  AST  increased,  and  panic  attack.  The  bradycardia,  convulsions, 
and  AST  increased  were  classified  by  the  Investigator  as  related  to  rasburicase  treatment. 
The  sixth  case  was  a  patient  who  was  classified  as  stopping  treatment  due  to  an  AE 
(hemolysis)  but  was  listed  as  having  completed  dosing  by  the  Investigator.  Treatment  was 
stopped  in  2  cases  due  to  patient  request.  The  remainder  of  patients  completed  the  study 
period. Most patients stopped the trial because of death, but none of the deaths was related 
to rasburicase treatment. (See Table 7). 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Summary of reasons for stopping treatment and stopping EFC5339 trial 
Two  patients  had  protocol  violations:  one  patient  had  received  rituximab  within  12  months 
prior  to  study  entry,  and  in  another  patient  of  childbearing potential  no  pregnancy  test  was 
performed. Dosing irregularities were reported in a total of 10 patients: two patients (one pre-
treated and one naïve) received an additional infusion day of resburicase; additional 8 naïve 
patients received resburicase for less than 5 days due to AEs (6 patients) or withdrawing of 
consent (2 patients). 
  Baseline data 
The median age of paediatric patients was 10 years in the pretreated arm and 9 years in the 
naïve  arm.  The  median  age  of  adult  patients  was  63  years  in  the  pretreated  arm  and  49 
years in the naïve arm. Across both arms most patients were male (50-67%), Caucasian (70-
100%), and had an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1 (81-100%). Seventeen patients were 
hyperuricemic at baseline; over 90% of patients were at high risk of TLS. The majority were 
diagnosed with either AML or very aggressive B-cell lymphoma (Table 8). 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8. Summary of initial diagnosis and baseline disease status 
  Efficacy results 
Primary endpoints: Response Rate 
Ninety-four  patients  were  included  in  the  modified  Intent-to-Treat  (mITT)  Population  (see 
definition above) (Table 9).  
 
In the rasburicase pre-treated arm a total of 8 patients (88.9%, 5 paediatric (83.3%) and 
3  adults  (100%))  were  classified  as  responders.  One  patient  was  considered  as 
‘treatment failure’ due to extended dosing.  
In the rasburicase naïve arm, a total of 77 patients (90.6%, 10 paediatric (100%) and 67 
adults (89.3%)) were classified as responders. Of the 8 who were classified as ‘treatment 
failures’  in  the  naïve  arm,  5  were  due  to  missing  data,  2  were  due  to  concomitant 
treatment with allopurinol, 1 was due to extended dosing. No patients were classified as 
‘treatment failures’ due to failure of uric acid control. 
 
Of note, similar results were obtained in the Per Protocol (PP) Population analysis. 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Efficacy results EFC5339 study – mITT Population 
Figure 3. Uric acid over time levels 
Secondary endpoints 
Secondary endpoints have not been evaluated by the MAH due to limited number of patients 
enrolled in arm A (patients pre-treated with an uricolytic agent).  
Time to ice for uric acid samples 
Time  to  ice  data  for  uric  acid  samples  were  provided  considering  that  ex.  vivo  studies 
indicated  that  uric  acid  values  in  plasma  samples  from  patients  that  received  rasburicase 
could be affected by the time to ice. For each uric acid measurement time point ≥ 80% of the 
samples had a time to ice <10 minutes (a time within the effect on uric acid value is reported 
to be minimal) and <2% of plasma uric acid samples had time to ice ≥10 minutes in the two 
groups analyzed.  
  Safety results 
The median number of days of treatment per patient was 5 (range 2-6).  
Overall, all patients experienced an AE, all grades. Within each arm and overall, most AEs 
were  hematologic  in  nature  (thrombocytopenia,  anemia,  and  neutropenia)  and  most  likely 
due  to  concomitant  chemotherapy.  Seven  patients  (8.2%)  experienced  an  AE  that  was 
classified  by  the  Investigator  as  related  to  study  treatment;  they  were  bradycardia, 
convulsions, hemolysis, AST increase, hypertension, TLS, and abnormal dreams.  
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thirty-nine  patients  had  a  SAE  (6  in  the  pretreated  arm  (66.7%)  and  33  in  the  naïve  arm 
(38.8%)):  the  most  common  SAEs  were  febrile  neutropenia  and  neutropenic  infection;  one 
patient in the naïve arm experienced hemolysis.  
Fifty-nine  patients  died  during  the  study,  mostly  due  to  disease  progression.  Eight  adult 
patients  died  within  30  days  of  last  dose,  3  due  to  progressive  disease  and  5  due  to  AEs 
treatment  (sepsis,  neutropenic  sepsis,  pneumonia/hypoxia, 
unrelated 
neutropenic infection leading to respiratory failure, and veno-occlusive disease).  
Five patients (all in the naïve arm) discontinued study treatment due to AEs (AST increased, 
convulsions,  panic  attack,  bradycardia,  and  bone  pain).  The  AST  increased,  bradycardia, 
and convulsions were classified as related to rasburicase by the Investigator. In addition, 1 
patient interrupted rasburicase treatment due to an AE of hemolysis.  
to  rasburicase 
Regarding the AEs of special interest, defined as those associated with allergic reactions, in 
the naïve arm 2 adults experienced grade 2 hypersensitivity reactions. The hypersensitivity 
cases occurred 7 and 9 days after last rasburicase treatment and they were assessed as not 
related to rasburicase administration. A case of grade 3 hemolysis as well as a case of tumor 
lysis syndrome were reported, but no methemoglobinemia was observed.   
In  general,  no  clinically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  safety  profile  of 
resburicase in pretreated and naïve patients. However, considering the very limited number 
of patients enrolled in the pretreated arm (9 subjects) no conclusion over efficacy and safety 
of rasburicase in this patient population can be made.   
As a post marketing commitment for the approval of Elitek in U.S.A., Sanofi-Aventis agreed 
to develop quantitative immunogenicity assays (IgG, neutralizing, and IgE), the validation of 
which is still ongoing at the time of this report. As a result, immunogenity data have not been 
provided in the EFC5339 study report. 
3. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
The analysis of the results of studies ACT5080 and EFC5339 does not raise any additional 
concern regarding efficacy and safety of rasburicase in the (paediatric) population under the 
conditions and with the dosing regimens currently approved in the European Union.  
Pharmacokinetics  of  rasburicase  in  the  Japanese  paediatric  patients  enrolled  in  ACT5080 
study was in line with data reported in previously study submitted and reported in section 5.2 
of the currently approved SPC.  
In  study  ACT5080  the  overall  response  rate  of  rasburicase  in  paediatric  patients  with 
hematologic malignancies was 96.6%. Response rate was 93.3% (14/15) and 100% (14/14) 
in  the  0.15  mg/kg  and  0.20  mg/kg  groups,  respectively.  In  patients  with  hyperuricemia  at 
baseline,  response  rate  was  87.5%  (7/8)  in  the  0.15  mg/kg  and  100.0%  (5/5)  in  the  0.20 
mg/kg  group.  At  4  hours  post  the  first  dose  of  rasburicase,  mean  plasma  uric  acid 
concentration was reduced by 84.79% and 92.86% compared to baseline in the 0.15 mg/kg 
and the 0.20 mg/kg groups, respectively. These results are in accordance to data previously 
submitted. 
Analogously, in study EFC5339 response rate of rasburicase was 90.6% (77/85) in non-pre-
treated  patients  (100%  (10/10)  in  paediatric  and  89.3%  (67/75)  in  adult  patients).  Similar 
response rates have been reported in the 9 patients previously treated with rasburicase and 
classified  as  responders  (88.9%  (8/9)  overall  response  rate,  83.3%  (5/6)  in  paediatric  and 
100% (3/3) in adult patients), but the study was prematurely stopped due to lack of accrual in 
the  pre-treated  arm  and  the  limited  number  of  patients  enrolled  in  this  group  makes  any 
conclusion on the efficacy of rasburicase in this subgroup of the population hazardous. 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety of rasburicase as reported in ACT5080 and EFC5339 studies was similar to the 
profile observed in studies conducted previously. Almost all patients reported an AE, but the 
majority  of  AEs  were  hematologic  in  nature  (thrombocytopenia,  anemia,  neutropenia)  and 
could  be  attributed  to  the  patients’  underlying  cancer  state  and/or  to  the  concomitant 
administration of cytotoxic drugs. No deaths associated to study drug have been reported in 
both studies. Hypersensitivity reactions have been documented also, but they were of grade 
1 or 2. One case of haemolysis has been reported in both studies, but no association with 
G6PD or metahemoglobinemia has been observed. No conclusive data have been submitted 
over  the  potential  of  immunogenicity  with  rasburicase,  which  remains  a  concern  limiting 
recommendations on the use of rasburicase over multiple treatment courses.  
V. 
RAPPORTEUR’S  OVERALL  CONCLUSION  AND  RECOMMEN-
DATION 
The efficacy and safety results of ACT5080 and EFC5339 studies are consistent with previous 
studies  conducted  with  rasburicase  in  naïve  paediatric  and  adult  patients.  Also  no  major 
differences  in  efficacy  or  safety  of  rasburicase  were  observed  in  patients  pre-treated  with  an 
uricolytic agent (Rasburicase or Uricozyme) in study EFC5339; however, due to the very limited 
number of patients enrolled in this group (6 paediatric and 3 adult subjects) any conclusion on 
this subgroup of the population is considered premature and, in line with the currently approved 
SPC  (section  4.2),  no  recommendation  on  multiple  treatment  courses  with  rasburicase  can  be 
made.   
  Overall Conclusion 
The  Rapporteur  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  analyses  of  the  results  of  studies  ACT5080  and 
EFC5339  do  not  appear  to  affect  the  benefit/risk  for  Fasturtec  under  the  currently  authorized 
indication in the European Union. No further regulatory action is required.  
  Recommendation 
No further regulatory action is required. 
VI. 
ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS REQUESTED 
Not applicable. 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
