20 February 2023 
EMA/39822/2023  
Shortage of Fasturtec (rasburicase) 
7.5 mg/5 ml powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Indication 
Reason for shortage  
Fasturtec is used to treat and prevent high  levels of uric 
acid in the blood in order to prevent kidney failure.  
It is used in adults and children with blood cancers who are 
at risk of a sudden rise in uric acid levels when they start 
receiving chemotherapy (medicines to  treat cancer). 
A shortage in the supply of Fasturtec (7.5  mg/5 ml) is 
expected from 31 March 2023. This is due to a delay in 
transferring the  manufacturing process.  
The duration of the shortage will  vary from country to 
country but is expected to be resolved by June 2024. 
Member  States  affected 1 
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, 
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta,  the Netherlands, 
Northern Ireland, Portugal and Sweden. 
Information to healthcare 
professionals  
•  A delay in manufacturing transfer is expected to  lead to 
a supply shortage of the 7.5 mg/5 ml presentation of 
Fasturtec.  
• 
The 1.5 mg/1 ml presentation of Fasturtec is not 
affected and can be used instead.  
•  When switching  to the 1.5  mg/1 ml presentation, 
healthcare professionals are reminded to follow the 
appropriate preparation instructions. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) 
has been sent to relevant healthcare professionals and 
is also available on the EMA  website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the  national 
competent authority. 
Information to patients  
•  A delay in transferring the  manufacturing process is 
expected to lead to a shortage of Fasturtec in the 
7.5mg/5  ml presentation.  
• 
• 
The 1.5 mg/1 ml presentation of Fasturtec is not 
affected by the shortage and can be used instead.  
If Fasturtec 7.5 mg/5  ml is not  available, your doctor or 
1 This information may change. For accurate  information about the status of a medicine shortage  in a particular 
Member State the national competent authority should be contacted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Fasturtec (rasburicase) 
7.5 mg/5 ml powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion 
nurse will make up your dose using the 1.5  mg/1 ml 
presentation instead.  
•  Additional advice may be available from your national 
Status 
competent authority. 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Fasturtec (rasburicase) 
EMA/39822/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
