SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  30  November  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Increase in uric acid production can be caused in any patient with a rapid proliferating malignancy. 
As  a  result  of  the  increased  cell  turnover,  nucleic  acid  is  catabolised.  This  increased  purine 
metabolism  leads  to  increase  in  the  uric  acid  concentration  (hyperuricemia).  Hyperuricemia  is  also 
known  to  occur  following  aggressive  cancer  therapy  regimens  that  cause  an  increase  in  cell  lysis 
releasing purine metabolites.  
Chemotherapy-induced  hyperuricemia  is  one  of  the  adverse  consequences  of  the  tumor  lysis 
syndrome. Tumor lysis syndrome occurs as a result of rapid release of intracellular contents into the 
bloodstream,  which then increase to life-threatening concentrations. This syndrome is characterized 
by  hyperuricemia,  hyperkalemia  hyperxanthenemia  (especially  in  patients  treated  with  allopurinol), 
hyperphosphatemia,  hypocalcemia,  lactic  acidosis,  and  often-acute  renal  insufficiency.    Lethal 
cardiac  arrhythmias  are  the  most  serious  consequences  of  hyperkalemia.  Hyperuricemia  and 
hyperphosphatemia may result in acute renal failure.  
Uric  acid  is  the  end  product  of  purine  metabolism  in  birds,  reptiles,  primates  and  humans  and  is 
produced in the liver by oxidation of xanthine and hypoxanthine.  In all  other mammals, uric acid is 
further oxidized by the enzyme urate oxidase to allantoin. However, humans lack this enzyme. As uric  
acid has relatively poor water solubility, the acute increase in plasma levels of uric acid seen may lead 
to  acute  renal  failure  caused  by  the  precipitation  of  crystals  of  uric  acid  in  renal  tubules.  Renal 
function  can  be  further  compromised  by  calcium  phosphate  precipitation  triggered  by  the  release  of 
intracellular phosphates occurring during tumor lysis.  
Allopurinol  (4-hydroxypurinol),  an  analogue  of  xanthine,  is  currently  considered  the  standard 
pharmacological  therapy  for  hyperuricemia  and  is  given  before  cytotoxic  treatment.  Besides  the 
application  of  allopurinol,  management  is  directed  at  correcting  metabolic  abnormalities  and 
preventing further renal damage. The mechanism of action of allopurinol is different from Fasturtec. 
Rasburicase (SR29142) is a recombinant form of the enzyme urate oxidase produced from genetically 
modified strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cloned with cDNA from a strain of Aspergillus flavus.  
The  enzyme  is  a  tetrameric  protein  with  identical  subunits  of  a  molecular  mass  of  about  34  kDa  -
similar to the native A. flavus urate oxidase- and catalyses the oxidation of uric acid to allantoin, a 
water-soluble product that is easily excreted by the kidney. 
Fasturtec  is  a  second-generation  product  with  respect  to  a  non-recombinant  enzyme  preparation, 
obtained from Aspergillus flavus, which has been commercialised by the company in France and Italy 
under the tradename of Uricozyme. 
Fasturtec is provided in a 3 mL vial as a freeze-dried powder for solution for intravenous injection. 
Each vial contains 1.5 mg rasburicase, sodium phosphate buffer (pH 8.0, 40 mM after reconstitution 
of the freeze-dried powder) mannitol and alanine. 
The proposed indication of Fasturtec is “treatment and prophylaxis of acute hyperuricaemia, in order 
to prevent acute renal failure, in patients with haematological malignancy with a high tumor burden 
and at risk of a rapid tumor lysis or shrinkage at initiation of chemotherapy.” The recommended dose 
of  Fasturtec  is  0.2  mg/kg/day,  administered  once  a  day  as  a  30-minute  intravenous  infusion  for  a 
treatment  duration  of  approximately  one  week.  Administration  of  rasburicase  does  not  require  any 
change in the timing or schedule of initiation of cytoreductive chemotherapy. 
1/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
One vial of Fasturtec contains 1.5 mg of rasburicase, max. 1.0 mg disodium phosphate, max. 0.06 mg 
sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate,  15.9  mg  alanine,  10.6  mg  mannitol  and  12.6-14.3  mg  disodium 
phosphate. The sodium phosphate buffer of the finished product may vary because the volume of the 
active  substance  solution  included  in  the  final  bulk  product  varies  according  to  rasburicase  content. 
The  1  mL  solvent  includes  ,  besides  water  for  injections,  1.0  mg  poloxamer  188.  Nitrogen  is  used 
during filling of the freeze-dried powder and solvent into the vial and ampoule , respectively. 
The  dose  is  expressed  in  mg  instead  of  EAU  (Enzyme  Activity  Unit).  This  is  justified  since 
rasburicase  is  a  well-characterised  and  well-defined  product.  The  use  of  HPLC  (size  exclusion 
chromatography which groups all the active isoforms) to define enzyme content in milligram is more 
precise  than  enzyme  activity determination.  Nevertheless, the  definition for  one EAU  of rasburicase 
has been clearly stated in the SPC. 
One enzyme activity unit (EAU) corresponds to the enzyme amount that converts 1 µmol of uric acid 
into allantoin per minute in TEA pH 8.9 buffer at +30°C. 
Since rasburicase is not sufficiently stable to be stored for a longer time under refrigerated conditions, 
a freeze-dried formulation was developed to guarantee the molecule’s integrity and enzyme activity. 
The  compatibility  of  poloxamer  with  rasburicase  and  the  excipients  used  has  been  demonstrated  as 
well as compatibility with the 0.9% NaCl infusion solution and typical infusion devices.  
Active substance 
• 
Characterisation 
Fasturtec  is  a  second-generation  product  with  respect  to  a  non-recombinant  enzyme  preparation, 
obtained from Aspergillus flavus, and commercialised by the company in France and Italy under the 
tradename of Uricozyme. 
Rasburicase is a tetrameric protein with identical subunits of a molecular mass of about 34 KDa and 
consisting of a single 301 amino acid polypeptide chain, which is N-terminal acetylated.  
The enzyme activity of rasburicase is determined by an in vitro test based on the degradation of uric 
acid on allantoin and is representative of the in vivo biological activity.  
The  active  product  may  contain  a  high  amount  of  active  isoforms.  This  heterogeneity  of  the 
rasburicase protein has been verified by various analytical techniques e.i. by isoelectrofocussing and 
anion exchange chromatography. The heterogeneity can be explained by the structural complexity of 
the protein, a tetramer composed of four identical monomers. Only a few modifications in a monomer 
may  lead  to  numerous  forms  of  the  tetramer.  Potential  oxidation  and  deamidation  sites  of  the 
rasburicase  protein  have  been  elucidated.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  these  modifications  can  be 
detected  by  the  tests  routinely  applied  on  the  active  substance  bulk  :  oxidation  by  reverse  phase 
chromatography  and  anion  exchange  chromatography,  and  oxidation  and  deamidation  by  peptide 
mapping.It  is  important  to  note  that  the  total  specific  activity  does  not  change  with  increasing 
heterogeneity and that the major related substances are deamidation and oxidation based.  
Additional  comparative  tests  of  Fasturtec  and  the  non-recombinant  product  Uricozyme  have  been 
carried out to assess the comparability of the two products. The results clearly show that rasburicase is 
less heterogeneous than the non-recombinant product and the specific activity of rasburicase is about 
50% higher than that of the non-recombinant urate oxidase product. 
2/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Impurities 
Process-related impurities,  i.e.  components derived from expression system and components  derived 
from fermentation, extraction and purification have been evaluated. An immunoradiometric assay was 
developed for detecting residual host cell proteins (HCP). HCP were detected at levels below 40ppm 
in the drug substance batches. A PCR method was developed to detect levels of host cell DNA. The 
production process satisfactorily removes HCP and DNA. 
• 
Specifications and routine tests  
Peptide mapping verifies the primary structure of the monomer. 
Rasburicase content is determined by size exclusion chromatography, the principal peak consists of all 
active tetrameric forms of rasburicase. The enzyme activity is determined by an in-vitro assay, based 
on conversion of uric acid into allantoin. The specific activity is an overall control of the integrity of 
the active protein . Anion exchange chromatography reveals the charge heterogeneity of the tetrameric 
protein . Size exclusion chromatography is performed to monitor aggregated forms of the tetramer and 
high  molecular  mass  weight  related  impurities.  Reverse  phase  chromatography  and  SDS-Page 
electrophoresis  are  performed  under  dissociating  conditions  and  therefore  monitor  the  heterogeneity 
and purity of the monomeric protein. 
The release specifications for the active substance are in line with the batch analysis results (mean ±3 
SD). 
• 
Batch analysis 
Batch  analysis  results  of  batches  produced  by  the  commercial  process  confirm  active  ingredient 
production consistency. 
In-house primary and working reference materials were established since no national or international 
standards are available for urate oxidase. 
Active substance production process 
An European Drug Master File has been submitted for the production process for rasburicase. 
A conventional two-tiered cell bank system is used. 
The  fermentation  is  carried  out  in  two  steps  :  preculture  and  full-scale  fermentation,  followed  by 
extraction. 
The purification process comprises concentration and chromatographic steps and finally filtration and 
filling into drug substance container. 
Other ingredients 
In addition to the active substance, the formulated product contains three excipients: alanine, mannitol, 
disodium phosphate and water for injections. 
The  reconstitution  solvent  comprises  poloxamer  188  and  water  for  injections.  Butylhydroxytoluene 
(BHT) is added to the poloxamer as an antioxidant. The BHT used as an antioxidant in Lutrol® F68 
complies with the Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Finished product 
• 
Method of preparation 
Fasturtec  is  provided  in  a  3  mL  vial  as  a  freeze-dried  powder  for  intravenous  injection  .  Each  vial 
contains  1.5 mg  rasburicase  ,  sodium  phosphate  buffer  (pH  8.0,  40  mM  after  reconstitution  of  the 
freeze-dried powder), mannitol and alanine. 
3/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed industrial batch size is 60.5 L for 55 000 vials. Several batches of drug substance after 
control and release may be pooled for the preparation of the nominal volume of solution to be freeze-
dried in order to ensure the production of a batch of drug product of the nominal size (55 000 vials). 
The  processes following parameters  are considered as critical: filtration, duration  of holding time  of 
the bulk solution and freeze-drying. All these parameters have been validated. Analytical results of the 
three  batches  of  freeze-dried  powder  produced  at  industrial  scale  demonstrate  consistency  of  the 
lyophilisation process. Water content was below 2% w/w for all three batches. 
The results demonstrated the suitability of the industrial freeze-drying parameters. 
The manufacturing process of the solvent includes a sterile filtration and autoclaving. 
• 
Control tests on the finished product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  does  not  impact  the  primary  structure  of  the 
monomer.  Therefore,  identification  by  peptide  mapping,  which  verifies  the  monomer  for  the  active 
substance, is not performed for the finished product. The methods selected to routinely monitor levels 
of  related  substances  and  impurities  are  anion  exchange,  size  exclusion  and  reverse  phase 
chromatographies,  which  respectively  reveal  the  charge  heterogeneity  profile  of  the  active  tetramer, 
the aggregated forms, and the related  proteins by difference in  polarity. SDS-page electrophoresis is 
only  performed  for  the  stability  studies  of  the  finished  product.  The  water  content  is  an  important 
parameter for ensuring stability of lyophilised material. 
The other tests are the same as for the active ingredient.  
Appropriated  controls  and  specifications  are  set  up  to  characterise  the  quality  of  the  solvent  for 
parenteral use. 
The  container for the  powder  for injection  with  a  3  mL  capacity is  made  of  clear Type  I glass. The 
closure is a  grey stopper  made  of chlorobutyl  rubber  and complies with Ph. Eur. The overseal is an 
aluminium cap. The compatibility of the rubber stoppers with rasburicase has been demonstrated. 
The container for the solvent is a single dose 2 mL score-break glass ampoule made of clear Type I 
glass which is in accordance to Ph. Eur. 
• 
Virological documentation 
Rasburicase is produced from a genetically modified strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. S. cerevisiae 
is a microorganism used in food processing that is not known to be a host for viruses posing a risk to 
higher organisms. The expression construct is well characterised and contains no viral sequences.  
One of the biological ingredients, Peptone, was only used in the culture media for the master cell bank 
(MCB) prepared in 1991. It was derived from bovine non-neuronal tissue. 
Considering a) that the peptone was used in the preparation of the MCB only, and b) the type of tissue 
used  in  preparation  of  the  peptone  (bone,  connective  tissue  and  skin)  is  category  IV  (no  detectable 
infectivity), the risk of TSE transmission by the use of Fasturtec is considered negligible. 
The other ingredient of biological origin is yeast extract used in the preparation of the media for the 
MCB,  working  cell  bank  and  fermentation.  The  yeast  extract  is  certified  free  of  products  of  animal 
origin. All other raw materials are synthetic, including glycerol. 
Information has been provided demonstrating that the medicinal product is made in compliance with 
the  CPMP  “ Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimising  the  Risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform 
encephalopathy agents via medicinal products ” 
4/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
• 
Stability tests on the active substance 
Stability  data  comprises  results  of  stress  studies  performed  during  development  and  long-term  data 
under normal and accelerated conditions on clinical and commercial production batches. 
Absence of any interaction between the stopper and active substance has been demonstrated. 
Based on the stability data, a storage period of twelve months at +5 ±3°C for the active substance can 
be applied. 
• 
Stability tests on the finished product 
The  stability  studies  performed  on  the  finished  product  included  primary  stability  under  normal  and 
accelerated  conditions,  stability  of  the  reconstituted  solution  at  +25°C  using  aged  powder, 
compatibility studies of reconstituted product with typical infusion systems, photostability studies of 
the reconstituted solution/infusion solution, and stability of the solvent under normal and accelerated 
conditions. 
Results  showed  no  marked  difference  between  the  reconstituted  solution  analysed  at  the  initial  time 
and after 24 hours storage at +25°C. 
Compatibility with infusion devices have been documented, and the results show the compatibility of 
the  drug  product  with  the  PVC  bag,  glass  bottle  or  Intermate  system  (Baxter)  over  0.5h  of  infusion 
after temporary storage (up to 2 hours) in daylight and at room temperature. 
The cardboard packaging provides a protective effect on the photoinstability of the powder. 
Based on the primary stability data, the shelf life of 36 months when stored at +5 ±3°C and protected 
from light can be applied. 
The shelf life for the solvent is 48 months at +25 ±2°C or under refrigeration when packaged with the 
powder. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In almost all areas the chemical/pharmaceutical/biological part of the dossier is of good standard and 
the application meets the relevant EC guidelines. The currently available information demonstrates a 
consistent production of Fasturtec with a well-defined quality. 
The assessment of this product has not raised specific points that need special consideration during a 
regular GMP inspection of a recombinant DNA product. 
Methods to control the quality of the product are adequate.  
3 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vivo studies  
• 
The in vivo pharmacological study of rasburicase was not performed due to the absence of a suitable 
model in physiologically normal mammals. 
In vitro studies  
• 
The biochemical characterization of rasburicase shows that the recombinant enzyme has the expected 
uricolytic activity with a Michaelis constant of 44.4 µM and an optimal temperature of 30°C.  
5/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General and safety pharmacology 
• 
Safety pharmacology studies with rasburicase were performed by the i.v. route. These studies showed 
that  rasburicase  did  not  modify  neurobehavioral  parameters  assessed  by  Irwin  test  or  body 
temperature  in  mice,  hemodynamic  parameters  in  anesthetized  dogs  or  hydroelectrolytic  balance  in 
rats. No interaction studies were performed. 
Pharmacokinetics/Toxicokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Distribution, protein binding, metabolism and excretion 
Distribution, protein binding, metabolism and excretion studies were not conducted.  As it is known, 
radiolabel  from  a  biotechnology  product  can  be  incorporated  into  endogenous  molecules  making  it 
difficult to trace the product in biological matrices (Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-
Derived  Pharmaceuticals;  ICH  Guideline,  July  16,  1997).  With  respect  to  (LC-MS  Liquid 
Chromatography  -  Mass  Spectrometry)  methodologies,  endogenous  proteins  often  interfere  with 
extraction and chromatographic procedures making detection of the product, as well as the low levels 
of polypeptides and amino acids that arise from its catabolism, difficult.   
A complicating factor for a distribution study of rasburicase was the presence of native urate oxidase 
activity in laboratory animals used in toxicology, which would interfere with the uricolytic assay and 
would confound the tissue distribution evaluation using this alternative methodology. 
Additionally, the molecular weight of rasburicase is greater than that of albumin, making it unsuitable 
for the study of plasma protein binding using conventional techniques. 
Toxicokinetics 
• 
Exposure  (based  on  AUC)  to  rasburicase  in  rats  and  baboons  following  both  single  and  multiple 
dosing increased linearly with dose. The plasma clearance is low in rats and in baboons much lower 
than hepatic  blood flow. The  mean half-life is quite short in animals. The  volume of  distribution is 
restricted  to  plasma  or  blood  volume.  There  was  no  difference  between  males  and  females. 
Rasburicase neither modified liver weight nor had any effect on the activities of CYP1A (Cytochrome 
P450 isosyme 1A), CYP2A, CYP2B, CYP2C, CYP2E, and CYP3A isoenzymes in rats and baboons, 
following  a 4-week treatment suggesting no induction nor inhibition potential. 
Assays 
• 
Plasma concentrations of rasburicase were determined by a sandwich type immunoradiometric assay 
(RIA)  using  two  monoclonal  reagent  antibodies  directed  against  rasburicase.    The  tracer  was  a 
monoclonal 125I-labelled anti-rasburicase reagent antibody. 
The  RIA  was  well  validated;  effects  of  dilution,  storage,  inter-  and  intra-day  variability  were 
acceptable. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity: 
• 
An  acute  intravenous  toxicity  study  was  performed  in  OFA-Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  OFI-Swiss 
mice. The rats and mice showed no adverse clinical signs or changes in body weight gain that could 
be attributed to rasburicase. 
Acute intravenous administration of rasburicase to rats and mice up to doses 75 times the proposed 
dose for clinical use (based on body weight) is well tolerated. Assuming dose-proportionality, in rats 
this dose is equivalent to 10 times the human therapeutic dose, based on systemic exposure. 
Repeated dose toxicity: 
• 
The  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  show  that  rasburicase  is  well  tolerated  in  rats  and  in  baboons. 
Some signs of local irritance were noted in the 4- week rat study and the baboon study. These effects 
were  noted  in  all  groups,  including  controls.  Therefore  the  effects  were  attributed  to  intravenous 
6/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
injection  trauma  and  potential  local  irritance  of  the  vehicle.  Circulating  anti  rasburicase  antibodies 
were detected in both species. 
Genotoxicity: 
• 
Under the conditions of standard mutagenicity tests (Ames reverse mutation assay,  mouse lymphoma  
mutation  assay  and  unscheduled  DNA  synthesis)  and  clastogenicity  tests  (in  vitro  chromosome 
mutation assay and in vivo rat micronucleus test) rasburicase is non-genotoxic.  
Carcinogenicity: 
• 
Studies were not conducted. This was justified because duration of treatment is limited to seven days 
and rasburicase is to be administered concomitantly with cytotoxic therapies.  
Reproduction Toxicity: 
• 
Fertility and early embryonic development to implantation 
Rasburicase  did  not  affect  reproductive  performance,  fertility  in  male  and  female  rats  or  early 
embryonic development. 
Embryo-fetal development 
• 
No  studies  were  performed.  This  is  justified  by  the  Company  by  pointing  out  that  Fasturtec  is 
intended to be used in combination with chemotherapeutic agents, which are known to be teratogenic 
and/or embryotoxic.  
Pre- and postnatal development, including maternal function 
• 
In  view  of  the  concommitant  treatment  of  patients  with  embryo-  and  foetotoxic  agents,  pre-  and 
postnatal developmental studies (including maternal function) were not performed. 
Local Tolerance: 
• 
Intravenous, intra-arterial and paravenous 
Local  tolerability  of  rasburicase  (1.5  mg  in  1  ml)  after  single  intravenous  and  intra-arterial 
administration  in  the  rabbit  was  good.  Paravenous  administration  caused  slight  to  well-defined 
erythema. Rasburicase (either in a concentrated solution or as a lyophilised powder reconstituted in 
the solvent) and the solvent intended for clinical use caused no cutaneous or occular irritancy in the 
rabbit. 
• 
Other toxicity studies: 
Hemolytic potential 
No haemolytic potential of the tested preparations was observed under the conditions tested. 
Other toxicological consideration : 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  rasburicase  show  that  hydrogen  peroxide  and  allantoin  are  formed  as  a 
result of the enzymatic uric acid oxidation. Allantoin is eliminated exclusively by renal excretion. An 
assessment of the potential toxicity and safety pharmacology of hydrogen peroxide, which is formed 
as  a  side-product  of  the  enzymatic  oxidation  catalysed  by  rasburicase,  has  been  presented  by  the 
company. H2O2 arising from urate oxidase treatment is considered to be unlikely to pose a significant 
safety concern for patients with normal levels of G6PDH and GSHPx. However Hydrogen peroxide 
toxicity has been encountered in the clinic in G6PD-deficient patients and a  warning for treatment of 
G6PDH  deficient  patient  is  included  in  the  SPC.  There  are  only  very  limited  toxicological  data  on 
allantoin.  The  safety  assessment  of  the  company  is  based  on  clinical  experience  covering  only  a 
limited number of endpoints. It seems reasonable to conclude therefore, that elevated allantoin levels 
do not have consequences in the case of renal insufficiency.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
During the clinical development of Fasturtec, safety and efficacy were assessed in 375 subjects (265 
children  and  110  adults)  in  one  Phase  I  (TDR2691)  study  in  healthy  adult  subjects,  three  phase  II 
7/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies in patients and one phase III study in patients. A total of 347 patients received Fasturtec. The 
phase II studies were uncontrolled dose selection studies assessing the efficacy and safety of Fasturtec 
(ACT2511  and  ACT2694)  and  one  safety  study  (LTS3025)  in  patients  requiring  treatment  of 
malignancy-related  and/or  tumor  lysis-related  hyperuricemia.  The  phase  III  study  (EFC2975)  was  a 
randomized study, comparing the efficacy and safety of Fasturtec to allopurinol. A total of 52 patients 
were treated before and during induction chemotherapy, including 27 patients who received Fasturtec 
at a dose level of 0.20 mg/kg per day for four to seven days and 25 patients who received allopurinol 
for four to eight days. Allopurinol was used according to its approved dose and schedule, along with 
alkaline  hydration  as  clinically  indicated.  Patients  were  stratified  according  to  presentation  uric  acid 
concentrations (<8.0 mg/dL, defined as non-hyperuricemic, or ≥8.0 mg/dL, defined as hyperuricemic) 
and disease (leukemia or lymphoma).  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Dose-finding studies 
• 
Pharmacodynamic  analysis  indicated  that  rasburicase  is  able  to  lower  the  uric  acid  concentrations 
below  2-3  mg/dL  within  24  hours  after  start  of  infusion  in  patients  with  high  plasma  levels  of  uric 
acid. Low uric acid plasma levels could be maintained during the dosing period (a secondary transient 
increase in uric acid (if present) occurred during or shortly after chemotherapy). The uricolytic rate in 
patients  at  a  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg  was  lower  compared  to  the  uricolytic  rate  in  patients  at  the  0.20 
mg/kg dose.  
In  healthy  volunteers  receiving  a  single  dose  of  rasburicase  (0.05  -  0.20  mg/kg,  study  TDR2681), 
initial uricolytic  rates (estimated  from  0 – 2 h after start infusion) increased with increasing dose of 
rasburicase.  
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
Absorption 
As rasburicase will be administered intravenously, bioavailability will be 100%.  
Distribution 
After administration of rasburicase to healthy volunteers a volume of distribution (Vz) was found of 
about 60 – 100 ml/kg (study TDR2681). In patients, including children and adolescents, the volume of 
distribution was ca. 110 – 127 ml/kg (study ACT2511, ACT2694). 
As rasburicase is a protein itself, protein-binding studies were not carried out. Drug-drug interactions 
arising from displacement by rasburicase and of co-administered drugs are not expected.  
Metabolism and excretion 
Rasburicase is a protein. It is expected that metabolic degradation will follow the pathways of other 
proteins,  i.e.  peptide  hydrolysis.  After  hydrolysis  the  products  of  catabolism  (amino  acids)  are  re-
incorporated into new cellular proteins. For this reason metabolism studies with radio-labelled amino 
acids have not been carried out. It appears that rasburicase was not stable in urine.  
No in vitro metabolism studies have been carried out. 
• 
Pharmacokinetics after single dose and multiple dose 
In healthy volunteers 
After single dosing of rasburicase as a 30-minute infusion (study TDR2681) AUC(0-inf) and Cend of infusion 
increased linearly over the dose range of 0.10 to 0.20 mg/kg.  
8/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the same study, healthy male volunteers received once daily a 30-minute infusion at 0.10, 0.15 or 
0.20  mg/kg  for  5  days.  Steady  state  was  achieved  at  day  3.  Comparing  the  AUC(0-inf)  values  of  the 
single  dosing  with  the  AUC(0-24h)  at  day  5  indicates  no  unexpected  accumulation  of  rasburicase. 
Clearance,  volume  of  distribution  and  the  elimination  half-life  at  steady  state  were  comparable  with 
those after single dosing. The volume of distribution was similar to the physiological blood volume. 
In patients 
In  studies  ACT2511  and  ACT2694,  patients  including  adolescent  and  children,  with  leukemias  and 
lymphomas  suffering  from  hyperuricemia,  received  once  daily  a  30-minute  infusion  at  0.15  or  0.20 
mg/kg for 5 - 7 days.  
Steady  state  was  achieved  at  day  2  –  3.  Also  2  infants  (1  year  old)  received  one  of  the  doses.  No 
differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics compared with the other age groups. Only 6 adults 
patients were included. Although the limited data, it seems that the pharmacokinetics of rasburicase in 
patients is comparable with the pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. The clearance is increased in 
children  and  adolescent,  compared  with  adults  (ca.  35%)  resulting  in  a  lower  systemic  exposure  to 
rasburicase. The volume of distribution was somewhat higher in patients (110 – 127 ml/kg) compared 
to healthy volunteers. 
Interaction studies: 
• 
No specific in vivo clinical drug interaction studies have been performed. Drug-drug interactions due 
to the influence of the cytochrome P450 enzymes are not expected. 
• 
Special groups 
Impaired renal function 
The  influence  of  renal  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rasburicase  was  not  studied.  Renal 
elimination  of  rasburicase  or  its  monomers  is  considered  to  be  a  minor  pathway  for  rasburicase 
clearance. However, due to the conversion of uric acid (by rasburicase), allantoin is formed, which is 
excreted by the kidneys.  
The data indicate that allantoin pharmacokinetics are may be affected by an impaired renal function. 
Systemic  exposure  to  allantoin  may  be  enhanced  by  renal  impairment.  However,  data  from  the 
literature  show  that  allantoin  is  not  a  xenobiotic  in  humans  and  relatively  non-toxic.  Furthermore, 
renal impairment does not appear to lead to a qualitatively different Adverse Event profile in patients.  
Impaired liver function 
The  influence  of  hepatic  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rasburicase  was  not  studied.  As 
metabolism is expected to occur by peptide hydrolysis, an impaired liver function is not expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of rasburicase in a clinically significant way. 
Children 
Children  and  adolescents  have  a  somewhat  higher  clearance  of  rasburicase,  resulting  in  a  lower 
systemic  exposure.  Based  upon  the  pharmacodynamic  parameters,  such  as  uric  acid  concentrations 
and uricolytic rate, no indication of differences in activity was observed, as compared with adults.  
Clinical efficacy  
The following clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards.  
Dose response studies and dosing 
Because  Uricozyme  is  used  at  a  dose  of  100  CBU/kg,  equivalent  in  vitro  in  terms  of  uricolytic 
activity  to  0.15  mg/kg  of  Fasturtec,  the  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg  was  initially  evaluated  in  patients.  Two 
uncontrolled  dose-validation  studies  (ACT2511  and  ACT2694)  had  a  similar  two-step  design 
(validation phase followed by an accrual phase). The dose-validation phases were designed to select a 
dose that would produce a success rate of at least 80% in controlling or  normalizing  hyperuricemia. 
The  dose  that  successfully  controlled  or  prevented  hyperuricemia  in  all  14  consecutively  enrolled 
9/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
patients  in  the  dose-validation  phase  was  to  be  the  starting  dose  in  at  least  76  more  patients  in  the 
accrual phase of these studies. The accrual phase was intended to verify the effectiveness of the dose 
chosen in the validation phase. Safety and pharmacokinetics were also assessed.  
Main studies  
Inclusion criteria 
Description of the studies 
• 
Patients were to have a good performance status (ECOG ≤3 or ≥30% on the Karnofsky scale), to be at 
risk of hyperuricemia induced by either cytotoxic chemotherapy or malignancy, and to be scheduled 
for treatment with a cytotoxic chemotherapy regimen within 48 hours. Patients receiving allopurinol at 
the time of inclusion or having recently received allopurinol were excluded. 
The  inclusion  criteria  were  similar  for  the  studies,  except  for  the  age  and  diagnosis  of  the  patients. 
Patients with any age could be included in studies ACT2511 and LTS3025, while patients had to be 
younger  than  21  years  in  studies  ACT2694  and  EFC2975.  The  diagnosis  of  the  malignancy  was 
slightly different in the studies but mostly composed of acute leukemia and lymphoma.  
Primary endpoints/assays 
Endpoints 
In  the  ACT  studies  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  a  response  to  treatment,  according  to  the 
following criteria:  
• 
The  uric  acid  endpoint  (≤6.5  mg/dL  in  patients  <13  years  old  or  ≤7.5  mg/dL  in  patients  ≥13 
years old) was reached by T48h +2h and maintained until 24 hours after the last administration 
of Fasturtec and  
No other hypouricemic agent was required to control hyperuricemia. 
• 
In  study  EFC2975,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  area  under  the  serial  plasma  uric  acid 
concentration curve from the start of study drug administration until 96 hours (T96h) from treatment 
start (AUC0-96). 
The primary efficacy variable in EFC2975 is different from the ACT studies. However, this parameter 
is  not  essentially  different  from  the  control  of  uric  acid  levels.  Both  measure  the  control  of  the  uric 
acid levels and are surrogate endpoints.  
No efficacy was measured in the LTS3025. 
Table 1 summary all the efficacy endpoints of the phase II/III studies. 
Table 1 Protocol defined efficacy endpoints in the phase II/III studies. 
The  criteria  for  safety  were:  biochemistry,  hematology,  vital  signs,  physical  examination,  adverse 
events, baseline (pre-dose) assays for circulating antibodies (for patients who received a prior course 
of Fasturtec or Uricozyme®).  
10/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  criteria  for  the  occurrence  of  tumor  lysis  syndrome  were:  the  incidence  of  metabolic 
abnormalities, the incidence of renal complications (number of occurrences of dialysis and abnormal 
creatinine levels) and the proportion of patients developing hypertension requiring therapy. 
Tumor lysis risk classification at baseline 
The  risk  of  developing  tumor  lysis  is  related  to  the  tumor  burden  and  may  be  characterized  by  the 
presence of hyperuricemia and the level of WBC and LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) at baseline. The 
company defined a tumor lysis risk classification.  (Table to be removed) 
Assays 
Rasburicase 
Rasburicase was analysed in plasma using a radio-immunoassay.  
Uric acid 
Plasma uric acid was analysed using an enzymatic microplate assay. 
The  stability  of  uric  acid  with  rasburicase  in  plasma  was  evaluated  during  sample  handling. 
Instructions for sampling handling indicated that uric acid concentration should be analysed within 4 
hours after blood collection, ensuring that the blood is kept at cold temperature. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
Table 2. Patient accountability in all studies (n). 
ACT2694 
CATEGORY  ACT2511 
Dose 
val. 
Accru
al  
Tota
l 
Dose 
val.  
Dose 
val. 
Accrual Total 
LTS30
25 
EFC2975 
Fasturte
c 
Tota
l 
Allo- 
purin
ol 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
Entered  
Treated  
Completed  
Reason 
study  
- 
events 
- Death  
- Other 
off 
Adverse 
0.15 
0.15 
0.15 
0.20 
0.20 
0.20 
0.20 
20 
20 
20 
0 
0 
0 
88 
87 
83 
2 
1 
1 
108  13 
107  12 
103  12 
2 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
22 
22 
20 
1 
1 
0 
98 
97 
97 
0 
0 
0 
133 
131 
129 
82 
82 
76 
1 
1 
0 
1 
3 
2 
27 
27 
26 
1 
0 
0 
25 
25 
22 
0 
2 
1 
52 
52 
48 
1 
2 
1 
Efficacy results  
•  Primary efficacy endpoints 
In  the  two  phase  II  studies  (ACT2511  and  ACT2694)  conduct  in  patients  with  haematological 
malignancies, a dose was selected that would control a normalise hypouricemia in at least 80% of the 
patients.  In  study  ACT2511  a  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg  was  found  to  fulfil  the  criterion.  Therefore,  all 
patients  (107)  received  this  dose.  The  study  showed  that  Fasturtec  controlled  or  normalised  the  uric 
acid  concentration  (uric  acid  values  ≤  6.5  mg/dL  in  patients  <  13  years  old  or  ≤  7.5  mg/dL  in 
patients ≥ 13 years old) within 48 hours after first application of Fasturtec in 99% of the patients. In 
study ACT2694, the 0.15 mg/kg dose failed to meet the above criteria. The higher dose of 0.20 mg/kg 
fulfilled the critera and therefore most of the patients (119) received this dose. It was shown that this 
dose controlled or normalised the uric acid concentration in 95% of the patients.  
In study ACT2511, the highest mean uric acid concentration was observed at baseline, 4.9 mg/dL. The 
mean percentage reduction in uric acid at 4 hour post first dose was 88 ± 12%. In patients in whom 
urine collection was possible (n=88), the activity of Fasturtec was also measured by determining the 
11/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration of allantoin in urine. The mean, daily, urinary allantoin levels in patients increased from 
0.5 mg at baseline to 1100 mg on Day 3.  
In study ACT2694, the highest mean uric acid concentration observed at baseline was 7.5 mg/dL. The 
mean percentage reduction in uric acid at 4 hour post first dose was 84.9 ± 12.6%. The mean, daily 
urinary allantoin levels in the 93 patients who received 0.20 mg/kg Fasturtec and for whom allantoin 
excretion was determined, increased from 0 mg at baseline to 1570 mg on Day 2. 
A  clinical  significant  improvement  of  renal  function  (decrease  of  plasma  creatinine  concentrations) 
was observed in the patients who were hyperuricemic at baseline as early as Day 2 following the rapid 
decrease in uric acid concentrations caused by the first dose of Fasturtec. 
Based on these results the 0.2 mg/kg dose had been selected for the phase III program. 
In  study  EFC2975,  the  mean  plasma  uric  acid  AUC0-96,  the  primary  efficacy  parameter,  was 
significantly  lower  in  the  Fasturtec  group  (128.1  mg·hr/dL)  than  in  the  allopurinol  group  (328.5 
mg·hr/dL)  (Table  3).  At  4  hours  post  first  dose,  the  mean  percentage  change  from  baseline  was 
statistically  significantly  (p<0.0001)  lower  for  the  Fasturtec  group  (-86.0%)  than  that  for  the 
allopurinol group (-12.1%).  
Table 3. Plasma uric acid AUC0-96 (mg·hr/dL) in EFC2975 study. 
The Fasturtec treatment group also demonstrated a lower mean plasma uric acid level compared to the 
allopurinol  group  for  both  hyperuricemic  and  non-hyperuricemic  patients  (p<0.0001  for  both 
comparisons).  For  the  subgroup  of  patients  (who  were  hyperuricemic  at  any  time  prior  to  dosing), 
mean  AUC0-96  was  162.4  mg·hr/dL  for  the  Fasturtec  group  compared  to  440.0  mg·hr/dL  for  the 
allopurinol  group.  For  the  subgroup  of  patients  (non-hyperuricemic),  mean  AUC0-96  was  107.9 
mg·hr/dL for the Fasturtec group compared to 265.9 mg·hr/dL for the allopurinol group.  
Figure includes values observed up to time of last study dose and one value selected as 24 hour post 
last dose. 
Figure 1 - Mean (±SE) Plasma Uric Acid Concentrations Over Time for All Patients Under Treatment 
In patients with hyperuricemia immediately prior to first dose of study drug, the median time to first 
confirmation  of  control  of  plasma  uric  acid  was  4.0  hours  post  first  dose  for  the  Fasturtec  group 
(n=10) and 23.9 hours post first dose for the allopurinol group (n=5). 
12/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Occurrence of tumor lysis 
• 
Overall, 63% of the patients treated with Fasturtec showed (based on allantoin measurements and/or 
metabolic abnormalities) evidence of tumor lysis. Very few (2%) of all treated patients were reported 
to  have  tumor  lysis  syndrome  (reported  as  one  adverse  event).  Of  the  347  patients  treated  with 
Fasturtec, all the three patients (0.9%) who required dialysis within one week of starting Fasturtec had 
other contributing factors to the development of renal failure a part from hyperuricemia. 
Evolution of renal function 
• 
On  average,  patients  who  were  non-hyperuricemic  maintained  stable  serum  creatinine  levels. 
Hyperuricemic  patients  had  a  higher  baseline  serum  creatinine  than  non-hyperuricemic  patients  and 
those  treated  with  Fasturtec  showed  a  progressive  decrease  in  serum  creatinine  while  those  treated 
with allopurinol exhibited relative stabilization of their serum creatinine.  
It can be concluded that Fasturtec is able to normalize and control hyperuricemia in the majority of the 
patients  (95-99%).  Fasturtec  is  faster  than  allopurinol  in  normalizing  the  uric  acid  levels  in  patients 
who have hyperuricemia before chemotherapy.  
Clinical safety 
A total of 347 patients and 28 healthy volunteers received Fasturtec. 
• 
Phase II studies (ACT2511, ACT2694 and LTS3025).  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
In study ACT2511, 3 patients experienced adverse events, considered by the investigator to be likely 
related to the study treatment: one Grade 1 rash on Day 8; one Grade 1 dermatitis on Day 3 (leading to 
patient  withdrawal)  and  one  hemolysis  in  a  patient  subsequently  diagnosed  as  having  a  glucose-6-
phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency (an exclusion criterion).  
Three of the 107 patients died. All three deaths were judged to have no or an unlikely relationship to 
Fasturtec  by  the  investigator.  Other  serious  adverse  events  (other  than  death)  were  experienced  in 
twenty-five  patients  (23.4%)  during  the  study.  Fever  was  the  most  frequently  occurring  serious 
adverse event.  
In study ACT2694, 2 out of 131 patients experienced adverse events which the investigator considered 
to have a likely relationship to Fasturtec: grade 4 bronchospasm and dyspnea occurring on Day 1 in 
one patient leading to study withdrawal and a grade 1 nausea and grade 2 vomiting occurring on Day 2 
and Day 3, respectively. 
Two patients died. Both deaths were judged unrelated to Fasturtec. There were no toxic deaths. Other 
serious  adverse  events  (than  death)  were  experienced  in  fifty-eight  (44.3%)  patients.  Fever  was  the 
most frequently occurring serious adverse event. 
In  study  LTS3025  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  were  fever,  headache,  nausea,  and 
vomiting. Twenty-three (28%) patients reported grade 3 or 4 adverse events; the majority was of no 
relationship to study drug.  
Sixteen  (19.5%)  patients  reported  one  or  more  serious  adverse  event:  the  majority  was  of  no 
relationship to Fasturtec.  
Four patients died. None of these deaths were considered related to Fasturtec treatment. There were no 
toxic deaths. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  study  ACT2511,  two  patients  withdrew  because  of  an  adverse  event.  One  patient  had  Grade  1 
dermatitis  (likely  relationship  to  Fasturtec),  and  the  other  experienced  a  Grade  4  acute  renal  failure 
(unknown relationship to Fasturtec), recovering without dialysis. 
13/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  ACT2694,  one  patient  withdrew  due  to  adverse  events.  This  patient  was  treated  for 
pneumonia at study entry. Less than a day after the first study drug infusion, the patient experienced 
grade 4 bronchospasm and dyspnea. 
In  study  LTS3025,  one  patient  withdrew  due  to  adverse  events.  This  patient  received  one  dose  of 
Fasturtec. The patient had hot flushes, rigors, chest pain, coughing, respiratory disorder, headache and 
rhinitis,  all  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  of  likely  relationship  to  the  study  drug.  The  patient 
died 16 days later due to a myocardial infarction and thrombosis, which were not considered, related 
to study treatment. 
Phase III randomized study EFC2975 
• 
The vast majority (98%) of the patients reported at least one clinical adverse event of any grade; 26 
(96.3%) in the Fasturtec group and 25 (100%) in the allopurinol group.  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
The  most  frequently  reported  events  were 
those  associated  with  hematological  disorders, 
gastrointestinal  system,  body  as  a  whole,  respiratory  system,  as  expected  given  the  concomitant 
cytotoxic  therapy  and  the  disease  state.  The  distribution  of  adverse  events  generally  appeared  to  be 
similar  between  the  two  treatment  groups.  No  specific  pattern  or  trend  was  observed.  Based  on  the 
opinion of the investigator, four patients, three (11.1%) in the Fasturtec group and one (4.0%) in the 
allopurinol  group  reported  adverse  events  of  a  likely  relationship  to  the  study  drug.  These  included 
two reports of headache and one report of fever in the Fasturtec group, and one report of vomiting in 
the allopurinol group.  
Two  patients  treated  in  the allopurinol  group  but  none in the Fasturtec group,  died  during the  study 
period. Neither death was considered related to study drug. Serious adverse events (other than death) 
were recorded in 4 (14.8%) patients in the Fasturtec group and 8 (32%) in the allopurinol group. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
One  patient  discontinued  in  the  Fasturtec  group  due  to  adverse  events  (hemolysis,  of  an  unknown 
relationship  to  the  study  drug  according  to  the  investigator).  With  the  exception  of  the  two  patients 
who died while on study, no patients discontinued for safety reasons in the allopurinol group. 
Fasturtec circulating antibodies 
• 
In study ACT2511, 7 (7%) of 97 patients providing samples for analysis of Fasturtec treatment had a 
positive  enzyme  linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  results  for  detection  of  Fasturtec  circulating 
antibodies  (ACT2694:  17  (14%)  of  the  121  patients).  Of  the  five  patients  who  received  multiple 
courses  of  Fasturtec,  no  increase  in  quantity,  severity,  duration  of  intensity  of  adverse  events  was 
observed.  
Overall safety consideration 
• 
Because  of  the  clinical  context  in  which  Fasturtec  is  used  (supportive  care  during  the  induction  of 
chemotherapy of advanced malignant states), the majority of adverse events could be attributed to the 
patients’ underlying neoplastic disease state and the concomitant cytotoxic drugs administered. 
In order to assess Fasturtec-possibly related adverse events; several criteria were analyzed in parallel:  
• 
• 
Occurrence of adverse events in the healthy volunteers study (TDR2681) 
Comparison  of  occurrence  of  adverse  events  between  Fasturtec  and  allopurinol  groups  in  the 
randomized study  
Frequency in uncontrolled studies (ACT2511 and ACT2694) 
Adverse event relationship to study drug according to the investigators 
Adverse events observed with respect to concomitant chemotherapy 
Adverse  events  anticipated  based  on  the  nature  (heterolog  protein)  and  mechanism  of  action 
(hydrogen peroxide production) of Fasturtec 
Dose relationship 
Review of Uricozyme Package Insert. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
14/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on these criteria, the adverse events of special interest were defined as displayed in table 4. The 
selection of these adverse events represents those adverse events thought to be at least partially related 
to  Fasturtec.  These  adverse  events  tended  to  be  of  brief  duration,  with  the  median  of  all  episodes 
varying from <1 to 2 days. 
Table 4. Summary of selected adverse events by study population of all studies (number (%)). 
There  was  no  anaphylactic  shock  or  angioedema  reported  in  any  of  the  studies.  No  toxic  deaths 
occurred.  
During the degradation of uric acid into allantoin, hydrogen peroxide is produced. Hydrogen peroxide 
is  a  highly  active  oxidant  that  could  oxidize  a  range  of  products  (e.g.,  proteins  and  lipids),  and 
therefore  other  toxic  effects  are  possible.  An  analysis  by  the  company  has  shown  that  the  maximal 
exposure to H2O2 generated by treatment by urate oxidase is several orders of magnitude lower than 
the  maximal  quenching  capacity  of  blood.  The  acute  toxicities  that  were  observed  in  the  submitted 
clinical trials are limited to the expected events of hemolysis, particularly in G6PD-deficient patients. 
Long-term  safety  data  would  not  allow  to  distinguish  between  possible  long-term  effects  of  H2O2 
exposure  from  that  of  exposure  to  multiple  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  drugs.  Therefore  it  may  be 
concluded  that  there  is  no  clinical  evidence  at  this  moment  for  any  unexpected  deleterious 
consequences  of  collateral  H2O2  exposure.  The  company  will  closely  monitor  the  frequency  of 
haemolysis case reports. 
Overall, no clinically significant differences were seen between the adverse event profiles of pediatric 
and adult patients. 
Due  to  the  small  number  of  patients  >65  years  old  (N=23)  compared  to  the  number  of  patients  ≤65 
years old (N=324), no conclusions based on age can be made. However, the adverse events reported 
most  frequently  in  elderly  patients  were  also  reported  most  frequently  in  patients  less  than  65 years 
old. 
Acute  renal  disorders  were  unrelated  to  Fasturtec,  except  1  case  report  of  tubular  nephritis  with 
unknown  causal  relationship.One  patient  had  a  cutaneous  reaction  occuring  after  cessation  of  the 
treatment which was reported as a bullous cutaneous reaction by the investigator. No information was 
available to confirm this diagnosis. The company proposes to submit  an  update on tubular disorders 
and bullous cutaneous reactions within the Periodic Safety Update Reports for urate oxidase. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
It is difficult to assess the safety and tolerance profile of Fasturtec due to the abundance of side effects 
induced  by  the  chemotherapy  and  the  serious  disease  of  the  patients.  Nevertheless  the  number  of 
patients dropping out of the study due to adverse events is low. The number of deaths during the study 
period is also low and none of these deaths are thought to be related to Fasturtec. Therefore, these data 
do not give any indication that serious safety issues arise from the use of Fasturtec in the investigated 
population. However, a few hundred patients were treated.  
15/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Two major preclinical objections were raised against granting a marketing authorisation for Fasturtec. 
These  objections  were  related  to  the  potential  adverse  effects  of  H2O2  and  allantoin  and  were 
adequately answered. 
Efficacy 
Fasturtec  has  been  demonstrated  to  be  efficient  in  the  considered  patients  settings  (haematological 
malignancies) based on the submitted data. However, rasburicase should not be used for more than 7 
days  and  should  not  be  re-administered  during  the  further  cycles.  A  study  assessing  the  respective 
places  of  allopurinol  and  rasburicase  in  the  treatment  strategy  in  lymphoma  adult  patients  will  be 
initiated as a part of the Post authorisation commitments. 
Safety 
In  Section  4.4  “Special  warnings  and  precaution  for  uses”  of  the  SPC,  it  is  indicated  that  patients 
should  be  closely  monitored  for  onset  of  allergic-type  AEs.  The  company  proposes  to  submit  an 
update  on 
framework  of  Sanofi-Synthelabo  worldwide 
pharmacovigilance  surveillance.  These  data  will  be  submitted  to  the  competent  authorities  together 
with the Periodic Safety Update Reports for rasburicase.   In addition, the  safety  results  from  an  on-
going  international  compassionate  program  (281  patients  enrolled  to  date)  will  be  submitted  to  the 
Agency upon completion. 
type  of  events  within 
this 
the 
The  company  has  agreed  to  follow  up  the  incidence  of  hypersensitivity  reactions,  and  if  necessary 
reinforce  sections  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC,  following  analysis  of  allergic  adverse  events  that  will  be 
reported during a compassionate use program. In addition, Section 4.4 of the SPC specify that:  “At 
present,  there  is  insufficient  data  on  patients  being  re-treated  with  Fasturtec  to  recommend  multiple 
treatment courses. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Fasturtec  (rasburicase)  is  a  hypouricemic  agent,  fast  and  potent  acting.  The  most  common  adverse 
event were vomiting, fever, nausea and headache. This dossier has a good overall quality of data set 
for a relatively innovative drug. The benefit/risk is positive. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Fasturtec indicated for:  
“Treatment and prophylaxis of acute hyperuricaemia, in order to prevent acute renal failure, in patients 
with  haematological  malignancy  with  a  high  tumor  burden  and  at  risk  of  a  rapid  tumor  lysis  or 
shrinkage at initiation of chemotherapy.” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
16/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
