21 April 2017 
EMA/368110/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Febuxostat Mylan 
International non-proprietary name: febuxostat 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004374/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 15 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 16 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 21 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 21 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 21 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 22 
2.6. PSUR submission ............................................................................................... 26 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 26 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 27 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 27 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 27 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 27 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 2/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Mylan S.A.S submitted on 26 April 2016 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Febuxostat Mylan, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 
(3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 28 January 2016. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Febuxostat Mylan 80 mg  
Treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition has already occurred (including 
a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
Febuxostat Mylan 120 mg  
Treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition has already occurred (including 
a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
Prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic 
malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Adenuric instead of non-clinical and clinical unless 
justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for not 
less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric 80 mg; 120 mg Film-coated tablet 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
•  Date of authorisation: 21.04.2008  
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 3/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/447/001-024 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
•  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric 80 mg; 120 mg Film-coated tablet 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
•  Date of authorisation: 21.04.2008  
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/447/001-024 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric 120 mg Film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
Date of authorisation: 21.04.2008  
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
−  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/08/447/003 
Bioavailability study number(s): C15224 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Juris Pokrotnieks 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 26 April 2016.  
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 4/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The procedure started on 19 May 2016. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 August 2016. 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 19 August 2016. 
During the meeting on 2 September 2016 the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP. 
During the meeting on 15 September 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 December 
2016. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 30 January 2017.  
During the PRAC meeting on 9 February 2017, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP. 
During the CHMP meeting on 23 February 2017, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
sent to the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 22 March 
2017. 
During the meeting on 21 April 2017, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Febuxostat Mylan. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This is a marketing authorisation application of a generic febuxostat product. The indications sought for 
Febuxostat Mylan are the same as those of reference product Adenuric: 
Febuxostat  Mylan  80  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  indicated  for  treatment  of  chronic  hyperuricaemia  in 
conditions  where  urate  deposition  has  already  occurred  (including  a  history,  or  presence  of,  tophus  and/or 
gouty arthritis). 
Febuxostat  Mylan  120  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hyperuricaemia  in 
conditions  where  urate  deposition  has  already  occurred  (including  a  history,  or  presence  of,  tophus  and/or 
gouty  arthritis)  and  for  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  hyperuricaemia  in  adult  patients  undergoing 
chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated only for adults. 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 5/28 
 
  
  
 
 
Posology 
Gout: The recommended oral dose of Febuxostat Mylan is 80 mg once daily without regard to food. If serum 
uric  acid  is  >  6  mg/dL  (357  µmol/L)  after  2-4  weeks,  Febuxostat  Mylan  120  mg  once  daily  may  be 
considered. 
Febuxostat  Mylan  works  sufficiently  quickly  to  allow  retesting  of  the  serum  uric  acid  after  2  weeks.  The 
therapeutic target is to decrease and maintain serum uric acid below 6 mg/dL (357 μmol/L). 
Gout flare prophylaxis of at least 6 months is recommended. 
Tumor  Lysis  Syndrome:  The  recommended  oral  dose  of  Febuxostat  Mylan  is  120  mg  once  daily  without 
regard to food. 
Febuxostat Mylan should be started two days before the beginning of cytotoxic therapy and continued for a 
minimum of 7 days; however, treatment may be prolonged up to 9 days according to chemotherapy duration 
as per clinical judgment. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in the elderly. 
Renal impairment 
The  efficacy  and  safety  have  not  been  fully  evaluated  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine 
clearance  <30  mL/min).  No  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate  renal 
impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
The efficacy and safety of febuxostat has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child 
Pugh Class C). 
Gout:  The  recommended  dose  in  patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment  is  80  mg.  Limited  information  is 
available in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. 
Tumour  Lysis  Syndrome:  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  trial  (FLORENCE)  only  subjects  with  severe  hepatic 
insufficiency were excluded from trial participation. No dose adjustment was required for enrolled patients on 
the basis of hepatic function. 
Paediatric population 
The  safety  and  the  efficacy  of  febuxostat  in  children  aged  below  the  age  of  18  years  have  not  been 
established. No data are available. 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of febuxostat 
Uric acid is the end product of purine metabolism in humans and is generated in the cascade of hypoxanthine 
→  xanthine  →  uric  acid.  Both  steps  in  the  above  transformations  are  catalyzed  by  xanthine  oxidase  (XO). 
Febuxostat is a 2-arylthiazole derivative that achieves its therapeutic effect of decreasing serum uric acid by 
selectively  inhibiting  XO.  Febuxostat  is  a  potent,  non-purine  selective  inhibitor  of  XO  (NP-SIXO)  with  an  in 
vitro  inhibition  Ki  value  less  than  one  nanomolar.  Febuxostat  has  been  shown  to  potently  inhibit  both  the 
oxidized  and  reduced  forms  of  XO.  At therapeutic concentrations  febuxostat does  not inhibit  other  enzymes 
involved  in  purine  or  pyrimidine  metabolism,  namely,  guanine  deaminase,  hypoxanthine  guanine 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 6/28 
 
  
  
phosphoribosyltransferase,  orotate  phosphoribosyltransferase,  orotidine  monophosphate  decarboxylase  or 
purine nucleoside phosphorylase. 
The efficacy of febuxostat was demonstrated in three Phase 3 pivotal studies. 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
In healthy subjects, maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) and area under the plasma concentration time 
curve (AUC) of febuxostat increased in a dose proportional manner following single and multiple doses of 10 
mg to 120 mg. For doses between 120 mg and 300 mg, a greater than dose proportional increase in AUC is 
observed  for  febuxostat.  There  is  no  appreciable  accumulation  when  doses  of  10  mg  to  240  mg  are 
administered  every  24  hours.  Febuxostat  has  an  apparent  mean  terminal  elimination  half-life  (t1/2)  of 
approximately 5 to 8 hours. 
Absorption 
Febuxostat is rapidly (tmax of 1.0-1.5 h) and  well absorbed (at least 84%). After single or multiple oral 80 
and  120  mg  once  daily  doses,  Cmax  is  approximately  2.8-3.2  µg/mL,  and  5.0-5.3  µg/mL,  respectively. 
Absolute bioavailability of the febuxostat tablet formulation has not been studied. 
Following  multiple  oral  80  mg  once  daily  doses  or  a  single  120  mg  dose  with  a  high  fat  meal,  there  was  a 
49% and 38% decrease in Cmax and a 18% and 16% decrease in AUC, respectively. However, no clinically 
significant  change  in  the  percent  decrease in  serum  uric  acid  concentration was  observed  where  tested  (80 
mg multiple dose). Thus, febuxostat may be taken without regard to food. 
According to the Biopharmaceutics Classification System febuxostat is classified as a Class 2 compound (low 
solubility, high permeability). 
Distribution 
The  apparent  steady  state  volume  of  distribution  (Vss/F)  of  febuxostat  ranges  from  29  to  75  L  after  oral 
doses  of  10-300  mg.  The  plasma  protein  binding  of  febuxostat  is  approximately  99.2%,  (primarily  to 
albumin), and is constant over the concentration range achieved with 80 and 120 mg doses. Plasma protein 
binding of the active metabolites ranges from about 82% to 91%. 
Biotransformation 
Febuxostat  is  extensively  metabolized  by  conjugation  via  uridine  diphosphate  glucuronosyltransferase 
(UDPGT) enzyme system and oxidation via the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Four pharmacologically active 
hydroxyl  metabolites  have  been  identified,  of  which  three  occur  in  plasma  of  humans.  In  vitro  studies  with 
human liver microsomes showed that those oxidative metabolites were formed primarily by CYP1A1, CYP1A2, 
CYP2C8 or CYP2C9 and febuxostat glucuronide was formed mainly by UGT 1A1, 1A8, and 1A9. 
Elimination 
Febuxostat is eliminated by both hepatic and renal pathways. Following an 80 mg oral dose of 14C- labeled 
febuxostat,  approximately  49%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  the  urine  as  unchanged  febuxostat  (3%),  the 
acyl glucuronide of the active substance (30%), its known oxidative metabolites and their conjugates (13%), 
and  other  unknown  metabolites  (3%).  In  addition  to  the  urinary  excretion,  approximately  45%  of  the  dose 
was recovered in the faeces as the unchanged febuxostat (12%), the acyl glucuronide of the active substance 
(1%), its known oxidative metabolites and their conjugates (25%), and other unknown metabolites (7%). 
Renal impairment 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 7/28 
 
  
  
Following multiple doses of 80 mg of febuxostat in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal impairment, 
the Cmax of febuxostat did not change, relative to subjects with normal renal function. The mean total AUC 
of  febuxostat  increased  by  approximately  1.8-fold  from  7.5  µg
h/mL  in  the  normal  renal  function  group  to 
13.2 µg.h/mL in the severe renal dysfunction group. The Cmax and AUC of active metabolites increased up to 
2-  and  4-fold,  respectively.  However,  no  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate 
⋅
renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Following  multiple  doses  of  80  mg  of  febuxostat  in  patients  with  mild  (Child-Pugh  Class  A)  or  moderate 
(Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, the Cmax and AUC of febuxostat and its metabolites did not change 
significantly compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. No studies have been conducted in patients 
with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). 
Age 
There  were  no  significant  changes  observed  in  AUC  of  febuxostat  or  its  metabolites  following  multiple  oral 
doses of febuxostat in elderly as compared to younger healthy subjects. 
Gender 
Following multiple oral doses of febuxostat, the Cmax and AUC were 24% and 12% higher in females than in 
males, respectively. However, weight-corrected Cmax and AUC were similar between the genders. No dose 
adjustment is needed based on gender. 
Aspects on the development programme 
To  support  the  marketing  authorisation  application,  the  Applicant  has  submitted  a  bioequivalence  study 
conducted with the 120 mg strength. The reference product is Adenuric 120 mg film-coated tablets. 
A biowaiver was requested for the additional strength 80 mg. 
The Applicant did not receive CHMP or national Scientific Advice pertinent to the development programme. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Febuxostat Mylan is presented as film coated tablets containing 80 mg or 120 mg of febuxostat as the active 
substance. 
Other ingredients of the tablet core are lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate, 
hydroxypropylcellulose, croscarmellose sodium, colloidal hydrated silica, colloidal anhydrous silica, 
crospovidone and talc. The film coating is composed of hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171) , 
ethylcellulose, iron oxide yellow (E172), triacetin  and iron oxide black (E172).  
The product is available either in (PVC/OPA/Alu)/Alu with embedded desiccant or in HDPE bottles with 
polypropylene (PP) screw cap closure with desiccant as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 8/28 
 
  
  
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of febuxostat is 2-[3-cyano-4-(2-methylpropoxy)phenyl]-4-methyl-5-thiazolecarboxylic 
acid corresponding to the molecular formula C 16H16N2O3S. It has a relative molecular mass of 316.37 g/mol 
and the following structure: 
Figure 1. Structure of febuxostat. 
The structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy, mass 
spectrometry, UV spectroscopy, IR spectroscopy, elemental analysis and powder XRD. 
Febuxostat appears as a white or off white, slightly hygroscopic crystalline powder, freely soluble in dimethyl 
formamide, soluble in dimethyl sulphoxide and sparingly soluble in ethanol. In aqueous buffer media with pH 
below 6 it is insoluble; and its solubility is 2 mg /ml at pH 8. 
Febuxostat does not exhibit isomerism as it does not contain chiral centre but it exhibits polymorphism. The 
active  substance  (AS)  manufacturer  consistently  produces  febuxostat  Form  K,  which  is  confirmed  by  XRD 
data and which is controlled by XRD method at release and during stability studies. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance (AS) has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Febuxostat is synthesized in seven main chemical steps and crystallisation followed by micronisation. The 
starting materials, which have been redefined during the evaluation, are well-defined and controlled by 
acceptable specifications.  The synthesis is performed in two sites. The first site performs the two first steps 
of the synthetic process and the second the last five. A satisfactory description of the synthesis and the 
micronisation step has been provided. Two proposed batch sizes have been defined. 
Four intermediates are isolated and their specifications were presented and considered acceptable. Critical 
steps and critical process parameters have been identified. Adequate in-process controls are applied during 
the synthesis. The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU 
guideline on chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities including genotoxic 
impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. The carry-over of reagents, 
solvents, intermediates and impurities from the redefined starting materials to febuxostat active substance 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 9/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
along with updated discussion on evaluation of genotoxic impurities was also provided and is considered 
satisfactory. 
Febuxostat is packed in a LDPE bag under nitrogen atmosphere, inserted in a triple laminated aluminium bag 
along with two silica gel and one molecular sieve sachets and sealed under vacuumised nitrogen. These bags 
are  further  packed  in  HDPE  drum.  The  polythene  bags  used  as  primary  packaging  material  are  food  grade 
and comply with the requirements of Ph. Eur. and European Directive 10/2011 as amended. The specification 
of the LDPE bag as well as CoAs were presented.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes appropriate tests and limits for appearance (visual), solubility 
(visual), identity (IR, HPLC), polymorphism (XRD), sulfated ash (Ph. Eur.), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), heavy 
metals (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), and particle size (laser 
diffraction). 
Four compounds involved in the synthesis of the active substance were identified that have structural alerts 
and  have  been  assessed  according  to  ICH  M7  and  are  sufficiently  controlled.  Satisfactory  information 
regarding the potential carry over of these impurities has been presented.  According to the TTC concept, and 
taking  the  maximum  daily  dose  of  120  mg/day  of  febuxostat  active  substance  into  consideration,  the 
permissible  level  of  genotoxic  impurity  is  12.5 ppm.  The  absence  of  the  above  mentioned  impurities  in  the 
final active substance has been demonstrated as all of these compounds were found below LOD which is far 
below  30%  of  TTC.  Therefore  it  was  concluded  that  absence  of  genotoxic  impurities  in  final  AS  has  been 
sufficiently demonstrated. 
The  analytical  methods  used  have  been  adequately  described  and  non-compendial  methods  appropriately 
validated  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  reference  standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from six production scale batches of the active substance were provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on six production scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer stored in 
the intended commercial packaging for up to 48 months under long term conditions (25 °C ± 2 °C / 
60 % RH ± 5% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 °C ± 2 °C /75 % RH ± 5% RH) 
was provided according to the ICH guidelines.  
Samples were tested for description, identification, polymorphic form, loss on drying, related substances and 
assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
No significant changes to any of the measured parameters were observed under either storage condition and 
all  remained  within  specification.  The  stability  of  the  polymorph  was  also  verified  by  analysing  accelerated 
(40±2°C,  75±5%  RH)  and  long  term  (25±2°C,  60±5%  RH)  stability  samples  of  the  aforementioned 
validation  batches.  Febuxostat  Form  K  was  found  to  be  stable  and  consistent  with  the  initial  pattern  upon 
storage.  Based  on  the  presented  data  a  change  of  polymorphic  form  during  the  proposed  retest  period  is 
considered highly unlikely. 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 10/28 
 
  
  
Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed as part of initial forced degradation 
study on one commercial scale batch. The results showed that the AS is not sensitive to light. 
Stress testing in solution (thermal, acidic, basic, oxidative, heat) and in solid state (light, UV, heat) was also 
performed on one commercial scale batch. Samples were tested for description, identification, specific optical 
rotation, loss on drying, assay and related substances. No degradation was observed under the conditions 
tested, except under base hydrolysis where significant degradation occurred. The degradation pathways and 
the stability indicating power of the assay and related substance methods have been demonstrated.  
The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 48 months in the proposed container without special 
storage conditions. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as yellow, capsule shaped, biconvex tablets, debossed with “M” on one side 
of  the  tablet  and  “FX3”  (80  mg  tablets)  or  “FX4”  (120  mg  tablets)  on  other  side,  intended  for  oral 
administration.   
The aim of the pharmaceutical development work was to develop an immediate release product with a robust 
formulation,  adequate  chemical  stability,  and  an  efficient,  simple  and  reproducible  manufacturing  process, 
which performs similarly in vivo to the reference product.  
The following physico-chemical properties of febuxostat have been studied: particle size distribution, 
apparent density, tapped density, compressibility index and Hausner ratio. The solubility studies showed that 
active substance exhibits pH dependent solubility; insoluble in water, 0.1 N HCl and pH 4.5 acetate buffer 
and showing higher solubility in pH 6.8 phosphate buffer and pH 7.5 phosphate buffer (>0.44 mg/ml). 
The excipients for product development studies were chosen based on the innovator product details, 
literature search and on AS-excipients compatibility study. The prototype product development was initiated 
with dose proportional composition for both strengths. In order to evaluate the effect of different excipient 
concentrations on manufacturability several trials were conducted before concluding the final composition.  
All excipients used in the proposed formulation are conventional pharmaceutical ingredients and comply with 
their respective Ph.Eur. monograph. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in 
paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. The compatibility studies of the AS and various excipients showed no changes 
in appearance and content of total impurities, therefore, it was concluded that febuxostat is compatible with 
all excipients intended to use in the product development. 
Since the formulation of reference product available in different EU member states is identical, as it is 
approved through centralized procedure, two different batches of Adenuric 120mg film coated tablets were 
evaluated for physical and chemical properties. They both showed similar physical and chemical 
characteristics. In order to assess pharmaceutical equivalence, test and reference products were compared 
with regard to their quality characteristics (related substances) and in vitro performance (dissolution 
profiles). Both test and reference product exhibited similar impurity profiles.  
The choice of the proposed dissolution method has been sufficiently described and justified. In order to 
assess the discriminatory power of the selected dissolution method, dissolution studies on different batches 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 11/28 
 
  
  
 
with slightly modified composition and manufacturing process were performed. From the results it can be 
concluded that the selected dissolution method is discriminatory in nature with respect to the studied 
formulation and process changes. 
Comparative dissolution profiles of Febuxostat Mylan 80 mg and 120 mg-film-coated tablets (test 
formulation) and EU reference product Adenuric 80 mg and 120 mg film-coated tablets were generated in 
different dissolution media i.e. pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (release media), 0.1N HCl and pH 4.5 Acetate buffer 
covering the pH range of pH 1.2 - pH 6.8. 
From the above results it was apparent that more than 85% of the labelled amount of the AS was released 
within 15 minutes from both the test and reference formulations in pH 6.8 phosphate buffer and in the QC 
release medium. Release of the reference product in 0.1 N HCl and pH 4.5 acetate buffer was faster than the 
test, but incomplete release was observed for both the test product and reference product. 
The differences in the dissolution profiles were justified, as required by the guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence, based on the solubility study of febuxostat and the potential impact of even slight differences 
in the manufacturing process or formulation on the overall solubility. Since Febuxostat Mylan 120 mg film-
coated tablet was found to be bioequivalent to reference product Adenuric 120 mg tablet, the difference in 
drug release profile in 0.1N HCl and pH 4.5 acetate buffer between test product and reference product is not 
expected to have any effect on the in vivo performance of the test product. 
Dry granulation technique was chosen for manufacturing process of the drug product because direct 
compression process was not considered suitable due to the very poor flow characteristics of active 
substance. Premix blending was optimised with regard to the resulting blend uniformity. The roller 
compaction process parameters were studied to ensure manufacturability and regarding the potential impact 
on the release and degradation of the AS. Studies regarding the milling process focused on identifying the 
screen size and milling speed which would yield the desired particle size distribution of granules. Finally the 
impact of different tablet hardness values on physical characteristics and dissolution profile was evaluated 
and acceptable ranges were set. In addition a detailed risk assessment of process variables was included in 
the dossier. It has also been demonstrated that polymorphic form K is stable during manufacturing process 
and storage of finished product.   
A comparative bioequivalence study was performed between Febuxostat Mylan 120 mg film coated tablets 
and Adenuric 120 mg film coated tablets. There is no difference in the formulation used in the clinical study 
and the formulation intended for commercialisation in Europe. It has been also confirmed that the same 
manufacturing process has been followed in the manufacturing of Febuxostat Mylan 120 mg film-coated 
tablets used in the bioequivalence study, manufacturing process validation study and stability studies. 
A biowaiver has been requested for the 80 mg strength which has been accepted since the conditions for 
strength biowaiver (80 mg strength) according to the Guideline CPMP/EWP/ QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1 are 
fulfilled. The dissolution profiles have been compared between the test product used in the bioequivalence 
study (Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated tablets) against the test product (Febuxostat 80 mg film coated 
tablets) and found similar. In addition the applicant has committed that comparative dissolution profile 
testing will be undertaken on the first three production scale batches of the largest batch size. 
The primary packaging of Febuxostat Mylan film coated tablets is Alu/OPA/ PVC/desiccant)/Alu blister pack, 
or white opaque high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with white opaque polypropylene screw cap with 
aluminium induction sealing liner wad and a desiccant (silica gel). The primary packaging material complies 
with EU Regulations No.10/2011 and No.1935/2004/EC. The provided stability results indicate that the 
proposed packaging materials are suitable for the storage of the finished product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 12/28 
 
  
  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  can  be  considered  as  a  standard  process  which  comprises  the  following  main 
steps:  sifting,  blending,  roller  compaction,  milling  and  sifting,  final  blending,  compression  of  tablets,  film-
coating and packaging. Two batch sizes for each strength are proposed as commercial batch sizes. 
Critical steps of the manufacturing process were defined: blending, compression, film-coating and packaging. 
The IPC performed per each respective manufacturing step were described and are considered acceptable. 
Holding time studies were successfully finalized for common blend, tablet cores and film coated tablets.  
The manufacturing process validation was completed on three batches of each strength at the lower proposed 
commercial  batch  size.  All  batches  fully  met  the  quality  control  specifications.  Furthermore  the  applicant 
committed that validation of the packaging process of Febuxostat 80 mg and 120 mg film-coated tablets in 
the  proposed  blister  packs  and  HDPE  bottle  packs  will  be  performed  as  per  the  provided  process  validation 
protocols.  The  results  of  routine  and  extended  in-process  control  (IPC)  testing  have  demonstrated  that  the 
manufacturing process is robust and consistently yields a product capable of meeting the pre-defined quality 
characteristics. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  and  shelf  life  specifications  include  appropriate tests  and  limits  for  appearance 
(visual), identification (UV, IR), identification of colourants (chemical), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of 
dosage  units  by  content  uniformity  (Ph.  Eur.),  dissolution  (UV),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
residual solvents (GC) and microbiological test (Ph. Eur.). 
The  analytical  methods  used  have  been  adequately  described  and  non-compendial  methods  have  been 
appropriately  validated  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the 
reference standards used in the routine analysis of finished product has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on three commercial scale batches (lower proposed batch size) were presented. All 
batches are representative of the commercial formula and manufacturing process. All batches met the 
commercial specification limits. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches for each strength stored under long term conditions for up 
to  12  months  (25 °C  /  60%  RH)  and  for  up  to  six  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (40  °C  /  75%  RH) 
according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  The  stability  batches  are  identical  to  those  proposed  for 
marketing and were packed in the primary packagings proposed for marketing.  
Samples  were  tested  for  description,  assay,  dissolution,  related  substances,  loss  on  drying  and 
microbiological  test.  Samples  were  tested  at  each  time  point  for  all  parameters  except  for  microbiological 
purity.  The  methods  used  were  the  same  as  for  release  testing  and  are  stability  indicating.  There  was  no 
significant change in any of characteristics tested at any time point and no trends were observed. 
A photostability study has been performed on one commercial scale batch of Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated 
tablets  according  to  ICH  Q1B  Guideline.  The  following  parameters  were  tested:  description,  assay, 
dissolution, loss on drying and related substances. The obtained stability results indicated that there are no 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 13/28 
 
  
  
out  of  specification  results  and  thus,  it  can  be  concluded  that  Febuxostat  film-coated  tablets  are  not 
photosensitive. 
In-use stability studies were conducted on two batches of Febuxostat 80 mg film-coated tablets in line with 
requirements of NfG on In–use stability testing of human medicinal products (CPMP/QWP/2934/99). Samples 
were analysed in accordance with shelf-life specification, tested parameters were description, assay, related 
substances,  dissolution,  loss  on  drying  and  microbiological  purity.  The  results  support  the  proposed  in-use 
stability of 180 days after first opening of bottles. 
Based  on  the  provided  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  2  years  stored  in  the  original  package,  as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
- The applicant should conduct the comparative dissolution profiles testing on the first three production scale 
batches of the largest batch size against the test product used in the bioequivalence study (Febuxostat 120 
mg film-coated tablets). 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 14/28 
 
  
  
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
Febuxostat Mylan manufactured by Mylan S.A.S is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in 
the combined sales volumes for all febuxostat containing products and the exposure of the environment to 
the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. The CHMP agreed with this 
justification. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  range  of  non-clinical data  presented  in the  dossier is  typical  for  generic application  and  include  no  new 
studies.  Only  well-known  excipients  are  included  in  Febuxostat  Mylan  80  mg  film-coated  tablets  and 
Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated tablets. 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
The  proposed  impurity  limits  in  the  concerned  product  are  within  the  qualification  thresholds  given  in  ICH 
guidelines. No safety issues are expected based on the impurity profile of this medicinal product.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects are considered adequate to support this application.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing febuxostat. To support the marketing authorisation 
application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. 
This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in 
its current version, is of particular relevance.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 15/28 
 
  
  
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
The  applicant  applied  for  marketing  authorization  for  two  different  strengths  of  febuxostat  containing  film-
coated tablets – 80 and 120 mg. Bioequivalence was demonstrated for the highest strength (i.e. 120 mg). In 
vivo bioequivalence study waiver is sought for the lower strength of 80 mg based on the consideration of the 
general  biowaiver  criteria  as  specified 
in  the  Guideline  on  the 
investigation  of  bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1. 
Febuxostat  80  mg  and  120  mg  have  the  same  quantitative  and  qualitative  composition  in  active  substance 
and  the  same  pharmaceutical  form  than  the  reference  product.  Its  bioequivalence  with  the  reference 
medicinal  product  has  been  proven  by  means  of  a  bioequivalence  study  between  Febuxostat  120  mg  film-
coated  tablets  formulations  (Test)  manufactured  by  Mylan  Laboratories  Limited  and  the  reference  product 
Adenuric  120  mg  film  -  coated  tablets  of  Menarini  international  Operations  Luxembourg,  S.A.  The 
bioequivalence  of  the  other  of  the  strength  was  asked  to  be  a  waived  based  on  the  following  general 
requirements: 
•  Both strengths of Febuxostat Mylan film-coated tablets (80 mg and 120 mg) are manufactured by the 
same manufacturer at the same manufacturing site using similar manufacturing process. 
• 
• 
The excipients included in the composition of the formulation are well established and no interaction 
with the pharmacokinetics of the active substance is expected. 
The  qualitative  composition  of  both  strengths  is  the  same.  Both  the  strengths  are  direct  scale 
up/scale  down  formulations  and  the  ratio  between  the  amounts  of  each  excipient  to  the  amount  of 
the active substance is the same for both the strengths. 
•  Both  strengths  exhibit  similar  in-vitro  performance.  So  the  dissolution  profiles  can  be  considered 
similar. 
• 
The absorption kinetics of Febuxostat is linear within the therapeutic dose range.  
Linearity in the pharmacokinetics of febuxostat is justified. 
Dissolution profiles 
The dissolution profiles of test and reference products is similar in release media (pH 6.8 phosphate buffer; 
paddle apparatus), incomplete release of active substance is observed in 0.1 N HC and pH 4.5 acetate buffer 
for both products. The Applicant has demonstrated discriminatory power of the updated dissolution method  
and similarity of dissolution profiles for the bio-batch of the test product and batch of additional strength of 
test product at all three media. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study.   
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study C15224: A randomized, open-label, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 16/28 
 
  
  
single-dose, crossover oral bioequivalence study of Febuxostat tablets 120 mg of Mylan 
Laboratories Limited, India with Adenuric® (Febuxostat) 120 mg film coated tablets of Menarini 
international O.L.S.A1, Avenue de la Gare, L-1611 Luxembourg in normal healthy adult human 
subjects under fasting conditions 
Methods 
Study design  
The study was an open label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence (TR and RT), 
single oral dose, crossover, bioequivalence study in healthy, adult, human subjects under fasting conditions, 
with a screening period of 21 days prior to the dosing in first period. 
 All  subjects  underwent  a  screening  procedure  21  days  prior  to  the  dosing  in  first  period  comprising  of 
complete  medical  history,  physical  examination  with  vital  signs,  12  –  lead  ECG,  clinical  chemistry, 
haematology, urine analysis and serology. 
Forty  four  subjects  in  period-1,  forty  three  subjects  in  period-2  were  administered  with  Investigational 
products  (i.e.  either  test  product  or  reference  product).  The  washout  period  was  9  days  between  each 
consecutive dosing period. 
The order of receiving test product (T) and reference product (R) for each subject during each period of the 
study was be determined according to a randomization schedule. 
As  this  was  an  open  labelled  study,  hence  the  subjects  and  the  investigators  were  not  blinded  towards  the 
identity of the test and reference products. Analyst had no access to the randomization schedule.  
During the study the tolerability of the products after oral ingestion was assessed by following up all adverse 
events. The safety variables were adverse events, physical examination with vital signs, clinical chemistry, 
haematology and urine analysis.  
Test and reference products  
Test Product 
Name and strength 
Febuxostat tablets 120 mg 
Formulation 
Manufactured by 
Batch No. 
Batch size 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
tablets 
Mylan Laboratories Limited, Plot 
No. 11, 12 & 13, Indore SEZ, 
Pharma Zone, Phase – II Sector 
– III, Pithampur – 454775, Dist 
– Dhar (M.P.) India.  
2009932 
120 000  
Page 17/28 
 
  
  
 
 
Commercial Batch size 
Manufacturing date 
Expiry date 
Storage conditions 
Reference product 
1 000 000  
August 2015 
July 2017 
Do not store above 25 oC, store 
in original container 
Name and strength  
Adenuric (Febuxostat) 120 mg 
film-coated tablets 
Formulation 
tablets 
Manufacturing authorization 
Menarini international O.L.S.A1, 
holder 
Avenue de la Gare, L-1611 
Lot No. 
Expiry date 
Luxembourg.  
48510 
October 2017 
Member State where the 
UK 
reference product is 
purchased from: 
Storage conditions 
Do not store above 25 oC, store 
in original container 
Certificates of analysis have been provided for both test and reference products. 
Febuxostat Mylan 120 mg manufactured by Mylan Laboratories Limited (Unit 11), India has been compared 
to Adenuric (Febuxostat) 120 mg film coated tablets. 
Population studied 
A  total  of  46  subjects  including  two  additional  subjects  were  enrolled  and  checked  in  for  the  study.  Two 
additional subjects were enrolled in the study to compensate any dropout/withdrawn prior to dosing in period 
-  1.  After  completion  of  the  dosing  activity  of  44  subjects,  stand  by  subjects  were  checked–out  from  the 
clinical facility without being dosed in period - 1.  
Subjects participated in the study were healthy non-smoking male adults, aged between 21 and 43 years of 
age (both inclusive); having BMI between 19.0 and 29.7 kg/ m2 (both inclusive). All subjects were of Asian 
origin. 
Hence, as per the protocol, forty-four (44) subjects were dosed in Period-I of the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 18/28 
 
  
  
 
 
In  overall,  forty  three  (43)  subjects  completed  the  study  and  there  was  one  subject  withdrawn  from  the 
study:  
• 
Subject No. 28 did not report on the clinical facility for period–2 check–in, hence withdrawn from the 
study.  
Subject No. 28 due to the missing PK data for Period 2 was excluded from PK analysis. 43 subjects were 
included in PK and statistical analysis 
Analytical methods 
The analytical method for the determination of Febuxostat concentration was validated and was considered 
as acceptable. The study sample analysis was performed using the same anticoagulant as for the validation.  
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The primary pharmacokinetic variables were Cmax and AUC0-t. The secondary pharmacokinetic variables were 
AUC0-inf, t max, t 1/2, K el, (AUC0-t/AUC0-inf)*100.  
These pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated for Febuxostat of test product and reference product by 
using non-compartmental model of WinNonlin Professional Software Version 5.3 (Pharsight Corporation, 
USA). 
The selected pharmacokinetic parameters and model used are acceptable. 
Statistical methods 
For  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  analysis  actual  time  of  collection  from  the  scheduled  time  was  used  for 
estimation  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  which  was  computed  using  non-compartmental  model  of 
WinNonlin Professional Software version 5.3 (Pharsight Corporation, USA) for Febuxostat. 
The ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf of Febuxostat were subjected to 
Analysis  of  Variance  (ANOVA).  Statistical  comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  the  two 
formulations was carried out by using SAS statistical software version 9.2 to assess the bioequivalence of test 
product and reference product. 
Determination of sample size 
Based  on  the  sponsor’s  in-house  estimate  the  maximum  intra-subject  variability  observed  among  primary 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  found  to  be  approximately  29%.  The  following  estimates  were  considered  for 
the computation of sample size: 
T/R ratio = 95-105% 
Intra-Subject C.V (%) approximately 29% 
Significance Level = 5% 
Power ≥ 80% 
Bioequivalence Limits = 80 – 125% 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 19/28 
 
  
  
Based  on  the  above  estimate,  a  sample  size  of  38  subjects  were  sufficient  to  establish  bioequivalence 
between formulations with adequate power. However, considering the drop-outs, a sample size of 44 subjects 
was considered for the study. 
Bioequivalence of the test product with that of the reference product under fasting conditions was concluded 
if the 90% confidence intervals of geometric least square mean ratio of the test and reference product falls 
within the acceptance range of 80.00 % – 125.00% for ln-transformed Cmax and AUC0-t for Febuxostat. 
Results 
Table 1 - Pharmacokinetic parameters for febuxostat (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic mean  
arithmetic mean 
±SD 
±SD 
AUC0-t (ng.hr/mL)  
25024.548 ± 5854.6553  
26177.339 ± 6548.1685 
AUC0-∞ (ng.hr/mL)  
25470.875 ± 5893.3974 
26627.064 ± 6572.7699 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
7456.028 ± 2172.6213 
7497.577 ± 2431.1037 
Tmax* (hr) 
1.50 (0.50 - 4.50) 
1.25 (0.33 - 4.50) 
AUC0-t area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Cmax maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax*  time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 2 - Statistical analysis for febuxostat (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
parameter 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
CV% 
AUC0-t (ng.hr/mL)  
95.88 
AUC0-∞ (ng.hr/mL)  
95.94 
92.42-99.47 
92.54-99.46 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
100.16 
92.33-108.65 
10.1 
10.0 
22.7 
Safety data 
One  AE  (during  post  study  safety  evaluation)  was  reported  by  subject  No.  33  during  the  study.  This  AE 
[increased  SGOT  (AST)  level]  was  mild  in  intensity  and  possibly  related  to  the  study  drug.  On  repeated 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 20/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
follow-up AE was  considered to be resolved completely [SGOT (AST)  was  found to be within the acceptable 
limits].  
There  were  no  deaths,  significant  or  serious  adverse  events  during  the  conduct  of  this  study.  Both  of  the 
products were similarly well tolerated.  
None of the subjects had experienced adverse events during their in-house stay in both the study periods, so 
no concomitant medication was given. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Febuxostat 120 mg film – coated tablets of Mylan Laboratories 
Limited is considered bioequivalent with Adenuric 120 mg film - coated tablets. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To  support  this  marketing  authorisation  application,  one  bioequivalence  study  conducted  with  the  120  mg 
strength  was  submitted.  The  reference  product  is  Adenuric  120  mg  film-coated  tablets.  A  biowaiver  is 
requested for the additional strength 80 mg. 
The  results  presented  herein  show  that  the  criteria  used  to  assess  bioequivalence  between  the  Test  and 
Reference formulations were all fulfilled. 
The  Test  Product  (T)  (Febuxostat  Mylan  120  mg  film-coated  tablets,  when  compared  with  the  Reference 
Product (R) (Adenuric 120 mg film-coated tablets of Menarini international O.L.S.A, Luxembourg) meets the 
bioequivalence criteria in terms of rate and extent of absorption after administration of single dose as set in 
the protocol. 
According to the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1), ANOVA 
model is acceptable for analysis of logarithmically transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax and AUC. 
Determination of sample size with consideration of drop-outs and withdrawals is acceptable. The 
bioequivalence criteria are set according to the regulation. 
Overall, medicinal products tested were generally safe and well tolerated by the subjects included in this 
study. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The composition of the test product is qualitatively and quantitatively the same as the reference product. The 
choice  of  the  120  mg  strength  for  the  bioequivalence  study  is  considered  adequate,  the  test  product 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 21/28 
 
  
  
Febuxostat  Mylan  120  mg  film-coated  tablets  has  shown  bioequivalence  to  the  reference  product  Adenuric 
120 mg film- coated tablets. 
Since  the  80  mg  strength  of  Febuxostat  Mylan  film-coated  tablets  fulfils  all  requirements  to  waive 
bioequivalence  studies  for  additional  strengths  as  mentioned  in  the  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.  1  Corr  **),  the  bioequivalence  study  results  of  Febuxostat 
Mylan  120  mg  film-coated  tablets  can  be  extended  to  Febuxostat  Mylan  80  mg  film-coated  tablets  and  a 
biowaiver for this additional strength is acceptable. 
A positive benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The clinical aspects of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) are in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
-Serious skin / hypersensitivity reactions 
-Rhabdomyolysis 
-Drug-drug interaction with azathioprine or 
mercaptopurine  
Important potential risks 
-Cardiovascular events 
-Hepatic events 
-Renal events 
-Neuropsychiatric events 
-Haematological / Bleeding events 
-Thyroid events 
-Off-label use in the paediatric populations (TLS 
specific)  
Missing information 
-Children and adolescents 
-Subjects in whom the rate of serum urate 
formation is greatly increased (eg. malignant 
disease and its treatment, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome 
-Organ transplantation 
-Severe hepatic impairment 
-Pregnancy and lactation 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 22/28 
 
  
  
Summary of safety concerns 
-Limited experience in: female patients, elderly 
patients, severe renal impairment, moderate 
hepatic impairment 
-Interaction with standard therapy of 
haematological malignancies (TLS specific) 
-Off label use in patients with solid tumors (TLS 
specific) 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities are needed for this product.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
Important identified risks: 
measures 
Section  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC 
minimisation measures 
None 
Serious skin/ hypersensitivity 
contain  adequate  information  on 
reactions 
this safety concern 
Section  2  and  4  of  PL  contain 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Important identified risks: 
Section  4.8  of  the  SPC  contain 
None 
Rhabdomyolysis 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Section 4 of PL contain adequate 
information on this safety concern 
Important identified risks: 
Section  4.4  and  4.5  of  the  SPC 
None 
Drug-drug interaction with 
contain  adequate  information  on 
azathioprine or mercaptopurine 
this safety concern 
Section 2 of PL contain adequate 
information on this safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC 
None 
Cardiovascular events 
contain  adequate  information  on 
this safety concern 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 23/28 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
Section  2  and  4  of  PL  contain 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.4,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the 
None 
Hepatic events 
SPC  contain  adequate  information 
on this safety concern 
Section  2  and  4  of  PL  contain 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.8  of  the  SPC  contain 
None 
Renal events 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Section  2  and  4  of  PL  contain 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.8  of  the  SPC  contain 
None 
Neuropsychiatric events 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Section  4  of  PL  contain  adequate 
information on this safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.8  of  the  SPC  contain 
None 
Haematological/Bleeding events 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Section  4  of  PL  contain  adequate 
information on this safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.4,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the 
None 
Thyroid events 
SPC  contain  adequate  information 
on this safety concern 
Section  2  and  4  of  PL  contain 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
safety concern 
Important potential risks: 
Section  4.1  of  the  SPC  contain 
None 
Off label use in the paediatric 
adequate 
information  on 
this 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 24/28 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
population (TLS specific) 
measures 
safety concern 
minimisation measures 
Missing information: 
Section  4.2  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Children and adolescents 
information  on 
the 
lack  of 
experience  in  children  below  the 
age of 18 years. 
Section  2  of  PIL  addresses  this 
lack  of  information  in  children 
below the age of 18 years. 
Missing information: 
Section  4.4  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Subjects in whom the rate of 
information  on 
the 
lack  of 
serum urate formation is greatly 
experience in this sub population. 
increased (eg, malignant disease 
and its treatment, Lesch-Nyhan 
syndrome) 
Section 2 of PIL advices patient to 
talk to doctor before taking 
febuxostat 
if 
they  are  being 
treated for high uric acid levels as 
a result of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. 
Missing information: Organ 
Section  4.4  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
transplantation 
information  on 
the 
lack  of 
experience 
in  organ  transplant 
recipients. 
Missing information: 
Section  4.2  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Severe hepatic impairment 
information  on 
the 
lack  of 
experience in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Missing information: 
Section  4.6  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Pregnancy and lactation 
data  on  a  very  limited  number  of 
exposed  pregnancies  have  not 
indicated  any  adverse  effects  of 
febuxostat on pregnancy or on the 
health  of  the  foetus/new  born 
child. 
It  is  unknown  whether  febuxostat 
is excreted in human breast milk. 
Section  2  of  PIL  contains  it  is  not 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 25/28 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
known  if  febuxostat  may  harm 
your unborn child or may pass into 
human breast milk. 
minimisation measures 
Missing information: 
Section  4.2  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Limited experience in: 
limited information in patients with 
female patients, elderly patients, 
moderate hepatic impairment and 
severe renal impairment, 
efficacy  and  safety  have  not  been 
moderate hepatic impairment 
fully  evaluated  in  patients  with 
severe renal impairment. 
Missing information: 
Section  4.5  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
Interaction with standard 
information  on 
lack  of  drug 
therapy of haematological 
interaction  studies  of  febuxostat 
malignancies (TLS specific) 
with cytotoxic chemotherapy 
Missing information: Off 
Section  4.1  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
label use in patients with 
information  on  lack  of  use  of 
solid tumors (TLS specific) 
febuxostat  in  TLS  related  to  solid 
tumors. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3.0 is acceptable. 
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 26/28 
 
  
  
 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of 
a bridging report making reference to Adenuric. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been 
found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of febuxostat film coated tablet. The reference product Adenuric is 
indicated for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition has already 
occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis) and for the prevention and 
treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at 
intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS).]. No nonclinical studies have been provided for this 
application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was 
presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data 
on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; 
the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with  an open label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, 
two-period, two-sequence (TR and RT), single oral dose, crossover design. The study design was considered 
adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European 
requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were 
adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were 
adequate. 
The test formulation of Febuxostat Mylan met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared 
with Adenuric. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ 
and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range,  80.00 to 125.00%. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Febuxostat Mylan is favourable in the following indication: 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate 
deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 27/28 
 
  
  
 
Febuxostat Mylan (120 mg) is indicated for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients 
undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis 
Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated in adults 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, section 
4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/368110/2017 
Page 28/28 
 
  
  
 
 
