Summary of risk management plan for Febuxostat Krka 
(febuxostat) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Febuxostat  Krka.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Febuxostat Krka, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Febuxostat Krka's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Febuxostat Krka's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Febuxostat Krka should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Febuxostat Krka should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of  Febuxostat 
Krka’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Febuxostat Krka is authorised for treatment of hyperuricaemia (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains febuxostat as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Febuxostat Krka’s benefits can be found in Febuxostat 
Krka’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/febuxostat-krka. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Febuxostat  Krka  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Febuxostat Krka's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
  
 
 
The medicine’s legal status  — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Febuxostat Krka are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Febuxostat  Krka.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Serious skin / hypersensitivity reactions  
Rhabdomyolysis  
Important potential risks 
Drug-drug interaction with azathioprine or mercaptopurine  
Cardiovascular events  
Hepatic events  
Renal events  
Neuropsychiatric events  
Haematological / Bleeding events  
Thyroid events  
Missing information 
Children and adolescents  
Off label use in the paediatric population (TLS specific)  
Subjects  in  whom  the  rate  of  serum  urate  formation  is  greatly 
increased (e.g Lesch-Nyhan syndrome)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Organ transplantation 
Severe hepatic impairment  
Pregnancy and lactation  
Limited experience in: severe renal impairment, moderate hepatic 
impairment 
Interaction  with  standard  therapy  of  haematological  malignancies 
(TLS specific)  
Off label use in patients with solid tumors (TLS specific)  
II.B Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Febuxostat Krka. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Febuxostat Krka. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
