EMA/275310/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004374 
EPAR summary for the public 
Febuxostat Mylan 
febuxostat 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Febuxostat Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Febuxostat Mylan. 
For practical information about using Febuxostat Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Febuxostat Mylan and what is it used for? 
Febuxostat Mylan is a medicine used to treat adults with long-term hyperuricaemia (high levels of uric 
acid or ‘urate’ in the blood). Hyperuricaemia can lead to urate crystals forming and building up in the 
joints and the kidneys. When this happens in the joints and causes pain, it is known as ‘gout’. 
Febuxostat Mylan is used in patients who have signs of a build-up of crystals, including gouty arthritis 
(pain and inflammation in the joints) or tophi (‘stones’, larger deposits of urate crystals that can cause 
joint and bone damage).  
Febuxostat Mylan is also used to treat and prevent high levels of uric acid in the blood in adults with 
blood cancers who are receiving chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) and at risk of tumour lysis 
syndrome (a complication due to the breakdown of cancer cells causing a sudden rise of uric acid in 
the blood which can cause damage to the kidneys). 
Febuxostat Mylan contains the active substance febuxostat and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Febuxostat Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Adenuric. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Febuxostat Mylan used? 
Febuxostat Mylan is available as tablets (80 and 120 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription.  
For the treatment of long-term hyperuricaemia, the recommended dose of Febuxostat Mylan is 80 mg 
once a day. This usually reduces blood uric acid levels within two weeks, but the dose can be increased 
to 120 mg once a day if blood uric acid levels remain high (above 6 mg per decilitre) after two to four 
weeks. Attacks of gout can still occur during the first few months of treatment, so it is recommended 
that patients take other medicines to prevent attacks of gout for at least the first six months of 
treatment with Febuxostat Mylan. Febuxostat Mylan treatment should not be stopped if an attack of 
gout occurs. 
For the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in patients undergoing chemotherapy, the 
recommended dose is 120 mg once a day. Febuxostat Mylan should be started 2 days before 
chemotherapy and continued for at least 7 days. 
How does Febuxostat Mylan work? 
The active substance in Febuxostat Mylan, febuxostat, reduces the formation of uric acid. It works by 
blocking an enzyme called xanthine oxidase, which is needed to make uric acid in the body. By 
reducing the production of uric acid, Febuxostat Mylan can reduce levels of uric acid in the blood and 
keep them low, stopping crystals from building up. This can reduce the symptoms of gout. Keeping uric 
acid levels low for long enough can also shrink tophi. In patients who are on chemotherapy a reduction 
in uric acid levels is expected to reduce the risk of tumour lysis syndrome. 
How has Febuxostat Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Adenuric, and do not need to be repeated for Febuxostat 
Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Febuxostat Mylan. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Febuxostat Mylan? 
Because Febuxostat Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Febuxostat Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Febuxostat Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Adenuric. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Adenuric, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Febuxostat Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
Febuxostat Mylan  
EMA/275310/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Febuxostat Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Febuxostat Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet.   
Other information about Febuxostat Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Febuxostat Mylan on 15 June 2017. 
The full EPAR for Febuxostat Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Febuxostat Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Febuxostat Mylan  
EMA/275310/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
