31 January 2019 
EMA/123663/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Febuxostat Krka  
International non-proprietary name: febuxostat 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004773/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 15 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 16 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 21 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 21 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 22 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 22 
2.6. Product information ............................................................................................ 24 
2.6.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 24 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 24 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 25 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 2/26 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
  Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a DMF 
AP 
API 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
BCS  
MS 
CoA 
CRS 
DMF 
DP 
DSC 
EDQM 
HDPE 
HPLC 
ICH 
IPC 
IR 
KF  
LOA 
LOD 
LOQ 
LoQ 
MA 
MAA 
MAH 
MS 
ND 
NMR 
NMT 
OOS 
PDE 
PE 
PET/Al/PET/ 
LDPE 
Ph.Eur. 
PIL 
PP 
PVC 
QC 
QOS 
RH 
RMS 
RP 
RRT 
RSD 
SmPC   
TGA 
TLC 
UV 
XRPD 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Member State 
Certificate of Analysis 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Drug Master File = Active Substance Master File 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
High Density Polyethylene 
High Pressure Liquid Chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration 
of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
In-process control test 
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantification / Quantitation  
List of Questions 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mass Spectrometry 
Not detected 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Out of Specifications 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Polyethylene 
Polyethylene terephthalate/Aluminium/Polyethylene terephthalate/Low density  
polyethylene 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Patient Information Leaflet 
Polypropylene 
Poly vinyl chloride 
Quality Control 
Quality Overall Summary 
Relative Humidity 
Reference Member State 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of a DMF 
Relative retention time 
Relative standard deviation 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Thin layer chromatography 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 3/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 23 April 2018 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Febuxostat Krka, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 March 
2017. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10(2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, 
for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete 
dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
Febuxostat Krka 80 mg/Febuxostat Krka 120 mg is indicated for the treatment of chronic 
hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition has already occurred (including a history, or 
presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
Febuxostat Krka 120 mg is indicated for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult 
patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of 
Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Krka is indicated in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC) 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Adenuric instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: Adenuric  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strengths, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric, 80 mg, 120 mg, film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
Date of authorisation: 21-04-2008 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/447/001-024 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strengths, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric, 80 mg, 120 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
Date of authorisation: 21-04-2008 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 4/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/447/001-024 
• 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Adenuric, 120 mg, film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
Date of authorisation: 21-04-2008 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/08/447/003-004, 009-012, 019-024 
•  Bioavailability study number: 17-571 (Sponsor study-code) 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
John Joseph Borg 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
23 April 2018 
24 May 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
13 August 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
28 August 2018 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
20 September 2018 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
11 October 2018 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
19 November 2018 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
29 November 2018 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 5/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in an 
13 December 2018 
oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
03 January 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
16 January 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
24 January 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Febuxostat Krka on  
31 January 2019 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This is a marketing authorisation application of a generic febuxostat product. The indications sought for 
Febuxostat KrKa are the same as those of reference product Adenuric: 
Febuxostat  Krka  80  mg  is  only  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hyperuricaemia  in  conditions 
where urate deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty 
arthritis). 
Febuxostat Krka 120 mg is indicated: 
-  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hyperuricaemia  in  conditions  where  urate  deposition  has  already 
occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
-  for  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  hyperuricaemia  in  adult  patients  undergoing  chemotherapy  for 
haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Krka is indicated in adults. 
Posology 
Gout:  
The recommended oral dose of Febuxostat Krka is 80 mg once daily without regard to food. If serum 
uric acid is > 6 mg/dL (357 μmol/L) after 2-4 weeks, Febuxostat Krka 120 mg once daily may be 
considered. 
Febuxostat Krka works sufficiently quickly to allow retesting of the serum uric acid after 2 weeks. The 
therapeutic target is to decrease and maintain serum uric acid below 6 mg/dL (357 μmol/L). 
Gout flare prophylaxis of at least 6 months is recommended. 
Tumor Lysis Syndrome: 
The recommended oral dose of  Febuxostat Krka is 120 mg once daily without regard to food.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 6/26 
 
 
 
 
Febuxostat Krka should be started two days before the beginning of cytotoxic therapy and continued 
for a minimum of 7 days; however treatment may be prolonged up to 9 days according to 
chemotherapy duration as per clinical judgment. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in the elderly. 
Renal impairment 
The efficacy and safety have not been fully evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance <30 mL/min). 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
The efficacy and safety of febuxostat has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child Pugh Class C). 
Gout:  
The recommended dose in patients with mild hepatic impairment is 80 mg. Limited information is 
available in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. 
Tumour Lysis Syndrome:  
In the pivotal Phase III trial (FLORENCE) only subjects with severe hepatic insufficiency were excluded 
from trial participation. No dose adjustment was required for enrolled patients on the basis of hepatic 
function. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Febuxostat Krka in children below the age of 18 years have not been 
established.  
No data are available. 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of febuxostat 
Uric  acid  is  the  end  product  of  purine  metabolism  in  humans  and  is  generated  in  the  cascade  of 
hypoxanthine  →  xanthine  →  uric  acid.  Both  steps  in  the  above  transformations  are  catalyzed  by 
xanthine oxidase (XO). Febuxostat is a 2-arylthiazole derivative that achieves its therapeutic effect of 
decreasing  serum  uric  acid  by  selectively  inhibiting  XO.  Febuxostat  is  a  potent,  non-purine  selective 
inhibitor of XO (NP-SIXO) with an in vitro inhibition Ki value less than one nanomolar. Febuxostat has 
been  shown  to  potently  inhibit  both  the  oxidized  and  reduced  forms  of  XO.  At  therapeutic 
concentrations febuxostat does not inhibit other enzymes involved in purine or pyrimidine metabolism, 
namely, 
guanine 
deaminase, 
hypoxanthine 
guanine 
phosphoribosyltransferase, 
orotate 
phosphoribosyltransferase, 
orotidine  monophosphate  decarboxylase 
or  purine  nucleoside 
phosphorylase. 
The efficacy of febuxostat was demonstrated in three Phase 3 pivotal studies. 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
In healthy subjects, maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) and area under the plasma 
concentration time curve (AUC) of febuxostat increased in a dose proportional manner following single 
and multiple doses of 10 mg to 120 mg. For doses between 120 mg and 300 mg, a greater than dose 
proportional increase in AUC is observed for febuxostat. There is no appreciable accumulation when 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 7/26 
 
 
 
doses of 10 mg to 240 mg are administered every 24 hours. Febuxostat has an apparent mean 
terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) of approximately 5 to 8 hours. 
Population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analyses were conducted in 211 patients with 
hyperuricaemia and gout, treated with febuxostat 40-240 mg QD. In general, febuxostat 
pharmacokinetic parameters estimated by these analyses are consistent with those obtained from 
healthy subjects, indicating that healthy subjects are representative for 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic assessment in the patient population with gout. 
Absorption 
Febuxostat is rapidly (tmax of 1.0-1.5 h) and well absorbed (at least 84%). After single or multiple 
oral 80 and 120 mg once daily doses, Cmax is approximately 2.8-3.2 μg/mL, and 5.0-5.3 μg/mL, 
respectively. Absolute bioavailability of the febuxostat tablet formulation has not been studied. 
Following multiple oral 80 mg once daily doses or a single 120 mg dose with a high fat meal, there was 
a 49% and 38% decrease in Cmax and a 18% and 16% decrease in AUC, respectively. However, no 
clinically significant change in the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentration was observed 
where tested (80 mg multiple dose). Thus, febuxostat may be taken without regard to food. 
Distribution 
The apparent steady state volume of distribution (Vss/F) of febuxostat ranges from 29 to 75 L after 
oral doses of 10-300 mg. The plasma protein binding of febuxostat is approximately 99.2%, (primarily 
to albumin), and is constant over the concentration range achieved with 80 and 120 mg doses. Plasma 
protein binding of the active metabolites ranges from about 82% to 91%. 
Biotransformation 
Febuxostat is extensively metabolized by conjugation via uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase 
(UDPGT) enzyme system and oxidation via the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Four pharmacologically 
active hydroxyl metabolites have been identified, of which three occur in plasma of humans. In vitro 
studies with human liver microsomes showed that those oxidative metabolites were formed primarily 
by CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C8 or CYP2C9 and febuxostat glucuronide was formed mainly by UGT 1A1, 
1A8, and 1A9. 
Elimination 
Febuxostat is eliminated by both hepatic and renal pathways. Following an 80 mg oral dose of 14C-
labeled febuxostat, approximately 49% of the dose was recovered in the urine as unchanged 
febuxostat (3%), the acyl glucuronide of the active substance (30%), its known oxidative metabolites 
and their conjugates (13%), and other unknown metabolites (3%). In addition to the urinary 
excretion, approximately 45% of the dose was recovered in the faeces as the unchanged febuxostat 
(12%), the acyl glucuronide of the active substance (1%), its known oxidative metabolites and their 
conjugates (25%), and other unknown metabolites (7%). 
Renal impairment 
Following multiple doses of 80 mg of febuxostat in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal 
impairment, the Cmax of febuxostat did not change, relative to subjects with normal renal function. 
The mean total AUC of febuxostat increased by approximately 1.8-fold from 7.5 μg
h/mL in the normal 
renal function group to 13.2 μg.h/mL in the severe renal dysfunction group. The Cmax and AUC of 
⋅
active metabolites increased up to 2- and 4-fold, respectively. However, no dose adjustment is 
necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 8/26 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Following multiple doses of 80 mg of febuxostat in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate 
(Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, the Cmax and AUC of febuxostat and its metabolites did not 
change significantly compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. No studies have been 
conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). 
Age 
There were no significant changes observed in AUC of febuxostat or its metabolites following multiple 
oral doses of febuxostat in elderly as compared to younger healthy subjects. 
Gender 
Following multiple oral doses of febuxostat, the Cmax and AUC were 24% and 12% higher in females 
than in males, respectively. However, weight-corrected Cmax and AUC were similar between the 
genders. No dose adjustment is needed based on gender. 
Aspects on the development programme 
To support the marketing authorisation application, the Applicant has submitted a bioequivalence study 
conducted with the 120 mg strength. The reference product is Adenuric 120 mg film-coated tablets. 
A biowaiver was requested for the additional strength 80 mg. 
The  applicant  did  not  receive  CHMP  or  national  Scientific  Advice  pertinent  to  the  development 
programme. 
The finished product febuxostat film-coated tablets is presented in the form of immediate release film 
coated tablets for oral administration and is available in 2 strengths, defined by the quantity of drug 
substance febuxostat, i.e. 80 mg and 120 mg.  
Drug substance febuxostat in the medicinal product is in an anhydrous crystalline polymorphic form.  
Febuxostat film-coated tablets 80 mg and 120 mg have been developed and manufactured by Krka, 
d.d., Novo mesto, Slovenia.  
The applicant has applied for the following pack sizes: 14, 28, 56, and 84 film-coated tablets. All pack 
sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 80 mg or 120 mg of febuxostat as 
active substance.  
Other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, croscarmellose 
sodium, colloidal hydrated silica, magnesium stearate. 
Film coating: poly(vinyl alcohol), macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc, red iron oxide (E172) 
(80 mg), yellow iron oxide (E172) (120 mg). 
The product is available in PVC/PVDC/PVC//Al blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 9/26 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of febuxostat is 2-(3-cyano-4-isobutyloxyphenyl)-4-methylthiazole-5-carboxylic 
acid corresponding to the molecular formula C 16H16N2O3S. It has a relative molecular mass of 316.37 
g/mol and the following structure:  
Figure 1: Active substance structure 
The chemical structure of febuxostat was elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis and the 
following spectroscopic methods: infrared (IR), Raman, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), mass 
spectrometry (MS) and UV. The solid state properties of the active substance were measured by X-ray 
powder diffraction (XRPD) and melting point. 
The active substance is a white crystalline powder, with needle to thin plate shaped particles, slightly 
hygroscopic, soluble at room temperature in acetone, sparingly soluble in ethyl acetate and 1-octanol, 
slightly soluble in ethanol and methanol and insoluble in water. Febuxostat is insoluble in aqueous 
buffers with pH at 1.0 and 4.5 and slightly soluble in aqueous buffer with pH 7.5 at 37°C. 
Febuxostat possesses no optical isomers. Polymorphism has been observed for febuxostat. It is known 
to exist in different crystalline forms and in an amorphous form. All the known crystalline forms 
(hydrate, solvate or anhydrous) were described with literature sources and with their solvent of 
crystallization. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturer consistently produces an anhydrous 
crystalline form of febuxostat, which is obtained by the defined process parameters and solvent system 
used. The polymorphic form is controlled in the active substance specification by an XRPD method. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. Febuxostat is synthesized in two main stages (five 
chemical synthetic steps) using well defined starting materials with acceptable specifications. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. The characterisation 
of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of new 
active substances. Potential and actual impurities, including potential genotoxic impurities, were well 
discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. An appropriate control strategy for impurities 
has been proposed. The active substance is packaged in four-layer bags constructed of 
PET/Al/PET/LDPE, which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended, and 
placed into carton drums. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identification (IR, HPLC), impurities 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC), water (KF), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), FBX oxime acid impurity (HPLC), residual 
solvents (GC), polymorphic form (XRPD), particle size (laser diffraction) and microbiological quality 
(Ph.Eur.). 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 10/26 
 
 
 
 
 
Impurities are controlled according to ICH Q3A and appropriate specifications have been set. Test for 
heavy metals is omitted from specification in line with ICH Q3D. The analytical methods used have 
been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data (n=3 production scale) of the active substance are provided. The results are within 
the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from three production scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial package for up to 48 months under long term conditions (25ºC / 
60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided. Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one 
batch. The active substance is photostable. 
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identification, water content, impurities, assay and 
polymorph content. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability 
indicating. All tested parameters were within the specifications. 
Results from forced degradation studies under stressed (acidic, basic, oxidation, light and heat 
conditions) were also provided as part of the HPLC assay and impurities analytical method validation. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 60 months when stored in 
the proposed container at a temperature below 25ºC.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Febuxostat 80 mg film-coated tablets are presented as off pink, oval, biconvex, film-coated tablets 
scored on one side. Tablet dimension: approximately 16 mm × 8 mm. 
Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated tablets are presented as brownish yellow, slightly biconvex, capsule 
shaped film-coated tablets scored on both sides. Tablet dimension: approximately 19 mm × 8 mm. 
The score lines are to facilitate breaking for ease of swallowing and not to divide into equal doses.  
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients 
is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
This application for Febuxostat 80 mg and 120 mg film-coated tablets is a generic application, made 
according to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, claiming bioequivalence to the reference medicinal 
product Adenuric 80 mg and 120 mg film-coated tablets (MAH: Menarini International Operations 
Luxembourg S.A). The reference medicinal product was first authorised in the EU in April 2008. 
The aim of the formulation development programme was to design bioequivalent, effective and safe 
generic alternative to the reference medicinal product of specified quality and a simple and 
reproducible technological procedure to consistently deliver the intended performance of the medicinal 
product. The pharmaceutical development followed a traditional approach. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 11/26 
 
 
 
 
The main difference between the reference product and proposed formulation is the form of active 
substance febuxostat in finished product; both forms of febuxostat are anhydrous forms. To avoid 
patent infringement a different polymorphic form of the active substance was used in the formulation. 
A comparison of the final Febuxostat film-coated tablets (Krka) and reference product Adenuric film 
coated tablets (Menarini, source: SmPC, www.ema.europa.eu) compositions is provided in Table 1. 
Table 1 Comparison of test and reference product compositions 
In the proposed formulation, the active substance is presented in an anhydrous crystalline polymorphic 
form. Batch analysis data and XRPD testing confirm that the polymorphic form of febuxostat remains 
unchanged during manufacturing process and on stability testing. Based on the provided data, 
omission of determination of polymorphic form of active substance in finished product specification is 
justified. 
Febuxostat is a BCS Class 2 (high permeability, low solubility) active substance according to the 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS). As particle size could potentially influence the solubility 
and consequently, dissolution and bioavailability of febuxostat from the finished product the influence 
of particle size of febuxostat on dissolution profiles was evaluated. On the basis of these results it was 
concluded that there is no influence of particle size of febuxostat on the manufacturing process or 
performance of the finished product, product.  An appropriate active substance specification, based on 
the particle size distribution of febuxostat used to manufacture the bio-batch of test product used in 
the bioequivalence study, has been set. 
During the development of the formulation, physical characteristics of excipients, granules, 
compression mixtures and tablet cores were studied in order to evaluate the influence on the 
manufacturing process and performance of the finished product. The selected formulation was carefully 
studied during the production of small scale batches to determine the technological parameters and 
requirements. Scale-up to pilot scale was carried out. The influence of the hardness on the dissolution 
profile was investigated. Further scale up to production scale batches was conducted. These batches 
were used in in-vivo bioequivalence study and for ICH stability testing which were produced by the 
same manufacturing process using the same type of equipment. 
The higher strength, Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated tablets formulation was proven to be 
bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product Adenuric 120 mg film-coated tablets in in vivo 
bioequivalence study under fasting condition () in accordance with the Guideline on the investigation of 
bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 1/ Corr**). The study was conducted in compliance 
with current GCP and GLP standards. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 12/26 
 
 
 
 
The applicant requested a biowaiver for Febuxostat 80 mg film-coated tablets based on the proven 
bioequivalence of the Febuxostat 120mg film coated tablets and the fulfilment of the following 
requirements of the Guideline of Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The different test products are manufactured by the same manufacturing process;  
The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same;  
The composition of the strengths are quantitatively proportional, the ratio between the amount 
of each excipient to the amount of active substance is the same for all strengths;  
Febuxostat demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics. 
The two strengths demonstrated similar dissolution profiles under all tested conditions across 
the physiological pH range. 
The development of the QC dissolution test method was guided by the recommendations of relevant 
chapters 2.9.3 (Dissolution test for solid dosage forms) and 5.17.1 (Recommendations on dissolution 
testing) of the European Pharmacopoeia and relevant sections of EMA guideline 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98Rev.1/Corr**. In compliance with the above guidance, the basic criteria 
which governed the choice of the dissolution method (apparatus, medium, volume, stirring rate) was 
the discriminatory power of the method, reflecting in vivo conditions, fulfilment of ‘sink conditions’, 
complete release of the drug substance within a specified time and appropriate robustness for routine 
QC testing. The discriminatory power of the dissolution method was investigated by performing 
dissolution testing of batches with changes in the composition and the manufacturing process of 
Febuxostat 120 mg film-coated tablets. In response to questions raised during the procedure the 
applicant performed additional investigations and development work and updated the method. The 
final selected dissolution method for QC testing was shown to be discriminatory. 
The  primary  packaging  is  PVC/PVDC/PVC/Al  blisters.  The  material  complies  with  Ph.Eur.  and  EC 
requirements.  The  choice  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been  validated  by  stability  data  and  is 
adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of seven main steps: mixing and homogenizing, granulation (fluid 
bed  granulation)  and  drying,  sieving,  blending,  compression,  coating  and  packaging.  The  process  is 
considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. 
Proposed  holding  times  have  been  justified  and  validated.  Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process 
have been validated by a  number of studies at minimum production scale. It has been demonstrated 
that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the  finished  product  of  intended  quality  in  a 
reproducible  manner.  A  further  three  batches  will  be  validated  at  maximum production  scale  prior  to 
commercialisation in line with the submitted validation scheme  
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications shown  in  Table  3  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of 
dosage form; appearance, uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur., water (Ph. Eur.), identification (HPLC, 
TLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  dissolution  (Ph.  Eur.),  microbiological  quality  (Ph. 
Eur.). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used 
for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 13/26 
 
 
 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial scale batches of each strength confirming the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three production scale batches of each strength of  finished product stored for up to 
12  months  under  long  term  conditions  (25  ºC  /  60%  RH)  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated 
conditions  (40  ºC  /  75%  RH)  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  These  batches  are 
identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  the  primary  packaging  proposed  for 
marketing.  Samples  were  tested  for  in  line  with  the  proposed  shelf-life  specifications.  The  analytical 
procedures used are stability indicating. No significant changes have been observed. 
In  addition,  one  batch  of  each  strength  was  exposed  to  light  as  defined  in  the  ICH  Guideline  on 
Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. A bulk stability study was performed on 
one  batch  per  strength  at  long  term  and  accelerated  conditions  which  supports  the  claimed  holding 
time for bulk product. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months, without any special storage 
conditions, as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose monohydrate used in the formulation is of animal origin and is TSE/BSE 
free and that magnesium stearate used in the formulation is of vegetable origin and is TSE/BSE free. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 14/26 
 
 
 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. During the assessment, the applicant was 
requested to present data to substantiate the claim that an increase in environmental exposure of the 
active substance would not be expected. The applicant has provided an updated ERA showing the 
febuxostat consumption data for EU countries in the last four years, to support the notion that the 
marketing authorization of this additional generic product will not significantly change the increase of 
environmental burden, since the demand for a compound on the market would stay approximately the 
same regardless of the number of products available on the market. The overall consumption data for 
febuxostat in the European countries demonstrate that the concentration of febuxostat entering the 
surface waters via excretion of the treated patients exceeds the phase II trigger value of 0.01 μg/L, 
therefore an ERA phase II is required.  
As a result of the above considerations, the available data do not allow to conclude definitively on the 
potential risk of febuxostat to the environment.  
The applicant commits to perform the following studies as follow-up measures: ERA phase II studies by 
the end of year 2021. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of febuxostat are well known. As 
febuxostat is a widely used, well-known active substance, the applicant has not provided additional 
studies and further studies are not required. Overview based on literature review is, thus, appropriate.  
As the overall consumption data for febuxostat in the European countries demonstrate that the 
concentration of febuxostat entering the surface waters via excretion of the treated patients exceeds 
the phase II trigger value of 0.01 μg/L the applicant commits to perform ERA phase II studies by the 
end of year 2021.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects are considered adequate to support this application. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing febuxostat. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in its current version, is of particular relevance.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 15/26 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Exemption  
The applicant has performed and submitted one bioequivalence study using the highest strength 
(120mg) and has requested a biowaiver for the lower strength 80mg based on the proven 
bioequivalence of the febuxostat 120mg film-coated tablets and the fulfilment of the following 
requirements of the Guideline of Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1): 
•  Both strengths of Febuxostat KrKa film-coated tablets (80 mg and 120 mg) are manufactured 
by the same manufacturer at the same manufacturing site using similar manufacturing 
process. 
The qualitative composition of the two strengths is the same.  
The composition of the strengths are quantitatively proportional, the ratio between the amount 
of each excipient to the amount of active substance is the same for all strengths.  
• 
• 
•  Appropriate dissolution data was submitted by the applicant. 
Considering the linearity in the pharmacokinetics of febuxostat, the CHMP concluded that it was 
sufficient to establish bioequivalence with only one strength. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study 17-571 (BEF-470-17) – Comparative, Randomised, Single dose, 2-way crossover bioavailability 
study of febuxostat 120mg tablet formulation tablets in healthy volunteers under fasting conditions 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomised, laboratory blinded, two-way, single centre, balanced, single dose, crossover 
comparative oral bioavailability study to establish comparative bioequivalence of Febuxostat 120mg 
film coated tablets  and Adenuric 120mg film coated tablets (Febuxostat, MAH: Menanrini International 
Luxembourg) in 50 healthy, adult male and female human subjects under fasting conditions.  
The objective of the study was to compare the rate and extent of absorption of both products and to 
monitor the adverse events to ensure the safety of the subjects.  
Based on the randomised schedule and following an overnight fast of at least 10 hours in both periods 
each volunteer received a single oral dose of Febuxostat 120mg film coated tablets in period I and 
either one tablet of the reference or test product in period II.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 16/26 
 
 
 
 
Test and reference products  
Febuxostat 120mg film coated tablets manufactured by Krka d.d. Novo Mesto Slovenia and Adenuric 
120mg film coated tablets manufactured by  Menanrini-Von Heyden . 
Table 2 Test and reference product information 
Population(s) studied 
Main inclusion criteria: Healthy male and female subjects ≥ 18 and ≤ 55 years of age, with Body Mass 
Index within 18.5-30 kg/m2, Caucasian race, non-smokers.  
Subjects were in good health as determined by the medical history, complete physical examination 
(including vital signs), electrocardiogram (ECG) and clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemical 
profile, urinalysis), including negative serum pregnancy test (for female subjects), negative Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C tests at screening and negative urine screen 
for drugs of abuse, alcohol test, cotinine test and serum pregnancy test (for female subjects) at check-
in of each period. 
Fifty (50) healthy adult human male and female subjects were enrolled as per the protocol whilst 47 
subjects completed both study periods.  
•  One female subject was withdrawn from the study by the investigator in period 1 due to 
adverse events (nausea, vomiting and headache). Her febuxostat plasma concentration data 
up to the withdrawal are reported in the Bioanalytical report assessed by the CHMP. 
• 
Two male subjects withdrew themselves, from the study by not attending the Check-in Period 
2 due to private reasons. At that time subjects were contacted via telephone and stated, that 
they are feeling well and decided not to attend end-of-study clinical laboratory tests. Due to 
self-withdrawal, their plasma samples were not subjected to the bioanalysis of febuxostat. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 17/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analytical methods 
Analysis of febuxostat was performed using test method ASP/17-571(FSS). This HPLC/MS/MS method 
involved the extraction of febuxostat and the respective internal standards from human plasma.  
Storage period of study samples  
Dosing started on the 28 November 2017 and the bioanalysis was performed between 11 December 
2017 to 20 December 2017. 
The long-term stability of febuxostat in human plasma covers 63 days at -20°C.  
Two thousand five hundred and fifty nine (2569) samples were expected according to the protocol 
however 2515 blood samples were received (54 missing samples). The missing samples have been 
adequately justified by the Applicant (drop outs and missed blood draws). Twenty three (23) samples 
were re-assayed and the reason for their repeats was documented and adequately presented.  
Bioanalytical report 
The bioanalytical report was submitted with 20% of the subject chromatograms presented as well as 
the method SOPs. A certificate of analysis for the internal standards and the reference standards of 
febuxostat have been provided and are deemed acceptable.  
Incurred Sample Reanalysis 
One hundred and seventy six (176) samples for Febuxostat were identified for incurred sample 
reanalysis. 95.5% are the percentage of samples for all three API’s where the difference between the 
two values was less than 20% of the mean for chromatographic assays or less than 30% for the ligand 
binding assays.  
Validation of the test method 
The method has been validated (VR/FSS-4P/01 (R01)) and revised twice. 
The following parameters were addressed: Specificity and selectivity, Linearity including calibration 
curve, limit of quantification including accuracy and precision, precision (intra and inter day), accuracy 
(intra and inter day), recovery of the analyte and internal standard,  matrix effect (accuracy and 
precision in human plasma, haemolysed human plasma, lipaemic human plasma), reinjection 
reproducibility, dilution integrity including accuracy and precision, freeze thaw stability (4 cycles), auto 
sampler storage stability, bench top stability, extraction procedure stability, storage stability at -80°C, 
long stability in biological matrix at -20°C, short term stability in the biological matrix at +5°C and at 
sample processing temperature,  short term and long term stock and working solutions stability (of 
analyte and internal standard methanol) at -20°C and at +5°C respectively.  
Each parameter has been assessed and the limits are justified. They were deemed acceptable by the 
CHMP.  
Assay specificity in the presence of the following concomitantly administered compounds was 
assessed: Acetaminophen (12000.00ng/mL) and Ibuprofen (32000.00 ng/mL). No significant 
interference was observed.  
The influence of metabolites of Febuxostat (Febuxostat Acyl-ß-D-glucuronide) was also observed.  
In summary, the CHMP was of the opinion that the analytical methods used were acceptable and 
appropriate. The chromatograms presented are acceptable and the re-analysed samples have been 
adequately justified. The calibration curves are appropriate and the stability testing supports the 
conditions the samples were exposed to during collection and testing. The applicant has also provided 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 18/26 
 
 
 
all the validation reports and relevant supportive data together with certificates of analysis for the 
analyte standard and internal standards used in the analytical method validation. The relevant SOPs 
have been provided and deemed valid. The Incurred sample reanalysis was provided as well as 
information on the partial revalidation of the method. These are deemed acceptable. Co-administered 
drug effect was also carried out as part of validation and no significant interference was observed.  
The method was audited on 22 February 2018 and the outcome was satisfactory. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
• 
Primary parameters:  Cmax and AUC0-72,  
•  Secondary parameters:  AUC0-∞, Tmax, residual area, λZ and T1/2. 
•  Bioequivalence criteria: The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean AUC 0-t, and Cmax 
of the test and reference product should be at least 80.00% and not more than 125.00% for 
log-transformed data. 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the pharmacokinetic variables are adequate for the study. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed on the ln-transformed AUCt, AUCi and Cmax parameters 
for febuxostat. Consistent with the two one-sided tests for bioequivalence, 90% confidence intervals 
was calculated for the Test to Reference ratios of least-squares means for parameters AUCt, AUCi and 
Cmax using ln-transformed data. 
Criteria for Bioequivalence: 
Statistical inference of febuxostat was based on a bioequivalence approach using the following 
standards: 
Bioequivalence was concluded if the 90% geometric confidence intervals of the ratio (Test/Reference) 
of least-squares means derived from analyses on the ln-transformed PK parameters AUCt and Cmax 
for febuxostat were within 80.00% – 125.00% range.  
Descriptive statistics were also done for all pharmacokinetic parameters. 
ANOVA model: 
Fixed factors: sequence, period, treatment, subject (nested within sequence)  
Safety: Descriptive statistics. 
The CHMP was of the opinion that appropriate variables were measured. The statistical methodology is 
endorsed.  
The sampling schedule provides adequate estimation of Cmax. Statistical data and a graphical 
representation to cover the plasma concentration time curve long enough to provide an estimate of the 
extent of absorption, have been provided.   
Results 
Table 3 Pharmacokinetic parameters for Febuxostat 120mg n=47 (non-transformed values) 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 19/26 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Statistical analysis for Febuxostat 120mg n=47 (ln-transformed values) 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of test and reference 
product (least-squares means) derived from the analysis of log transformed pharmacokinetic 
parameters  AUC0-t and Cmax were within 80-125% acceptance range for febuxostat. This is in line 
with the requirements of the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 01/Corr **). Bioequivalence with the parent compound Febuxostat has 
been shown. 
Safety data 
A total of 8 post-dose adverse events were reported by 4 (8%) of the 50 subjects who received at 
least one dose of the study medication (safety population). Two cases of “headache” was reported by 
4.1% (n=2) of the 49 subjects who received treatment A and by 4.2% (n=2) of the 48 subjects who 
received treatment B. Two cases of “nausea” and two cases of ”vomiting” were reported by 4.1% 
(n=2) of the 49 subjects who received treatment A. 
The severity of 6 (six) registered AEs was graded as “moderate”, and the severity of 2 (two) registered 
AEs was graded as “mild”. The two cases of “headache” were graded as “mild” and two cases were 
graded as “moderate“, two cases of “nausea” and two cases of “vomiting” were graded as “moderate”. 
The relationship with the study medication of all adverse events was judged as “possible”. 
AE resolved completely by the end of the study and the subjects recovered without a treatment. 
No severe adverse events, serious adverse events or deaths occurred during the study. 
Upon conclusion of the clinical portion of the study, the results from the subjects who completed end of 
study procedures, including laboratory tests and vital signs measurements confirmed the absence of 
significant changes in the subject’s state of health. No new safety concerns related to administered 
formulations were raised during the conduct of this study. 
Table 5 Adverse events 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 20/26 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP commented that there were no other screening or post-study laboratory results outside of 
normal range that were deemed clinically significant by the Investigator. 
The two treatments were well tolerated by the subjects (in both periods) enrolled in the study. The 
adverse events mentioned above are all included in the SmPC and there are no new concerns arising 
from this study. The two products had similar safety profiles. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the test formulation Febuxostat 120mg film coated 
tablets of Krka d.d. Slovenia is considered bioequivalent with the reference Adenuric 120mg film 
coated tablets.   
The results of study 17-571 with Febuxostat 120mg formulation can be extrapolated to the 80mg, 
according to conditions in the relevant Guideline.  
The two treatments were well tolerated by the subjects (in both periods) enrolled in the study. The 
adverse events mentioned above are all included in the SmPC and there are no new concerns arising 
from this study. The two products had similar safety profiles. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of test and reference product (least-squares means) 
derived from the analysis of log transformed pharmacokinetic parameters  AUC0-t and Cmax were 
within 80-125% acceptance range for Febuxostat.  
This is in line with the requirements of the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 01/Corr **). 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 21/26 
 
 
 
 
 
The results of study 17-571 with Febuxostat 120mg formulation can be extrapolated to the other 80mg 
strength, according to conditions in the relevant Guidelines.  
The two treatments were well tolerated by the subjects (in both periods) enrolled in the study. The 
adverse events mentioned above are all included in the SmPC and there are no new concerns arising 
from this study. The two products had similar safety profiles. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the test formulation Febuxostat 120mg film coated 
tablets of Krka d.d. Slovenia is considered bioequivalent with the reference Adenuric 120mg film 
coated tablets.   
The results of study 17-571 with Febuxostat 120mg formulation can be extrapolated to the other 80mg 
strength, according to conditions in the relevant Guideline.  
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 22/26 
 
 
 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Serious skin / hypersensitivity reactions  
Rhabdomyolysis  
Important potential risks 
Drug-drug interaction with azathioprine or mercaptopurine  
Cardiovascular events  
Hepatic events  
Renal events  
Neuropsychiatric events  
Haematological / Bleeding events  
Thyroid events  
Missing information 
Children and adolescents  
Off label use in the paediatric population (TLS specific)  
Subjects  in  whom  the  rate  of  serum  urate  formation  is  greatly 
increased (e.g Lesch-Nyhan syndrome)  
Organ transplantation 
Severe hepatic impairment  
Pregnancy and lactation  
Limited  experience  in:  severe  renal  impairment,  moderate  hepatic 
impairment 
Interaction  with  standard  therapy  of  haematological  malignancies 
(TLS specific)  
Off label use in patients with solid tumors (TLS specific)  
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable, there are no studies in the pharmacovigilance plan.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Not applicable, there are no additional risk minimisation measures in the risk management plan and 
routine risk minimisation is aligned with the originator.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 23/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.2 is acceptable.  
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.6.  Product information 
2.6.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of febuxostat Film-coated tablet. The reference product 
Adenuric is indicated for “Treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition 
has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis)” and for the 
“prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for 
haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS)”. “ADENURIC is 
indicated in adults.” No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate 
summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; 
the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published 
literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a Comparative, Randomised, Single dose, 2-way 
crossover bioavailability study of febuxostat 120mg tablet formulation tablets in healthy volunteers 
under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of 
this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling 
points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Febuxostat KrKa met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the reference product Adenuric. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals 
for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance 
range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 24/26 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Febuxostat Krka is favourable in the following indication: 
“Febuxostat Krka is indicated for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate 
deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis). 
Febuxostat Krka is indicated for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients 
undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis 
Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Krka is indicated in adults.” 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription  
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/123663/2019  
Page 26/26 
 
 
 
