SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
 Introduction 
Hepatitis B represents one of the world’s most common and serious infectious diseases. World-wide, 
over 350 million people are currently estimated to be persistent carriers of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and each year approximately 1 million persons die from the chronic sequelae of HBV infection, i.e. 
liver cirrhosis and hepatocarcinoma. 
The  classical  hepatitis  B  vaccines  have  an  acceptable  safety  and  immunogenicity  profile  with 
seroprotection  rates  above  95%.  However,  certain  sub-populations  (some  healthy  people,  liver 
transplant patients or patients with renal insufficiency) were identified in whom the immune response 
to hepatitis B vaccination was impaired compared to healthy subjects. In these particular subgroups, 
there is thus a medical need for a more immunogenic hepatitis B vaccine. 
There  are  approximately  250,000  chronic  haemodialysis  patients  in  the  European  Union  and  the 
number of patients starting haemodialysis each year is evaluated to be 50,000. These numbers are still 
increasing by around 4% per year, which may be partly explained by the increase of age expectancy 
and  of  the  prevalence  of  diabetes  mellitus  and  hypertension  in  the  general  population.  In 
haemodialysis  patients,  exposure  to  potentially  contaminated  blood  products  and  medical  devices 
during  the  process  of  haemodialysis  can  be  anticipated.  These  subjects  can  be  considered  as  a 
population  at  high  risk  of  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  infection.  Once  infected,  about  60%  of 
haemodialysis patients will become chronic carriers of the hepatitis B antigen (vs 5-10% of the healthy 
adults), increasing the risk of contamination for other haemodialysis patients, medical personnel and 
family  members.  Attempts  to  overcome  the  lower  immune  response  in  haemodialysis  patients  have 
produced  mixed  results.  An  increased  dose  strategy  with  additional  injections  was  found  to  be 
necessary to improve the response rate in these subjects. After vaccination, anti-HBs antibody levels 
of  haemodialysis  patients  are  monitored  in  order  to  ensure  that  antibody  titres  remain  above  the 
protective level of 10 mIU/ml. Additional vaccine doses should be administered if anti-HBs titres fall 
below the seroprotective level. 
In  order  to  improve  the  immune  response  to  the  hepatitis  B  surface  antigen  (HBsAg), 
GlaxoSmithKline  Biologicals  (GSK  Bio)  has  developed  Fendrix,  a  hepatitis  B  vaccine  containing 
HBsAg  adjuvanted  with  3-O-desacyl-4'-monophosphoryl  lipid  A  (MPL)  and  aluminium  phosphate 
and  submitted  an  application  for  a  marketing  authorisation  in  accordance  with  Art  8.3  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC.  The  adjuvant  system  used  (aluminium  phosphate  and  MPL)  is  called  AS04C  and 
enhances the immunogenicity of HBsAg. 
Fendrix is indicated for active immunisation against hepatitis B virus infection (HBV) caused by all 
known subtypes for patients with renal insufficiency (including pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis 
patients), from the age of 15 years onwards. 
A  four  dose  schedule,  with  immunisations  at  1  month,  2  months  and  6 months from the date of the 
first  dose,  is  recommended  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  (including  pre-haemodialysis  and 
haemodialysis patients). As pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients are particularly exposed to 
HBV  and  have  a  higher  risk  to  become  chronically  infected,  a  precautionary  attitude  should  be 
considered  i.e.  giving  a  booster  dose  in  order  to  ensure  a  protective  antibody  level  as  defined  by 
national recommendations and guidelines. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  finished  product  is  a  slightly  opaque,  white  suspension  for  intramuscular  injection.  One  dose 
(0.5 ml)  of  Fendrix  contains  20  µg  HBsAg  (rDNA)  adjuvanted  by  MPL  (50  µg)  and  aluminium 
phosphate.  Both  HBsAg  and  MPL  are  adsorbed  on  aluminium  phosphate  (0.5  milligrams  Al3+  in 
total). 
1/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The product is presented in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper (rubber butyl) and 
contains sodium chloride and water for injections as excipients. 
Active Substance 
The HBsAg component is the same active substance as used for the manufacture of Engerix-B and the 
combined vaccines Ambirix, Twinrix, Tritanrix-HepB and Infanrix-HepB. As a consequence, the data 
for  the  HBsAg  component  have  already  been  submitted  and  approved  as  part  of  several  centralised 
Marketing  Authorisation  Applications  and  subsequent  variations.  Therefore  the  details  on  the 
manufacturing  process  and  purification,  specifications  and  stability  of  the  HBsAg  are  only  briefly 
summarised below. 
• 
Manufacturing process and purification 
The  HBsAg  purified  bulk  is  manufactured  by  GSK  Bio,  Rixensart,  Belgium  A  two-tiered  seed  lot 
system is used, consisting of a Master Seed and a Working Seed.  The surface antigen of the hepatitis 
B virus (HBV) is produced from cultures of genetically engineered yeast cells (S. cerevisiae) carrying 
the gene encoding the major surface antigen of the HBV. The HBsAg is extracted from the yeast cells 
and further purified by several physico-chemical steps. The HBsAg assembles spontaneously, in the 
absence of chemical treatment, into spherical particles of 20 nm in average diameter containing non-
glycosylated HBsAg polypeptide and a lipid matrix consisting mainly of phospholipids. The HBsAg 
purified bulks are produced at two different manufacturing scales in separate buildings but the same 
production method is applied in both facilities. 
Appropriate  in-process  controls  during  fermentation,  extraction  and  purification  are  in  place.  The 
sanitisation methods for the chromatography columns and the column lifetimes have been validated. 
The validation of the production method was shown by test results performed during production and 
on  the  purified  active  substance.  These  results  demonstrate  that  the  fermentation  and  purification 
processes feature a good reproducibility at both manufacturing scales. 
Potential  product  or  process  related  impurities  are  controlled  by  the  specifications  set  as  described 
below. 
• 
Specifications 
The active substance is controlled for appearance, identity (ELISA and SDS-PAGE), pH, purity (SDS-
PAGE), sterility, antigenic activity (ELISA), caesium , polysaccharide, endotoxin (LAL), thiomersal , 
protein, lipid and Tween 20 content. 
Detailed validation data on the endotoxin test (LAL) and sterility test have been provided. In addition 
summarised information has been provided regarding the validation of the tests for antigenic activity 
by  ELISA,  identity  and  purity  by  SDS-PAGE,  quantification  of  protein,  caesium,  polysaccharide, 
lipids and Tween 20. 
Results from analysis of consecutive batches manufactured at both production scales  were  within the 
specification limits, and thereby demonstrating adequate batch-to-batch consistency. The specification 
for the specific antigen activity will be tightened to be more representative of HBsAg bulk analysis. 
With regard to the company’s current HBsAg reference standard for ELISA (HEP 456), it was noted 
that this standard had been calibrated against the company’s previous HBsAg reference standard. The 
latter  had  been  calibrated  against  the  1st  WHO  International  Standard.  Since  not  only  the  standards 
(currently  2nd  WHO  International  Standard)  but  also  the  method  (from  RIA  to  ELISA)  has  been 
changed,  the  applicant  committed  to  re-calibrate  their  current  reference  against  the  2nd  WHO 
International Standard using ELISA. 
In addition, a trend analysis documenting the stability of the company’s critical standards used for 
HBsAg identity and quantification and impurities (SDS-PAGE) will be performed.  
2/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability 
Taking into account the stability results presented and the approval of the extension of the storage time 
of the Engerix-B HBsAg purified bulk from 3 months to 6 months, a shelf-life of 6 months at +2 to +8 
ºC is accepted for the Fendrix HBsAg bulk. 
The  HBsAg  purified  bulk  is  stored  in  10  L  Duran  Schott  Type  I  glass  bottles  with  a  polypropylene 
screw cap. 
Adjuvant 
MPL is derived from the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of the R595 strain of Salmonella minnesota. LPS 
molecules  consist  of  three  covalently  linked  regions  namely  lipid  A,  a  core  oligosaccharide  and  O-
specific polysaccharide chains. Lipid A, the lipid domain found in all bacterial lipopolysaccharides, is 
responsible  for  the  biological  properties  (e.g.  lethal  toxicity,  pyrogenicity,  complement  activation, 
adjuvanticity and B lymphocyte mitogenicity). 
The  4’-monophosphorylated  form  of  lipid  A  (MLA)  obtained  by  acid  hydrolysis  of  such  LPS  was 
found  to  retain  its  adjuvant  properties  in  both  young  mice  and  immunodeficient  ageing  mice,  while 
having  a  much  reduced  toxicity,  as  determined  by  chicken  embryo  toxicity  test.  MLA  is  closely 
related to MPL. 
A further detoxification of the MLA can be obtained by removing the ester-linked fatty acids by mild 
alkaline treatment. This treatment results in the formation of 3-O-desacyl-4’-monophosphoryl lipid A 
(MPL),  which  has  maintained  its  immunostimulatory  activity.  Because  of  biosynthetic  variability  in 
the  assembly  of  the  lipid  A  moiety  and  loss  of  fatty  acids  from  the  lipid  A  backbone  during  the 
hydrolytic steps in the manufacturing process, MPL is, in fact, a mixture of closely related structures  
called congeners.  
MPL is supplied as a non-sterile lyophilized triethylamine salt of MPL (TEA MPL); TEA enhances 
the dispersal of MPL in water. 
• 
Development genetics and cell bank system 
The  R595  mutant  strain  of  S.  minnesota  was  isolated  originally  from  a  liquid  culture  of  the  parent 
(smooth)  strain  by  Schlosshardt  et  al.  (1966).  The  isolation  procedure  involved  growing  the  parent 
strain  in  culture  for  several  days,  plating  the  culture  on  agar,  and  selecting  colonies  with  a  rough 
appearance for further cultivation. This led eventually to the isolation of the deep rough (Re) mutant 
strain  referred  to  as  S.  minnesota  R595.  Re  mutant  strains  are  defective  in  core  biosynthesis  and, 
therefore, contain only a fragment of the inner core region linked to lipid A. A culture of S. minnesota 
R595, RML 1167, established in January, 1974 by the Rocky Mountain Laboratories (RML), National 
Institutes  of  Allergies  and  Infectious  Disease,  National  Institutes  of  Health  (NIH),  Hamilton,  MT, 
USA, was obtained by Ribi ImmunoChem Research Inc. (now Corixa Corporation) in January 1981. 
The  rationale  for  selecting  S.  minnesota R595 production strain is that the lipopolysaccharides from 
Re mutants such as R595 are easier to extract and hydrolyze than are lipopolysaccharides with more 
extensive core and O-antigen regions, and that the lipid A from this organism tends to be less toxic 
than comparable materials from other strains, 
The first MPL master seed culture (MS 042391), was established at Ribi ImmunoChem (now Corixa 
Corporation)  in  April  1991.  Several  working  seed  lots  have  been  prepared  from  this  master  seed, 
released and used for the manufacture of MPL.  The  MPL working seed lot  used for the preparation 
of  the  vaccine  for  clinical  trials  was  produced  in  January  1998.This  working  seed  (WS  30010 
A0598A) and the Master seed (MS 042391) were characterised biochemically (API-20E system), by 
fatty  acid  profile  (“finger  print”)  using  gas  chromatography,  purity  and  absence  of  non-host 
contamination.  The  identity  and  purity  of  the  master  seed  lot  and  working  seed  lot  are  adequately 
documented.  
All  commercial  vaccine  lots  will  be  formulated  with  MPL  produced  from  a  new  master  seed 
established  in  April  2003.  This  Master  seed  lot  was  derived  from  the  parent  culture  RML  1167 
established in 1974.  A new working seed has been prepared from the new master seed. 
3/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The  production  and  qualification  of  the  new  master  and  working  seeds  have  been  adequately 
described. The documentation provided supports similarity between the old and new seed lot systems 
and confirms suitability of the new master and working seed lots. 
Each new working seed is validated through its use for a full-scale production process.  Cell growth 
parameters and in-process intermediates characteristics are compared to those obtained in production 
starting  from  the  previous  working  seed.    In  addition,  the  final  MPL  obtained  should  meet  the  QC 
specifications. 
• 
Production and purification 
The  MPL  (TEA  salt,  lyophilised  powder)  production  is  based  on  the  seed  lot  principle.  All 
manufacturing  steps  are  performed  at  Corixa  Corporation,  Hamilton,  MT,  USA.  Each  batch  of 
concentrated  cell  harvest,  derived  from  a  single  fermentation,  is  transferred  to  the  extraction-
purification area for further processing. 
LPS is extracted from the bacterial cells prior to the hydrolytic steps. This extraction procedure also 
removes  cellular  components  which  otherwise  would  co-extract  with  LPS  (e.g.  phospholipids,  fatty 
acids).  The  LPS  is  then  filtered  and  the  solvents  are  evaporated,  resulting  in LPS in dry form.  The 
(dry  form)  LPS  is  subsequently  subjected  to  acid  and  base  hydrolyses.  The  resulting  crude  MPL  is 
purified by ion-exchange chromatography to yield IEC MPL, which is further processed through the 
polishing step to obtain a single batch of dried acid MPL. 
Multiple  batches  (1  to  3)  of  acid  MPL  may  be  pooled  prior  to  subsequent  steps  leading  up  to  the 
formation of monobasic TEA salt of MPL which is formed when the dried acid MPL is dispersed in 
water containing an excess of TEA and lyophilised.  
Appropriate in-process controls (IPC) are applied during cell growth and the downstream processing 
steps. 
Re-processing does not occur at any step in the manufacturing process of MPL. 
All  process  equipment  used  in  the  manufacture  of  MPL  has  undergone  installation  qualification, 
operational  qualification,  and,  where  appropriate,  performance  qualification.  Evaluation  of  the 
suitability  of  the  process  for  its  intended  use  is  documented  through  retrospective  collection  of  test 
results  of  IPC  tests  on  lots  produced  with  the  current  process.  The  steps  in  the  downstream  (post-
harvest)  manufacturing  process  for  MPL  have  been  evaluated  in  a  series  of  validation  studies  to 
confirm their suitability for their intended use. 
The  MPL  has  been  found  to  be  stable  within  the  temperature  range  at  which  it  is  exposed  during 
shipment to GSK, Rixensart, Belgium.  The applicant has however, committed to evaluate and validate 
a new transport device in order to narrow temperature range for transport. 
• 
Manufacturing process development 
The manufacturing process has been developed from bench scale to current scale. 
The first stage occurred from 1990-93 and involved implementation of changes to all aspects of the 
manufacturing process as the cell growth process was transferred from static (sparged) cultures in 20 L 
carboys to an 80 L fermentor (50 L working volume). Also the dehydration and extraction steps were 
modified  to  eliminate  the  need  to  lyophilize  the  cells  prior  to  extraction  and  to  perform  multiple 
precipitation steps on the extracted LPS.  
Following these modifications, the process was moved from the 80 L fermentor to current scale with 
corresponding increases in the scale (but not the mechanics) of all downstream steps. 
Quality release data, which show a satisfactory degree of consistency are presented for lots produced 
by 20 L sparged cultures, 80 L and commercial scale fermentors. 
• 
Characterisation and specifications 
The  physico-chemical  properties  of  MPL  was  determined  by  thin  layer  chromatography  (TLC; 
(appearance  of  the  different  congeners  of  MPL  as  bands  on  silica  gel),  High  performance  liquid 
4/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chromatography (HPLC; visualisation of the different congeners) and Fast Atom Bombardment Mass 
Spectroscopy (FAB-MS).  
All the congeners contain the same backbone, consisting of a β-1’,6-linked disaccharide of 2-deoxy-2-
aminoglucose  phosphorylated  at  the  4’  position,  but  containing  variable  numbers  and  types  of  fatty 
acyl groups at the 2, 2’ and 3’ positions. The 1, 3, 4 and 6’ positions of the backbone are unsubstituted 
in all MLA species present in MPL. The 2, 2’ and 3’ positions may be substituted with tetradecanoic, 
3-(R)-hydroxytetradecanoic, or 3-(R)-acyloxytetradecanoic acids, depending on the position, such that 
the total number of fatty acyl groups varies from three to six. 
The avarage molecular weights of the individual congeners were estimated by using information from 
HPLC, FAB-MS and Electron Spray Mass Spectroscopy (ES-MS). Based upon the relative percentage 
of the various congeners in MPL and the average molecular weights for the hexa-, penta- and tetraacyl 
congener groups, an average molecular weight of 1500 g/mol was calculated for MPL. 
The  phosphorylation  in  4’-position  was  confirmed  by  applying  a  phosphorous-nuclear  magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy. The phosphorous content of MPL is quantified by colorimetry, as part of the 
QC  release.  Based  on  the  structure  of  MPL  the  glucosamine:phosphorous-ratio  is  2:1.  The 
glucosamine is quantified by a reversed-phase HPLC method.  
Non-MLA  impurities  of  bacterial  origin  include  free  fatty  acids,  nucleic  acids,  proteins,  partially 
hydrolyzed  LPS,  2-keto-3-deoxyoctonate  (KDO;  derived  from  LPS),  ethanolamine  (derived  from 
phosphatidyhethanolamine), and diphosphoryl lipid A (DPL). These components are removed by the 
purification  process  employed  in  the  production  of  MPL.  Their  levels  are  monitored  both  by  in-
process and final QC release testing. 
Residual solvents are potential manufacturing process-derived impurities. Residues of the antifoaming 
agent  which  is  added  during  fermentation  is  another  potential  process-derived  impurity.  Media-
derived proteins and peptides may also be present as impurities in MPL. 
Specifications  for  the  MPL  have  been  set  for  appearance,  identity  including  determination  of  the 
hexosamine  content  (HPLC)  phosphorous  content  (colorimetry)  and  congener  distribution  (HPLC), 
moisture content (Karl Fisher method) and TEA content (GC). Impurities are controlled by tests and 
specifications  for  protein  content  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  nucleic  acids  (fluorometry),  free 
fatty acids (HPLC) and KDO content. The toxicity of the MPL is controlled by the chick embryo 50% 
lethal dose testing and pyrogenicity in rabbits. 
Due  to  the  fact  that  the  congeners  differ  in  biological  activity,  potential  variability  in  the  congener 
distribution  could  affect  the  overall  biological  activity  of  the  MPL  and  thus  the  adjuvant  effect. 
Therefore  the  applicant  was  requested  by  the  CHMP  to  develop  an  assay  for  determination  of  the 
biological activity of MPL. Testing of 24 lots of MPL in the U937/TNF-α assay, an assay selected and 
developed by the applicant, revealed a 10-fold variability in biological activity of the MPL lots. This 
variability  was  significantly  higher  than  the  inter-assay  variability.  However,  the  in  vitro  biological 
activity  as  tested  in  the  U937/  TNF-α  assay  appeared  not  to  correlate  with  adjuvant  activity  as 
reflected  by  the  humoral  response  to  HBsAg  in  humans.  The  potency  of  the  MPL  adjuvanticity 
therefore seem to be rather insensitive to variations in the congener distribution within the proposed 
specifications.  Furthermore,  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  growth  conditions  for  the 
production  of  MPL  are  well  controlled  and  results  in  a  product  with  relatively  consistent  congener 
distribution.  Taking  this  into  account,  a  test  for  biological  activity  of  the  MPL  adjuvant  was  not 
deemed necessary. 
A  detailed  description  of  the  analytical  methods  and  their  validation  has  been  provided  and  it  is 
considered that the methods used are adequate to control the MPL powder on a routine basis. 
Complete batch analysis results for MPL lots prepared from development and commercial (48 batches) 
production  scales  have  been  provided.  Adequate  specification  justifications  have  been  provided  and 
are based either on batch analysis results or limits of quantification. 
• 
Stability 
5/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  non-sterile  lyophilised  MPL  is  stored  under  nitrogen  overlay  at  +2  to  +8  ºC  as  the  lyophilised 
TEA salt in multiple container configurations. Stability studies have been performed to establish the 
shelf life in these containers. 
The results obtained so far indicate that the lyophilised TEA MPL is stable for 60 months when stored 
at  +2  to  +8  ºC  in  all  container  configurations.  A  shelf  life  of  60  months  is  therefore  acceptable  for 
lyophilised TEA MPL when stored at +2 to +8 ºC. 
Studies  under  other  storage  temperature  conditions  have  been  performed  on  two  lots.  Results  from 
these studies support both the shipping conditions and current shelf life for MPL.  
At higher storage temperatures (55°C and 70°C) mean values for percent hexaacyl congener decreased 
with time of storage.  
Each year, one additional lot of lyophilised TEA salt of MPL of the 5 mg presentation will enter a 60-
months  stability  study  with  time  points  that  are  consitent  with  ICH  guidelines.  The  tests  to  be 
performed at each time point are appearance, congener distribution, free fatty acid, residual moisture, 
CELD50 and pyrogenicity. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients incorporated in the vaccine formulation are sodium chloride, water for injections and 
aluminium  phosphate.  Sodium  chloride  and  water  for  injections  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  Aluminium 
phosphate  is  controlled  according  to  BP  based  on  the  monograph  “Aluminium  Phosphate  oral 
suspension”, complemented with a test on adsorption capacity and sterility. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  pharmaceutical  and  clinical  development  of  Fendrix  started  from  the  Company’s  Engerix-B 
vaccine to which MPL was added to improve the immune response to the HBsAg. With respect to the 
HBsAg, the same active ingredient as currently used in Engerix-B is used in Fendrix. 
In  1997,  two  dose-range  clinical  trials  (HBV-MPL-025  and  -026),  performed  in  healthy  adults, 
allowed to determine the amount of MPL and HBsAg in the candidate vaccine at 20 µg of HBsAg and 
50 µg of MPL in presence of 0.5 mg of aluminium as aluminium phosphate.  
The formulation that was eventually adopted as final was selected on the basis of properties such as 
isotonicity, completeness and stability of the adsorption to the aluminium-phosphate component of the 
adjuvant  and  immunogenicity  in  animal  models  and  in  humans.  All  pivotal  clinical  trials  have  been 
done with the final formulation. 
Fendrix  is  formulated  without  preservative,  but  the  purified  HBsAg  contains  traces  of  thiomersal 
resulting from the first purification step, leaving a residual concentration of less than 2 µg thiomersal 
(around  1.3  µg)  per  vaccine  dose.  Therefore  the  level  of  thiomersal  in  Fendrix  is  consistent  with 
CHMP 
statement 
EMEA/CPMP/VEG/1194/04. 
CPMP/BWP/2517/00 
guideline 
position 
CHMP 
and 
the 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
Formulation  and  filling  is  performed  at  GSK,  Rixensart,  Belgium;  packaging  is  performed  at  GSK, 
Wavre, Belgium. 
After  formulation,  the  syringes  are  automatically  filled  and  stoppered  on  the  filling/stoppering 
machine. The automated equipment for syringe filling/stoppering operation is placed under Class 100 
vertical laminar flow air (Grade A). Duration of the final vaccine formulation is one day. 
6/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appropriate in-process controls are performed on the adsorbed HBsAg, MPL liquid bulk, the adsorbed 
MPL  and  the  final  bulk  vaccine.  Release  tests  are  performed  on  MPL  liquid  bulk  (appearance,  pH, 
sterility, congener distribution, MPL content) and on the adsorbed MPL concentrate (appearance, pH, 
sterility, completeness of adsorption). Data on batch analysis results have been provided for both the 
MPL liquid bulk and pre-adsorbed MPL concentrate and are considered satisfactory. 
Evaluation of the MPL liquid bulk production process, the MPL pre-adsorption process and the final 
formulation  process  of  the  vaccine  has  been  provided.  In  addition,  the  company  has  submitted 
information regarding the retrospective validation of the finished product production process and the 
aseptic manipulation. 
• 
Product Specification 
Release specifications have been set for the final bulk (sterility, potency in mice) and final containers 
(appearance, identity of HBsAg, pH, volume, osmolality, aluminium content, MPL content, sterility, 
pyrogenicity  in  rabbits).  In  addition,  the  applicant  committed  to  provide  data  on  the  first  10 
commercial lots for completeness of adsorption (unbound MPL and unbound HBsAg) and abnormal 
toxicity;  the  proposed  specifications  for  completeness  of  adsorption  will  be  maintained  for  routine 
release. The applicant also committed to submit additional validation data on the in vivo potency test 
and to refine the in vivo potency test in order to make it more discriminating between Engerix-B and 
Fendrix  .  A  brief  description  of  the  analytical  procedures  performed  and  validation  data  have  been 
provided and are considered sufficient. A trend analysis documenting the stability of the company’s 
critical standard used for in vivo potency testing will be performed. 
Batch results for the final vaccine formulation were provided on a sufficient number of lots and all test 
specifications in force at the time of testing were met. 
The  origin  of  potential  impurities  present  in  the  vaccine  cannot  be  attributed  to  the  manufacturing 
process  of  the  final  product  and  these  have  therefore  been  addressed  at  the  level  of  the  HBsAg 
component and the MPL component. 
• 
TSE and viral safety  
The  seeds  for  HBsAg  had  already  been  reviewed  by  CHMP  for  other  HBsAg  containing  vaccines 
from GSK Bio and were found in compliance with the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal 
Products (EMEA/CPMP/410/01). 
The first master seed lot (of 1991) used for the production of MPL was established using a tryptic soy 
agar  containing  beef  extract  of  unknown  anatomical  or  geographical  origin.    Material  derived  from 
this master seed was used to produce the clinical trial lots.  A risk assessment was performed in order 
to  establish  regulatory  compliance,  and  the  CHMP  considered,  on  the  basis  of  this  assessment,  that 
MPL  derived  from  this  seed  was  compliant  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  for 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products. 
The  new  master  seed,  established  in  2003,  that  will  be  used  for  the  production  of  MPL  for  all 
commercial  vaccine  lots,  was  derived  from  the  same  parent  culture  (established  in  1974)  as  the 
previous master seed lot (of 1991).  Colonies of the parent culture were streaked onto solid medium 
comprising yeast extract plus soy hydrolysate in Bacto agar, free of materials of animal origin. 
The only materials of animal origin used during the production of MPL are derived from bovine milk 
fit for human consumption, sourced from Australia and New Zealand.  
In  conclusion,  all  materials  used  in  the  manufacture  of  Fendrix  are  compliant  with  the  Note  for 
Guidance on minimising the risk for transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human 
and veterinary medicinal products.. 
Viral safety aspects do not apply to production of the HBsAg recombinant protein which is isolated 
from  the  genetically  engineered  yeast  strain  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae.  No  material  of  animal  or 
human  origin  is  used  during  manufacture  of  HBsAg.  The  culture  medium  is  synthetic  and  does  not 
support virus growth. 
7/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similarly,  viral  safety  aspects  do  not  apply  to  the  production  of  MPL  which  is  isolated  from  the 
bacterium  Salmonella  minnesota  R595.  The  only  materials  of  animal  origin  entering  in  the  growth 
medium,  M-9  medium,  used  in  routine  production  of  MPL  are  casamino  acids.  Casamino  acids  are 
derived  from  bovine  milk  by  a  non-enzymatic  (acid)  hydrolysis.  The  casamino  acids  (20  %  w/v 
solution) are autoclaved (121 °C for 30 minutes) prior to use in the M-9 medium. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
The real time stability data provided, supported the proposed shelf life of 36 months and 12 months 
for the final vaccine and the final bulk vaccine, respectively, when stored at 2 to 8 °C. Regarding the 
intermediates  also  stored  at  2  to  8  °C,  the  stability  data  supported  the  proposed  shelf  lives  of  12 
months  for  the  MPL  liquid  bulk  and  6  months  for  the  adsorbed  MPL  concentrate  and  the  adsorbed 
HBsAg concentrate. 
Stability data have been generated on three consistency lots in syringes filled from three different final 
bulks produced according to the final production process intended for licensing but at a smaller scale 
and in a different production area. For this reason, the three first commercial batches of HB-AS04C 
vaccine  filled  in  syringes,  will  be  placed  on  long  term  stability  study  which  extend  through  the 
proposed  shelf  life.  Stability  testing  of  the  three  first  commercial  batches  (at  final  bulk  and  final 
container stages) will include the commercial QC release tests plus additional tests. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The HBsAg component is the same active ingredient as used for the manufacture of Engerix-B and a 
number  of  combined  vaccines  including  Ambirix,  Twinrix,  Tritanrix-HepB  and·Infanrix-HepB.  The 
data  submitted  with  regard  to  HBsAg  demonstrate  that  the  fermentation  and  purification  processes 
feature a good reproducibility at both manufacturing scales. 
With regard to MPL, the applicant has demonstrated that the manufacturing process yields MPL with 
a reproducible congener distribution. It was also demonstrated that it was difficult to correlate the in 
vitro biological activity of MPL to in vivo adjuvant activity as reflected by the humoral response to 
HBsAg in humans. 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  has  been  described  in  sufficient  detail  and  the 
product specifications are adequate. The in-vivo potency test will be further refined to make it more 
discriminating between Engerix-B and Fendrix. Completeness of adsorption of HBsAg and MPL onto 
aluminium phosphate will be monitored through routine release. The stability data submitted support a 
shelf life of 36 months for the finished product. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Fendrix  is  a  novel  hepatitis  B  vaccine  formulation  that  contains  20  micrograms  of  recombinant 
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), adjuvanted with AS04C which consists of 50 micrograms of the 
immunostimulatory compound MPL (3-O-desacyl-4'-monophosphoryl lipid A) and 0.5 mg (as Al3+) 
aluminium phosphate. MPL is a detoxified form of lipid A derived from the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
of  Salmonella  minnesota  R595,  and  consists  of  a  mixture  of  congeners  of  3-O-deacylated 
monophosphoryl lipid A species that all contain the same disaccharide backbone but variable numbers 
and types of fatty acyl groups.   
The AS04C adjuvant is composed of two ingredients: the 'classic' aluminium phosphate particles onto 
which  the  MPL  molecule  is  adsorbed.  For  the  preparation  of  the  final  vaccine,  HBsAg  is  adsorbed 
onto aluminium phosphate particles before it is mixed with the adjuvant. Evidence has been provided 
showing almost complete adsorption onto AlPO4.  
Non-clinical safety studies with MPL were performed at various laboratories and in compliance with 
Good Laboratory Practice standards. 
8/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Primary Pharmacodynamic studies aimed to evaluate the immunogenicity of the HB-AS04 vaccine in 
animals.  The  studies  indicate  an  immunostimulatory  effect  of  the  AS04C  adjuvant  and  a  good 
immunogenicity of the HB-AS04C vaccine in  three animal species studied.  
Serological analysis demonstrated that unlike controls or adjuvant receiving animals, vaccine-treated  
rabbits showed a seroconversion in the repeat-dose toxicity study. Furthermore, rat dams and offspring 
were  shown  to  be  exposed  to  high  titres  of  circulating  anti-HBs  antibodies  during  the  reproductive 
toxicity study. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
A  safety  pharmacology  study  did  not  show  any  effect  on  respiratory  or  cardiovascular  parameters 
when  the  HBsAg  was  administered  intravenously  or  when  the  HB-AS04C  vaccine  was  given 
intramuscularly, up to a 63-fold of the human dose expressed on a bodyweight basis. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Neither  distribution  nor  excretion  data  are  available  for  the  final  HB-AS04C  vaccine  or  the  AS04C 
adjuvant.  However, the applicant assumes that aluminium salt particles containing adsorbed materials 
follow the same distribution and elimination as for unadsorbed aluminium particles. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity and repeat dose toxicity  
The toxicological profile of MPL was investigated in a single dose intraperitoneal toxicity study in 
Sprague-Dawley rats. Repeated-dose toxicity studies were presented, up to 7 days in rats and 14 days 
in Beagle dogs, where MPL was given once daily by the intravenous route, maximising the exposure. 
The effects seen were minor and consistent with an immunostimulatory action. The minor effects seen 
were dose-related. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
An in vitro mutagenicity (Ames) and clastogenicity (CHO cells) test failed to demonstrate a genotoxic 
potential  of  MPL.    Aluminium  phosphate  is  a  common  adjuvant  for  prophylactic  vaccines  and  its 
safety of use has been demonstrated during several decades. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  including  a  teratogenicity  study  in  the  rabbit  and  a  pre-and  postnatal 
study in the rat showed no evidence of maternal toxicity, teratogenicity or any effect on the in utero 
development of the F1 offspring. 
• 
Local tolerance  
Observation  of  local  tolerance  in  the repeat-dose toxicity study with intramuscular administration in 
rabbits pointed to minor reactions at the injection sites characterized by an inflammatory reaction with 
mixed-cell or mononuclear cell infiltrate, which disappeared one month after the last injection.  These 
were  reflected  in  the  clinical  setting,  where  local  symptoms  of  mild  to  moderate  intensity  were 
observed.  These symptoms always resolved without any sequelae. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
9/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The HB-AS04C vaccine does not contain any genetically modified organisms.  
Predicted Environmental Concentration data showed that no ingredient or identifiable metabolite from 
use of the HBAS04C vaccine will represent a risk for the environment following its prescribed use in 
patients. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Only  limited  pharmacokinetic  data  were  generated  in  this  study.  Neither  distribution  nor  excretion 
data are available for the final HB-AS04C vaccine or the AS04C adjuvant.  
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The candidate vaccine Fendrix is a hepatitis B vaccine by using a new adjuvant system called AS04C, 
containing  aluminium  phosphate  salt  and  3-O-desacyl-4’-monophosphoryl  lipid  A  (MPL).  The 
selected  formulation  of  the  HB-AS04C  vaccine  contains  20  µg  of  recombinant  hepatitis  B  surface 
antigen (HBsAg), 50 µg of MPL and 0.5 mg (as Al3+) of aluminium phosphate in a dose volume of 0.5 
ml.  It  is  formulated  without  preservative,  but  the  purified  HBsAg  contains  traces  of  thiomersal 
resulting from the first purification step, leaving a residual amount of less than 2 µg of thiomersal per 
vaccine dose. 
Since the early nineties, GSK Bio has conducted a large-scale clinical development program with the 
candidate  vaccine  Fendrix,  in  order  to  evaluate  the  immune  response  as  well  as  the  safety  and 
reactogenicity  induced  by  the  vaccine  in  different  populations (including healthy adults, adolescents 
and elderly, non responders and immunocompromised patients).  
Twenty three studies were performed with different formulations of the candidate HB-AS04 vaccine 
(final, close-to-final, other formulations). In these 23 clinical trials, 3500 subjects received 8670 doses 
of  different  formulations  of  the  candidate  vaccine  and  1837  subjects  received  6029  doses  of  a 
commercially available comparator HepB vaccine. 
Studies  were  conducted  with  the  final  formulation  of  Fendrix  in  specific  populations  who  might 
benefit from an improved hepatitis B vaccine, including pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients 
(HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047). 
Study HBV-MPL-047 (extension of HBV-MPL-032) has been designed to analyse the persistence of 
humoral immunity after vaccination with Fendrix in pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients and 
to evaluate the effectiveness of a booster dose in this population, 24, 30 or 36 months after primary 
vaccination. 
In  study  HBV-MPL-037,  713  healthy  subjects  were  administered  3  different  lots  of  the  final 
formulation  of  Fendrix  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  lot-to-lot  consistency  in  terms  of  vaccine 
immunogenicity. In the latter study, the quality of the immune response was also assessed. 
Ten  other  studies  were  performed  with  a  formulation  of  the  candidate  vaccine  containing  the  same 
antigen and MPL content and the same amount and type of aluminium salt as the Fendrix vaccine was 
used.  
GCP 
The applicant stated that submitted studies were conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
guidelines, and in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki as amended in October 1996. During 
the evaluation, the conduct of some of the clinical trials of the clinical development programme raised 
concern. 
10/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, a GCP inspection was carried out of the pivotal trial that supported the claimed indication 
in pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients. The results of the GCP inspection are considered to 
be reassuring. 
Immunogenicity 
• 
Dose response studies 
Studies  HBV-MPL-025  and  HBV-MPL-026  were  designed  to  determine  the  optimal  dose  of 
recombinant HBsAg protein and amount of MPL in the HB-AS04 vaccine. Both trials were conducted 
with a formulation of the candidate vaccine containing a “close to final” composition. The test product 
contained  5mg  2-phenoxyethanol  as  preservative.  The  trials  were  open,  randomised  trials  which 
compared  the  immunogenicity  and  reactogenicity  of  different  formulations  of  HB-AS04  vaccines 
administered following a two-dose schedule (0, 6 months), with a commercially available comparator 
HepB vaccine given in a 3-dose regimen (0, 1, 6 months). As both studies had identical study designs 
and objectives, and were conducted in the same population (healthy adults of 18 to 40 years of age), 
data from studies HBV-MPL-025 and -026 were pooled for statistical analysis. 
Five different formulations of the candidate vaccine were evaluated: 4 formulations contained 20 mg 
HBsAg with either 12.5 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg MPL, and the last formulation contained 40 mg 
HBsAg, and 50 mg MPL. All five formulations contained 0.5 mg aluminium. 
Although  these  MPL  dose  range  studies  were  conducted  in  healthy  subjects  and  may  have  some 
limitations with regards to their relevance for the target group of patients with renal insufficiency, the 
applicant argues that the only practical option was to have homogenous groups due to the difficulty of 
enroling a large number of pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis subjects naïve for hepatitis B. It was 
anticipated that the selected dose would also be appropriate for vaccination in pre-haemodialysis and 
haemodialysis patients. 
In these studies, only subjects naïve for HBV (negative screening for HBsAg, anti-HBsAg and anti-
HBc) were enrolled. The mean age of subjects was 22.4 years with a standard deviation of 3.95 years. 
The female to male ratio was 1.3. All subjects enrolled in the study were Caucasian. 
Upon completion of the vaccination course (i.e. at month 7, after 2 doses of HB-AS04 formulation at 
0, 6 months or after 3 doses of a commercially available HepB vaccine at 0, 1, 6 months), all subjects 
were  seroprotected  against  hepatitis  B.  However,  Geometric  Mean  Titres  (GMTs)  obtained  with  all 
five  HB-AS04  formulations  were  at  least  two-fold  higher  as  compared  to  those  seen  with  a 
commercially available HepB vaccine.  
When considering the HB-AS04 formulations with 20 mg of HBsAg (groups 1 to 4), the lowest GMTs 
were observed in Group 1 (12.5 mg of MPL) and the highest in Groups 3 and 4 (50 and 100 mg of 
MPL). 
Among the HB-AS04 formulations with 50 µg of MPL (Groups 3 and 5), higher GMTs were observed 
with the formulation containing 20 µg of HBsAg as compared to that containing 40 µg of HBsAg. It 
seems that a plateau in the immune response is reached with the 20/50 combination and increasing the 
antigen content does not improve further the immune response. 
Based on the above results obtained in a healthy population receiving a 0, 6 month schedule of various 
HB-AS04 formulations, the one containing 20 µg of HBsAg and 50 µg of MPL was selected as the 
formulation of choice for the HB-AS04 vaccine and was pursued in further clinical development. This 
formulation induced high antibody titres. 
Evaluation  of  cell-mediated  immunity  showed  that  the  formulation  chosen  induced  the  highest 
lymphoproliferative response and the highest IFNγ secretion. 
11/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The quantity of 0.5 mg of aluminium chosen for the HB-AS04 vaccine formulation is already used in a 
commercially available HepB vaccine and was shown to be a safe and effective adjuvant dosage. The 
effect of a lower content of aluminium on the humoral response was studied in healthy subjects in two 
phase  II  HBV-MPL  studies,  Study  HBV-MPL-004  and  HBV-MPL-005.  Both  studies  indicated  that 
decreasing  the  aluminium  content  of  the  HB-AS04  vaccine  would  lower  the  effect  of  the  antibody 
response.  As  the  development  of  the  HB-AS04  vaccine  targeted  an  improved  humoral  response  as 
compared  to  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  the  quantity  of  aluminium  in  Fendrix  seems 
optimal. 
The  number  of  doses  followed  by  at  least  one  local  symptom  was  higher  in  the  5  groups  receiving 
different  formulations  of  the  HB-AS04  vaccine  than  in  the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine 
group (i.e. 82.6% to 93.4% vs 41.1%). Pain at the injection site was the most prevalent solicited local 
symptom  in  all  study  groups,  with  a  higher  frequency  in  the  HB-AS04  groups  as  compared  to  the 
commercially available HepB vaccine group (i.e. 78.3% to 83.0% vs 34.9%). However, the incidence 
of  grade  3  pain  after  HB-AS04  vaccination  was  ≤1.0%.  Redness  and  swelling  of  grade  3  intensity 
were observed with a frequency ≤2.2%.  
General symptoms were reported with an overall similar frequency in the HB-AS04 groups and in the 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group  (31.0%  to  38.5%  vs  26.7%).  With  respect  to  general 
solicited  symptoms,  fatigue  and  headache  were  the  most  commonly  reported  symptoms  for  the  HB-
AS04 and commercially available HepB  vaccines. 
Although  the  MPL  content  of  the  different  formulations  of  the  HB-AS04  vaccine  (Group  1  to  5) 
ranges from 12.5 to 100 mg, no significant difference was observed between the reactogenicity profile 
of these groups, indicating that increasing the MPL content does not lead to a significant increase of 
reactogenicity.  The  reactogenicity  profile  observed  with  the  five  different  formulations  of  the  HB-
AS04 vaccine is considered to be clinically acceptable, as seen from the low incidence of symptoms 
with Grade 3 intensity. 
• 
Main studies  
Four  studies  were  conducted  with  the  final  formulation  of  the  candidate  vaccine  Fendrix  and  were 
considered as pivotal for the immunogenicity of Fendrix: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047: pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients 
HBV-MPL-033/-038: non-responder subjects 
HBV-MPL-036: pre-liver transplant patients 
HBV-MPL-037: lot to lot consistency study 
Supportive studies 
• 
Ten studies were performed with a formulation of the candidate vaccine containing the same antigen 
and MPL content and the same amount and type of aluminium salt as the Fendrix vaccine was used 
(“close to final” formulations).  
12/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Objectives and populations studied 
Pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients (HBV-MPL-032/-042) 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the superiority of the Fendrix vaccine (single 
dose) compared to a commercially available HepB vaccine (double doses) administered at 0, 1, 2 and 
6  months,  in  terms  of  immunogenicity  (i.e.  SP  at  Month  7)  after  primary  vaccination  in  pre-
haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients.  The  primary  objective  of  the  long-term  follow-up  at 
Month 12 (HBV-MPL-042) was to evaluate the persistence of humoral immune response 12 months 
after primary vaccination in both groups. 
HBV-MPL-032/-042 was an open, comparative, randomised clinical trial with 165 pre-haemodialysis 
and haemodialysis patients over 15 years of age separated into two groups. Pre-haemodialysis patients 
were defined as patients with documented creatinine clearance of ≤ 30 ml/min. Only subjects naïve for 
HBV (negative screening for HBsAg, anti-HBsAg and anti-HBc) were enrolled. 
Pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients:  study  HBV-MPL-047  (extension  of  HBV-MPL-
032) 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the persistence of the immune response at Month 
24,  30  and  Month  36  (i.e.  3  years  after  the  start  of  the  primary  vaccination  course)  in  pre- 
haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients who received a primary vaccination course in study HBV-
MPL-032. The effect of a booster dose of Fendrix  at Months 24, 30 or 36 in subjects who received 
either Fendrix or a commercially available HepB vaccine as a primary vaccination course and whose 
anti-HBs antibody titres fell below 10 mIU/ml was also evaluated. 
HBV-MPL-047  was  an  open  study  in  120  pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients  aged  ≥15 
years who participated in study HBV-MPL-032 and had a full vaccination course.  
Pre-liver transplant patients (HBV-MPL-036) 
The primary objective was to demonstrate the superiority in terms of immunogenicity of single doses 
of  Fendrix  (administered  at  days  0,  21)  to  double  doses  of  a  commercially  available  Hep  B  vaccine 
(administered at days 0, 7, 21) at day 28 in pre-liver transplant patients ≥18 years of age. A booster 
dose was administered between Month 6 and 12, before or after surgery, depending on the patient’s 
status on the waiting list for transplantation.  
HBV-MPL-036 was an open, randomised clinical trial with 93 pre-liver transplant patients divided in 
to two groups. 
The  claim  for  the  use  of  Fendrix  in  pre-liver  transplant  patients  was  withdrawn  as  superiority  of 
Fendrix  over  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  could  not  be  demonstrated  due  to  lack  of 
statistical power. 
Lot-to-lot consistency (HBV-MPL-037) 
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate the lot-to-lot consistency of 3 consecutive lots 
of  Fendrix  in  terms  of  seroprotection  rates  achieved  one  month  after  the  full  vaccination  course 
administered at 0, 1, 2 months (i. e. at Month 3). The reactogenicity of the study vaccine was assessed 
using a commercially available HepB vaccine as control when administered intramuscularly according 
to a 0, 1, 2 month schedule in healthy adults. 
HBV-MPL-037 was a randomised clinical trial performed in 951 healthy volunteers aged from 15 to 
50 years and divided in 4 parallel groups. The study was double blinded for consistency lots identity 
and single blind for control group/study vaccine identity. 
13/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In  all  studies,  the  primary  endpoint  -  seroprotection  rates  (SP)  was  defined  as  the  percentage  of 
subjects  with  anti-HBs  antibody  titres  ≥  10  mIU/ml,  measured  at  one  timepoint  pre-defined  by  the 
protocol (usually one month after the last dose of vaccine). 
As secondary endpoints, seropositivity rates, SP, and GMTs were measured at all blood sampling time 
points.  
• 
Seropositivity rate was defined as the percentage of subjects with anti-HBs antibody titres ≥ cut-
off of anti-HBs assay.  
The GMT calculations were performed for anti-HBs antibody titres above the cut-off value of 
the assay. 
• 
Methods used to evaluate immunogenicity 
• 
Measurement of antibody titres 
In all studies described, assays were performed blinded to vaccine treatment. Usually, serum samples 
for  measurement  of  the antibody response were collected before and approximately one month after 
each vaccine dose administration.  
Titres of anti-HBs antibodies were determined by RIA or ELISA and were expressed in mIU/ml with 
respect to a WHO reference serum. Subjects with a titre ≥ 10 mIU/ml were considered seroprotected. 
In the first studies, the humoral response to HBsAg was monitored using the commercially available, 
AUSAB  RIA®  test.  As  the  manufacturer  discontinued  the  production  of  this  assay,  another 
commercially  available  test,  AUSAB  EIA®,  from  the  same  manufacturer  was  validated  by  the 
Company and was used to evaluate the latter studies.  
The assay cut-off was respectively 1 mIU/ml for the AUSAB RIA® and 3.3 mIU/ml for the AUSAB 
EIA®. The concordance and correlation of the two assays were demonstrated based on seropositivity 
and  seroprotection  levels,  therefore  allowing  similar  conclusions  to  be  drawn  regarding  vaccine 
immunogenicity. Within a clinical study, the same assay was used to test all sera. 
RESULTS 
Pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients (HBV-MPL-032/-042) 
The results of this trial are summarised in Table 3. 
Table 3 Persistence data on anti-HBs seroprotection rates and 
(Total cohort) in study HBV-MPL-032 
Group 
Timing  N 
SP 
GMT 
% 
90.9 
95% CI 
82.2  96.3 
mIU/ml 
3559.2 
95% CI 
2130.3  5946.5 
77 
Fendrix* 
Commercially 
available HepB 
vaccine 
PIV 
(M7) 
PIV(M12
) 
PIV 
(M7) 
PIV(M12
) 
70 
85.9 
75.6  93.0 
907.6 
579.1 
1422.3 
77 
84.4 
74.4  91.7 
933.0 
515.8 
1687.8 
70 
77.1 
65.6  86.3 
320.8 
186.4 
552.2 
* final formulation, i.e. 20µg HBsAg-50 µg MPL- 0.5mg Al3+ as AlPO4 
Fendrix elicited a seroprotection of 90.9% at Month 7 as compared to 84.4% with a commercially 
available HepB vaccine. This difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.164, Fisher’s exact 
test). However, Fendrix has been shown to elicit a statistically faster onset of seroprotection (from 
Month 1 to 6) and statistically higher GMTs from Month 3 to Month 7. For instance, at Month 7 a 
14/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMT of 3559.2 mIU/ml was observed with Fendrix as compared to 933.0 mIU/ml with a 
commercially available HepB vaccine (p < 0.001, Wilcoxon Rank Sum test).  
The seroprotection rate (total cohort) observed in the Fendrix group at month 7 (90.9%) reached the 
protocol assumption (91.0%), while that seen in the commercially available HepB vaccine group at the 
same  timepoint  (84.4%)  was  far  greater  than  expected  (71.0%).  The  sample  size  of  the  study  was 
based  on  an  estimated  seroprotection  difference  of  20.0%  and  was  insufficient  to  demonstrate  the 
superiority of the Fendrix vaccine. When taking into account the observed difference in seroprotection 
rates  between  groups  in  study  HBV-MPL-032  (i.e.  6.5%),  a  total  of  500  subjects  per  group  would 
have  been  necessary  to  demonstrate  the  superiority  of  Fendrix  as  compared  to  a  commercially 
available  HepB  vaccine.  It  appears  that  this  target  number  of  pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis 
patients naïve for hepatitis B would have been difficult to enrol in a clinical study.   
With  regard  to  persistence  of  anti-HBs  antibodies  at  Month  12  after  the  first  dose  of  primary 
vaccination,  a  seroprotection  rate  of  85.9%  was  observed  in  the  Fendrix  group  versus  77.1%  in  the  
commercially available HepB vaccine group (no statistical significance). GMTs elicited at Month 12 
were  significantly  higher  with  Fendrix  than  that  with  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  (p  = 
0.004;  Wilcoxon  Rank  Sum  test),  which  suggests  a  longer  persistence  of  anti-HBs  antibodies  with 
Fendrix. 
Pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients:  study  HBV-MPL-047  (extension  of  HBV-MPL-
032) 
The results of this trial are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1 Persistence data on anti-HBs seroprotection rates and  
GMTs (ATP immuno cohort) in study HBV-MPL-047 
Group 
Timing 
PIV(M24) 
PIV(M30) 
PIV(M36) 
PIV(M24) 
PIV(M30) 
Fendrix* 
Commerciall
y available 
HepB 
vaccine 
N 
48 
46 
46 
42 
40 
SP 
% 
89.6 
84.8 
80.4 
76.2 
62.5 
95% CI  mIU/ml
77.3  96.5  290.8 
71.1  93.7  181.2 
66.1  90.6  154.1 
60.5  87.9  264.1 
45.8  77.3  105.2 
GMT 
95% CI 
170.7 
102.6 
85.4 
128.6 
49.0 
495.2 
320.1 
278.2 
542.4 
226.0 
PIV(M36) 
39 
51.3 
34.8  67.6  111.9 
48.8 
256.2 
* final formulation, i.e. 20µg HBsAg-50 µg MPL- 0.5mg Al3+ as AlPO4 
The  seroprotection  rate  was  higher  in  the  Fendrix  group  than  in  the    commercially  available  HepB 
vaccine  group  at  Month  24  (89.6  %  versus  76.2%;  p=0.996,  two-sided  Fisher  Exact  test)  and  at 
Month 30 (84.8% versus 62.5%; p=0.0255, two-sided Fisher Exact test). Anti-HBs GMTs in Fendrix 
recipients  were  higher  than  in  subjects  administered  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  as 
primary  vaccination,  at  Month  24  (290.8  mIU/ml  versus  264.1 mIU/ml)  and  at  Month  30  (181.2 
mIU/ml versus 105.2 mIU/ml) (difference not statistically significant). A close to 20% difference in 
seroprotection  rates  as  well  as  a  close  to  2-fold  difference  in  GMTs  between  the  two  groups  were 
observed  at  Month  30  for  the  different  cohorts  analysed  (Total  cohort  and  ATP  immunogenicity 
cohort). 
At  Month  36,  seroprotection  rates  were  80.4%  and  51.3%  respectively  in  the  Fendrix  and  
commercially available HepB vaccine groups. Although results were generated in a small cohort, the 
difference  in  seroprotection  rates  between  groups  was  statistically  significant  at  this  time  point  (p 
value = 0.0057, two-sided Fisher Exact test). 
15/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher percentage of subjects retained anti-HBs antibody titres ≥ 100 mIU/ml in the Fendrix group 
as compared to the commercially available HepB vaccine group at Month 24 (66.7% versus 52.4 %, p 
=  0.1991,  two-sided  Fisher  Exact  test),  at  Month  30  (63.0  %  versus  40.0  %;  p =  0.0509,  two-sided 
Fisher Exact test) and at Month 36 (58.7 % vs 38.5 %; p = 0.0825, two-sided Fisher Exact test) 
Subjects who lost protective anti-HBs levels (i.e < 10 mIU/ml) during the follow up of the study after 
priming  with  either  Fendrix  or  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  received  a  booster  dose  of 
Fendrix. Significantly less subjects included in the total cohort needed at least one booster dose during 
the  36  Months  follow-up  period  after  priming  with  Fendrix  (11  subjects  out  of  62)  as  compared  to 
priming  with  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  (22  subjects  out  of  57)  (p=0.014,  two-sided 
Fisher exact test).  
At Month 24 only one subject receiving primary vaccination with Fendrix needed a booster dose (who 
responded with a titer of 34.4 mIU/ml at Month 25 and 21.3 mIU/ml at Month 30) whereas 8 subjects 
needed  a  booster  dose  after  primary  vaccination  with  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  (ATP 
immunogenicity cohort). Seroprotection rate and GMT at Month 25 for the latter 8 subjects was 62.5% 
and 1434.0 mIU/ml.  
Six  subjects  needed  a  first  booster  dose  at  Month  30;  3  subjects  from  the    commercially  available 
HepB vaccine group and 3 subjects from the Fendrix group. All were seroprotected one month later, 
with GMTs of 1373.4 mIU/ml and 217.6 mIU/ml for a commercially available HepB vaccine and HB-
AS04C primary vaccination groups, respectively.  
At month 36, a total of 5 and 3 subjects respectively from the Fendrix and the commercially available 
HepB vaccine groups at primary vaccination (ATP cohort) received their first booster dose of Fendrix. 
All subjects were seroprotected following booster vaccination, with high GMTs of 8790.3 mIU/ml and 
10986.5  mIU/ml  respectively  in  the    commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  and  Fendrix  primary 
groups. 
Thus  it  appears  that  pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients  needed  less  booster  doses  after 
Fendrix  primary  vaccination  as  compared  to  the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  primary 
vaccination. This finding is supportive of the longer persistence of anti-HBs antibodies obtained after 
primary vaccination with Fendrix, where the results show a reduction of booster doses needed. 
Lot-to-lot consistency (HBV-MPL-037) 
The result are summarised in Table 2. 
Table 2 Anti-HBs seroprotection rates and GMTs  
(ATP immunogenicity cohort) in study HBV-MPL-037 
SP 
GMT 
Group 
Timing 
N 
Fendrix  lot1*  PIII(M3) 
Fendrix  lot2*  PIII(M3) 
Fendrix  lot3*  PIII(M3) 
PIII(M3) 
Commercially 
available HepB 
vaccine 
* final formulation, i.e. 20µg HBsAg-50 µg MPL- 0.5mg Al3+ as AlPO4 
196 
193 
197 
197 
95% CI 
90.8  97.5 
94.1  99.2 
94.2  99.2 
87.1  95.3 
95% CI 
mIU/ml 
763.3  1208.5
960.4 
875.8 
691.3  1109.7
1118.3  887.7  1408.8
175.1  278.8 
220.9 
% 
94.9 
97.4 
97.5 
91.9 
High levels of seroprotection were reached with the 3 lots of Fendrix (between 94.9 and 97.5%). The 
GMTs elicited were at least 3 times higher in the Fendrix groups (ranging from 875.8 mIU/ml to 
1118.3 mIU/ml) than in the  commercially available HepB vaccine group (220.9 mIU/ml). The 
immune response was more rapid in the Fendrix groups with at least 82.1% of subjects being 
seroprotected after two doses of Fendrix vaccine (i.e. at Month 2) as compared to 54.8% subjects 
seroprotected with a commercially available HepB vaccine at the same timepoint. 
16/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to pre-defined criteria, the consistency in terms of anti-HB seroprotection rates of one of 
the three lots could not be demonstrated, but the consistency of the two other lots of Fendrix vaccine 
was shown. However, the three lots were consistent with respect to anti-HBs GMTs elicited one 
month after the full vaccination course.  
Supportive studies 
Analysis of avidity of antibodies  
• 
Analysis  of  the  results  of  sera  from  pre-haemodialysed  and  haemodialysed  patients  in  study  HBV-
MPL-032  indicated  that  high  avidity  Ig  antibodies  are  induced  quicker  with  Fendrix  compared  to  a 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  after  second and third vaccine dose. For both a commercially 
available  HepB  vaccine  and  Fendrix  subjects,  benefit  of  a  fourth  dose  of  vaccination  and  similar 
avidity profile after fourth vaccine dose were demonstrated.  
In  healthy  adults  (Study  HBV-MPL-037),  high  titre  of  anti-HBs  in  serum  is  associated  with  high 
avidity Ig antibodies. 
In the absence of a functional neutralisation assay for HBV, the presence of RF1 antibodies in serum 
from vaccinees has been used as a surrogate marker of neutralising capacity. The results indicate that 
the  quantitative  increase  in  total  anti-HBs  antibodies,  after  Fendrix  vaccination  as  compared  to  a 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  is  linked  to  an  increase  of  antibodies  directed  against 
conformational epitope RF1, which has been described to confer protection against HBV infection. 
With ‘close to final’ formulation 
• 
The  immunogenicity  profile  of  Fendrix  is  further  supported  by  the  studies  conducted  with  “close  to 
final” formulations of Fendrix where a consistently higher immune response was observed in a healthy 
population.  
The dose finding clinical trial 025-026 was one of these trials with the ‘close to final’ formulation and 
has been discussed. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
• 
Study  HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047  is  considered  as  the  pivotal  study  for  this  application.  A  GCP 
inspection of this trial has been performed and has confirmed that the quality of the submitted data of 
this trial is acceptable. This is a major point as there is a clear discrepancy between the results of this 
trial  (the  active  control  group  –receiving  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  -  did  much  better 
than was estimated) and the results of a commercially available HepB vaccine in clinical practise and 
in the literature. The sero-protection rate in the control group was rather high: 84% compared to the 
60%  -  70%  found  in  the  literature  However  data  on  the  persistence  and  booster  administration  of 
Fendrix at month 36 have recently become available and at month 36, seroprotection rates were 80.4% 
and  51.3%  respectively  in  the  Fendrix  and  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  groups.  Although 
results  were  generated  in  a  small  cohort,  the  difference  in  seroprotection  rates  between  groups  was 
statistically significant at this time point (p value = 0.0057, two-sided Fisher Exact test). 
Although no methodological superiority of Fendrix over a commercially available HepB vaccine was 
proven after the primary vaccination course, it seems clear that Fendrix is more effective or at least as 
good  as  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  in  immunising  healthy  volunteers  and  End  Stage 
Renal Disease (ESRD) patients. 
The results of the follow-up HBV-MPL-047 study suggest that pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis 
patients needed less booster doses after Fendrix primary vaccination as compared to a commercially 
available  HepB  vaccine  primary  vaccination.  This  finding  is  supportive  of  the  longer  persistence  of 
anti-HBs antibodies obtained after primary vaccination with Fendrix, 
17/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher percentage of subjects retained anti-HBs antibody titres ≥ 100 mIU/ml in the Fendrix group 
as compared to the commercially available HepB vaccine group at Month 24 (66.7% versus 52.4 %, p 
=  0.1991,  two-sided  Fisher  Exact  test),  at  Month  30  (63.0  %  versus  40.0  %;  p =  0.0509,  two-sided 
Fisher Exact test) and at Month 36 (58.7 % vs 38.5 %; p = 0.0825, two-sided Fisher Exact test) .It has 
been suggested by some key opinion leaders and nephrologists as well as vaccination advisory bodies 
that  an  acceptable  response  to hepatitis B vaccination in haemodialysis patients corresponds to anti-
HBs  titres  ≥100  mIU/ml,  allowing  protection  to  last  for  at  least  one  year  post-vaccination  in  the 
majority  of  patients.  Although  these  opinions  are  acknowledged,  it  must  be  emphasised  that 
100mIU/ml is not a worldwide-accepted limit and in many countries in Europe the 10mIU/ml limit is 
still used as the gold standard. 
The claim for the use of Fendrix in pre-liver transplant patients was withdrawn due lack of statistical 
power of the study to demonstrate superiority of Fendrix over a commercially available HepB vaccine. 
Additional studies indicate in general that Fendrix induces high quality anti-HBs antibodies. 
Clinical safety 
The subject demography and baseline characteristics of the entire study population enrolled during the 
vaccine development have been summarised. 
Patient exposure 
• 
All submitted clinical studies were supportive of the safety profile of Fendrix (23 clinical trials, 3500 
subjects vaccinated with an HB-AS04 formulation).  Only studies conducted with the final formulation 
of Fendrix were considered as pivotal for the reactogenicity of Fendrix. The clinical studies with the 
final  formulation  of  Fendrix  evaluated  different schedules  of  Fendrix  in  different  populations. If the 
local reactogenicity reported in each pivotal trial is compared, it can clearly be observed that healthy 
subjects react differently than immuno-compromised subjects. Therefore the Company decided not to 
pool the reactogenicity results observed in the different clinical studies. 
Common adverse events  
• 
The safety analysis carried out on the reactogenicity data from the four pivotal studies conducted with 
the  final  formulation  of  Fendrix:  HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047  (pre-haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis 
patients),  HBV-MPL-036  (pre-liver  transplant  patients),  HBV-MPL-037  (healthy  adults)  and  HBV-
MPL-033/-038 (non-responders).  
Reactogenicity  was  evaluated  by  recording  solicited  local  (pain,  redness,  swelling)  and  general 
(fatigue,  gastrointestinal  symptoms,  headache  and  fever  (temperature  ≥  37.5°C))  symptoms  on  diary 
cards by the subjects during a 4-day follow-up period (day of vaccination and the 3 following days) 
after each vaccination. The investigator assessed intensity of solicited symptoms. 
Pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients (HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047) 
The overall incidence and nature of solicited local and general symptoms reported per dose, during the 
4-day follow-up period of this study in pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients (≥ 15 years of 
age) is presented in Table 8. 
The incidence of local symptoms (solicited/ unsolicited) was higher in the Fendrix group (41.8 %) as 
compared to the  commercially available HepB vaccine cohort (18.0 %). The most frequently reported 
solicited  local  symptom  was  pain  at  the  injection  site  in  both  groups  with  a  higher  incidence  with 
Fendrix (41.0%) than with a commercially available HepB vaccine (13.2%). Incidences of redness and 
swelling were similar in both groups. The incidence of Grade 3 pain remained low and comparable in 
the two groups (i.e. 0.7% vs. 0.6 % of doses respectively).  
A similar incidence of reported general symptoms was observed in both groups, with fatigue reported 
most  frequently  (16.7%  in  the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group  and  16.4%  in  Fendrix 
Group). Few symptoms were scored as Grade 3 intensity (i.e. 2.0% vs. 1.0% of doses in the Fendrix 
18/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group,  respectively).  The  majority  of  these  Grade  ‘3’ 
solicited  general  symptoms  were  determined  by  the  investigator  to  have  a  ‘probable’  or  ‘suspected’ 
relationship to the study vaccine. 
In both groups, all solicited local and general symptoms resolved within the 4-day follow-up period, 
except for one case of Grade 3 headache reported after Fendrix dose 4, which resolved within 6 days 
and one case of Grade ‘3’ swelling (after Fendrix), which resolved within 5 days. 
Table 8 Overall incidence of local and general symptoms reported per dose during the 4-day 
follow-up period  
(ATP reactogenicity cohort) in HBV-MPL-032/-042. 
Per-dose analysis 
Fendrix 
Solicited/unsolicited symptoms 
Any symptom  
Local symptoms 
General symptoms 
Solicited Symptoms: 
Pain 
Redness 
Swelling 
Fatigue 
Gastrointestinal 
Symptom 
Headache 
Fever 
Total 
Grade “3” * 
Total 
Grade “3” * 
Total 
Grade “3” * 
Total 
Grade “3” ** 
PB/SU 
PB/SU grade “3” 
Total 
Grade “3” ** 
PB/SU 
PB/SU grade “3” 
Total 
Grade “3” ** 
PB/SU 
PB/SU grade “3” 
Total 
Grade “3” ** 
PB/SU 
PB/SU grade “3” 
n  % 
95% CI
N = 306 
 Commercially 
available HepB vaccine 
% 
95% CI 
N = 311 
n 
166  54.2 48.5 59.9 12
6
40.5  35.0  46.2 
128  41.8 36.2 47.6 56 18.0  13.9  22.7 
93  30.4 25.3 35.9 98 31.5  26.4  37.0 
N = 305 
N = 311 
9.6 
0.1 
4.5 
0.0 
1.6 
0.0 
0.7 
7.2 
0.0 
6.6 
0.7 
0.1 
2.3  2
4.6  10.7 22
1.2  0
0.0 
9.9  10
4.1 
2.3  0
0.1 
125  41.0 35.4 46.7 41 13.2 
0.6 
7.1 
0.0 
3.2 
0.0 
17.5 
2.3 
2 
10.5 
22 
1.2 
0 
5.8 
20 
2 
1.2 
50  16.4 12.4 21.0 52 16.7  12.7  21.3 
2.8 
2.0 
6 
16.0 
38  12.5
2.3 
1.3 
4 
9.4 
4.6 
14 
1.2 
0.0 
0 
5.4 
3.3 
10 
1.2 
0 
0.0 
17.8 
36  11.8
1.8 
0.7 
2 
13.8 
8.9 
27 
1.8 
0.3 
1 
14.2 
9.8 
30 
1.2 
0.0 
0 
9.0 
5.9 
18 
1.2 
0.0 
0 
1.0 
4.2  3
0.7 
9.0  16.7 37 11.9 
0.6 
3.3  2
0.4 
6.1 
7.6  19
2.5 
0.0 
1.2  0
0.0 
2.9 
5.9  9
1.6 
0.0 
0.0 
1.2  0
8.4  16.0 42 13.5 
0.3 
2.3  1
0.1 
5.9  12.6 31 10.0 
0.0 
0.3 
1.8  1
6.7  13.7 32 10.3 
0.0 
1.2  0
0.0 
5.8 
9.2  18
3.5 
0.0 
1.2  0
0.0 
0.2 
8.5 
0.1 
3.7 
0.0 
1.3 
0.0 
9.9 
0.0 
6.9 
0.0 
7.1 
0.0 
3.5 
0.0 
N: number of documented doses 
n (%): number (percentage) of doses followed by specific local/general symptom. 
* Grade “3”: Spontaneously painful or greatest surface diameter of redness/swelling > 50 mm  
** Grade “3”: Prevent daily activities or temperature > 39.0° C 
PB/SU: Symptoms determined to have ‘probable’/‘suspected’ relationship to study vaccine 
5% C.I.: exact 95% confidence interval 
Reactogenicity after a booster dose of Fendrix 
All subjects who participated in study HBV-MPL-047 were invited to receive a booster dose of 
Fendrix at month 42.  
After the booster dose, pain at the injection site was the most frequently reported solicited local 
symptom, which was observed following 52.9% of doses in the commercially available HepB vaccine 
19/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
primary vaccination group as compared to 36.6% of doses in the Fendrix primary group. Only four 
cases of grade 3 solicited local symptoms were reported after Fendrix booster vaccination (i.e one case 
of pain in the  commercially available HepB vaccine primary group, and one case each of pain, 
redness and swelling in the Fendrix primary group). All resolved within the 4-day follow-up period.  
Overall, the incidence of solicited general symptoms was low. Fatigue and headache were the most 
frequently reported solicited general symptoms in both primary groups. Only three cases of fever were 
reported (i.e two in the commercially available HepB vaccine primary group, and one in the Fendrix 
primary group). No cases of solicited general symptoms were of grade 3 intensity.  
Healthy adults aged 15 to 50 years (HBV-MPL-037) Lot-to lot consistency study 
According  to  the  per-dose  analysis,  the  number  of  doses  followed  by  a  report  of  any  symptom  was 
higher in the Fendrix groups (69.8%) than in the commercially available HepB vaccine group (43.4%). 
This is due to the incidence of local symptoms, which was higher in Fendrix groups (66.2%) than in 
the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group  (32.9%).  In  contrast,  the  incidence  of  general 
symptoms was similar in both groups (25.6% to 30.7%). 
Pain  at  injection  site  was  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  local  symptom  in  all  groups  with  a 
higher incidence in the Fendrix group (64.5% in comparison with 27.9% in the commercially available 
HepB  vaccine  group).  Grade  “3”  pain,  defined  as  spontaneously  painful,  was  also  more  frequently 
reported  in  Fendrix  groups  (7.5%)  as  compared  to  the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group 
(1.4%).  Of  the  165  cases  of  Grade  3  pain  that  were  reported  across  all  four  groups,  105  resolved 
within the 4-day follow-up period. The 60 remaining cases resolved within a maximum period of 14 
days,  except  one  case  (Fendrix),  which  resolved  38  days  after  vaccination.  Nevertheless  it is agreed 
that the incidence of local reactions that persisted beyond the follow-up period was relatively low.  
Redness  and  swelling  were  less  frequent  than  pain  but  their  incidence  was  slightly  higher  in  the 
Fendrix  group  than  in  the  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  group.    Very  few  (≤  1%)  grade  3 
redness and swelling were reported.  
Fatigue  was  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  symptom  in  both  groups  (reported 
following the 17.5% doses inthe commercially available HepB vaccine group and 21.6% doses in the 
Fendrix group).  Fever occurred with a low incidence (≤ 1.5%) in both groups. Less than 1% of doses 
were  followed  by  a  report  of  Grade  “3”  general  symptoms  determined  to  be  related  to  the  study 
vaccine.  All  Grade  3  solicited  general  symptoms  resolved  within  the  4-day  follow-up  period  after 
vaccination  except  5  cases  of  fatigue,  2  cases  of  gastrointestinal  symptoms  and  5  cases  of headache 
(resolution within 9 days after vaccination).  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
• 
Twenty-three  clinical  studies,  where  3500  subjects  received  an  HB-AS04  formulation  and  1837 
subjects received a commercially available licensed comparator HepB vaccine, were supportive for the 
safety of Fendrix. 
In  total,  239  SAE  reports  were  received.  A  summary  of  all  these  SAEs  reported  and  classified  by 
System Organ Class (SOC) is given in Table 9. Most frequently, events were reported according to the 
following  SOC:  ‘Hepatobiliary  disorders’,  ‘Injury,  poisoning  and  procedural  complications’, 
‘Infections  and  infestations’,  which  can  be  partly  explained  by  the  subject’s  underlying  medical 
condition. 
20/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 Breakdown of number of SAEs reported  
presented by System Organ Class 
HB-AS04 
System Organ Class 
Commercially 
available HepB 
vaccine 
Number 
of SAEs 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Congenital, familial and genetic disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Eye disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Infections and infestations 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications
Investigations 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified 
(incl. cysts and polyps) 
Nervous system disorders 
Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal 
conditions 
Psychiatric disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Social circumstances 
Surgical and medical procedures 
Vascular disorders 
3 
9 
1 
0 
0 
2 
19 
4 
2 
1 
18 
16 
0 
3 
3 
3 
9 
3 
3 
11 
3 
2 
1 
0 
21 
10 
Total number of SAEs reported 
147 
Reported 
frequency 
(%)* 
0.09 
0.26 
0.03 
0.00 
0.00 
0.06 
0.54 
0.11 
0.06 
0.03 
0.51 
0.46 
0.00 
0.09 
0.09 
0.09 
0.26 
0.09 
0.09 
0.31 
0.09 
0.06 
0.03 
0.00 
0.60 
0.29 
4.20 
Number 
of SAEs 
3 
7 
0 
0 
2 
1 
5 
2 
2 
2 
11 
4 
0 
2 
1 
3 
5 
1 
1 
7 
1 
2 
2 
0 
24 
4 
92 
Reported 
frequency 
(%)** 
0.16 
0.38 
0.00 
0.00 
0.11 
0.05 
0.27 
0.11 
0.11 
0.11 
0.60 
0.22 
0.00 
0.11 
0.05 
0.16 
0.27 
0.05 
0.05 
0.38 
0.05 
0.11 
0.11 
0.00 
1.31 
0.22 
5.01 
*% calculated per number of subjects receiving HB 
** % calculated per number of subjects receiving a commercially available HepB vaccine (N = 1837) 
Data show that the incidence of SAEs in the HB-AS04 group (4.20%) was similar to the incidence in 
the commercially available HepB vaccine group (5.01%). Only six subjects reported SAEs that were 
considered by the investigator to have a “possibly related” relationship to the vaccine. Three subjects 
had  been  vaccinated  with  Fendrix  vaccine  and  three  subjects  with  a  commercially  available  HepB 
vaccine. 
• 
Two subjects vaccinated with HB-AS04 in clinical trial HBV-MPL-021 developed 
gastrointestinal disorders.  
One subject enrolled in HBV-MPL-036 (pre-liver transplants) developed 6 days after 1st dose 
of HB-AS04C facial dyskinesia and behaviour disorders that were considered as possibly 
related to vaccination due to the chronology of the events.  This subject had a history of walking 
disorders and asthenia. 
One subject receiving a commercially available HepB vaccine in clinical trial HBV-MPL-021 
reported SAEs for rheumatoid attack after doses 2 and 3 and gastrointestinal disorder after dose 
2. 
• 
• 
21/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
• 
• 
One subject, who had received a commercially available HepB vaccine in clinical trial HBV-
MPL-028, developed Quincke’s oedema and urticaria on the same day of the third vaccine dose. 
One subject, enrolled in clinical trial HBV-MPL-036 (pre-liver transplants), developed polyuria 
and polydipsia thirty days after the first dose of a commercially available HepB vaccine. 
Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed and insulin therapy was started.  
All  these  subjects,  except  both  subjects  in  HBV-MPL-036,  recovered  without  sequelae.  For  the  two 
subjects in study HBV-MPL-036, the outcome was fatal.  
In total, 31 reports of fatal outcome were reported during the development program of Fendrix. Table 
10 shows the breakdown of these reports per vaccine administered. 
Table 10 Breakdown of reports of a fatal outcome by vaccine. 
Vaccine 
HB-AS04 
Commercially 
available HepB 
vaccine 
Number of 
reports with a 
fatal outcome 
18 
13 
Number of 
subjects 
vaccinated 
3 500 
1 837 
Reported 
frequency (%) 
0.43 
0.71 
Twenty seven out of the 31 reports observed with Fendrix and  commercially available HepB vaccines 
were  seen  in  two  clinical  trials  designed  to  investigate  the  immunogenicity  of  Fendrix  in 
immunocompromised patients.  
In  these  two  studies,  the  number  of  fatalities  were  almost  equally  distributed  between  the  Fendrix 
(n=18) and the commercially available HepB vaccine treatment groups (n=13) None of these fatalities 
were determined by the investigator to be related to the vaccine. All fatalities reported during HBV-
MPL-036 trial referred to complications of the subject’s underlying liver cirrhosis or to complications 
experienced post-transplantation. Fatalities observed in pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients 
in study HBV-MPL-032/-042/-047 could also be partly explained by the subject’s underlying medical 
condition.  
Laboratory findings 
• 
In  the  phase  I  study  HBV-MPL-001Y,  15  healthy  subjects  received  3  doses  of  HB-AS04  (20  mg 
HBsAg, 50 mg MPL, 0.5 mg Al 3+ as Al(OH)3) at 0, 1, 6 months. The following blood biochemistry 
parameters  were  analysed  at  prevaccination,  Day  0,  Day  2,  Day  30,  Day  32  and  Day  60:  glycemia, 
total  protein,  albumin,  creatinine,  urea,  bilirubin,  creatine  phosphokinase  (CPK),  gamma-GT,  lactate 
(AST),  alanine 
(LDH),  alkaline  phosphatase,  aspartate  aminotransferase 
dehydrogenase 
aminotransferase  (ALT),  Na,  K  and  Cl.  At  the  same  timepoints,  haematology  parameters  were 
assessed: red blood cells (RBC), haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), white 
blood cells (WBC), eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, monocytes and platelets.  
Although  all  subjects  had  at  least  one  test  value,  which  was  minimally  outside  of  the  normal 
laboratory  range  for  at  least  one  of  the  blood  samples  evaluated,  none  of  the  values  (with  two 
exceptions, described below) were considered to be medically significant by either the investigators or 
the  medical  monitor.  No  evidence  was  found  to  suggest  that  the  vaccine  caused  renal,  hepatic  or 
medullar dysfunction or inflammatory processes. One subject had very high levels of CPK, LDH, AST 
and  ALT  on  the  day  of  the  first  vaccine  dose.  These  values  declined  as  the  study  progressed.  The 
investigator felt that these levels were due to excessive exercise and did not preclude the enrolment of 
this subject into the study. Another subject had persistent hyperbilirubinaemia - it had been previously 
determined that he had Gilbert's syndrome (familial non-haemolytic jaundice). 
In  another  phase  I  study  (HBV-MPL-001),  30  haemodialysis  patients  received  HB-AS04  or  a 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  according  to  different  vaccination  schedules.  The  same  blood 
22/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biochemistry  parameters  as  described  for  study  HBV-MPL-001Y,  with  addition  of  HCO3  and  Ca, 
were assessed at pre-vaccination, on the day of vaccination and 2 days after vaccination. Haematology 
parameters  (WBC,  RBC,  haematocrit,  MCV,  platelets)  were  assessed  in  blood  samples  taken  at  the 
day of vaccination and 2 days after vaccination.  
During the course of the study, biochemistry and haematology results were within acceptable limits, 
considering the subjects’ underlying medical condition. 
Safety in special populations 
• 
Age 
Many  studies  have  shown  that  individual  immune  responses  to  hepatitis  B  vaccination  vary,  with 
advancing age being the most important contributing factor to decreased immune response. Therefore, 
in study HBV-MPL-022, 380 subjects aged between 50 and 70 years were randomised into two groups 
receiving  either  HB-AS04  vaccine  or  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  both  vaccines 
administered  according  to  a  0,  1,  6-month  schedule.  Both  vaccines  were  tolerated  in  this  elderly 
population,  with  pain  at  injection  site  and  headache  being  the  most  frequently  reported  local  and 
general  symptoms  respectively,  in  both  groups.  Many  studies  have  shown  that  individual  immune 
responses to hepatitis B vaccination vary, with advancing age being the most important contributing 
factor to decreased immune response. Therefore, in study HBV-MPL-022, 380 subjects aged between 
50  and  70  years  were  randomised  into  two  groups  receiving  either  HB-AS04  vaccine  ora 
commercially  available  Hep  B  vaccine,  both  vaccines  administered  according  to  a  0,  1,  6-month 
schedule. More local symptoms (mainly mild to moderate pain at the injection site) were recorded in 
the group receiving the HB-AS04 vaccine.  The incidence of solicited general symptoms was similar 
in  both  groups,  with  headache  being  the  most  prevalent  symptom.  Few  of  these  local  and  general 
symptoms were scored as severe and all were either transient or resolved spontaneously. 5.7 % of the 
HB-AS04  doses  were  followed  by  at  least  one  report  of  unsolicited  symptom  determined  by  the 
investigator to have a probable or suspected relationship to the HB-AS04 vaccine. All these symptoms 
resolved during the 30-day follow-up period after vaccination.  All the 18 serious adverse events (11 
in the HB-AS04 group and 7 in the commercially available Hep B vaccine group) reported during the 
study period were determined by the investigator to be ‘not related’ or ‘unlikely’ to be related to the 
study vaccine.  Overall, reactogenicity and safety profile of the HB-AS04 vaccine was similar to this 
observed in healthy adults (18-40 years). 
Genetic factors 
HLA  DQ2  positive  subjects  who  might  be  considered  as  ‘low  responders’  to  classical  Hepatitis  B 
vaccine  (Desombere  et  al  1997;  McDermott  et  al  1997)  were  recruited  in  study  HBV-MPL-034  to 
investigate  the  immunogenicity  and  reactogenicity  of  the  HB-AS04  vaccine  in  this  population.  
Reactogenicity and safety profile of Fendrix in this population is similar to this in healthy adults. 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
During the clinical studies performed with Fendrix, thirteen pregnancies were reported. However only 
the  pregnancies  that  did  not  follow  a  normal  evolution and outcome, were considered as SAEs, and 
therefore  discussed. Five pregnancies were reported as an SAE: one in each of the three studies HBV-
MPL-021, HBV-MPL-027 and HBV-MPL-037, and two in study HBV-MPL-031. Four SAE reports 
of events coded according to the SOC ‘Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions’ and one SAE 
report of events coded according to the SOC ‘surgical and medical procedure’ were received. 
Autoimmune disease 
A review of the safety database of the AS04 vaccines showed no increase of autoimmune diseases in 
the  group  of  subjects  exposed  to  the  AS04  adjuvant  (N=  13,730)  compared  to  those  not  exposed 
(N=7,604).  Based  on  these  data,  Fendrix  is  not  expected  to  be  linked  to  any  specific  autoimmune 
disease. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
• 
All dropout cases reported in HBV-MPL studies were reviewed. The number of subjects who stopped 
their  participation  in  studies  due  to  the  occurrence  of  serious  adverse  events  (SAE)  or  non-serious 
adverse events (AE) was very low: 28 out of 3500 subjects (0.8%) in the HB-AS04 groups and 21 out 
23/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of 1837 subjects (1.1%) in the  commercially available HepB vaccine groups. Among the 28 subjects 
in the HB-AS04 group, 23 were dropouts for SAE or AE non-related to vaccination, 2 for SAE and 3 
for AE with suspected relationship to vaccination. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
• 
The main observation in the clinical studies is that the overall local reactogenicity to Fendrix is higher 
than that to a commercially available HepB vaccine. The higher local reactivity was mainly registered 
as a higher incidence of pain at the site of injection. However, the incidence of local pain Grade 3 was 
very  low  and  identical  in  both  groups.  The  incidence  of  general  symptoms  was  also  similar  in  both 
groups and Grade 3 general symptoms were rare.  
The increased reactogenicity to Fendrix is likely to be caused by MPL, the immunostimulant added to 
increase  the  immunogenicity  of  the  vaccine.  The  increased  local  reactions,  mainly  as  local  pain, 
compared  to  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  cannot  be  considered  a  major  problem  and 
should not hamper the use of Fendrix if introduction of the vaccine is indicated otherwise.  
The  incidence  of  SAEs  in  subjects  vaccinated  with  Fendrix  was  4.2%  whereas  it  was  5.02  %  for  a 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine-  vaccinated.  Only  six  of  the  SAEs  reported,  three  in  both 
vaccine groups, were considered related to the vaccines.  
Although the available data are considered reassuring with respect to a potential link to autoimmune 
disease  at  this  stage,  considering  that  the  onset  of  autoimmune  disease  is  progressive  and  that  the 
diagnosis may be delayed, that the follow-up after vaccination is limited in time, and that rare events 
are difficult to detect in clinical trials, attention to autoimmune disease events will have to be paid in 
the post-marketing phase. 
The main clinical safety conclusion to be drawn from the trials undertaken is that Fendrix is a vaccine 
with acceptable adverse events. 
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch-to-batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  AS04C  adjuvant,  containing  aluminium  phosphate  and  MPL,  is  used  in  order  to  elicit  higher 
antibody titres compared to HBsAg adjuvanted with aluminium salt alone.  A better immunogenicity 
was obtained in mice when HBsAg was formulated with AS04C than with alum, as in a commercially 
available HepB vaccine.   
A  safety  pharmacology  study  did  not  show  any  effect  on  respiratory  or  cardiovascular  parameters 
when  the  HBsAg  was  administered  intravenously  or  when  the  HB-AS04C  vaccine  was  given 
intramuscularly, up to 63-fold the human dose expressed on a bodyweight basis. 
Only  limited  pharmacokinetic  data  were  generated  in  this  study.  Neither  distribution  nor  excretion 
data are available for the final HB-AS04C vaccine or the AS04C adjuvant.  
The Applicant committed to report the results of this study. 
Efficacy 
In studies HBV-MPL 032 and 042 in (pre-) haemodialysis patients, primary vaccination with Fendrix 
elicited  a  seroprotection  of  90.9%  at  Month  7  as  compared  to  84.4%  with  a  double  dose  of  a 
24/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  which  is  standard  in  these  patients.  The  difference  was  not 
statistically  significant.  However,  Fendrix  elicited  a  statistically  faster  onset  of  seroprotection  (from 
Month 1 to 6) and statistically higher GMT’s from Month 3 to Month 7. 
The primary objective to show statistically higher seroprotection at month 7 with Fendrix than with a 
commercially available HepB vaccine was not reached, probably due to a wrong statistical assumption 
used  for  sample  size  calculation  However  the  GMT’s  at  this  time  point  (month  7)  favour  Fendrix 
significantly.  
End-stage renal failure patients whose anti-HBs antibody titres falls below 10 mIU/ml need a booster 
dose  to  remain  protected.  As  a  consequence  of  a  better  persistence  of  circulating  antibodies  after 
Fendrix primary vaccination, less booster doses were administered to subjects vaccinated with Fendrix 
as  compared  to  those  vaccinated  with  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine.  Therefore  it  is 
concluded  that  that  Fendrix  is  superior  to  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine  in  patients  with 
renal insufficiency.  
Safety 
The main observation in the clinical studies is that the overall local reactogenicity of Fendrix is higher 
than that of a commercially available HepB vaccine. The higher local reactivity was mainly registered 
as a higher incidence of pain at the site of injection. However, the incidence of local pain Grade 3 was 
very  low  and  identical  in  both  groups.  The  incidence  of  general  symptoms  was  also  similar  in  both 
groups and Grade 3 general symptoms were rare. 
The increased reactogenicity to Fendrix is likely to be caused by MPL, the immunostimulant added to 
increase  the  immunogenicity  of  the  vaccine.  The  increased  local  reactions,  mainly  local  pain, 
compared  to  a  commercially  available  HepB  vaccine,  cannot  be  considered  a  major  problem  and 
should not hamper the use of Fendrix if introduction of the vaccine is indicated otherwise.  
The main clinical safety conclusion to be drawn from the trials undertaken is that Fendrix is a vaccine 
with acceptable adverse events. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  Applicant  has  shown  that  Fendrix  is  effective  in  immunising  patients  against  hepatitis B  virus 
infection. Following the submission of long-term data, the Applicant was able to prove that Fendrix is 
superior to a commercially available HepB vaccine in the target group, namely end-stage renal failure 
patients,  where  there  is  a  clear  need  for  a  vaccine  of  enhanced  potency.  The  new  data convincingly 
show that the clear increase in local adverse events does not outweigh the clear improvement of the 
immunogenicity.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  ratio  of  Fendrix  indicated  for  active  immunisation  against  hepatitis  B  virus  infection 
(HBV)  caused  by  all  known  subtypes  for  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  (including  pre-
haemodialysis  and  haemodialysis  patients),  from  the  age  of  15  years  onwards  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
25/25 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
