EMA/162888/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002733 
Feraccru (ferric maltol) 
An overview of Feraccru and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Feraccru and what is it used for? 
Feraccru is an iron-containing medicine used to treat iron deficiency (lack of iron) in adults. 
Feraccru contains the active substance ferric maltol.  
How is Feraccru used? 
Feraccru is available as capsules (30 mg). The recommended dose is one capsule taken twice a day, 
morning and evening, on an empty stomach. Treatment duration depends on the severity of the iron 
deficiency, but generally at least 12 weeks of treatment are required.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For more information about using Feraccru, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Feraccru work? 
The active substance in Feraccru, ferric maltol, is an iron-containing compound. When taken by mouth, 
it is absorbed by the cells of the gut; the iron is then released from the compound and transported and 
stored in the body, helping to restore normal levels in patients with iron deficiency. This helps correct 
reduced production of haemoglobin (the oxygen-carrying pigment in red blood cells), anaemia (low 
levels of red blood cells) and any symptoms of the condition. Iron is an essential building block for 
haemoglobin and the body can produce more haemoglobin and correct anaemia once iron stores are 
replenished. 
What benefits of Feraccru have been shown in studies? 
Feraccru is effective at increasing haemoglobin levels in patients with iron deficiency and anaemia, 
(defined as haemoglobin levels lower than 12 g/dl for women and 13 g/dl for men).  
In a study of 128 patients, those taking Feraccru for 12 weeks had their haemoglobin levels increase 
on average from 11.0 to 13.2 g/dl whereas in patients taking placebo (a dummy treatment) 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
haemoglobin levels remained at around 11.1 g/dl. In addition, around 65% of patients taking Feraccru 
achieved normal levels of haemoglobin compared with 10% of those on placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Feraccru? 
The most common side effects with Feraccru (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are symptoms 
affecting the gut such as abdominal (belly) pain, flatulence (passing wind), constipation, abdominal 
discomfort and distension, and diarrhoea; these side effects are usually of mild to moderate intensity. 
Severe side effects include abdominal pain, constipation and diarrhoea. For the full list of side effects 
of Feraccru, see the package leaflet. 
Feraccru must not be used in patients with iron overload disorder (haemachromatosis) or in patients 
receiving repeated blood transfusions. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Feraccru authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Feraccru’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Feraccru has been shown to be effective in increasing haemoglobin levels 
in patients with iron deficiency anaemia. Data on how the medicine is absorbed in the body show that 
Feraccru can also have an effect on patients with iron deficiency who have not already developed 
anaemia. The safety profile of Feraccru is considered acceptable, with side effects that are mostly mild 
to moderate in intensity and in line with those of other iron preparations.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Feraccru? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Feraccru have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Feraccru are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Feraccru are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Feraccru 
Feraccru received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 February 2016. 
Further information on Feraccru can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2018. 
Feraccru (ferric maltol)  
EMA/162888/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
