EMA/14796/2016 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Feraccru (ferric maltol) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Feraccru, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Feraccru is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Feraccru, which can be found on Feraccru’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Feraccru is a medicine that contains iron in the form of the active substance ferric maltol. It is used to 
treat anaemia (low levels of red blood cells or haemoglobin) caused by a lack of iron (iron deficiency) 
in adults with inflammatory bowel disease. 
Iron is one of the building blocks of haemoglobin, an essential substance inside red blood cells that 
stores and carries oxygen. Iron deficiency anaemia is a condition where a lack of iron in the body 
means there is a decrease in the amount of haemoglobin in red blood cells. Low iron levels are a 
common complication of inflammatory bowel disease, and iron deficiency anaemia affects up to 76% of 
patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, the two most common forms of inflammatory 
bowel disease. Iron deficiency anaemia in inflammatory bowel disease is caused by various factors 
including bleeding and poor absorption of iron from food in the inflamed gut. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Feraccru was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in one main study involving 128 patients 
with inflammatory bowel disease who had iron deficiency anaemia, defined as haemoglobin levels 
below 12.0 grams per decilitre (g/dl). The main measure of effectiveness was how much haemoglobin 
levels rose after 12 weeks of treatment.  
Feraccru was more effective than placebo at increasing haemoglobin levels: in patients taking 
Feraccru, haemoglobin levels increased on average from 11.0 to 13.2 g/dl whereas in patients given 
placebo they remained around 11.1 g/dl. In addition, around 65% of patients given Feraccru achieved 
normal levels of haemoglobin compared with 10% of those on placebo. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
In the main and supporting studies nearly all patients were white and non-hispanic/latino, aged 
between 18 and 76 (average age: 39-40) with most patients aged under 65. There is no evidence to 
suggest that results would be any different in non-white patients or in elderly patients over 65 years of 
age. 
Page 1/3 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Side effects involving the 
The most common side effects 
Monitoring for early symptoms 
stomach and gut 
with Feraccru (which affect up to 
may help prevent side effects. 
(gastrointestinal effects) 
1 in 10 patients) involve the 
Patients should talk to their 
digestive system and include 
doctor if they experience any 
constipation, diarrhoea, nausea 
side effects. Doctors will be able 
(feeling sick), pain in the 
to advise the patient about the 
stomach and flatulence (wind).  
side effects with Feraccru.  
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Interactions with 
To minimise any interactions that might occur with other medicines, Feraccru 
other medicines 
capsules should be taken at least two hours apart from other medicines. 
Feraccru should not be taken with iron given by injection, or with the 
medicines dimercaprol, chloramphenicol, or methyldopa. 
Worsening of disease 
In clinical trials, there were no flare-ups of underlying disease in patients with 
symptoms 
inflammatory bowel disease treated with Feraccru for 12 weeks, compared 
with placebo. Furthermore Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis disease 
activity scores did not get worse from start of treatment for up to 64 weeks of 
treatment.  
Hypersensitivity and 
Some of the ingredients in Feraccru may cause an allergic reaction. Feraccru 
allergic reactions 
capsules contain colorants called E110 and E129 which may cause allergic 
reactions. Patients should not take Feraccru if they are allergic to the active 
substance ferric maltol or any of the other ingredients. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in patients who 
There is no information available on the use of Feraccru in women who are 
are pregnant or 
either pregnant or breastfeeding. Patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding 
breastfeeding 
should preferably not take Feraccru. Patients who are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, think they may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby 
should speak to their doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Use in patients under 
There is no information available on the use of Feraccru in children; Feraccru 
18 years of age 
is not authorised for use in patients under the age of 18 years. 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Feraccru can be found on Feraccru’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Drug-drug 
To investigate 
Drug-drug 
Ongoing 
interaction study  
drug interactions 
interactions 
with Feraccru 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
May 2016 for final 
report 
Drug-drug 
Identification of 
Drug-drug 
Ongoing 
May 2016 for final 
interaction study 
UGT isoenzymes 
interactions 
report 
that are 
responsible for 
metabolism of 
maltol 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None of the above studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2016. 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
