SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures,  which 
have  been  finalised  before  1  June  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Thalassaemia  major  (TM)  is  a  rare  hereditary  disease  (<  20,000  patients  in  the  European  Union) 
characterised  by  severe  anaemia,  requiring  a  life-long program  of  periodic  blood  transfusions  to  sustain 
growth, normal physiological development and extend survival. Frequent blood transfusions result in iron 
overload,  which  may  also  be  aggravated  by  inappropriate  increases  in  iron  absorption  from  the 
gastrointestinal  tract.  As  there  are  no  natural  means  for  the  body  to  eliminate  the  excessive  iron,  these 
patients inexorably develop a clinically significant haemosiderosis. In the absence of treatment with iron 
chelators to decrease the iron deposition, the excess iron results in damage to the heart, liver, endocrine 
organs  and  death  ultimately  occurs,  mainly  due  to  cardiac  haemosiderosis  during  the  second  decade  of 
life. Prior to the marketing authorization of Ferriprox, the only therapy approved in the European Union 
for  the  treatment  of  iron  overload  in  thalassemia  was  deferoxamine  (Desferal,  DFO).  Over  the  past  two 
decades, this therapy has been shown to ameliorate hepatic, cardiac and endocrine dysfunction, improve 
growth  and  sexual  maturation,  and  prolong  survival  in  iron-overloaded  thalassemia  major  patients. 
However,  DFO  must  be  administered  by  subcutaneous  infusion  up  to  12  hours  a  day  a  minimum  of  5 
times a week. This inconvenient method of administration is difficult for some patients and access to an 
alternative  chelation  regimen  such  as  deferiprone  (Ferriprox,  L1)  is  a  therapeutic  option.  Another 
treatment alternative is bone marrow transplantation. 
Ferriprox contains deferiprone, a bidendate chelating agent that chelates trivalent iron cations (Fe3+) in a 
3:1 (deferiprone:iron) ratio. It is indicated for the treatment of iron overload in patients with TM for whom 
deferoxamine  therapy  is  contra-indicated.  The  most  serious  undesirable  effect  of  Ferriprox  treatment 
reported in clinical trials is agranulocytosis; the mechanism of Ferriprox-induced agranulocytosis and of 
milder forms of neutropenia is unknown.  
Deferiprone had a very unusual development programme. Indeed, toxicological evaluation of this agent in 
animals did not follow the customary pattern; having been administered to humans before the full, formal 
toxicological  evaluation  had  been  obtained  in  animals.  Progress  on  the  drug  was  curtailed  in  1993  by 
Ciba-Geigy due to the toxic effects observed in non-clinical studies. The main toxic effect of the drug was 
bone  marrow  suppression  that  was  observed  in  all  non-iron  loaded  animal  species,  which  were 
investigated. In contrast, the status of deferiprone was also reviewed at this time by clinical investigators 
from the International Study Group on Oral Iron Chelators, which clearly recommended expansion of the 
clinical evaluation (Hershko, 1993). Since then, a number of further studies have been undertaken on the 
drug, and its development has been re-instated by Apotex due to the effectiveness of chelation achieved in 
humans.  
The  Department  of  Health  in  India  in  December  1994  approved  for  clinical  use  another  formulation  of 
deferiprone, called Kelfer®. The marketing authorisation holder is Cipla. 
Ferriprox is given orally as 25-mg/kg body weights, three times a day for a total daily dose of 75-mg/kg 
body  weights.  Dosage  per  kilogram  body  weight  should  be  calculated  to  the  nearest  half  tablet.  Doses 
above 100 mg/kg/day are not recommended because of the potentially increased risk of adverse reactions. 
There are limited data available on the use of Ferriprox in children between 6 and 10 years of age, and no 
data on Ferriprox use in children under 6 years of age. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
               1/25                                                                                EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition and product development 
Ferriprox is a capsule-shaped, film-coated tablet, bisect on one side, containing 500 mg of deferiprone, a 
new active substance used in the treatment of iron overload.  
The choice of the formulation, which contains a large amount of the active ingredient, is well justified.  
The formulation and development are unremarkable and standard. The formulation used in clinical studies 
was  practically  the  same  as  the  one  proposed  for  marketing:  pink-coated  tablets  (250  mg  and  500  mg) 
were  changed  to  white  film  coated,  scored  tablet,  containing  500  mg  of  Deferiprone.  The  amount  of 
coating was increased slightly in the retained composition. 
Tablets are packaged in HDPE bottles with white polypropylene caps.  
Active substance 
The description of the process is adequate.  
No  catalysts  or  class  1  solvents  (as  defined  by  the  ICH  guideline  “Residual  solvents”)  are  used  in  the 
manufacturing process. One class 2 solvent is used. Quality control during manufacture is adequate.  
The active ingredient is relatively pure as the maximum level of impurities observed range from 0.01% to 
0.1%.  The  impurity  limits  in  the  specification  for  the  active  substance  have  been  tightened  and  are 
justified by toxicology studies. 
The  quality  of  the  active  ingredient  is  controlled  with  suitable  specifications  and  validated  analytical 
methods with respect of the guidelines regarding known related substances (<0.1%) and residual solvents. 
No polymorphism has been detected in deferiprone batches examined by X-ray diffraction and differential 
scanning calorimetry. 
The proposed specifications are supported by the batch analysis results.  
Stability studies have been carried out under stress, accelerated and real-time conditions.  
Excipients 
All excipients are tested in accordance with the Ph. Eur. In addition all excipients are tested in compliance 
with USP for Organic Volatile Ingredient (OVI test). 
Finished product 
The product is being manufactured in a facility that holds the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation (see 
Annex II of the Opinion). 
The identification, quantification and uniformity of the deferiprone content are carried out by means of a 
HPLC method that is adequately described.  
The proposed monograph and specifications for the control of deferiprone tablets are sufficient to ensure 
batch  quality  and  reproducibility  as  well  as  the  consistency  of  pilot  and  industrial  scale  batches.  The 
microbiological test is in accordance with the Ph. Eur. 
The  batch  analysis  results  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  with  specifications  and  uniformity  of  the 
product at release. 
Due to the good stability of both the finished product and the active ingredient, a three-year shelf life is 
acceptable, as defined in the SPC. Ferriprox should be stored below 30oC. 
A BSE statement is supplied for the magnesium stearate. It is confirmed that any BSE risk is improbable. 
In  summary,  the  documentation  of  substances,  materials,  methods  of  production  as  well  as  the  quality 
controls is sufficient to ensure a product of appropriate and consistent quality. 
2/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Deferiprone is a bidentate chelating agent that preferentially chelates trivalent iron cations (Fe3+) in a 3:1 
(deferiprone:  iron)  complex.  This  is  unlike  the  binding  activity  of  deferoxamine,  the  currently  available 
therapy, which forms a 1:1 complex. Both the free ligand and the deferiprone-iron complex are uncharged 
at physiological pH. 
The  efficacy  of  a  chelator  depends  not  only  upon  its  stability  as  a  chelator,  but  also  on  the  rate  of 
biotransformation and elimination of the chelate-iron complex. 
Deferiprone-induced  iron  clearance  has  been  documented  in  animal  studies.  Deferiprone  demonstrated 
iron mobilisation from both hepatocellular and reticuloendothelial iron stores. 
The  iron  excretion  efficiency  of  deferiprone  and  deferoxamine  were  compared  using  the  molar  binding 
ratio of the iron-chelator complexes. Deferiprone was 0.43 times as efficient as deferoxamine in non-iron 
loaded rats and 0.4 times as efficient in the iron-loaded Cebus monkeys. A similar level of iron excretion 
was observed in iron-loaded humans and iron-loaded Cebus monkeys even though the relative proportion 
of iron excreted in the urine of humans was considerably higher. 
Interactions between deferiprone and other drugs have not been explicitly investigated or reported. Since 
this  compound  binds  to  cations  that  may  be  essential  for  the  pharmacology  of  some  drugs,  antagonistic 
interactions between deferiprone and cation-dependent drugs may arise.  
Pre-clinical  pharmacodynamic  studies  using  deferiprone  have  shown  promising  iron  excretion  in  iron-
loaded animals. 
The effective clearance of iron from hepatic parenchyma (HP) and the reticuloendothelial (RE) system in 
iron-loaded experimental animals supports therapeutic efficacy in clearing iron deposition in thalassemic 
individuals. 
In order to assess the risk on liver fibrosis the following publication has been reviewed: The iron chelator 
L1 potentiates oxidative DNA damage in iron-loaded liver cells, L. Cragg, Blood, 1998 
This  publication  shows  that  deferiprone's  potential toxicity  is  highly  dependent  on  the  L1:  iron  ratio. In 
vitro studies examining iron-mediated ascorbate oxidation in the presence of L1 showed that an L1: iron 
ratio must be at least 3 to 1 for L1 to inhibit the generation of free radicals; at lower concentrations of L1 
increased oxygen radical generation occurs. In the clinical setting, such potentialisation of iron-catalysed 
oxidative DNA damage at low L1:iron ratios may lead to long-term toxicities. 
This experimental study demonstrates the interaction between several chelators and iron on tissue damage. 
There is a correlation between high iron overload and visceral toxicity of the chelators, especially L1. This 
has been taken into account for limiting the indication. 
Although this publication in Blood provides a mechanistic explanation for tissue damage by deferiprone a 
causal relationship has not been shown in practice. Most patients die because of cardiac causes (71%), and 
only a small minority due to liver problems (6%). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies have been performed in rabbits and in dogs. 
The half-life of the drug in non-iron-loaded animals is short, ranging from 61-75 min in rabbits and 29-
58 min  (mean  39.9  min)  in  dogs.  A  longer  half-life  of  31-82  min  (mean  54.2  min)  is  reported  in  iron-
loaded dogs, which is consistent with a slower rate of elimination. 
The glucuronide metabolite accounted for 44 % of the administered dose, while the methylated metabolite 
accounted  for  1%  and  the  unchanged  drug  accounted  for  10.5%.  Fifty-five  and  a  half  percent  of  the 
intravenous dose of deferiprone was identified in the urine of non-iron-loaded rats during the first 72 hrs 
3/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
following dosing. 
Most  available  pre-clinical  pharmacokinetic  data  show  significant  inter  and  intra-species  variability  in 
pharmacokinetic profiles. In light of this, any extrapolation of absorption, metabolism, or excretion studies 
from rats or dogs to humans must be done with caution.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The  single-dose  toxicity  of  deferiprone  was  assessed  using  lethal  dose  studies  in  both  mouse  and  rat 
models. Albino male mice (BALB/c) aged 6 to 8 weeks and rats were given a range of single intravenous 
doses. Death occurred at high doses within 2-8 hours after deferiprone administration. The mode of death 
suggested a CNS-related cause, with death being immediately preceded by convulsions. 
Additional information was derived from a 14-day oral toxicity study in non-iron-loaded dogs. Lethality 
was seen at a dose of 600 mg/kg. There was no mortality at doses of 25-400 mg/kg in the same study. 
Repeated dose studies 
The following studies have been conducted: 
Subacute toxicity 
Table 1: Toxicity after repeated dose: subacute toxicity 
Species 
Duration 
Route 
24 days 
2 groups : daily 
oral or 
intraperitoneal 
Mouse;  
T/O albino 
n = 3 
Iron-loaded 
Doses 
(mg/kg) 
300 
Mouse ;  
BALB/c 
5 days/week 
for 60 days 
daily 
intraperitoneal 
200 
non-iron-
loaded and  
iron-loaded 
mice 
Results 
No  mortality  and  no  apparent  ill 
effects in either group. 
groups 
No mortality in iron overloaded group 
and 33 % mortality in non-iron-loaded 
group.  Both 
exhibited 
equivalent  blood  chemistry,  slightly 
reduced  haemoglobin,  platelets  and 
body  weight  gain  and  a  significant 
drop 
less 
pronounced in iron-loaded group). 
Histology  of  major  organs  was 
essentially normal. 
in  WBC 
(changes 
Mouse ;  
BALB/c 
5 days/week 
for  
84 days 
daily 
intraperitoneal 
200 
Significant  reductions  were  observed 
at  84  days  in  white  cell  counts, 
haemoglobin, red cell counts and bone 
marrow  cellularity.  These  changes 
were not observed after 14 days or 42 
days. 
4/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mouse ;  
n = 3 per 
group 
Rat  
n = 6 
Rat 
Sprague-
Dawley 
(n = 10 per 
group) 
5 days/week 
for 55 days 
and twice 
daily for 
next 22 days 
13 days 
2 groups : daily 
oral or 
intraperitoneal 
250 
The six animals survived throughout 
the administration period and the one-
month recovery period. 
3 subcutaneous 
infusions/day 
300 
All animals treated with deferiprone 
survived and exhibited similar body 
weight gain and liver weights to the 
control group. 
28 days 
daily oral or 
intraperitoneal 
75, 150, 300 
ip 
300 oral 
loss 
Hyperactivity,  weight 
and 
hypersalivation  were  observed  in  the 
300  mg/kg  groups.  Pathological 
included  atrophy  of 
observations 
thymus, 
and 
hypertrophy  of  adrenals  at  150  and 
300  mg/kg.  WBC,  RBC, 
and 
haemoglobin  reduced  by  close  to  50 
% in the 300 mg/kg groups 
spleen 
testes 
and 
Rat 
3 months 
oral 
100, 200 
Rat 
90 days 
followed by 
60 days 
oral 
200 followed 
by 2 x 200 
14 days 
oral 
25, 50, 100, 
200, 400, 600 
Dog ;  
Pure-bred 
Beagle 
n = 4 per 
group 
Mortality  was  observed  at  200  mg/kg 
and  reduced  red  and  white  blood  cell 
counts  at  100  mg/kg.  Atrophy  of 
thymus and other organs at 100 mg/kg 
and above. 
Significant  drop  in  the  white  blood 
cell  count  and  haemoglobin  was 
reported at 30 and 150 days of testing. 
The  effect  on  platelets  and  weight 
gain was minimal. 
decreased 
Mortality observed in the four dogs of 
the  600  mg/kg  group  between  days  7 
and  12.  Toxicity  observed  at  doses  ≥ 
100  mg/kg  which  included  anorexia, 
emaciation, 
activity, 
hypothermia, salivation and tremors. 
At  14  days,  decreased  white  cell 
counts  and  platelets  were  found  in 
most animals at 200 and 400 mg/kg.  
Hypertrophy  of  adrenal  glands  and 
atrophy  of  testes  observed  in  some 
animals at ≥ 400 mg/kg. No treatment 
related  effects  found  at  doses  of  25 
and 50 mg/kg. 
5/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monkey ; 
Cynomolg
us 
3 months 
daily oral 
40 and  
150 - 250 
Mortality observed in high dose group 
in  6/13  animals.  Reduced  red  and 
white  blood  cell  counts  and  organ 
atrophy  reported  at  150  mg/kg  or 
higher. Minor toxic effects to the bone 
marrow  were  observed  at  40  mg/kg. 
Organ  atrophy  was  seen 
the 
monkeys  at  doses  of  150  mg/kg  or 
more. 
in 
28 days 
daily oral or 
intraperitoneal 
300 
Rat 
Sprague-
Dawley 
n = 12 
Chronic toxicity 
Table 2: Toxicity after repeated dose: chronic toxicity 
Species 
Duration 
Route 
Rat 
n = 12  
5 days a week for 
12 months 
oral 
Doses  
mg/kg 
200 
treated 
-Animals 
intraperitoneally: 
slower rate of growth in body weight, 
red  cell  count  reduced  significantly 
after a week of treatment. 
-All treated animals : 
bone 
haemoglobin 
reduced, marked atrophy of thymus. 
suppression, 
hematocriet 
marrow 
and 
Results 
Mortality  was  observed  in  2/12 
animals  (similar  to  saline  control 
group)  with  a  substantial  decrease 
in white blood cell counts between 
months  1  and  4 
(males  and 
females).  Hypocellularity  of  white 
hypertrophy  were  also  reported  in 
animals treated with deferiprone. 
Genotoxicity 
The genotoxic potential of deferiprone was evaluated in a set of in vitro and in vivo tests. Deferiprone did 
not show direct mutagenic properties however, it did display clastogenic characteristics in non-iron-loaded 
systems.  A  study  in  patients  is  to  be  undertaken  to  assess  the  relevance  of  the  clastogenic  effects  in 
animals.  
Carcinogenicity 
Chronic carcinogenicity studies have not been undertaken. This is reflected in the SPC. 
Reproductive and development toxicity studies 
Deferiprone  was  embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  in  non-iron-loaded  rats  and  rabbits,  at  doses  as  low  as  25 
mg/kg/day. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
It  is  expected  that  deferiprone  will  react  with  and  chelate  free  iron  (Fe3+).  It  would  be  expected  that 
deferiprone released into soils or aquatic environments would chelate with cations and be sequestered in 
the local environment. The active ingredient of Ferriprox, deferiprone, is sparingly soluble in water (12.95 
6/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg/ml)  and,  less  than  10%  of  the  ingested  dose  is  excreted  as  the  active  form,  the  majority  of  the  drug 
being excreted as the inactive glucuronide metabolite. 
The amount of drug in the environment is anticipated to be small as Thalassaemia is an orphan disease and 
due to the genetic screening of populations at risk, the percentage of Thalassemia patients is decreasing.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
One  phase  III  and  two-phase  II  trials  have  been  conducted  involving  a  total  of  283  patients  (ITT 
Population), of which 247 received deferiprone. 
The pivotal and a supportive clinical trial were performed according to GCP standards and agreed ethical 
principles. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mechanism of action is based on the formation of a complex of three molecules of deferiprone with 
one atom of iron. This complex is excreted mainly in urine and a net negative iron balance is achieved if 
the iron excreted is greater than the iron accumulated from transfused blood (0.5 mg/kg/day). The affinity 
of deferiprone for essential divalent cations like copper and zinc is considerably lower than for Fe3+. The 
efficacy  of  a  chelator  depends  not  only  upon  the  stability  as  a  chelate,  but  also  on  the  rate  of 
biotransformation and elimination of the chelate-iron complex. 
Dose finding studies 
No formal dose finding studies have been carried out. A dose of 75 mg/kg/day in three divided doses has 
been  selected.  Doses  of  100  mg/kg/day  were  associated  with  increased  incidence  of  adverse  events  and 
doses of 50 mg/kg/day were unable to obtain a negative iron balance. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Study  LA-01  characterised  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  Apotex  formulation  of  deferiprone, 
Ferriprox, in seven patients who were fed. 
Deferiprone  has  been  reported  to  be  rapidly  absorbed  from  the  upper  part  of  the  gastrointestinal  tract, 
appearing  in  the  blood  within  5-10  minutes.  Peak  serum  concentrations  are  reached  45  to  60  minutes 
following  administration  of  a  single  dose  in  fasted  patients.  This  may  be  extended  to  2  hours  in  fed 
patients. 
Following a dose of 25 mg/kg, lower peak serum concentrations have been detected in patients in the fed 
state (85 µmol/L) than in the fasting state (126 µmol/L), although there was no decrease in the amount of 
drug absorbed when given with food. 
The serum protein binding of deferiprone in normal serum is lower than 10% over the concentration range 
of 0.01 - 0.2 mM. 
Deferiprone is metabolised predominantly to a glucuronide conjugate.  This metabolite lacks iron-binding 
capacity because of inactivation of the 3-hydroxy group of deferiprone. Peak serum concentrations of the 
glucuronide occur 2 to 3 hours after administration of Ferriprox. 
In humans, deferiprone is eliminated mainly via the kidneys with reports of 75% to 90% of the ingested 
dose being recovered in the urine during the first 24 hours, in the form of free deferiprone, the glucuronide 
metabolite and the iron-deferiprone complex. 
A variable amount of elimination into the faeces has been reported. 
Clinical experience 
7/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Mean serum ferritin in 
deferiprone treated-patients 
and in deferoxamine-
treated patients is 
approximately similar. 
Mean hepatic iron 
concentration in 
deferiprone-treated patients 
seems to increase more than 
in deferoxamine treated 
patients. 
Deferiprone allows to 
maintain serum ferritin 
values at pre-study levels. 
A subgroup analysis 
showed that in the more 
heavily iron-loaded patients 
(baseline >5000 µg/l), the 
mean ferritin values 
decreased progressively 
with time. 
During the first 2 years of 
treatment, decrease in mean 
serum ferritin values. After 
this period values 
stabilised. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy data concerning deferiprone in patients with thalassemia major concern 247 patients provided by 
three trials conducted by Apotex. In addition published data are available: 
Dura
- 
tion 
2 
years 
Table 3: Efficacy data 
Study 
number 
Design 
LA-01 
Pivotal, open phase III, 
deferiprone vs. 
deferoxamine, 
multicentre, in patients 
10 years of age or 
older, modified to 6 
years, 10 months by 
protocol modification, 
in Thalassemia Major 
Number of 
patients  
Primary end-
point 
Efficacy result 
Serum 
ferritin 
 Ferriprox: 35 
(7 
withdrawn); 
DFO:36 (4 
withdrawn) 
LA-02/ 
LA-06  
(follow-
up) 
Supportive, open, non-
comparative, single 
treatment safety and 
efficacy study in 
patients 10 years of 
age or older in 
Thalassemia Major 
1 
year 
187 (25 
patients 
withdrawn) 
Serum 
ferritin, 
neutrophil 
counts 
LA-03 
Compassionate use 
6 
years 
25 (4 
withdrawn) 
As this study 
was for 
compassionat
e use, no 
main efficacy 
endpoint 
Statistical methods 
Study LA-01 
The original hypothesis to be tested in this study was that the efficacy of Ferriprox was within 20 % of the 
efficacy of deferoxamine after 24 months of treatment as measured by hepatic iron concentration (HIC). 
Due in part to poor compliance with the study procedures, this hypothesis could not be tested. In its place 
the measurement used to evaluate efficacy was the sequential monitoring of serum ferritin. 
An  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  was  to  compare  the  difference  between  baseline  and  subsequent 
iron concentration for the two groups. 
The correlation between urinary iron excretion and trough concentration of Ferriprox, serum ferritin, and 
liver iron were to be studied by multivariate analysis. 
Study LA-02 
A descriptive statistical approach was planned including establishment of 95 % confidence interval around 
the rate of occurrence of agranulocytosis. An approximate incidence rate of 0.4 % to 1 % was anticipated. 
8/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
The sample size was sufficient to permit a rate of up to 2% to be detected with 95% confidence, using not 
more than 250 patients. 
Study LA-03 
As  this  study  was  for  the  compassionate  use  of  deferiprone,  no  sample  size  calculation  was  performed. 
Since there was no a priori statistical plan in the protocol, the analysis presented is based on analysis of 
variance  (ANOVA)  and  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  assessments  of  serum  ferritin  and  HIC  over 
time. 
Study populations 
Table 4: Baseline characteristics of patients 
LA-01 
randomised, open-label, 
comparative 
n = 71 
35 deferiprone 
36 deferoxamine 
Mean age ± sd 
(years) 
(range) 
Ferriprox  
16.1±5.5 
(6.9-30.8) 
Gender 
Male 51% 
Female 49% 
deferoxamine 
17.1±6.5 
(6.9-28.1) 
Male 50% 
Female 50% 
ethnic origin 
Number of 
withdrawals 
7  
4 
Greek 25.7% 
Italian 22.8% 
Guyanese 
2.8% 
Asian 42.8% 
Arabic 5.7% 
Greek 25% 
Italian 27.8% 
African 2.8% 
Asian 38.9% 
Arabic 5.6% 
LA-02/LA06 (follow-up) 
open-label, single 
treatment safety study; 
n = 187 
18.4±5.6 
(10-41) 
LA-03 
compassionate use 
n = 25 
22.7±7.1 
(6.9-40) 
Male 49.7% 
Female 
50.2% 
Greek 1% 
Italian 98% 
Asian 1% 
25 before one year 
treatment 
Male 60 % 
Female 40 
% 
4 
Greek 20% 
Italian 24% 
African 4% 
Asian 32% 
Arabic 20% 
Clinical studies in specific populations 
No study was performed in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. In the case of renal impairment no 
toxicity  is  expected  due  to  accumulation  of  deferiprone,  because  of  the  low  fraction  of  unchanged  drug 
excreted in the urine. The relation between hepatic function and drug elimination is complex and not well 
understood.  The  applicant  commits  to  provide  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  cirrhosis. 
Appropriate warnings have been included in the SPC. 
The effect of age on deferiprone was not studied owing to the young age of the study population. 
9/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Patient exposure 
There  are  data  from  the  three  studies  mentioned  and  from  other  sources,  especially  data  reported  in  the 
literature.  It  has  been  estimated  that  more  than  2000  patients  have  been  treated  with  deferiprone  since 
1987, albeit for a number of disorders at a variety of doses and duration of therapy. 
Adverse events, including laboratory findings and serious adverse events 
Among 247 patients who were enrolled in the Apotex-sponsored studies, 21 patients had serious adverse 
experiences. They included neutropenia, agranulocytosis, polyarticular arthritis, and nausea/vomiting.  
The most serious adverse reactions are agranulocytosis and neutropenia. The incidence of agranulocytosis 
(neutrophils  <0.5x109/l)  is  1.2%  (0.6  cases  per  100  patient  years  of  treatment).  Agranulocytosis  is 
potentially  severe,  occurring  with  a  highly  variable  delay  (from  0.5  to  21  months).  During  the  Apotex-
sponsored studies, agranulocytosis occurred during the first five months on therapy with deferiprone. It is 
therefore recommended that a patient’s absolute neutrophil count (ANC) be monitored every week. This 
precaution  for  use  may  prevent  agranulocytosis,  and  may  decrease  its  severity  by  allowing  an  early 
discontinuation  of  Ferriprox  and  initiation  of  appropriate  therapy  with  a  granulocyte  growth  factor.  The 
risk  of  agranulocytosis  justifies  the  interruption  of  Ferriprox  in  cases  of  ANC  values  under  1.5  x  109/l. 
This  information  is  included  in  the  SPC  in  section  4.4.  In  addition  patients  with  a  history  of 
agranulocytosis  are  contra-indicated.  A  strong  educational  effort  by  the  applicant  directly  to 
haematologists and indirectly through patients through the Thalassemia International Federation (TIF) will 
be used to ensure that physicians and their patients are aware of the importance of weekly monitoring. To 
fortify the prescribers’ and patients’ compliance with the ANC monitoring, the drug will be packaged in 
units of approximately 1-week supply. 
In total 15 fatalities have been reported, 13 fatalities in literature data and two additional cases.  However, 
only two cases were considered to be related to deferiprone, one case of systemic lupus erythematosus, and 
one case of agranulocytosis and diphtheria-like infection. 
The most common adverse reaction reported in patients treated with Ferriprox was reddish/brown urine. 
The  event  is  attributed  to  the  excretion  of  the  iron-deferiprone  complex  that  is  a  chromophore.  Similar 
events are reported for patients taking deferoxamine, and no patient discontinued any study as a result of 
the reddish urine. 
Apart  from  the  reddish  discoloration  of  the  urine,  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  reactions  were 
related to the body as a whole, the digestive and musculoskeletal system. Gastrointestinal disorders such 
as  nausea,  vomiting,  are  the  second  cause  for  withdrawals  and  occurred  in  16%  of  treated  patients. 
Arthralgia and arthropathy are most often mild or moderate. 
Agranulocytosis, neutropenia and gastrointestinal disorders are probably deferiprone-specific adverse 
reactions. 
Transient  fluctuations  in  liver  enzymes  have  been  reported  in  some patients treated with deferiprone. In 
the  majority  of  the  patients,  the  increase  was  asymptomatic  and  returned  to  baseline  values  without 
discontinuation  or  decreasing  the  dose  of  deferiprone.  In  some  cases  the  abnormality  was  considered 
related  to  post-transfusion  hepatitis.  In  one  patient  with  evidence  of  previous  hepatitis  C  infection, 
fluctuating  levels  of  ALT  were  considered  related  to  deferiprone.  The  clinical  significance  of  increased 
ALT observed in some treated patients is unclear, due to the underlying disease. 
10/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
Table 5: Frequency of adverse reactions 
Adverse Reaction 
Red Urine 
Nausea 
Abdominal Pain 
Vomiting 
Arthralgia 
Increased ALT 
Neutropenia 
Increased Appetite 
Agranulocytosis 
Liver fibrosis 
Rate of Event 
(Per 100 Patient Years) 
  29.2 
  8.6 
  7.6 
  7.2 
  5.1 
  3.7 
  3.5 
  2.9 
  0.6 
Percentage  of  Patients 
Affected 
53.8 
15.9 
14.1 
13.3 
9.4 
6.8 
6.5 
5.4 
1.2 
A  study  has  been  published  in  the  literature  (New  Eng  J  Med  1998;  339:417-23)  in  which  the  authors 
concluded that deferiprone might worsen hepatic fibrosis. As reported in the correspondence section of the 
journal  (New  Eng  J  Med  1998;  339:1710-14)  this  topic  is  controversial  as  other  published  studies 
concluded that deferiprone was not associated with hepatic fibrosis.  
The study performed by Berdoukas et al (unpublished data) included 12 deferiprone treated patients and 
22 deferoxamine treated patients. In the deferiprone treated group there was an increased chance of having 
progression of hepatic fibrosis, even over a short period of time. 
However,  the  results  of  this  study  are  inconclusive  due  to  a  number  of  methodological  problems.  And 
therefore do not provide additional information that might have altered the benefit/risk ratio.  
Although the number of patients is low in above-mentioned studies and the findings are not derived from 
a  randomised  comparison, there is still doubt that deferiprone may worsen hepatic fibrosis, based on all 
available information. In thalassemia patients there is an association between liver fibrosis and hepatitis C. 
Special  care  must  be  taken  to  ensure  that  iron  chelation  in  patients  with  hepatitis  C  is  optimal.  In  these 
patients careful monitoring of liver histology is recommended. This has been reflected in the SPC. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit-risk assessment 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Toxicological evaluation is particularly difficult to interpret because of differences between humans and 
animals: difference in metabolic pathways, difference in iron turnover and the inability to totally mimic in 
animals the iron overload seen in humans. 
Deferiprone  is  genotoxic  in  3/4  tests.  The  CPMP  concluded  that  deferiprone  did  not  show  direct 
mutagenic  properties,  however,  it  did  display  clastogenic  characteristics  in  non-iron-loaded  systems. 
Therefore,  genotoxic  and  carcinogenic  effects  in  humans  therefore  cannot  be  ruled  out.  The  applicant 
addressed  this  point  in  the  oral  explanation  and  committed  to  provide  data  on  the  relevance  of  these 
11/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clastogenic findings to humans by performing a study to examine chromosomal aberrations and chromatic 
breaks in patients on deferiprone treatment.  
A statement has been included in the SPC that deferiprone is mutagenic and that its carcinogenicity cannot 
be excluded.  
In conclusion, the toxicological data and the preclinical safety profile of deferiprone support only a strictly 
limited indication at this time. 
Efficacy 
Because of the deficiencies in the comparative study, the only data available for assessment of efficacy are 
uncontrolled.  It  is  recognised  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  perform  a  new  prospective,  randomised, 
comparative study in view of the limited number of patients. In addition, new oral iron chelators are under 
development and only a second line indication has been applied for. 
Concern was also expressed about the results of a study, published in the literature (Hoffbrand AV, Al-
Refaie  F,  Davis  B,  et  al.  Long-term  trial  of  deferiprone  in  51  transfusion-dependent  iron  overloaded 
patients.  Blood  1998;  91:  295-300)  in  which  some  patients  presented  a  less  favourable  response  to 
deferiprone compared with the results of trial LA-06. This difference can be explained by the quality of 
chelation at baseline. 
Data  on  long  term  hepatic  iron  concentrations  are  available  only  for  very  few  patients.  Deferiprone 
75 mg/kg/day  stabilises  iron  balance  in  regularly  transfused  patients,  but  it  has  not  been  shown  that  a 
negative  iron-balance  is  reached  in  the  long  term.  Because  there  are  no  adequate  data  to  show  that 
deferiprone reverses end-organ damage and because the leading cause of death in iron-loaded patients is 
cardiac iron loading, the ability to deferiprone to prolong life and prevent damage to vital organs such as 
the  heart  is  crucial.  There  are  no  indications  that  deferiprone  might  worsen  cardiac  function.  No  death 
from congestive heart failure was reported in patients who had been treated long term with deferiprone. 
Several  individual  data  show  an  improvement  in  cardiac  function.  Deferiprone  has  not  been  associated 
with a worsening of height growth curve. No increased incidence of iron-induced endocrine complications 
has been associated with deferiprone. 
Despite the limitations in the data the CPMP concluded that the product was efficacious. The data support 
a restricted indication. 
Safety 
As  mentioned  before,  a  comparison  between  the  pre-clinical  data  and  the  safety  data  is  very  difficult  in 
this case. The most important adverse reactions are agranulocytosis and neutropenia whose incidence are 
1.2% and 6% respectively. The amount of long-term data is limited, but in view of the indication this was 
accepted.  As  a  weekly  monitoring  of  blood  counts  is  included  in  the  SPC,  the  safety  of  the  product  is 
acceptable. There is still doubt that deferiprone may worsen hepatic fibrosis. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Taking  into  account  the  fact  that  thalassemia  major  is  a  rare  disease,  where  the  lifetime  of  patients 
(currently  only  treated  by  deferoxamine  which  can  induce  toxic  and  in  some  cases  allergic  reactions) 
depends  on  iron  overload,  the  CPMP  considered  that,  despite  the  safety  concerns  raised  with  respect  to 
agranulocytosis  and  insufficient  information  on  clastogenicity,  deferiprone  offers  an  acceptable  second-
line alternative.  
Only a restricted indication is accepted due to: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
limited comparative efficacy data with deferoxamine, 
the lack of data showing that a negative iron-balance is reached in the long term, 
its possible clastogenic properties, 
and the risk of agranulocytosis. 
In  conclusion,  based  on  the  available  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  concluded  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Ferriprox  is  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  iron  overload  in 
12/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
patients with thalassemia major for whom deferoxamine therapy is contra-indicated or who present serious 
toxicity  with  deferoxamine  therapy.  The  CPMP,  considering  the  fact  that  thalassemia  major  is  a  rare 
disease, where the lifetime of patients (currently only treated by deferoxamine which can induce toxic and 
in some cases allergic reactions) depends on iron overload, and having taking into account the conclusions 
of  the  ad-hoc  expert  group,  recommended,  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances in accordance with Article 13 (2) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, as amended, 
and Part 4 G of the annex to Council Directive 75/318/EEC. 
6. 
Extension of the indication in patients for whom deferoxamine therapy is inadequate 
Introduction 
The  very  restricted  indication  currently  approved  for  “the  treatment  of  iron  overload  in  patients  with 
thalassemia  major  for  whom  DFO  therapy  is  contraindicated  or  who  present  serious  toxicity  with  DFO 
therapy”  was  adopted  by  the  CPMP  under  exceptional  circumstances  in  1999.  Consequently,  the  MAH 
undertook a series of studies in order to fulfill a number of specific obligations and follow-up measures. 
Further  to  the  provision  of  these  data,  which  included  encouraging  results  pertaining  to  the  safety  of 
deferiprone, the exceptional circumstances were removed in May 2002.  
Recent  iron  balance  studies  have  demonstrated  that  the  combined  use  of  DFO  and  L1  could  have  an 
additive  effect  on  total  body  iron  excretion  in  thalassemia  patients.  Furthermore,  preliminary  data  also 
indicate that spleen iron content may be decreased during therapy with L1. These data suggest that L1 and 
DFO  may  chelate  iron  from  different  body  iron  pools.  Based  on  this  hypothesis,  an  optimal  chelation 
regimen  could be the combination of lower doses of L1 and DFO. This regimen may avoid the toxicity 
associated with higher doses of either chelator and, on the other hand, by inducing chelation of different 
iron pools, it may promote a greater reduction in total body iron than either chelator alone. 
The  MAH  applied  for  a  wider,  unrestricted  indication  in  the  treatment  of  iron  overload  in  thalassemia 
patients and patients with other forms of secondary iron overload inadequately treated with conventional 
therapy. 
Clinical aspects. 
Independent investigators have conducted studies to evaluate liver histology changes during therapy with 
deferiprone  and  with  the  exception  of  one  single  retrospective  study  in  14  patients,  no  evidence  of 
deferiprone-induced  liver  fibrosis  was  observed  in  the  analysis  of  the  scientific  literature.    A  recent 
analysis  of  the  largest  collection  of  liver  biopsies  reported  to  date  demonstrated  lack  of  progression  of 
liver fibrosis in 56 patients receiving deferiprone therapy for a mean of 3.1 years (Wanless IR, Sweeney 
G,  Dhillon  AP,  et  al.  Lack  of  progressive  hepatic  fibrosis  during  long-term  therapy  with  deferiprone  in 
subjects  with  transfusion-dependent  beta-thalassemia.  Blood  2002;100(5):1566-9),  confirming  the 
conclusions of previous studies that there is no evidence of chelator-induced hepatic fibrosis. Based on all 
available scientific information, the concern of hepatic fibrosis was alleviated by the CPMP along with all 
other specific obligations. 
In support of this application the MAH has provided results taken from one randomised study comparing 
the  alternating  therapy  with  deferiprone  and  deferoxamine  versus  the  monotherapy  with  deferoxamine, 
and from various published studies, notably a multi-centre, randomised, active controlled study by Maggio 
et al comparing the efficacy of Ferriprox to that of DFO. 
13/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study LA-08-9701  
A multi-centre, randomised, open label, controlled, parallel clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety 
of  alternating  therapy  with  deferiprone  and  DFO  versus  the  monotherapy  with  DFO  (current  standard 
therapy) for 12 months in 60 TM patients already undergoing DFO therapy. 
Patients in arm A (L1+DFO) received s.c. DFO on 2 consecutive days a week (DFO - 20-60mg/kg - 9±1 
hour infusion) followed by 5 consecutive days of L1 (25mg/kg body weight t.i.d for a total daily dose of 
75 mg/kg body weight). Patients in Arm B (DFO alone) received DFO s.c. 5 - 7 days a week (20-60 
mg/kg - 9±1 hour infusion). 
The most relevant inclusion criteria were TM patients ≥10 years of age with serum ferritin concentration 
1000  -  4000  µg/l  (initially  between  1500  and  3500  µg/l  and later  amended)  receiving  chelation  therapy 
(DFO only), and females of childbearing potential who have negative pregnancy tests prior to enrolment 
in  the  study  and  are  out  of  risk  of  pregnancy.  The  exclusion  criteria  were  mainly  being  diagnosed  with 
anaemia  other  than  TM,  cardiac  dysfunction  requiring  treatment,  hepatic  failure,  previously  diagnosed 
liver  cirrhosis,  previously  diagnosed  chronic  active  hepatitis  or  renal  failure,  patients  who  previously 
discontinued therapy with L1 or DFO because of an adverse reaction to either chelator, and patients with 
disorders associated with neutropenia or thrombocytopenia in the previous year. 
The efficacy of both therapy arms was assessed by i) the quantification of body iron, determined by serum 
ferritin, hepatic iron concentration (HIC) and spleen iron concentration in non-splenectomized patients, ii) 
the difference between treatment groups in mean body stores of iron, as determined by the serum ferritin 
concentration and Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID), and iii)the tolerability of the 
regimen  assessed  by  the  incidence  of  adverse  reactions  .  Thus,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the 
change  in  serum  ferritin  concentration  from  baseline  to  the  end  of  the  study.  The  secondary  efficacy 
endpoints were the hepatic and spleen (in non-splenectomised patients) iron concentrations, as measured 
by  SQUID.  Due  to  the  difficulties  associated  with  liver  biopsies  and  the  small  number  (4)  of  existing 
SQUIDs,  only  limited  data  are  available  on  the  changes  in  hepatic  iron  during  chelation  therapy  in 
transfusion-dependent patients. 
The safety of both therapy arms was evaluated by the incidence of adverse events (AEs) and adverse drug 
reactions (ADRs) reported during the study, the changes in physical examination and in laboratory values 
from baseline. 
Regarding statistical  methods,  the  study  was  designed  to  test  the  hypothesis  that the two therapies have 
the  same  efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  iron  overload.  A  total  of  60  patients  were  planned  for  the  study, 
based  on  previous  experience  (LA-02  study).  In  the  analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint,  both  “study 
completers” and “intent-to-treat” (ITT) approaches were employed. A two-sample t-test was performed to 
compare  the  mean  change  of  the  two  regimens.  In  addition,  ANOVA  taking  into  account  the  site  effect 
and the effects of splenectomy or baseline serum ferritin concentration (<2500 or >2500 µg/l), were also 
performed  to  determine  the  statistical  significance  of  the  difference  between  the  two  regimens  in  the 
presence of these covariates. Trend analysis of serum ferritin concentration data was performed using the 
repeated  measures  ANOVA  approach.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  a  negative  or  a  positive  trend  in 
serum ferritin during the study was also determined by simple regression and compared between the two 
regimens by the Chi-square test. 
The distribution of gender, splenectomy status, hepatits C virus infection status (HCV) and serum ferritin 
level >2500 µg/l between the two groups of patients at baseline was compared by the Chi-square test. 
Results 
The study was finally conducted in 3 centres. Fifty-nine (59) of the 60 patients enrolled finally completed 
the study (30 patients in the DFO cohort and 29 patients in DFO + L1 cohort). The DFO dose received 
was slightly smaller as compared to the usually prescribed one and the mean DFO dose during the study 
14/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period was significantly different between the two therapies: 37.77±8.92 mg/kg/day in the DFO arm, and 
33.30±6.64 mg/kg/day in the experimental therapy group.  
The following table shows the baseline characteristics of the two treatment arms,  
Table 1: Patients’ characteristics at baseline 
Patient numbers 
Age (years) 
Female (%) 
Splenectomized (%) 
DFO dose (mg/kg/day) 
HCV positive (%) 
Serum ferritin concentration > 2500 µg/l (%) 
DFO 
30 
19.8±6.1 
60 
23.3 
34.77±8.85 
46.7 
40.0 
DFO+L1 
29 
18.7±4.8 
45 
17.2 
36.04±5.75 
41.4 
27.6 
Efficacy 
Regarding the primary endpoint, the mean serum ferritin was similar for both groups at baseline (2048 ± 
685  µg/l  for  the  DFO+L1  therapy  and  2257  ±  748  µg/l  for  DFO  alone,  p  =  0.2682).  At  the  end  of  the 
study, the value decreased to 1800 ± 887 µg/l for DFO + L1 therapy and 1877 ± 840 µg/l for DFO arm. 
Both  therapies  resulted  in  a  statistically  similar  decrease  in  serum  ferritin  (-248  ±  791  for  the  L1+DFO 
arm versus –349 ± 573 µg/l for the DFO arm; p = 0.5802). The results of the trend analysis of the monthly 
serum  ferritin  data  indicated  that  overall,  there  was  a  significant  negative  trend  of  serum  ferritin 
concentration  over  time  (p  =  0.0469).  The  rate  of  decline  was  estimated  to  be  -24.8  ±  12.4  µg/l/month 
(mean ± SD). In the DFO group, 24/30 (80%) patients had a negative trend in serum ferritin concentration 
whereas in the DFO + L1 group, 23/29 (79.3%) patients had a negative trend in serum ferritin. There was 
no statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients with a negative trend between the two 
therapy groups (p = 0.9475).  
Regarding  the  splenectomy  status,  the  ANOVA  on  the  change  in  serum  ferritin  concentration  from 
baseline  to  the  end  of  study  showed  that  it  has  no  effect  on  the  non-significant  difference  in  change  in 
serum ferritin concentration between the two therapies (p = 0.5203). 
There was no significant difference on Red Blood Cell Consumption between the two treatment arms (p = 
0.8151). 
The results of the ITT analysis were similar to those from ‘Study Completer’ analysis  
Regarding secondary endpoints, the HIC declined from the baseline of 1625 ± 642 to 1386 ± 537 µg/g in 
DFO patients and from a baseline of 1629 ± 744 to 1565 ± 657 µg/g (N = 9) in DFO + L1 patients (N = 
29) at the end of the study. Overall, there was no statistically significant difference (-239 ± 474 vs. -65 ± 
615 µg/g) between the two therapies (p = 0.2263). The decrease was statistically significant from zero for 
the DFO patients (p = 0.0099) but non-significant for the DFO + L1 therapy patients (p = 0.5761). The 
effect  of  splenectomy  status  on  HIC  revealed  that  the  highest  mean  change  from  baseline  was  found  in 
splenectomized patients from DFO + L1 cohort; however, the difference was not statistically significant. 
Overall,  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  HIC  between  splenectomized  and  non-splenectomized 
patients (p = 0.0844).  
Of the total of 47 non-splenectomized patients, only eight patients had baseline assessment of spleen iron 
concentration and only 5/8 patients had their spleen iron concentration evaluated at the end of study. Due 
to  the  extremely  small  number  of  patients  with  spleen  iron  concentration  data,  no  meaningful  statistical 
comparison between the two regimens could be performed.  
15/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  change  of  Non-Transferrin  Bound  Iron 
concentration between the DFO and DFO + L1 therapies (p = 0.5775). 
Safety 
Twenty-three (76.7%) of the 30 DFO patients reported 161 adverse events (AE) during the study, while 27 
(93.1%) of the 29 DFO + L1 patients reported 149 AEs. The difference was not statistically significant (p 
= 0.1455).  
Table 2. Incidence and distribution of AEs categorised into different body systems 
Number of reports of AEs 
Body system 
Body as a whole 
Cardiovascular 
Digestive 
Endocrine system 
Haemic and Lymphatic 
Metabolic and nutritional
Musculoskeletal 
Nervous 
Respiratory 
Skin 
Special senses 
Urogenital 
DFO 
80 
3 
9 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
46 
5 
4 
10 
DFO+L1 
49 
1 
49 
1 
2 
3 
1 
1 
36 
1 
4 
1 
When the AEs were categorised into different (COSTART) body systems, the frequency of patients with 
AEs was still not statistically significant between the two groups for all body systems. 
Three  AEs  were  considered  as  severe  (pyelectasis)  or  moderate  (renal  colic,  pharyngitis)  in  the  DFO 
monotherapy  group  but  the  relationship  on  each  case  was  considered  doubtful  and  all  resolved.  In  the 
DFO+L1 group all the adverse events were mild and all resolved. 
Although the vast majority of AEs were not thought related, statistical analysis of the events showed an 
association  between  therapy  and  the  distribution  of  reports  by  body  system  (p<0.0001).  Patients  in  the 
DFO  arm  experienced  more  AEs  in  the  “body  as  a  whole”  (back  pain  and  headache)  and  “urogenital” 
(mainly dysmenorrhoea) systems whilst patients in the DFO + L1 arm reported more “digestive system” 
events (diarrhoea and vomiting). 
The Cochrane-Mantel-Haenszel test revealed a statistically significant general association between therapy 
and the distribution of the number of AE reports among body systems (p < 0.0001). Patients in the DFO 
group  experienced  more  AEs  in  the  BODY  AS  A  WHOLE  (back  pain  and  20  headache)  and 
UROGENITAL (mainly dysmenorrhoea) systems, whereas the patients in DFO + L1 group reported more 
AEs in the DIGESTIVE system (16 diarrhoea and 27 vomiting).  
When  the  events  considered  to  be  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  were  reviewed,  two  (6.7%)  of  the  30 
DFO monotherapy patients reported a total of 3 ADRs compared with seven (24.1%) of the 29 DFO + L1 
therapy  patients,  who  between  them  experienced  40  ADRs  during  the  study.  The  difference  was  not 
statistically significant (p = 0.0797). All reports had a favourable outcome. 
Table 3. Number of individual ADR in the DFO+L1 and DFO arms 
16/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body system 
Body as a whole 
Digestive 
Haemic and lymphatic 
Metabolic and nutritional 
COSTART Term 
Abdominal pain 
Allergic reaction 
Abscess 
Vomit 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Decreased ANC 
Increased ALT 
Number of reports of ADR 
DFO 
0 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
DFO+L1 
5 
0 
0 
25 
5 
2 
1 
2 
There  was  no  significant  difference  in  the  incidence  of  ADRs  between  the  two  therapy  groups  with  the 
exception of vomiting (p = 0.0237), which was probably related to the oral administration of L1. 
There was a statistically significant general association between therapy and the distribution of the number 
of adverse drug reaction reports among COSTART terms (p < 0.0001). Allergic reactions (2 reports from 
1  patient)  were  observed  only  with  DFO  monotherapy,  whereas  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  and 
increased ALT were observed only in patients using combination therapy. 
There were no deaths in either treatment group and there were no relevant findings regarding serious 
adverse events.  
Treatment interruptions 
Five  patients  (16.7%)  using  DFO  monotherapy  and  12  patients  receiving  DFO+L1  combination  (40%) 
experienced a total of 5 and 36 treatment interruptions, respectively, due to AEs. Reasons for interruptions 
in  the  DFO  group  were  laryngotracheitis,  gastroenteritis,  flu,  renal  colic  and  worldwide  travels  where 
required  monitoring  of  blood  counts  could  not  be  assured,  and  n  the  second  group,  reasons  for 
interruptions  were  digestive  disorders  in  10  cases  (mostly  diarrhoea),  hepatic  disorders  in  2  cases 
(increased ALT), neuralgia in one case, and pharyngitis, cold, flu or chicken pox in the remaining cases. 
The total interruption for DFO monotherapy was 27 days (range 1 - 15 days) and for the L1 + DFO group 
was 207 days (range 4 - 39 days).  
A more detialed review of the data carried out by the MAH at the request of the CPMP showed that site 
research  personnel  were  much  more  cautious  with  the  investigational  product  (Ferriprox)  than  with  the 
standard therapy (DFO) and treated the same AE differently, depending on the therapy. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluation: ALT 
There was no statistically significant difference in mean ALT levels between the two patient groups either 
at  baseline  (p  =  0.7667)  or  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period  (p  =  0.1886).  Slight,  but  non-significant 
increases from baseline occurred in both groups (DFO 2.0 ± 29.3 U/l (p = 0.7160) (N =30), and DFO + L1 
20.9  ±  70.5  U/l  (0.1214)  (N  =  29).  Trend  analysis  of  the  monthly  ALT  data  revealed  that  there  was  no 
significant  difference  in  trend  between  the  two  therapy  groups  (p  =  0.3030).  Overall,  there  was  no 
significant trend in ALT over time (p = 0.2325). 
17/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effect of baseline HCV was investigated.  
Table 8: Mean baseline ALT values in patients according to HCV status 
Therapy 
DFO 
DFO+L1 
HCV 
Positive 
48.3±39.9 U/l (N=14) 
52.8±50.4 U/l (N=12) 
Negative 
30.4±19.0 U/l (N=16) 
24.4±14.2 U/l (N=17) 
As  expected,  HCV+  patients  had  higher  baseline  ALT  levels.  However,  the  difference  in  baseline  ALT 
level between HCV+ and HCV- patients was not statistically significant in the ANOVA (p = 0.0601). 
The changes in ALT from baseline to the end of the study according to HCV status are shown below:  
Table 9: Changes in ALT from baseline to the end of the study according to HCV status 
Therapy 
DFO 
DFO+L1 
HCV 
Positive 
-3.9 ± 19.5 U/l (N=14) 
+44.9 ± 105.4 U/l (N=12) 
Negative 
+7.1 ± 35.7 U/l (N=16) 
+3.9 ± 17.4 U/l (N=17) 
None  of  the  changes  in  ALT  was  significantly  different  from  zero  (p  >  0.05),  nor  were  the  changes 
significantly different between the two therapies, regardless of HCV infection status. Overall, there was no 
significant difference between HCV positive and negative patients (p = 0.4196). 
Frequency of ALT above 2 or 3 Times the Upper Normal Limit (ULN) 
The  baseline  frequency  of  patients  with  their  ALT  above  two  or  three  times  ULN  was  similar  for  both 
therapy groups, even after adjusting for baseline HCV status. At the end of the study, there was a similar 
incidence  between  the  two  therapy  groups  of  patients  with  ALT  2xULN  and  of  patients  with  ALT 
3xULN, even after adjusting for their baseline HCV status. 
The  percentage  of  patients  with  ALT  levels  >2xULN  was  examined  over  time.  The  percentage  ranged 
from 0 - 13.3% (DFO) and 3.4 - 17.2% (DFO + L1). The following table summarises the effect of baseline 
HCV status on the percentage of patients with ALT >2xULN at each point in time: 
Table: % of patients with ALT >2xULN at each point in time 
DFO group 
DFO + L1 group 
Baseline HCV- 
0-6.3% 
0-17.6% 
Baseline HCV+ 
0-21.4% 
0-33.3% 
These  results  show  that  there  was  a  significant  effect  of  baseline  HCV  status  on  the  incidence  of  ALT 
>2xULN, especially in the DFO + L1 therapy group.  
The following table summarises the effect of baseline HCV status on the percentage of patients with ALT 
>3xULN at each point in time:  
Table: % of patients with ALT >3xULN at each point in time 
Baseline HCV- 
0- 6.3% 
0-5.9% 
DFO group 
DFO + L1 group 
Baseline HCV+ 
0-7.1% 
0-33.3% 
18/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a  significant  association  between  baseline  HCV  status  and  the  frequency  of  ALT  >3xULN, 
after  adjusting  for  therapy  (p  =  0.0002).  Similarly,  a  significant  association  between  therapy  and  the 
frequency  of  ALT  >3xULN  was  detected,  after  adjusting  for  HCV  status  (p  =  0.0054).  A  statistically 
significant  difference  in  the  overall  frequency  of  ALT  >3xULN  was  observed  between  the  DFO 
monotherapy  (2.55%)  and  the  DFO  +  L1  (8.33%)  therapy  groups  for  HCV+patients  (p  =  0.0134).  In 
HCV- patients, however, this difference was not significant (p = 0.3734). 
Published Studies 
The  MAH  has  provided  results  from  several  published  studies,  including  a  multi-center,  randomised, 
active controlled study by Maggio et al comparing the efficacy of L1 to that of DFO. 
Deferiprone versus deferoxamine in patients with thalassemia major: a randomized clinical trial. Maggio 
et al. Blood cells, molecules, and disease: 1998; 28(2): 196-208. 
This was a multi-centre, randomised, active controlled study comparing the efficacy of L1 to that of DFO. 
One hundred forty-four (144) consecutive TM patients previously treated with DFO and and with serum 
ferritin  concentration  ≤  3000  ng/ml  were  randomly  assigned  to  L1  (75  mg/kg/day)  (n=71)  or  DFO  (50 
mg/kg/day) (n=73) for one year. 
The study objective was to compare the reduction of iron overload or the prevention of its increase in the 
2  treatments  groups.  The  main  measure  of  the  treatment  efficacy  was  the  difference  between  the  serum 
ferritin  concentration  before  and  after  one  year  of  treatment.  Secondary  efficacy  measures  were  (i)  the 
variation in HIC measured as µg/g of dry weight in patients willing to undergo liver biopsy prior to and 
after  the  treatment  period,  (ii)  the  variation  in  liver  and  heart  iron  content  estimated  by  magnetic 
resonance, and (iii) heart function. 
The sample size estimation was based on an expected mean reduction in serum ferritin concentration of 
250 ng/ml at the end of 1 year of treatment, based on previous experience showing that in patients with 
initial serum ferritin <3000 ng/ml and treated with s.c. DFO, the mean reduction in serum ferritin after 1 
year  of  therapy  was  250  ng/ml,  with  a  standard  deviation  of  65  ng/ml.  The  authors  assumed  that  a 
difference  >  30  ng/ml  with  respect  to  this  expected  ferritin  reduction  with  DFO  would  be  clinically 
significant. Therefore, to detect a 30 ng/ml difference (i.e. from 250 to 220), 70 patients per group were 
included (two sided test; (cid:31)= 0.05; (cid:31)=0.80). 
The  following  table  shows  serum  ferritin  values,  HIC,  urinary  iron  excretion  (UIE)  and  liver  NMR  at 
baseline and at the end of the study. 
Serum Ferritin 
(ng/ml) 
HIC 
(µg/g/dry weight) 
Urinary  Iron  excretion 
(mg/24h) 
Liver NMR 
L1 
(n=71) 
End 
Baseline 
2283±754  2061±85
3363±549
0 
3 
2341±21
97 
11.4±8.5  15.8±10.
9 
DFO (n=73) 
Difference
222±783 
Baseline 
2019±678 
End 
1787±893 
Difference 
232±619 
1022±351
1 
-4.4±13.2 
3516±2974  3166±2519 
350±524 
15.7±12.8 
19.9±13.6 
-4.2±12.5 
0.83±0.32  0.89±0.2
-0.06±0.38
0.85±0.36 
0.98±0.35 
-0.13±0.28 
6 
There  was  no  significant  difference  between  treatments  in  the  mean  reduction  in  serum  ferritin 
concentration (p=0.81). A statistically significant increase in intensity signal ratio (ISR) was found after 
19/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
both  treatments  for  all  the  magnetic  resonance  measurements.  This  increase  was  not  significant  for  the 
liver in the L1 group. Assessment of heart function by ultrasound did not show appreciable variation with 
either treatment after the study period. 
An analysis of possible confounding factors showed that the two variables independently associated with a 
higher serum ferritin reduction were female sex (p=0.036) and the number of blood units transfused in the 
year before randomisation (p=0.033) 
Hepatic fibrosis scores increased in 7/21 patients in the L1 group and in 4/15 patients in the DFO group. 
The mean fibrosis scores, however, did not change with respect to their baseline values. Regarding AEs, 
24  patients  in  the  L1  group  developed  side  effects  requiring  temporary  dose  reduction  or  treatment 
withdrawal, or withdrawal compared to 11 DFO treated patients who continued on DFO after temporary 
dosage reduction or treatment withdrawal. 
Reanalysis of the data 
Since  study  LA-08  study  did  not  specifically  address  the  comparison  between  DFO  and  deferiprone  as 
monotherapies, the CPMP asked for a reanalysis of this published study targeting this comparison. Further 
to  this  request,  the  MAH  obtained  the  complete  data  package  of  this  trial  and  conducted  a  post-hoc 
analysis of Maggio’s study to determine whether or not it had the statistical power to accomplish its stated 
objective.  
This  trial  was  designed  to  exclude  inferiority  of L1  compared  to  DFO  with  a  power  of 0.80 and a non-
inferiority  margin  of  30  ng/ml.  Sample  size  calculation  was  based  on  a  standard  deviation  in  endpoint 
value  of  65  ng/ml.  It  appears  from  the  data  that  variance  was  in  fact  affected  by  more  than  a  100-fold 
increase (standard deviations were multiplied by more than ten: 848 ng/ml and 1028 ng/ml in deferiprone 
and DFO groups, respectively). Post-hoc calculation of power (less than 0.10) leads to consider that this 
study  fails  to  demonstrate  any  non-inferiority.  In  addition,  the  MAH’s  interpretation  of  the  trial  results 
based  on  Hwang’s  criteria  is  not  acceptable  as  this  post-hoc  analysis  uses  an  unusual  non-inferiority 
criterion (percentage of patients in whom ferritin decreases or remains stable) with a large margin (a 23% 
difference). Thus, observing statistically significant ferritin concentration decreases in both arms that do 
not statistically differ when treatments are compared does not allow to consider that the two treatments are 
equivalent.  
• 
Comparative  effects  of  deferiprone  and  deferoxamine  on  survival  and  cardiac  disease  in  patients 
with thalassemia major: a retrospective analysis (study LA-12) – Piga et al. Haematologica 2003; 
88: 489-496. 
The MAH sponsored a retrospective comparative case-history review of the occurrence of cardiac disease 
and of the survival of all subjects with TM ≥ 5-year-old treated with L1 or DFO at the University of Turin 
since 1 January 1995. The retrospective design of this study was agreed upon by the CPMP in September 
1999, taking into account the non-feasibility of an equivalent prospective study, the monocentric design, 
and need to obtain these data in the defined time frame. 
The prevalence of cardiac disease was similar for both therapy groups at the first cardiac assessment of the 
study [6/55 (11%) on deferiprone v.s. 11/79 (14%) on deferoxamine]. During the 4-year study period, an 
improvement  of  the  cardiac  function  was  observed  in  3/6  deferiprone  patients  (50%)  and  in  3/11 
deferoxamine  patients  (27%)  with  cardiac  dysfunction  diagnosed  at  the  first  assessment  (p  =  0.6).  A 
worsening of the cardiac disease was diagnosed in three (5%) deferiprone-treated patients and in 12 (15%) 
deferoxamine-treated patients (p = 0.075). Three patients in the DFO group died during the study period, 
with  all  3  deaths  due  to  cardiac  disease.  Kaplan-Meier  analysis  indicates  a  significant  difference  (p = 
0.015) in the cardiac disease free survival between the two groups.  
This  study  was  actually  assessed  in  November  2000  as  part  of  the  1st  annual  reassessment  of  Ferriprox. 
The CPMP concluded the following:  
20/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both therapies were administered at the recommended dosages. 
• 
•  With  regard  to  the  mean  HIC  elevation,  it  was  noted  that  SQUID  had  evaluated  only  17/78  DFO 
patients  versus  46/48  deferiprone  patients,  therefore  leading  to  a  low  value  for  this  comparison. 
With regard to the liver biopsies, 37/48 patients were evaluated in the deferiprone subgroup versus 
none patient in the DFO subgroup. 
Considering the results, there was no suggestion of a higher risk of prevalent cardiac disease among 
deferiprone patients as compared with DFO patients during the study period. 
• 
Subsequently, the MAH provided updated information and a new analysis of study LA-12 in May 2001. 
These  data  confirmed  that  a  reduction  or  stable  maintenance  of  the  patients’  body  iron  load  could  be 
achieved with the use of deferiprone as well as a reduction on the incidence of cardiac disease that would 
inevitably  occur  in  those  patients  unable  or  unwilling  to  take  DFO.  It  was  thus  concluded  that  the  new 
data  confirm  previous  results  and  that  deferiprone  therapy  may  be  associated  with  further  reduction  in 
iron-induced  cardiac  disease.  Several  clinical  communications  agree  with  the  data  submitted  and  would 
suggest a specific chelator effect of deferiprone on myocardial tissue. 
Comparison  of  effects  of  oral  deferiprone  and  subcutaneous  desferrioxamine  on  myocardial  iron 
concentrations and ventricular function in beta-thalassemia. Anderson et al; Lancet 2002; 360: 43-47. 
This  was  an  investigator  -sponsored  single  centre  and  retrospective  study  comparing  myocardial  iron 
content and cardiac function in 15 patients receiving long-term L1 treatment with 30 matched TM controls 
on  long-term  treatment  with  DFO  (2DFO  controls  per  L1  patient).  Myocardial iron concentrations were 
measured by a new magnetic-resonance T2* technique, which shows values inversely related to tissue iron 
concentration. Patients who received chelation with L1 alone for longer than 3 years (mean duration 5.7 
years) were included. The mean administered L1 dose was 80.5 mg/kg divided into 3 doses per day. 
Patients’ characteristics were compared by means of Student’s t test (age and serum ferritin) or Fisher’s 
exact  test  (presence  or  absence  of  diabetes  mellitus,  hypopituitarism,  hepatitis  C).  Myocardial  and  liver 
iron values were positively skewed in all groups, and non-parametric analyses were used for comparison 
of these variables. Paired comparisons were made between the L1 and DFO groups with each L1 patient 
paired to the mean value of the two matched DFO patients. 
The  L1  treated  group  had  significantly  less  myocardial  iron  than  the  DFO-treated  group  (median 
myocardial  T2*  34.0  versus  11.4  ms,  p=0.02).  The  L1  group  also  had  a  higher  mean  left-ventricular 
ejection  fraction  (p=0.004)  and  less  left  ventricular  dilatation  in  systole  (p=0.03)  and  diastole  (p=0.01). 
The  left-ventricular  mass  index  was  lower,  but  not  significantly  so,  in  the  L1  patients  (p=0.09).  Excess 
myocardial  iron  (myocardial  T2*  <20  ms)  was  noted  in  4  (27%)  L1  patients  compared  with  20  (67%) 
DFO  treated  patients  (p=0.025),  and  severe  iron  overload  (T2*<10  ms)  was  seen  in  one  (7%)  and  11 
(37%) patients, respectively. The odds ratio for excess myocardial iron was 5.5 (95% CI 1.2-28.8) in the 
DFO  versus  the  L1  group.  Finally,  the  L1  group  had  significantly  higher  HIC  than  the  DFO  group 
(median 5.1 versus 3.5 mg/g liver dry weight, p=0.03). 
Comparison  between  desferrioxamine  and  combined  therapy  with  desferrioxamine  and  deferiprone  in 
iron overloaded thalassemia patients. Mourad et al. Br J Haematol 2003; 121 (1): 187-9.(short report). 
This was a single-centre, randomised, active controlled study conducted in 25 patients with TM over 12 
months; 11 patients received combined therapy (DFO 2g/day twice weekly + L1) and 14 patients received 
DFO alone. 
Serum  ferritin  levels  decreased  from  5506±635  µg/l  to  4856±699  µg/l  at  6  months  (p=0.07)  and  to 
3998±604 µg/l at 12 months (p<0.001) in the 14 DFO patients, and from 4153±517µg/l to 3005±393 µg/l 
at 6 months (p<0.02) and to 2805±327 µg/l at 12 months (p<0.001) in the 11 patients receiving DFO+L1. 
21/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  patient  showed  any  change  in  physical  examination,  ANC,  serum  urea,  creatinine  or  liver 
biochemistry. The most common side-effects in patients receiving DFO alone was pain, itching, erythema, 
swelling  and  indurations  at  the  site  of  infusion,  and  in  patients  receiving  DFO+L1  it  was  nausea,  joint 
pain, stiffness and swelling. 
The results taken indicate that the DFO (at a dose of 2g/day twice weekly) and L1 combination therapy 
was  globally  well  tolerated  in  TM  patients  who  were  initially  non  compliant  with  DFO  and  with  serum 
ferritin concentration > 3000 ng/ml.  
Monitoring  long-term  efficacy  of  iron  chelation  therapy  by  deferiprone  and  desferrioxamine  in  patients 
with beta-thalassemia major: application of SQUID biomagnetic liver susceptometry. Fischer et al. Br J 
Haematol 2003; 121: 938-48. 
This was a non-randomised study comparing HIC (as measured by the SQUID technique) in 54 L1-treated 
patients  with  51  patients  treated  with  DFO.  The  authors  concluded  that  the  relative  change in HIC with 
respect to baseline after 2 years of treatment with L1 appeared to depend significantly on the initial HIC. 
After a comparable period of time, the mean HIC of patients treated with DFO increased from 1076±567-
µg/g  liver  to  1260±770-µg/g  liver  (p=NS).  During  the  study  period,  L1  treated  patients  had  received 
greater iron accumulation (24.4±5.3 mg of iron per day) than DFO-treated patients (18.9±4.7 mg of iron 
per day). The total body iron excretion (TBIE) was also calculated and was 22.9±6.5 mg/day for L1, and 
18.5±mg/day for DFO. 
Safety monitoring of cardiac and hepatic systems in beta-thalassemia patients with chelating treatment in 
Taiwan. Peng et al. Eur J Haematol 2003; 70: 392-7 
This was a prospective study comparing 11 TM patients unwilling or unable to use DFO and treated with 
L1 with 13 TM patients treated with DFO. Efficacy of the chelation treatment was determined by (i) the 
decrease of serum ferritin concentration to <2500 µg/l, (ii) the decrease of HIC to <4.6 µg/g of liver, (iii) 
the decrease of gross signal intensity (SI) in the cardiac and hepatic systems measured by MRI, or (iv) the 
increase  of  cardiac  functions  determined  by  the  left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  (LVEF).  Safety  was 
determined  by  monitoring  the  patients  for  physical  or  physiological  conditions  encountered  in  other 
studies  and  included  a  weekly  side-effect  report  for  the  first  3  months  and  a  monthly  report  for  the 
following 3 months. 
The  mean  serum  ferritin  level  declined  from 4652  to  2792  ng/ml  (L1,  p=0.043)  and from 4109 to 2612 
ng/ml (DFO, p=0.067) after 36 months of therapy. In the L1 group, the final serum ferritin levels in 5/11 
patients  were  <2500  ng/ml,  compared  with  6/10  patients  in  the  DFO  group.  However,  the  mean  HIC 
decreased from 115 to 83 µmol/g in the DFO group (p=0.048) and from 141.4 to 99.1 µmol/g in the L1 
group  (p<0.005).  Post  therapeutic  MR  images  in  5  patients  (45.4%)  of  the  L1  group  showed  a  marked 
recovery of SI in the cardiac region. A slight improvement in SI was detected in 2 DFO patients (20%). 
The  increase  in  cardiac  function  measured  by  LVEF  in  the  L1  group  (from  58.6±6.8  to  65.2±7.1%, 
p=0.02) was more prominent than that in the DFO group (from 63.3±6.3 to 64.6±7%, p=0.36). 
Moreover,  pathohistological  examination  showed  a  distinct  reduction  in  grades  of  haemosiderosis, 
although with individual variability, in the liver specimens following DFO and L1 treatment. 
22/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison between deferoxamine and deferiprone (L1) in iron-loaded thalassemia patients. Taher et al. 
Eur J Haematol 2001; 67: 30-34. 
Fifty-seven  (57)  patients  with  transfusion-dependent  thalassaemia  were  studied;  17  received  L1  and  40 
received  DFO.  The  efficacy  of  both  chelators  was  assessed  by  periodic  measurements  of  serum  ferritin 
concentrations  over  a  24-month  follow-up  period.  In  patients  on  L1,  a  24h  urinary  iron  excretion (UIE) 
assessment was performed initially 1 week after starting the drug and at 6 and 12 months. 
The mean serum ferritin level in the 16 patients receiving L1 (1 patient was not compliant and was lost for 
follow-up) showed a decline with time from an initial mean±SEM of 3663±566 µg/l (range 1005-9787) to 
2599±314  (range  575-4206)  at  6  months,  and  2716±461  (range  944-7117)  at  24  months  (p<0.03  and 
p<0.05, respectively). UIE one week after starting L1 therapy was 20.7±3.2 mg/24h (range 0.3-42.7) and 
dropped to 10.5±1.7 (range 0.07-25) and 13.7±1.8 (range 0.3-28) at 6 and 12 months. There was a positive 
correlation between initial serum ferritin level and UIE, but this correlation did not persist over the follow-
up period. 
In the 40 DFO patients, mean serum ferritin level showed a decrease with time from an initial mean±SEM 
of 3480±417 µg/l (range 829-10 540) to 3143±378 (range 591-11734) at 6 months, and 2819±292 (453-
8602) at 24 months. 
Taken  together,  the  data  indicate  that  L1  seems  to  be  effective  in  increasing  UIE  in  patients  with 
transfusional  iron  overload.  However,  although  patients  received  comparable  doses  of  L1,  UIE  varied 
considerably from patient to patient. Moreover, UIE dropped abruptly at 6 months and then appeared to 
plateau.  This  was  not  observed  in  the  DFO  arm,  where  serum  ferritin  levels  showed  a  regular  decrease 
with time. It is possible that a higher dosage of L1 may be needed. 
Combined oral and parenteral iron chelation in beta thalassemia major. Balveer et al. Med J Malaysia 
2000; 55 (4): 493-497. 
This non-randomised study evaluated the efficacy and safety in TM patients of the administration of L1 
alone  (10  patients)  or  DFO+  L1  (7  patients).  In  all  patients,  there  was  a  fall  in  serum  ferritin  after  12 
months of treatment. The mean HIC in all patients was 19.6 µg/g dry weight at the beginning of the trial 
and  after  12  months  of  treatment,  the  reduction  was  to  18.2  µg/g  dry  weight  only  (statistically  non 
significant). The combined therapy was found to increase the UIE in 7 patients from 13.66 (6.43-32.67) 
mg/day to 27.38 (11.12-53.36) mg/day. Liver fibrosis deteriorated in one patient only. 
Overall Discussion 
The  currently  approved  indication  is  very  restricted  since  at  the  time  of  its  approval  there  were  limited 
comparative efficacy data with Desferal and serious safety concerns. 
Regarding efficacy, serum ferritin concentration represents the most commonly used parameter to monitor 
response  to  chelation  therapy  in  transfusion-dependent  patients.  This  parameter  was  chosen  as  the  main 
efficacy  variable  in  the  LA-08  pivotal  study.  According  to  the  provided  results,  both  therapies  globally 
resulted in a similar decrease in the primary and secondary endpoints over the 1-year study, leading the 
MAH  to  claim  non-inferiority  of  DFO+L1  with  respect  to  the  standard  treatment  DFO.  However,  the 
identification  of  a  non-statistically  significant difference between the two groups does not automatically 
lead  to  formally  conclude  that  there  is  no  real  difference  in  efficacy  between  these  medicinal  products. 
The  statistical  non-significance  of  the  difference  in  decline  of  serum  ferritin  between  the  two  therapies 
should be interpreted with caution since the coefficient of variation (CoV) for the change in serum ferritin 
concentration  was  over  150%  for  both  therapy  groups.  This  is  above  the  expected  CoV  of  35%,  which 
23/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
would have provided a power of 80% for the sample size used in the study. Therefore, as mentioned by 
the  MAH,  another  study  of  much  larger  sample  size  would  be  needed  to  conclude,  with  at  least  80% 
power, that the same efficacy truly exists between the two therapies.  
With both therapies, the magnitude of the response was dependent on the patients’ initial (baseline) body 
iron  load.  Depending  on  the  status  of  this  parameter,  one  may  observe  improved,  comparable  or  lesser 
response  in  serum  ferritin  and/or  HIC  changes.  Although  there  was no significant difference in baseline 
serum ferritin concentration between both arms, the mean concentration was higher in patients receiving 
DFO monotherapy, which could have favoured the DFO monotherapy. Furthermore, even if data indicate 
that both arms resulted in a statistically similar decrease in serum ferritin in non-splenectomised patients, 
there  was  a  clear  trend  in  favour  of  the  DFO  arm,  as  the  experimental  therapy appeared to be 29% less 
effective. This trend was also observed in the decrease in HIC, where the experimental therapy seems to 
be 72.8% less effective than DFO alone. Although a decrease in HIC with the combination therapy over 
only  a  1-year  follow-up  is  in  itself  encouraging.  In  conclusion,  this  study  does  not  demonstrate  that 
Ferriprox use 5 days per week, supplemented with DFO 2 days per week, is as efficacious in controlling 
iron overload in thalassaemia patients as DFO alone. 
The other study most relevant to the efficacy of Ferriprox is the one conducted by Maggio et al, given it is 
a relatively large (>70 patients per group) randomised study addressing most of the current doubts on the 
comparative  efficacy  of  deferiprone  and  deferoxamine  in  a  clinical  in  a  head-to-head  clinical  trial.  As 
requested by the CPMP, the MAH provided more detailed results from the study and a new analysis of the 
data. There is unfortunately insufficient power in this study to demonstrate that deferiprone and DFO are 
comparable; specifically, the comparison in serum ferritin response failed to show that deferiprone is non-
inferior to DFO at the 30 ng/ml level. Thus, Maggio’s study does not establish non-inferiority at a level 
that would be close enough to provide confidence of comparability or equivalency. 
A  number  of  published  studies  suggest  that  L1  may  serve  as  a  shuttle,  entering  cells  and  bringing  iron 
from  tissue  compartments  to  the  blood  stream  where  it  is  transferred  to  DFO,  simultaneously 
administered, and excreted bound to DFO. However, most of the data provided were difficult to interpret 
due to the rather short follow-up and the small number of enrolled patients.  
Regarding  safety,  the  listing  of  AEs  and  ADRs  in  LA-08  does  not  raise  major  safety  concerns.  Data  on 
neutropenia  occurring  in  this  study  are  not  worrying.  Nonetheless,  40  ADR  reports,  mostly  regarding 
digestive intolerance such as diarrhoea and vomiting, were collected in patients using combination therapy 
whereas only 3 ADR reports are mentioned in the DFO monotherapy arm.  
Safety  results  from  the  provided  published  studies  are  reassuring  since  they  suggest  that  the  use  of 
Ferriprox might have a beneficial impact on the prevention of cardiac disease, and that the incidence of 
agranulocytosis seems to be lower than expected. Moreover, some studies have not observed drug-induced 
progression of liver fibrosis associated with the use of Ferriprox and suggested that the increase in fibrosis 
observed in some patients was most likely related to hepatitis C infection and/or to the hepatic iron load. 
To conclude, taking into account the clinical data provided and the digestive safety concerns, the CPMP 
considers that the risk-benefit for the claimed unrestricted indication in the “treatment of iron overload in 
thalassemia  patients  and  patients  with  other  forms  of  secondary  iron  overload  inadequately  treated  with 
conventional therapy” is negative. Nonetheless, considering that the pre-clinical information is now more 
comprehensive,  that  several  hundred  patients  have  been  followed-up  for  several  years  and  a  few  more 
comparative trials with DFO are now available, the CPMP believes that the current indication may be too 
restrictive,  based  on  reassuring  safety  data  and  despite  the  fact  that  the  data  submitted  do  not  provide 
sufficient  reliable  information  concerning  the  comparative  efficacy  with  deferoxaminee.  Therefore,  the 
following  indication,  i.e.  the  treatment  of  iron  overload  in  patients  with  thalassemia  major  when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate, is more appropriate. 
24/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Other changes to the SPC 
Several  statements  have  been  deleted  from  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  (“Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions for use”) further to the evaluation of data provided in order to fulfil the Specific Obligations 
and  Follow-up  measures  undertaken  by  the  MAH  at  the  time  of  the  granting  of  the  Marketing 
Authorisation,  and  to the evidence arising from subsequent clinical trials and published articles, such as 
those reviewed in this assessment report. These include “information to be made available in the future”, 
and  statements  regarding  the  lack  of  data  on  cardiac  function  and  the  possible  worsening  of  hepatic 
fibrosis. 
The  suggested monitoring frequency for the assessment of iron overload has been amended in line with 
current  recommendations  from  the  Thalassemia  International  Federation,  which  recommends  that  serum 
ferritin be assessed every 3 months. Iron accumulation in thalassaemia major patients ranges from 0.3 to 
0.5 mg/kg/day. No significant change in body iron overload is expected to occur in less than 2-3 months 
in  those  patients.  More  frequent  assessments  do  not  provide  additional  benefits  to  the  management  of 
these patients. 
25/25                                                                              EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
