EMA/115665/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004829 
Fetcroja (cefiderocol) 
An overview of Fetcroja and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fetcroja and what is it used for? 
Fetcroja is an antibiotic used in adults to treat infections caused by bacteria classed as aerobic Gram-
negative bacteria. It is for use when other treatments might not work. 
Fetcroja contains the active substance cefiderocol. 
How is Fetcroja used? 
Fetcroja can only be obtained with a prescription. It should only be used after taking advice from a 
doctor with appropriate experience of managing patients with infectious diseases. 
Fetcroja is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over 3 hours. The usual dose is 2 g given every 8 hours 
and the duration of treatment depends on the nature of the infection.  
For more information about using Fetcroja, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Fetcroja work? 
The active substance in Fetcroja, cefiderocol, belongs to the cephalosporin class of antibiotics. It uses 
the bacteria’s own system for importing iron to enter the bacterial cell, where it blocks the formation of 
the bacterial cell wall, killing the bacteria. 
What benefits of Fetcroja have been shown in studies? 
Fetcroja was tested in 2 main studies involving patients with various infections caused by Gram-
negative bacteria. 
In the first study, involving 452 adults with complicated urinary tract infection, 73% of patients treated 
with Fetcroja were cured (based on lack of symptoms and tests for bacteria in the urine) compared 
with 55% of patients treated with imipenem and cilastatin given together.  
The second study involved 152 adults with various serious infections caused by bacteria that were 
resistant to carbapenems (could not be killed by antibiotics called carbapenems). For lung infections, 
50% of patients treated with Fetcroja were cured based on a lack of symptoms, compared with 53% of 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
those treated with the best alternative treatment. For bloodstream infections, these figures were 44% 
and 43%, respectively. For complicated urinary tract infections, 53% of patients treated with Fetcroja 
were cleared of disease-causing bacteria in the urine compared with 20% of patients receiving the best 
alternative treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Fetcroja? 
The most common side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) were diarrhoea, vomiting, 
nausea (feeling sick) and cough. For the full list of side effects with Fetcroja, see the package leaflet. 
Fetcroja must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any cephalosporin antibiotic 
or who have had a severe reaction to the broader class of beta-lactam antibiotics (such as penicillins or 
carbapenems). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fetcroja authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that the number of patients in the main studies was small. 
However, taken together with laboratory studies and studies on how the medicine works in the body, 
there was sufficient evidence that Fetcroja is effective against infections caused by aerobic Gram- 
negative bacteria. The Agency therefore decided that Fetcroja’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fetcroja? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fetcroja have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fetcroja are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Fetcroja are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Fetcroja 
Fetcroja received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 April 2020. 
Further information on Fetcroja can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fetcroja 
Fetcroja (cefiderocol)  
EMA/115665/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
