ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Fetcroja 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains cefiderocol sulfate tosylate equivalent to 1 g of cefiderocol. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each vial contains 7.64 mmol of sodium (approximately 176 mg). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for concentrate). 
White to off-white powder. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Fetcroja is indicated for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms  in adults 
with limited treatment options (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
It is recommended that Fetcroja should be used to treat patients that have limited treatment options 
only after consultation with a physician with appropriate experience in the management of infectious 
diseases. 
Posology 
Table 1 
Recommended dose of Fetcroja1 for patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCL) 
≥ 90 mL/min2 
Renal function 
Normal renal function 
(CrCL ≥90 to < 120 mL/min) 
Augmented renal clearance 
(CrCL ≥ 120 mL/min) 
Dose 
2 g 
Frequency 
Every 8 hours 
2 g 
Every 6 hours 
Duration of 
treatment 
Duration in 
accordance with the 
site of infection3 
Duration in 
accordance with the 
site of infection3 
1To be used in combination with antibacterial agents active against anaerobic pathogens and/or Gram-positive 
2 
pathogens when these are known or suspected to be contributing to the infectious process. 
2As calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. 
3e.g. for complicated urinary tract infections including pyelonephritis and complicated intra-abdominal infections 
the recommended treatment duration is 5 to 10 days. For hospital-acquired pneumonia including ventilator-
associated pneumonia the recommended treatment duration is 7 to 14 days. Treatment up to 21 days may be 
required. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Table 2 
Recommended dose of Fetcroja for patients with a CrCl < 90 ml/min1 
Renal function 
Mild renal impairment 
(CrCL ≥60 to < 90 mL/min) 
Moderate renal impairment 
(CrCL ≥30 to < 60 mL/min) 
Severe renal impairment 
(CrCL ≥15 to < 30 mL/min) 
End stage renal disease 
(CrCL < 15 mL/min)  
Dose 
2 g 
Frequency 
Every 8 hours 
1.5 g 
Every 8 hours 
1 g 
Every 8 hours 
0.75 g 
Every 12 hours 
Patient with intermittent haemodialysis2 
0.75 g 
Every 12 hours 
1As calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. 
2As cefiderocol is removed by haemodialysis, administer cefiderocol at the earliest possible time after 
completion of haemodialysis on haemodialysis days. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
No dosage adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Fetcroja in children below 18 years of age has not yet been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration 
Intravenous use. 
Fetcroja is administered by intravenous infusion over 3 hours. 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
If treatment with a combination of another medicinal product and Fetcroja is unavoidable, 
administration should not occur in the same syringe or in the same infusion solution. It is 
recommended to adequately flush intravenous lines between administration of different medicinal 
products. 
3 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to any cephalosporin antibacterial medicinal product. 
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of beta-
lactam antibacterial agent (e.g. penicillins, monobactams or carbapenems). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity has been reported with cefiderocol (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Patients who have a history of hypersensitivity to carbapenems, penicillins or other beta-lactam 
antibacterial medicinal products may also be hypersensitive to cefiderocol. Before initiating therapy 
with Fetcroja, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to beta-
lactam antibiotics (see section 4.3). 
If a severe allergic reaction occurs, treatment with Fetcroja must be discontinued immediately and 
adequate emergency measures must be initiated. 
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea 
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) has been reported with cefiderocol (see section 
4.8). The condition can range in severity from mild diarrhoea to fatal colitis and should be considered 
in patients who present with diarrhoea during or subsequent to the administration of cefiderocol. 
Discontinuation of therapy with cefiderocol and the use of supportive measures together with the 
administration of specific treatment for Clostridioides difficile should be considered. Medicinal 
products that inhibit peristalsis should not be given. 
Seizure 
Cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures. Patients with known seizure disorders 
should continue anticonvulsant therapy. Patients who develop focal tremors, myoclonus, or seizures 
should be evaluated neurologically and placed on anticonvulsant therapy if not already instituted. If 
necessary, the dose of cefiderocol should be adjusted based on renal function (see section 4.2). 
Alternatively, cefiderocol should be discontinued. 
Limitations of the clinical data 
In clinical trials, cefiderocol has only been used to treat patients with the following types of infection: 
complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI); hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), ventilator-associated 
pneumonia (VAP), healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP); sepsis and patients with bacteraemia 
(some with no identified primary focus of infection). 
The use of cefiderocol to treat patients with infections due to Gram-negative aerobic pathogens who 
have limited treatment options is based on pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analyses for 
cefiderocol and on limited clinical data from a randomized clinical trial in which 80 patients were 
treated with Fetcroja and 38 patients were treated with best available therapy for infections caused by 
carbapenem-resistant organisms. 
All-cause mortality in patients with infections due to carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacteria 
A higher all-cause mortality rate was observed in patients treated with cefiderocol as compared to best 
available therapy (BAT) in a randomised, open-label trial in critically-ill patients with infections 
4 
known or suspected to be due to carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacteria. The higher day 28 all-
cause mortality rate with cefiderocol occurred in patients treated for nosocomial pneumonia, 
bacteraemia and/or sepsis [25/101 (24.8%) vs. 9/49 (18.4%) with BAT; treatment difference 6.4%, 
95% CI (-8.6, 19.2)]. All-cause mortality remained higher in patients treated with cefiderocol through 
end-of-study [34/101 (33.7%) vs. 9/49 (18.4%) with BAT; treatment difference 15.3%, 95% CI (-0.2, 
28.6)]. The cause of the increase in mortality has not been established. In the cefiderocol group there 
was an association between mortality and infection with Acinetobacter spp., which accounted for the 
majority of infections due to non-fermenters. In contrast, mortality was not higher in cefiderocol vs. 
BAT patients with infections due to other non-fermenters. 
Spectrum of activity of cefiderocol 
Cefiderocol has little or no activity against the majority of Gram-positive organisms and anaerobes 
(see section 5.1). Additional antibacterial medicinal products should be used when these pathogens are 
known or suspected to be contributing to the infectious process. 
Non-susceptible organisms 
The use of cefiderocol may result in the overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms, which may require 
interruption of treatment or other appropriate measures. 
Renal function monitoring 
Renal function should be monitored regularly as dose adjustment may be needed during the course of 
therapy. 
Drug/laboratory test interactions 
Cefiderocol may result in false-positive results in urine dipstick tests (urine protein, ketones, or occult 
blood). Alternative methods of testing should be used by the clinical laboratories to confirm positive 
tests. 
Antiglobulin test (Coombs test) seroconversion 
A positive direct or indirect Coombs test may develop during treatment with cefiderocol. 
Controlled sodium diet 
Each 1 g vial contains 7.64 mmol of sodium (approximately 176 mg).  
Each 2 g dose of cefiderocol, when reconstituted with 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection, 
provides 30.67 mmol (705 mg) of sodium and is approximately 35% of the WHO adult recommended 
maximum daily dietary intake. The total daily dose (2 g administered 3 times a day) of sodium from 
cefiderocol therapy is 2.1 g, just greater than the WHO recommend daily maximum of 2 g sodium for 
an adult. 
When reconstituted in 100 mL of 5% dextrose injection each 2 g dose of cefiderocol provides 
15.28 mmol (352 mg) of sodium. The total daily sodium dose (2 g administered 3 times a day) from 
cefiderocol reconstituted in 5% dextrose injection is 1,056 mg which is approximately 53% of the 
WHO adult recommended maximum daily dietary intake of 2 g sodium. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Based on in vitro studies and two phase 1 clinical studies no significant drug-drug interactions are 
anticipated between cefiderocol and substrates, inhibitors or inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes 
(CYPs) or transporters (see section 5.2). 
5 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) from the use of cefiderocol 
sodium in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with 
respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid 
the use of Fetcroja during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Fetcroja/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A decision must be made 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Fetcroja therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
The effect of cefiderocol on fertility in humans has not been studied. Based on preclinical data, from a 
study with sub-clinical exposure, there is no evidence that Fetcroja has an effect on male or female 
fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Fetcroja has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions were diarrhoea (8.2%), vomiting (3.6%), nausea (3.3%) and 
cough (2%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported with cefiderocol during clinical studies (Table 3). 
Adverse reactions are classified according to frequency and System Organ Class (SOC). Frequency 
categories are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each System Organ Class, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3 
System organ 
class  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Common 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
(≥1/100 to <1/10) 
Candidiasis including oral 
candidiasis, vulvovaginal 
candidiasis, candiduria and 
candida infection, 
Clostridioides difficile coli
tis including 
pseudomembranous colitis 
and Clostridioides difficile 
infection 
6 
Uncommon 
Not known 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100) 
Neutropenia 
Hypersensitivity 
including skin reactions 
and Pruritus 
Blood urea increased 
system 
disorders 
Immune System 
Disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Cough 
Diarrhoea, Nausea, 
Vomiting 
Rash including rash 
macular, rash maculo-
papular, rash erythematous 
and drug eruption 
Infusion site reaction 
including infusion 
site pain, injection site 
pain, infusion site 
erythema and injection site 
phlebitis 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased, Gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
increased, Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased, Hepatic 
function abnormal 
including liver function 
test increased, hepatic 
enzyme increased, 
transaminases increased 
and liver function test 
abnormal, Blood 
creatinine increased 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no information on clinical signs and symptoms associated with an overdose of cefiderocol. 
In the event of overdose, patients should be monitored and treatment discontinuation and general 
supportive treatment should be considered.  
Approximately 60% of cefiderocol is removed by a 3- to 4-hour haemodialysis session. 
7 
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use. ATC code: J01DI04 
Mechanism of action 
Cefiderocol is a siderophore cephalosporin. In addition to passive diffusion through outer membrane 
porin channels, cefiderocol is able to bind to extracellular free iron via its siderophore side chain, 
allowing active transport into the periplasmic space of Gram-negative bacteria through siderophore 
uptake systems. Cefiderocol subsequently binds to penicillin binding proteins (PBPs), inhibiting 
bacterial peptidoglycan cell wall synthesis which leads to cell lysis and death. 
Resistance 
Mechanisms of bacterial resistance that may lead to resistance to cefiderocol include mutant or 
acquired PBPs; beta-lactamase enzymes with ability to hydrolyse cefiderocol; mutations affecting 
regulation of bacterial iron uptake; mutations in siderophore transport proteins; overexpression of 
native bacterial siderophores. 
The in vitro antibacterial activity effect of cefiderocol against normally susceptible species is not 
affected by the majority of beta-lactamases, including metallo-enzymes. Due to the siderophore-
mediated mode of cell entry, the in vitro activity of cefiderocol activity is generally less affected by 
porin loss or efflux-mediated resistance compared to many other beta-lactam agents. 
Cefiderocol has little or no activity against Gram-positive or anaerobic bacteria due to intrinsic 
resistance. 
Antibacterial activity in combination with other antibacterial agents 
In vitro studies demonstrated no antagonism between cefiderocol and amikacin, 
ceftazidime/avibactam, ceftolozane/tazobactam, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin, colistin, daptomycin, 
linezolid, meropenem, metronidazole, tigecycline, or vancomycin. 
Susceptibility testing breakpoints 
Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) breakpoints established by the European Committee on 
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) for cefiderocol are as follows: 
Organisms 
Enterobacterales 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
Minimum inhibitory concentrations (mg/L) 
Resistant 
Susceptible 
>2
≤2 
>2
≤2 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The time that unbound plasma concentrations of cefiderocol exceeds the minimum inhibitory 
concentration (%fT>MIC) against the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy. 
Antibacterial activity against specific pathogens 
In-vitro studies suggest that the following pathogens would be susceptible to cefiderocol in the 
absence of acquired mechanisms of resistance: 
8 
Aerobic Gram-negative organisms 
Achromobacter spp. 
Acinetobacter baumannii complex 
Burkholderia cepacia complex 
Citrobacter freundii complex 
Citrobacter koseri 
Escherichia coli 
Enterobacter cloacae complex 
Klebsiella (Enterobacter) aerogenes 
Klebsiella pneumoniae 
Klebsiella oxytoca 
Morganella morganii 
Proteus mirabilis 
Proteus vulgaris 
Providencia rettgeri 
Serratia spp. 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
Serratia marcescens 
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia 
In vitro studies indicate that the following species are not susceptible to cefiderocol: 
Aerobic Gram-positive organisms 
Anaerobic organisms 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Fetcroja in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of infections due to 
aerobic Gram-negative bacteria  (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After multiple dose administration of cefiderocol, there is no accumulation of cefiderocol administered 
every 8 hours in healthy adult subjects with normal renal function. 
Distribution 
The binding of cefiderocol to human plasma proteins, primarily albumin, is in the range of 40 to 60%, 
the geometric mean (CV%) volume of distribution during the terminal phase of cefiderocol in healthy 
adult subjects (n = 43) after intravenous administration of a single 2 g dose of cefiderocol was 18.0 L 
(18.1%), similar to extracellular fluid volume. 
Biotransformation 
After administration of a single 1 g dose of [14C]-labelled cefiderocol infused over 1 hour, cefiderocol 
accounted for 92.3% of the plasma AUC for total radioactivity. The most predominant metabolite, 
pyrrolidine chlorobenzamide (PCBA, which is a degradation product of cefiderocol), accounted for 
4.7% of the plasma AUC for total radioactivity, while other more minor metabolites each accounted 
for < 2% of the plasma AUC for total radioactivity. 
Interaction with other medicinal products. 
Co-administration with 2 g doses of cefiderocol given every 8 hours did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of midazolam (a CYP3A substrate), furosemide (a OAT1 and OAT3 substrate) or 
metformin (a OCT1, OCT2, and MATE2-K substrate). Co-administration with 2 g doses of 
9 
cefiderocol given every 8 hours increased rosuvastatin (a OATP1B3 substrate) AUC by 21%, which 
was considered not to be clinically meaningful. 
Elimination 
The terminal elimination half-life in healthy adult subjects was 2 to 3 hours. The geometric mean 
(%CV) of clearance of cefiderocol in healthy subjects is estimated to be 5.18 (17.2%) L/hr. 
Cefiderocol is primarily eliminated by the kidneys. After administration of a single 1 g dose of [14C]-
labelled cefiderocol infused over 1 hour, the amount of total radioactivity excreted in urine was 98.6% 
of the administered dose, with 2.8% of the administered dose excreted in faeces. The amount of 
unchanged cefiderocol excreted in urine was 90.6% of the administered dose.  
Linearity/non-linearity 
Cefiderocol exhibits linear pharmacokinetics within the dose range of 100 mg to 4000 mg. 
Special populations 
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
cefiderocol was observed with respect to age, gender or race. 
Paediatric population 
Pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with cefiderocol in infants and children under 18 
years of age (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of cefiderocol after administration of a single 1 g dose was assessed in subjects 
with mild renal impairment (n=8, estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] of 60 to < 90 
mL/min/1.73 m2), moderate renal impairment (n=7, eGFR 30 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2), severe renal 
impairment (n=6, eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring 
haemodialysis (n=8), and healthy subjects with normal renal function (n=8, estimated creatinine 
clearance of at least 90 mL/min).  The geometric mean ratios (GMR; mild, moderate, severe or ESRD 
without haemodialysis/normal renal function) and 90% confidence intervals (CI) for the AUC of 
cefiderocol were 1.0 (0.8, 1.3), 1.5 (1.2, 1.9), 2.5 (2.0, 3.3) and 4.1 (3.3, 5.2), respectively.  
Approximately 60% of Fetcroja was removed by a 3- to 4-hour haemodialysis session.  
The recommended dose adjustments in subjects with varying degrees of renal impairment are expected 
to provide comparable exposures to subjects with normal renal function or mild renal impairment (see 
section 4.2).  
Patients with augmented renal clearance 
Simulations using the population PK model demonstrated that the recommended dose adjustment for 
ARC provide exposures, including %T>MIC, of Fetcroja comparable to those in patients with normal 
renal function.  
Hepatic impairment 
Hepatic impairment is not expected to alter the elimination of Fetcroja as hepatic 
metabolism/excretion represent a minor pathway of elimination of Fetcroja.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, or genotoxicity. Carcinogenicity studies with cefiderocol have not been conducted. 
Cefiderocol was negative for mutagenicity in an in vitro reverse mutation test with bacteria and in the 
in vitro HPRT gene mutation assay in human cells. Positive findings were seen in an in vitro 
chromosomal aberration test in cultured TK6 cells and an in vitro mouse lymphoma assay (MLA). 
There was no evidence of in vivo genotoxicity (rat micronucleus assay and comet assay in rats).  
10 
Cefiderocol had no impairment of fertility and early embryonic development in rats treated with 
cefiderocol intravenously up to 1000 mg/kg/day corresponding to a margin to clinical exposure of 0.8. 
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or embryotoxicity in rats or mice that received 1000 
mg/kg/day or 2000 mg/kg/day respectively corresponding to margins to clinical exposure of 0.9 
and 1.3 
Cefiderocol had no adverse effects on growth and development, including neurobehavioural function 
in juvenile rats that received 1000 mg/kg/day subcutaneously during postnatal day (PND)7 to PND27, 
or 600 mg/kg/day intravenously from PND28 to PND48. 
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients 
Sucrose  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide (pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
If treatment with a combination of another medicinal product and Fetcroja is unavoidable, 
administration should not occur in the same syringe or in the same infusion solution. It is 
recommended to adequately flush intravenous lines between administration of different medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Powder 
3 years. 
Stability of reconstituted solution in the vial 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after reconstitution has been demonstrated for 1 hour at 25°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening/reconstitution precludes the risk 
of microbial contamination, the reconstituted product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user and should not be 
more than 1 hour at 25°C. 
Stability of the diluted solution in the infusion bag 
Chemical, microbiological and physical in-use stability after dilution has been demonstrated for 6 
hours at 25°C and for 24 hours at 2 to 8°C protected from light, followed by 6 hours at 25°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, diluted products should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user and would normally 
not be longer than 6 hours at 25°C or 24 hours at 2 to 8°C protected from light, followed by 6 hours at 
25°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. The 6-hour period 
at 25°C should be inclusive of the product administration period of 3 hours (see section 4.2). If storing 
the infusion solution in the refrigerator, the infusion bag should be removed and allowed to reach 
room temperature prior to use. 
11 
For preparation of solution for administration, see Section 6.6. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C)  
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
14 mL vial (Type I clear glass vial), chlorobutyl elastomeric stopper, and aluminum seal with a plastic 
flip-off cap. The vials are packed in a cardboard carton. 
Pack size of 10 vials. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each vial is for single use only. 
The powder should be reconstituted with 10 mL of either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 5% dextrose injection taken from the 100 mL bags that will be used to prepare the final 
infusion solution and should be gently shaken to dissolve. The vial(s) should be allowed to stand until 
the foaming generated on the surface has disappeared (typically within 2 minutes). The final volume 
of the reconstituted solution in the vial will be approximately 11.2 mL (caution: the reconstituted 
solution is not for direct injection). 
To prepare the required doses, the appropriate volume of reconstituted solution should be withdrawn 
from the vial according to Table 4. Add the withdrawn volume to the infusion bag containing the 
remainder of the 100 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, or 5% dextrose 
injection, inspect the resulting diluted drug product solution in the infusion bag visually for particulate 
matter and discoloration prior to use.  Do not use discoloured solutions or solutions with visible 
particles. 
Table 4 
Cefideroco
l dose
Preparation of cefiderocol doses 
Number of 1 g 
cefiderocol vials to be 
reconstituted 
Volume to withdraw 
from reconstituted 
vial(s) 
Total volume of cefiderocol 
solution required for further 
dilution in at least 100 mL of 
0.9% sodium chloride 
injection or 5% dextrose 
injection 
2 g 
2 vials 
1.5 g 
2 vials 
1 g 
1 vial 
0.75 g 
1 vial 
11.2 mL (entire 
contents) from both 
vials 
11.2 mL (entire 
contents) from first vial 
AND 5.6 mL from 
second vial 
11.2 mL (entire 
contents) 
8.4 mL 
22.4 mL 
16.8 mL 
11.2 mL 
8.4 mL 
Standard aseptic techniques should be used for solution preparation and administration. 
12 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Shionogi B.V. 
Herengracht 464, 
1017CA Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1434/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 23 april 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
13 
ANNEX II 
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
14 
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
ACS Dobfar S.P.A. 
Nucleo Industriale S. Atto 
Localita S. Nicolo a Tordino 
64100 
Teramo 
ITALY 
Shionogi B.V. 
Herengracht 464, 
 1017CA Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk Management Plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
15 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
A. LABELLING
17 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Fetcroja 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
cefiderocol 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains cefiderocol sulfate tosylate equivalent to 1 g of cefiderocol. 
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sucrose, sodium chloride and sodium hydroxide. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
10 vials 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use 
Dilute before use 
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
18 
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Shionogi B.V. 
Herengracht 
4641017CA 
Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1434/001 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN 
19 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Fetcroja 1 g powder for concentrate 
cefiderocol 
IV 
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
1 g 
6.
OTHER
20 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
21 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Fetcroja 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
cefiderocol 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects, you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet 
1. What Fetcroja is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Fetcroja
3. How Fetcroja is used
4.
Possible side effects
5. How to store Fetcroja
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Fetcroja is and what it is used for
Fetcroja contains the active substance cefiderocol. It is an antibiotic medicine that belongs to a group 
of antibiotics called cephalosporins. Antibiotics help to fight bacteria that cause infections.  
Fetcroja is used in adults to treat infections caused by certain types of bacteria when other antibiotics 
cannot be used.  
2. What you need to know before you are given Fetcroja
Do not use Fetcroja 

if you are allergic to cefiderocol or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section
6);
if you are allergic to other antibiotics known as cephalosporins;
if you have had a severe allergic reaction to certain antibiotics, such as penicillins or
carbapenems. This can include severe skin peeling, swelling of the hands, face, feet, lips, tongue
or throat; or difficulty swallowing or breathing.
➔ Tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Fetcroja: 

if you have ever had any allergic reaction to other antibiotics. See also section above, “Do not
use Fetcroja”;
if you have kidney problems. Your doctor will adjust your dose to ensure you don’t get too much
or too little medicine;
if you suffer from diarrhoea during your treatment;
if you are on a low sodium diet;
if you have ever had seizures.






22 
➔ Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Fetcroja.
New Infection 
Although Fetcroja can fight certain bacteria, there is a possibility that you may get a different infection 
caused by another organism during or after your treatment. Your doctor will monitor you closely for 
any new infections and give you another treatment if necessary. 
Blood/laboratory Tests 
Tell your doctor that you are taking Fetcroja if you are going to have any blood/laboratory tests. This 
is because you may get an abnormal result. With something called a “Coombs test” this looks for the 
presence of antibodies that can destroy red blood cells or may be affected by the response of your 
immune system to Fetcroja. Fetcroja may also result in false-positive results in urine dipstick tests 
(urine protein or diabetes markers). 
Children and adolescents 
Fetcroja should not be given to children and adolescents under the age of 18. This is because it is not 
known if the medicine is safe to use in these age groups. 
Other medicines and Fetcroja 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Fetcroja does not affect your ability to drive or operate machinery. 
Fetcroja contains sodium 
This medicine contains 7.64 mmol (176 mg) of sodium per vial. The total daily dose is 2.1 g, just 
greater than the WHO recommend daily maximum of 2 g sodium for an adult. Talk to your doctor 
before you are given Fetcroja if you are on a low sodium diet. 
3.
How Fetcroja is used
Your doctor or nurse will give you this medicine as an infusion (a drip) into your vein over 3 hours, 
three times a day. The usual recommended dose is 2 g. 
The number of days you will be given Fetcroja treatment depends on the type of infection you have 
and how well your infection is clearing. 
If you get any pain where the Fetcroja infusion goes into your vein, tell your doctor or nurse. 
People with kidney problems 
If you have kidney problems, talk to your doctor before you are given Fetcroja. The doctor will adjust 
your dose of Fetcroja. 
If you are given more Fetcroja than you should 
Fetcroja will be given to you by a doctor or nurse, so it is unlikely you will be given the wrong dose. 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you think you have been given more Fetcroja than you 
should have. 
If you miss a dose of Fetcroja  
If you think you have not been given a dose of Fetcroja, tell your doctor or nurse straight away. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
23 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects – you may need 
urgent medical treatment: 

Severe allergic reaction – signs include sudden swelling of your lips, face, throat or tongue; a
severe rash or other severe skin reactions; difficulty swallowing or breathing. This reaction may be
life-threatening.
 Diarrhoea that gets worse or does not go away, or stools that contain blood or mucus. This may
happen during treatment, or after it has been stopped. If this happens, do not take medicines that
stop or slow bowel movement.
➔ Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the serious side effects above.
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects. 
Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting)
Swelling, redness and/or pain around the needle where the medicine is given into a vein
Increase in levels of liver enzymes, shown in blood tests
Common 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 


 Yeast infections e.g. thrush

 Cough
 Rash, with small raised bumps

Severe gut infection known as Clostridioides difficile colitis. Symptoms include watery diarrhoea,
abdominal pain, fever, etc.
Increased blood creatinine values

Uncommon 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Increased blood urea values

 Allergy to Fetcroja
Not known 
(frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
 Reduced count of specific white blood cells (neutrophil granulocytes)
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.
How to store Fetcroja
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the 
last day of that month. 
Store unopened vials in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
24 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicnes you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Fetcroja contains 
-
-
The active substance is cefiderocol sulfate tosylate, equivalent to 1 g cefiderocol.
The other excipients are sucrose, sodium chloride and sodium hydroxide.
What Fetcroja looks like and contents of the pack 
Fetcroja is a white to off-white powder for concentrate for solution for infusion in a vial. It is available 
in packs containing 10 vials. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Shionogi B.V.   
Herengracht 464 
1017CA Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
ACS DOBFAR S.P.A 
Nucleo Industriale S. Atto 
(loc. S. Nicolo’ a Tordino) 
64100 Teramo (TE) 
Shionogi B.V.  
Herengracht 464 
1017CA Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DK, EE, EL, FI, HR, 
HU, IE, IS,  LT, LU, LV, MT, NL, NO, PL, 
PT, RO, SE, SI, SK 
Shionogi B.V. Tel/Tel./ Teл./ Tlf/ Tél/ Puh/ 
Sími/ Τηλ: 
+31204917439
contact@shionogi.eu
Deutschland 
Shionogi GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)30 2062980 66 
kontakt@shionogi.eu 
España 
Shionogi SLU 
Tel: + 34 911 239 258 
contacta@shionogi.eu 
UK (NI) 
Shionogi B.V. 
Tel: + 44 (0) 2891248945 
contact@shionogi.eu 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Italia 
Shionogi Srl 
Tel: + 39 06 94 805 118 
contattaci@shionogi.eu 
France 
Shionogi SAS 
Tel: +33 (0) 186655806 
contactfrance@shionogi.eu 
25 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Each vial is for single use only. 
The powder should be reconstituted with 10 mL of either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 5% dextrose injection taken from the 100 mL bags that will be used to prepare the final 
infusion solution and should be gently shaken to dissolve. The vial(s) should be allowed to stand until 
the foaming generated on the surface has disappeared (typically within 2 minutes). The final volume 
of the reconstituted solution in the vial will be approximately 11.2 mL (caution: the reconstituted 
solution is not for direct injection). 
To prepare the required doses, the appropriate volume of reconstituted solution should be withdrawn 
from the vial according to the table below. Add the withdrawn volume to the infusion bag containing 
the remainder of the 100 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, or 5% dextrose 
injection, inspect the resulting diluted drug product solution in the infusion bag visually for particulate 
matter and discoloration prior to use. Do not use discoloured solutions or solutions with visible 
particles. 
Preparation of cefiderocol doses 
Cefiderocol 
dose 
Number of 1 g 
cefiderocol vials to 
be reconstituted 
Volume to withdraw from 
reconstituted vial(s) 
Total volume of 
cefiderocol solution 
required for further 
dilution in at least 100 mL 
of 0.9% sodium chloride 
injection or 5% dextrose 
injection 
2 g 
1.5 g 
1 g 
0.75 g 
2 vials 
2 vials 
1 vial 
1 vial 
11.2 mL (entire contents) 
from both vials 
11.2 mL (entire contents) 
from first vial AND 
5.6 mL from second vial 
11.2 mL (entire contents) 
8.4 mL 
22.4 mL 
16.8 mL 
11.2 mL 
8.4 mL 
Standard aseptic techniques should be used for solution preparation and administration. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned 
above in this section. If treatment with a combination of another medicinal product and Fetcroja is 
unavoidable, administration should not occur in the same syringe or in the same infusion solution. It is 
recommended to adequately flush intravenous lines between administration of different medicinal 
products. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
