Summary of risk management plan for Fetcroja 
(cefiderocol) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Fetcroja. The RMP details important 
risks of Fetcroja, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Fetcroja risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Fetcroja’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Fetcroja should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Fetcroja should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Fetcroja’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Fetcroja is authorised for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in 
adults with limited treatment options (see SmPC for the full indication). Consideration should be 
given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. It contains cefiderocol as 
the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Fetcroja’s benefits can be found in Fetcroja’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage (https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/fetcroja)  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Fetcroja, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Fetcroja’s risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Fetcroja are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise 
the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Fetcroja. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Not Applicable 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Fetcroja. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Fetcroja. 
 
 
