23 March 2018 
EMA/166410/2018 
Colour change for insulin injection Fiasp to avoid mix ups 
with Tresiba  
Cartridges, pre-filled pens and vials changing from yellow to red and yellow  
The colour of cartridges, pre-filled pens and vials of the rapid-acting insulin Fiasp is changing from 
yellow to red and yellow following cases where patients have mistakenly injected Fiasp instead of the 
long-acting insulin Tresiba (available in the EU as light green cartridges and pens) or the other way 
around. Such mix-ups, due to the similar colour of the products especially in poor lighting, can cause 
hypo- or hyperglycaemia (low or high blood glucose levels), which can lead to serious health problems. 
Patients who have been prescribed both these medicines should be careful to avoid mixing them up 
and healthcare professionals should make patients aware of the risk, particularly during the time while 
yellow Fiasp products are still available. Pharmacists will receive a letter with this information and local 
timelines for when red and yellow Fiasp products will be introduced. 
Fiasp and Tresiba are medicines containing insulin used to control blood glucose levels in patients with 
diabetes. Fiasp is a rapid-acting insulin (insulin aspart) intended to be injected at mealtimes, whereas 
Tresiba (insulin degludec) has a long duration of action and is injected once a day. By using the two 
medicines, patients can control their blood glucose throughout the day. 
Figure 1.  New red and yellow Fiasp pen and cartridge. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Current yellow Fiasp and light green Tresiba pen and cartridge. 
Information for patients 
• 
• 
• 
The colour of cartridges, pre-filled pens and vials of Fiasp is changing from yellow to red and 
yellow. 
This follows cases of mix-ups between Fiasp, a rapid-acting insulin, and Tresiba, a long-acting 
insulin.  
Fiasp should be injected around mealtimes and Tresiba should be injected once a day, preferably 
at the same time every day, as advised by your doctor.  
•  Before each injection, check the name of the medicine. Take extra care if preparing injections in 
poor light to make sure you are using the correct medicine at the correct time.  
•  Contact your healthcare professional immediately if you have mixed up your injections. Your 
healthcare professional can also advise you if you have any questions about your treatment. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  When dispensing or prescribing Fiasp, check whether the patient also uses Tresiba. 
• 
If so, remind the patient that it is important to be careful not to mix up these two medicines 
because of the risk of hypo- or hyperglycaemia. 
•  Advise patients to check the name of the insulin before each injection and to take extra care if 
preparing injections in poor light. 
•  Adverse reactions relating to Fiasp or Tresiba, including medication errors, should be reported to 
Novo Nordisk or to the appropriate local authorities. 
More about the medicine 
Fiasp is a medicine that is used to treat adults with diabetes. It contains a rapid-acting insulin called 
insulin aspart. Fiasp is a solution for injection available in vials, cartridges or pre-filled pens. It is 
usually taken by injection under the skin around mealtimes and used in combination with an 
intermediate - or long-acting insulin that is taken at least once a day. Tresiba is an example of a long-
acting insulin (insulin degludec) that is taken in combination with Fiasp. 
Colour change for insulin injection Fiasp to avoid mix ups with Tresiba  
EMA/166410/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diabetes is a disease in which blood glucose is high, either because the body cannot produce insulin 
(type 1 diabetes) or because the body does not make enough insulin or cannot use it effectively (type 
2 diabetes). The replacement insulin in medicines such as Fiasp and Tresiba acts in the same way as 
the body’s own insulin and helps control the level of blood glucose and reduce the symptoms of 
diabetes.  
More information is available on the medicine overview webpages for Fiasp and Tresiba. 
Colour change for insulin injection Fiasp to avoid mix ups with Tresiba  
EMA/166410/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
