Summary of risk management plan for insulin aspart
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Fiasp. The RMP 
details important risks of Fiasp, how these risks can be minimised and how 
more information will be obtained about Fiasp’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
Fiasp’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Fiasp 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Fiasp should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European public assessment report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Fiasp’s RMP.
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Fiasp is authorised for treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and 
children above 1 year of age (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
insulin aspart as the active substance and it is given intravenously or 
subcutaneously.
Further information about the evaluation of Fiasp’s benefits can be found in 
Fiasp’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: EPAR link.
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks
Important risks of Fiasp, together with measures to minimise such risks are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the public 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimises its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In the case of Fiasp, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Fiasp are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Fiasp. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the 
medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified 
risks
Important potential 
risks
Missing information
administered)
None
None
Medication errors (mainly wrong drug 
II.B Summary of important risks
Medication errors (mainly wrong drug administered) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Medication error is a well-known risk in diabetic patients treated 
with multiple insulins. Medication errors can lead to clinical 
consequences such as hypoglycaemia or hyperglycaemia.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation
measures
In clinical trials with Fiasp, medication errors (mainly wrong 
drug administered) occurred with pen injectors which were 
packaged and labelled specifically for use in these trials. The 
final packaging and labelling for the marketed products has 
been developed and optimised in order to minimise the potential 
for wrong drug administration due to product mix-up. Even with 
these differentiation features, there is a risk for medication 
error, which is therefore considered an important identified risk 
for Fiasp. Administration of a wrong type of insulin can occur 
due to mix-up by the patient, prescription errors or dispensing 
errors at the pharmacy. 
 Patients treated with more than one type of insulin
 New insulin users
 Elderly patients
 Users with visual impairment
 Change in insulin regimen or type of administration
 Similar naming of different insulin products
 Similar appearances of devices
Routine risk communication:
None
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk:
Product differentiation strategy: 
 Coloured cartons, labels and plastic components of primary 
packaging to prevent wrong drug administration due to mix-
up of different insulin products.
 A Penfill cartridge is not compatible with the currently 
available pumps intended for use with PumpCart and vice 
versa.
Text in SmPC, PL and IFU:
 SmPC Section 4.2 where information is given on posology and 
method of administration. 
 SmPC Section 4.2 where passive discouragement for 
withdrawing insulin with a syringe from cartridges and pre-
filled pens is included. It is further specified that if 
administration by syringe, intravenous injection or infusion 
pump is necessary, a vial should be used. 
 Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use where 
information on avoidance of accidental mix-ups is given. 
Additionally, advice on practical actions to minimise the risk is 
given, for example for patients to check the insulin label 
before each injection and that a syringe should never be used 
to draw the medicinal product from the cartridge of a 
pre-filled pen.
 SmPC Section 6.6 where special precautions are given for 
disposal and other handling. Text/wording allowing the 
possibility to withdraw insulin from cartridges and pre-filled 
pens with a syringe in case of emergency has been deleted 
from this section.
 PL Section 2 with information on when the medicine should 
not be used, and also to check the label before use to ensure 
the right type of medicine is used.
 PL Section 3 with information on: 
 How to use the product correctly
 Carrying a spare cartridge (Penfill and PumpCart) 
 Having a pen-injector or similar available in case of pump 
failure, for pump users
 Correct usage of Fiasp in patients with poor eyesight
 IFU where information is given on how to handle the product 
including instruction to check the label to ensure the right 
type of insulin is used and instruction on how to avoid 
injection of air to ensure proper dosing and to carry a spare 
pre-filled pen in case it is lost or damaged.
Additional risk minimisation measures:
To increase awareness of the differences between Fiasp and 
Tresiba products, a communication plan regarding the risk of 
mix-up between Fiasp and Tresiba has been prepared. The 
communication plan includes a direct healthcare professional 
communication (DHPC) addressing pharmacies and dispensing 
clinics. This risk minimisation is intended to be used until there 
are no longer any Fiasp products on the market with only yellow 
colour plastic components.
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Abbreviations: DHPC = direct healthcare professional communication; IFU = information for 
use; PL = product leaflet.
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or 
specific obligation of Fiasp.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
No studies are required for Fiasp.
