Summary of the risk management plan for Zarzio / 
Filgrastim Hexal (Filgrastim)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Zarzio  /  Filgrastim  Hexal,  a 
biosimilar to Neupogen. The RMP details important risks of Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal, how 
these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about risks and 
uncertainties (missing information) Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal.
The  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  the  package  leaflet  of  Zarzio  / 
Filgrastim Hexal give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Zarzio’s / Filgrastim Hexal’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Zarzio /  Filgrastim  Hexal  is  used  to  stimulate  the  production  of  white  blood  cells  in  the 
following situations (see SmPC for the full indications):
•
to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood 
cell) and the occurrence of febrile neutropenia (neutropenia with fever) in patients 
receiving chemotherapy (cancer treatment) that is cytotoxic (cell-killing);
to reduce the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing treatment to destroy the 
bone marrow cells before a bone-marrow transplant (such as in some patients with 
leukaemia) if they are at a risk of long-term, severe neutropenia;
to increase levels of neutrophils and reduce the risk of infections in patients with 
neutropenia who have a history of severe, repeated infections;
to treat persistent neutropenia in patients with advanced human-immunodeficiency-
virus (HIV) infection, to reduce the risk of bacterial infections when other treatments 
are not appropriate.
•
•
•
Zarzio /Filgrastim Hexal can also be used in people who are about to donate blood stem 
cells for transplant, to help release these cells from the bone marrow.
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. It contains filgrastim as the active 
substance  and  it  is  given  by  subcutaneous  injection  (injection  under  the  skin)  or 
intravenous infusion (infusion into a vein). The European Commission granted a marketing 
authorisation valid throughout the EU for Zarzio /Filgrastim Hexal.
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Zarzio’s /  Filgrastim  Hexal’s  benefits  can  be 
found  in  Zarzio’s /  Filgrastim  Hexal’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage:
• Zarzio: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zarzio
•
Filgrastim Hexal: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/filgrastim-
hexal
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks
Important risks of Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal, together with measures to minimize such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about Zarzio’s / Filgrastim Hexal’s risks, are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
•
•
•
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Zarzio / 
Filgrastim Hexal. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
Haematological malignancies in healthy donors
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) in healthy donors
Missing information
None
II B: Summary of important risks
The  safety  information  in  the  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product.
Important potential risk Haematological malignancies in healthy donors
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Clinical trials and post-marketing data
Not known
Routine risk minimization measures:
Risk communication in SmPC sections 4.4; risk minimization 
activities in SmPC section 4.4 where follow-up of stem cell 
donors is recommended 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures: none
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Study EP06-501 (MEA007)
See section 2.3 of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.
Important potential risk Venous thromboembolism in healthy donors
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Clinical trials and post-marketing data
Publications based on experimental findings suggest that 
healthy donors may be at an increased risk of VTEs due to 
induction of a hypercoagulability state and possibly increased 
platelet activation (Söhngen et al 1998; Canales et al 2002).
Routine risk minimization measures:
Risk communication in SmPC: none
Legal status: restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures: none
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Study EP06-501 (MEA007)
See section 2.3 of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Zarzio / Filgrastim Hexal.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study short name 
Rationale and study objectives
Study EP06-501 (MEA007)
The key objective of this data collection is to assess the 
incidence of adverse events in stem cell mobilization in 
adult healthy unrelated donors that could be associated 
with identified or potential substance rhG-CSF class-
typical risks, as defined in the pharmacovigilance plan of 
the post-marketing risk-management system of Zarzio / 
Filgrastim Hexal.
Based on recommendations by the World Marrow Donor 
Association (WMDA) that were applicable at the time of 
the study initiation (Bochtler et al 2007), the risk-
management system defines the development of 
hematological malignancies as a potential long-term risk 
of the mobilization, although clinical data from large, 
systematically followed cohorts have not observed such a 
risk. Thus, this safety follow-up sets special emphasis on 
collecting information about this risk in the observed 
population. However, if rhG-CSF treatment was 
associated with an increased likelihood of hematological 
malignancies, this would likely not be restricted to either 
product, but would be attributable to pharmacological 
effects of the rhG-CSF class on immature hematopoietic 
cells. This non-interventional study is designed to add up 
to 2000 man-years to the accumulated safety data for 
mobilization in adult healthy unrelated stem cell donors.
