EMA/434854/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000918 
EPAR summary for the public 
Filgrastim Hexal 
filgrastim 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Filgrastim Hexal. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Filgrastim Hexal. 
What is Filgrastim Hexal? 
Filgrastim Hexal is a solution for injection or infusion (drip into a vein) in a pre-filled syringe. It 
contains the active substance filgrastim (30 or 48 million units). 
Filgrastim Hexal is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that Filgrastim Hexal is similar to a biological 
medicine that is already authorised in the European Union (EU) and contains the same active 
substance (also known as the ‘reference medicine’). The reference medicine for Filgrastim Hexal is 
Neupogen. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
What is Filgrastim Hexal used for? 
Filgrastim Hexal is used to stimulate the production of white blood cells in the following situations: 
• 
• 
• 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) and the 
occurrence of febrile neutropenia (neutropenia with fever) in patients receiving chemotherapy 
(cancer treatment) that is cytotoxic (cell-killing); 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing treatment to destroy the bone 
marrow cells before a bone marrow transplant (such as in some patients with leukaemia) if they 
are at a risk of long-term, severe neutropenia; 
to increase levels of neutrophils and reduce the risk of infections in patients with neutropenia who 
have a history of severe, repeated infections; 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
to treat persistent neutropenia in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection, to reduce the risk of bacterial infections when other treatments are not appropriate. 
Filgrastim Hexal can also be used in people who are about to donate blood stem cells for transplant, to 
help release these cells from the bone marrow. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Filgrastim Hexal used? 
Filgrastim Hexal is given by injection under the skin or infusion into a vein. How it is given, the dose 
and the duration of treatment depend on why it is being used, the patient’s body weight and the 
response to treatment. Filgrastim Hexal is usually given in a specialised treatment centre, although 
patients who receive it by injection under the skin may inject themselves once they have been trained 
appropriately. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Filgrastim Hexal work? 
The active substance in Filgrastim Hexal, filgrastim, is very similar to a human protein called 
granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G CSF). Filgrastim is produced by a method known as 
‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by bacteria into which a gene (DNA) has been introduced, 
which makes them able to produce filgrastim. The replacement acts in the same way as naturally 
produced G CSF by encouraging the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells. 
How has Filgrastim Hexal been studied? 
Filgrastim Hexal was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Neupogen. 
Four studies looked at the levels of neutrophils in the blood in a total of 146 healthy volunteers who 
received Filgrastim Hexal or Neupogen. The studies looked at the effects of single and repeated 
administration of various doses of the medicines, either injected under the skin or infused into a vein. 
The main measure in these studies was the neutrophil count over the first 10 days of treatment. 
What benefit has Filgrastim Hexal shown during the studies? 
Filgrastim Hexal and Neupogen brought about similar increases in blood neutrophil counts in healthy 
volunteers over the course of the studies. This was considered sufficient to demonstrate that the 
benefits of Filgrastim Hexal are comparable to those of the reference medicine. 
What is the risk associated with Filgrastim Hexal? 
The most common side effect with Filgrastim Hexal (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is 
musculoskeletal pain (pain in the muscles and bones). Other side effects may be seen in more than 1 
patient in 10, depending on the condition that Filgrastim Hexal is being used for. For the full list of all 
side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Filgrastim Hexal been approved? 
The CHMP decided that, in accordance with EU requirements, Filgrastim Hexal has been shown to have 
a comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Neupogen, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Filgrastim 
Hexal be given marketing authorisation. 
Filgrastim Hexal  
EMA/434854/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Filgrastim Hexal? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Filgrastim Hexal is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Filgrastim Hexal, including the appropriate precautions to be 
followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Filgrastim Hexal 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Filgrastim 
Hexal on 06 February 2009. 
The full EPAR for Filgrastim Hexal can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Filgrastim Hexal, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Filgrastim Hexal  
EMA/434854/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
