Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of risk management plan for Filsuvez and Episalvan 
(birch bark extract)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for birch bark extract. The RMP details 
important risks of birch bark extract, and how more information will be obtained about Filsuvez’s 
and Episalvan’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Both products’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and their package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how the products should be used 
in their respective indications and patient populations.  
This summary of the RMP for Filsuvez and Episalvan should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new safety concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
birch triterpenes RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Episalvan is authorised for partial thickness wounds (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
birch bark extract as the active substance, and it is given topically. 
Further information about the evaluation of Episalvan’s benefits can be found in Episalvan’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage Episalvan EPAR SUMMARY. 
Filsuvez is authorised for epidermolysis bullosa (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains birch 
bark extract as the active substance, and it is given topically. 
Further information about the evaluation of Filsuvez’s benefits can be found in Filsuvez’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage Filsuvez EPAR SUMMARY. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to
minimise or further characterise the risks
Important  risks  of Filsuvez  and  Episalvan  to  their  respective  indications  and  patient  populations , 
together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about 
their risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of birch bark extract is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of birch bark extract are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of birch bark extract. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important 
•  Allergic reaction / Hypersensitivity (in patients with Partial 
identified risks 
thickness wounds) 
Important 
potential risks 
•  Wound infection Prolonged healing of burn wounds and risk 
of hypertrophic scarring if surgery is delayed (in patients 
with Partial thickness wounds) 
•  Squamous cell carcinoma and other skin malignancies (in 
patients with Epidermolysis Bullosa) 
Missing 
• 
Interaction with other topical applied medicinal products (in 
information 
patients with Partial thickness wounds) 
•  Use in patients with different skin types regarding ethnic 
origin / Fitzpatrick skin types  
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk; Allergic reaction (hypersensitivity reaction) (in patients with 
partial thickness wounds treated with Episalvan) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Hypersensitivity symptoms have been seen in patients the both the 
to the medicine 
BEB-13 pivotal trial (N=8) and in patients in the Episalvan supportive 
clinical trials (2 of 425 [0.5%]). In BEB-13, one patient had a severe 
cutaneous eruption 48 to 72 hours after the application of the 
Oleogel-S10 which was also observed on intact skin around the 
treated wounds.  
Three AEs in BEB-13 had a possible relation to study medication and 
symptoms included rash (n=2) and urticaria (n=1). In the Episalvan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
supportive studies, there were reports of allergic reaction (n=1) and 
hypersensitivity (n=1).  
One case of contact dermatitis was reported in the literature (Meyer-
Hoffert and Brasch, 2013), in which a 51- year-old male developed 
itchy erythema and papules on his hands and face 4 months after 
starting to use the cosmetic, Imlan® Creme Pur cream (containing 
birch bark extract, jojoba oil, and water). It was later confirmed via 
patch tests that 10% birch bark extract in jojoba oil resulted in mild 
to moderate allergic reactions while 100% jojoba oil was negative. 
The authors concluded that as betulin is the major triterpene in 
Imlan® Creme Pur cream and it was suspected as the relevant 
allergen in this case. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with prior severe hypersensitivity reactions to birch 
triterpenes or to any of the product excipients are at higher risk. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.3; Contraindications 
SmPC section 4.4; Special warnings and precautions for use 
SmPC section 4.8; Adverse events 
PIL section 2 and 4 
Prescription only medicine 
Important Potential Risk 1; Wound infection (in patients with partial thickness wounds 
treated with Episalvan) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Wound infection is a common complication of any type of wound, 
to the medicine 
especially burn wounds. Wound infection has occurred under 
treatment with Episalvan, as well as with comparator products. From 
the current data it is not known if Episalvan does increase the risk of 
contracting wound infections compared to other medicinal products or 
not. This issue is under surveillance. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Immuno-compromised patients may be more susceptible infection. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4; Warnings and Precautions 
Section 4.8; Adverse events  
PL section 2 and 4 
Prescription only medicine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk 2; Prolonged healing of burn wounds and risk of hypertrophic 
scarring if surgery is delayed for patients with partial thickness wounds (in patients with 
partial thickness wounds treated with Episalvan) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Patients with burn wounds type 2a may experience worsening of 
to the medicine 
initial stage and convert to burn wounds type 2b. However, wounds 
type 2b may need surgical intervention, e.g. STSG to prevent 
complications like prolonged healing or hypertrophic scarring if not 
treated appropriately.  
This is a theoretical risk if the patient is not monitored and treated 
appropriately in practise and the wound progresses. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with partial thickness burn wounds grade 2 with healing 
delay 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4; Warnings and Precautions 
PL section 2 and  
Prescription only medicine 
Important Potential Risk 3; Squamous cell carcinoma and other skin malignancies (for 
patients with epidermolysis bullosa) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
In the pivotal trial, a total of four patients experienced SCC of skin, 
to the medicine 
one patient in the double-blind phase and three in the open label 
phase (based on interim safety analysis set). The wounds where the 
SCC was diagnosed had not been treated with Oleogel-S10 in two out 
of four patients, the other 2 cases occurred in patients at known high 
risk of developing SCC as had RDEB generalised severe and were 
over 45 years of age. All events were assessed as unlikely related to 
Oleogel-S10 by the investigator, while the MAH assessed 2 of the 
events of SCC as possibly related based on the temporal relationship. 
All of SCC events were assessed as severe under Grade 3 severity 
criteria.  
The outcome was reported as recovered (n=2), recovered with 
sequalae (n=1) and ongoing (n=1). Three out of 4 patients 
discontinued the study due to the SCC.  
Risk factors and risk groups  Patients with prior of history of skin cancers; particularly in patients 
with RDEB especially severe. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4; Warnings and Precautions 
PIL section 2  
Prescription only medicine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
Filsuvez Observational Safety and Effectiveness Evaluation Registry – 
pharmacovigilance activities 
based study in EB (FOStER-EB) [(AEB-21)] 
Missing information 1: Interaction with other topically applied medicinal products (in 
patients with partial thickness wounds treated with Episalvan) 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.5; Interactions 
PIL section 2 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional 
None 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Missing information 2: Use in patients with different skin types regarding ethnic origin / 
Fitzpatrick skin types (in patients with partial thickness wounds treated with Episalvan 
and in patients with epidermolysis bullosa) 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional 
Filsuvez Observational Safety and Effectiveness Evaluation Registry-
pharmacovigilance activities 
based Study in EB (FOStER-EB) [(AEB-21)] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Filsuvez.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study short name and title: Filsuvez Observational Safety and Effectiveness Evaluation Registry-
based Study in EB (FOStER-EB) [(AEB-21)] 
Rationale and study objectives: To evaluate the incidence of skin malignancies including squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC), basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and malignant melanoma (MM) in patients with 
dystrophic and junctional epidermolysis bullosa treated with Filsuvez (treated group) under normal 
conditions of clinical practice compared with patients not receiving treatment with Filsuvez (control 
group). The registry-based study will also collect data on use in patients with different skin types 
regarding ethnic origin, data on effectiveness of Filsuvez (frequency/ time spent on dressing 
changes, quality of life scoring etc.), and safety data on all non-serious and serious adverse events 
including hospital admission/ prolonged hospitalization of the patient and reason(s) for 
hospitalization, if any. 
Study size and population: The Sponsor will identify and collaborate with existing individual 
National Registries to enrol patients and collect the minimum data points required by AEB-21. 
Registries will include but not be limited to those in the EEA and the UK. The recruitment will be 
dependent on reimbursement in each country, which can be variable.  However, the registry-based 
study will be initiated within 12 months post-launch in each country to allow for submission and 
approval of the study protocol, adjustment to the local country regulations and setting up the 
infrastructure of the registry -based study. Patients who have received treatment through clinical 
trials or an expanded access program (EAP) will also be eligible to enter AEB-21 if they are 
enrolled in the National Registries. With regards to the study population, children will be included 
in line with the product information to ensure that all age groups covered by the indication are 
appropriately represented. 
Study milestones: The study protocol along with feasibility assessment will be submitted within 6 
months of the EC decision. The estimated start date of data collection will be in Q3 2023.  Annual 
reports will be submitted annually during the life of the registry-based study.  The Registry-based 
study end will be based on the scientific review by the Registry Steering Committee determines 
that the scientific question has been answered, given the absolute increases in the skin 
malignancies for the Filsuvez treated group versus the Control group.   
 
 
 
