EMA/239723/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005035 
Filsuvez (birch bark extract) 
An overview of Filsuvez and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Filsuvez and what is it used for? 
Filsuvez is a medicine that is used in adults and children aged 6 months or older with epidermolysis 
bullosa (EB).  
EB is an inherited disease of the skin that makes the skin very fragile and causes severe blistering and 
scarring. Filsuvez is used in two types of EB, dystrophic EB and junctional EB, to treat partial-thickness 
skin wounds. These are wounds where the upper layers of the skin have been damaged. 
EB is rare, and Filsuvez was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 23 
February 2011. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-310845 
Filsuvez contains a dry extract from two species of birch bark consisting of naturally occurring 
substances known as triterpenes, including betulin, betulinic acid, erythrodiol, lupeol and oleanolic 
acid. 
How is Filsuvez used? 
Filsuvez is available as a gel that should be applied to the wound surface at a thickness of 
approximately 1 mm and covered by a wound dressing. The medicine can also be applied directly to 
the wound dressing. The gel should not be applied sparingly, and should be re-applied with every 
dressing change until the wound has healed. If symptoms do not improve after use or if wound 
complications occur, your healthcare professional will assess your condition and consider whether to 
continue treatment. 
For more information about using Filsuvez, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Filsuvez work? 
The exact way Filsuvez works is not fully understood. It is thought that the active substance in 
Filsuvez, birch bark extract, may help the cells that make up the outer layer of the skin (keratinocytes) 
grow and move towards the gap created by the wound, thereby helping wounds to heal. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Filsuvez have been shown in studies? 
The effectiveness of Filsuvez at treating partial-thickness wounds was investigated in one main study 
involving 223 adults and children with EB, including dystrophic and junctional subtypes. Of those who 
were treated with Filsuvez in combination with wound dressing, 41% showed complete closure of the 
wound within 45 days, compared with 29% who were using a control gel (a dummy treatment) in 
combination with wound dressing. No difference from the control gel was noted after 90 days. 
What are the risks associated with Filsuvez? 
The most common side effects with Filsuvez (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are wound 
complications. Other common side effects include skin reactions at the application site, wound 
infections, pruritis (itching), and hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions (may occur in more than 1 in 100 
people). 
For the full list of side effects of Filsuvez, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Filsuvez authorised in the EU? 
Filsuvez gel was shown to be effective for patients with dystrophic and junctional EB at treating partial-
thickness wounds, which can be difficult to heal, leading to pain and a risk of infection, and for which 
treatment options are limited. Although effects were modest, they were considered clinically 
meaningful for EB patients with dystrophic and junctional EB and the medicine had an acceptable 
safety profile, with side effects that were localised and manageable. Therefore, the European Medicines 
Agency decided that the benefits of Filsuvez are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Filsuvez? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Filsuvez have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Filsuvez are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Filsuvez are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Filsuvez 
Filsuvez received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 June 2022. 
Further information on Filsuvez can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/filsuvez 
This overview was last updated in 06-2022. 
Filsuvez (birch bark extract)  
EMA/239723/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
