EMA/336317/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005191 
Fingolimod Accord (fingolimod) 
An overview of Fingolimod Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fingolimod Accord and what is it used for? 
Fingolimod Accord is a type of medicine known as a ‘disease-modifying therapy’ that is used to treat 
adults and children over 10 years of age with highly active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
(RRMS). ‘Relapsing-remitting’ means that the patient has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by 
periods with milder or no symptoms (remissions). Fingolimod Accord is used when the disease remains 
active despite appropriate treatment with at least one other disease-modifying therapy, or is severe 
and getting worse rapidly. 
Fingolimod Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Fingolimod Accord contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called 
Gilenya. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Fingolimod Accord contains the active substance fingolimod. 
How is Fingolimod Accord used? 
Fingolimod Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
supervised by a doctor experienced in multiple sclerosis. Fingolimod Accord is available as capsules 
(0.5 mg). The recommended dose for adults is one capsule taken once a day by mouth, the 
recommended dose for children depends on body weight. 
Because Fingolimod Accord decreases the heart rate and can affect the heart’s electrical activity and 
rhythm, the patient’s blood pressure and heart activity are checked before starting treatment and 
during treatment, and also if Fingolimod Accord treatment is restarted after an interruption. Details on 
the recommendations for monitoring patients are found in the summary of product characteristics.  
For more information about using Fingolimod Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Fingolimod Accord work? 
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system (the body’s defences) attacks and damages the protective 
insulation around the nerves and the nerves themselves in the brain and spinal cord.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Fingolimod Accord, fingolimod, prevents T cells (a type of white blood cell 
involved in the immune system) travelling from the lymph nodes towards the brain and spinal cord, 
thus limiting the damage they cause in multiple sclerosis. It does this by blocking the action of a 
receptor (target) on the T cells called the sphingosine-1- phosphate receptor, which is involved in 
controlling the movement of these cells in the body. 
How has Fingolimod Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Gilenya, and do not need to be repeated for Fingolimod 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Fingolimod Accord. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Fingolimod Accord? 
Because Fingolimod Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Fingolimod Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Fingolimod 
Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Gilenya. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Gilenya, the benefits of Fingolimod Accord outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fingolimod Accord? 
The company that markets Fingolimod Accord must ensure that all doctors who prescribe the medicine 
receive an information pack containing important safety information, including a checklist of the risks 
with Fingolimod Accord and the situations where its use is not recommended. The checklist includes 
information on the tests and monitoring in patients before and during treatment with Fingolimod 
Accord. The pack will also include a reminder card for patients or their carers with key safety 
information about Fingolimod Accord, and a pregnancy-specific card to remind patients that Fingolimod 
Accord must not be used during pregnancy and in women who can become pregnant and are not using 
effective contraception. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fingolimod Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fingolimod Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Fingolimod Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Fingolimod Accord 
Fingolimod Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 June 2020.  
Fingolimod Accord (fingolimod)  
EMA/336317/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Fingolimod Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fingolimod-accord. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2020. 
Fingolimod Accord (fingolimod)  
EMA/336317/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
