18 December 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-578199 
EMA/OD/0000024920  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Fintepla (fenfluramine hydrochloride) 
Treatment of Dravet syndrome 
EU/3/13/1219 
Sponsor: Zogenix ROI Limited     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 21 October 2020 .......................................... 15 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Fenfluramine hydrochloride 
designation 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Fenfluramine hydrochloride 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Fintepla 
Treatment of Dravet syndrome  
Zogenix ROI Limited   
Trinity House 
Charleston Road 
Ranelagh 
Dublin 6 D06 C8X4 
Ireland  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Post-designation procedural history 
Brabant Pharma Limited 
6 November 2013 
16 January 2014 
EU/3/13/1219 
Sponsor’s name change  
Name change from Brabant Pharma Limited to Zogenix 
International Ltd – EC letter of 16 December 2015 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Zogenix International Ltd to Zogenix 
GmbH – EC decision of 9 November 2018 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Zogenix GmbH to Zogenix ROI Limited – 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Mark Ainsworth / Johann Lodewijk Hillege 
EC decision of 20 May 2019 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Zogenix ROI Limited   
5 February 2019 
28 February 2019 
EMA/H/C/003933 
Fintepla 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome 
as an add-on therapy to other antiepileptic medicines 
for patients 2 years of age and older 
Further information on Fintepla can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR
CHMP opinion date 
/fintepla  
15 October 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Dinah Duarte / Giuseppe Capovilla 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
23 January 2020 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
14-16 July 2020 
questions  
COMP opinion date (adoption via written 
21 October 2020 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2013 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing fenfluramine 
hydrochloride was considered justified based on preliminary clinical data showing reduction in the 
number of seizures in patients affected by the condition; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to psychomotor and cognitive impairment and the 
occurrence of convulsive seizures, and life-threatening in particular due to sudden unexpected 
death in epilepsy; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 0.5 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time the application was made; 
in addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in 
the European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the 
medicinal product containing fenfluramine hydrochloride could be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. This is based on data showing a reduction in seizure frequency and 
severity as an add-on to other available treatments. The Committee considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Dravet syndrome (DS) is one of the most severe types of genetic epilepsy. The condition was first 
described by Charlotte Dravet in 1979.  
In 2001, de novo mutation in alpha-1 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channel gene (SCN1A) was 
identified in seven totally unrelated DS patients. These mutations were located on chromosome 2q24. 
More than 90% of these mutations were de novo whereas familial mutations such as missense in 
nature were located only in 5%-10%. There are no identifiable mutations in SCN1A in about 10%-20% 
of patients with DS.  
The other theory that has been investigated in the pathophysiology of DS is loss of function of 
inhibitory neurons. SCN1A gene (Nav1.1) protein product has been the primary voltage-gated sodium 
channel of these inhibitory neurons. Impairment of Nav 1.1 located in cell bodies and dendrites results 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in uncontrolled firing from gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic (GABAergic) neurons (Chopra R, Isom LL: 
Epilepsy Curr. 2014, 14:86-89) 
The condition has been previously designated by the COMP 
The approved therapeutic indication “Fintepla is indicated for the treatment of seizures associated with 
Dravet syndrome as an add-on therapy to other antiepileptic medicines for patients 2 years of age and 
older” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of Dravet syndrome”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed based on the positive benefit/risk assessment by the 
CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Presentation of seizures varies with age. Most of the patients are seizure free up to the age of five 
months and first seizure appears between the age of five to eight months due to any kind of trigger 
like fever, vaccination, bathing and sometimes in absence of the trigger. After the age of one year, a 
child can have focal or generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy or absence seizure. It may result in loss of 
consciousness or altered level of consciousness. 
Developmental delay is noted with the progression of the age. Hypotonia can be detected in the 
majority of patients around the age of one year. Ataxia is noted when a child starts walking, 
dysautonomia as variation in sweating or heat and pyramidal signs have a different frequency and 
variation (Wical B, Leighty D, Tervo M, et al.: Epilepsia. 2009, 50:3-164). Usually, there is no sign of 
neuro-developmental delay until the start of seizure activity but soon after the first seizure, neuro-
developmental delay signs like unsteady gait, language deficit in constructing a sentence, the deficit in 
fine motor abilities begin and progress shortly thereafter. 
The most common behavioural disturbances are in DS are in the form of autism, attention deficit-
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), aggressiveness, irritability, relational difficulties, and opposition. Motor 
and cognitive impairment also influence behavioural changes. These features along with cognitive 
deficit significantly affect social life and adaptive behaviour. 
Regarding prognosis two studies have reported that the two most common reason for premature 
mortality in DS patients is sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) and status epilepticus. It is 
estimated that 10%-20% of individuals with DS die within 10 years of age (Shmuely S et al., Epilepsy 
Behav. 2016, 64:69-74.   
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided literature data from their initial orphan designation in 2013 and 
complemented it with three new publications that have appeared since. These publications are 
summarised in the table below. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of Prevalence Data on Dravet Syndrome Identified Post 2013 
Prevalence Source 
Region 
Years 
Prevalence of Dravet syndrome 
per 10,000 of population 
Rosander and Hallbook 2015 
Sweden 
2007-2011 
Syvertsen 2015 
Gil-Nagel 2019 
Norway 
Spain 
1999-2014 
2016-2017 
0.2 
0.1 
0.1 
This condition does not follow a classical inheritance pathway as 90% of the mutations are de novo, 
therefore establishing birth incidence is difficult. The most recent (2015) population-based estimates of 
Dravet syndrome incidence lie between 1 in 15,000 and 1 in 33,000 live births and are based on three 
studies from Sweden, Norway, and the United States (Wu 2015, Rosander 2015, Bayat 2015). Before 
this, a 1990 study estimated the incidence at 1 in 40,000 live births (Hurst 1990). Earlier studies 
estimated an incidence of 1 in 30,000 to 1 in 40,000 live births on the basis of extrapolations from the 
percentage of patients with DS identified in cohorts of paediatric epilepsy cases (Yakoub 1992). There 
is an additional study by Hurst D, Epilepsia Vol31, issue 4 August 1990 Pages 297-400 where the 
incidence is suggested to be 1 in 40,000. 
Although premature mortality is high the overall life-expectancy of these patients is not well known. A 
calculation based on incidence and duration of the condition is therefore not feasible for the prevalence 
estimate. It has however recently been reported by Cooper et al. (2016) that the Dravet-specific 
mortality rate appears to be 15.84 per 10,000 person years which translated to an almost 15% risk of 
death after 10 years of follow up post diagnosis of Dravet syndrome. Given the physiological and 
genetic nature of the condition and that many adult patients are currently underdiagnosed with Dravet 
syndrome, the mortality risks associated with seizures are likely to continue into adulthood.  
The sponsor therefore proposes to use the prevalence reported in the literature which includes values 
from Sweden, Norway and Spain. They propose a corrected value of 0.2 in 10,000. This is lower that 
the initial orphan designation from 2013, but includes more recent data and thus could be accepted by 
the COMP. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Dravet syndrome (DS) is one of the most pharmacoresistant epilepsy syndromes.  
Sodium valproate and clobazam are recommended in Dravet syndrome and may therefore be 
considered as a satisfactory method of treatment.  
Since 2007 only two products have been authorised as ODs in Europe for use specifically in Dravet 
syndrome: 
•  Stiripentol is indicated as an adjunctive therapy with valproate and clobazam, for treatment of not 
adequately controlled patients.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Cannabidiol (Epidyolex) is indicated as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox 
Gastaut syndrome (GS) or Dravet syndrome (DS), in conjunction with clobazam, for patients 2 
years of age and older 
Table 2.  Other drugs listed in the following tables are used in DS to treat the different seizure types. 
Table 3.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is claiming that their product, fenfluramine will offer a clinically relevant advantage when 
used in combination with antiepileptic medicines in the treatment of Dravet syndrome. The following 
algorithm is proposed. 
Figure 1.   
Brabant Pharma Ltd (now Zogenix ROI Ltd) received Protocol Assistance on Significant Benefit in 
September 2014 (EMA/COMP/367491/2014).  
The advice to the sponsor stated: 
“At the time of MAA, in order to maintain its orphan designation, the Applicant will be requested to 
demonstrate significant benefit of fenfluramine hydrochloride over the currently authorised AEDs used 
in Dravet syndrome. This could be done by using fenfluramine hydrochloride as add-on to standard of 
care (SOC), (physician’s best choice). 
….. it was stated that the inclusion criteria would allow for fenfluramine add-on of up to three AEDs. 
This could therefore include the above-mentioned stiripentol combination as a background therapy.” 
The proposed indication to CHMP is as follows: 
Fintepla is indicated for the treatment of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome as an add-on 
therapy to other antiepileptic medicines for patients 2 years of age and older. 
The authorised indications for stiripentol and cannabidiol are: 
•  Stiripentol is indicated as an adjunctive therapy with valproate and clobazam, for treatment of not 
adequately controlled patients.  
•  Cannabidiol (Epidyolex) is indicated as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox 
Gastaut syndrome (GS) or Dravet syndrome (DS), in conjunction with clobazam, for patients 2 
years of age and older 
The proposed therapeutic indication and the clinically relevant advantage, which overlaps with it, are 
based on clinical data generated by the sponsor.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary clinical data used in support of the Marketing Authorisation as well as the maintenance of 
orphan status is derived from study ZX008-1504. Its primary aim was to compare fenfluramine and 
placebo, as add-on therapy to a treatment regimen containing stiripentol (STP), whereby these 
subjects were obtaining only partial seizure reduction with an optimal dose of STP.     
Concomitant Anti-Epileptic Medications/Therapies 
All subjects were to be receiving at least one concomitant anti-epileptic treatment during the study. 
Table 15 summarizes the number of concomitant AEDs taken by subjects by treatment group in the 
SAF population. Most subjects (97.6%) received between 1 and 4 AEDs. In addition to AEDs, 9 
subjects were on the ketogenic diet (1 on placebo, 4 on fenfluramine 0.2 mg/kg/day, and 4 subjects 
on fenfluramine 0.7 mg/kg/day), and 23 subjects had a vagal nerve stimulator implantation (9 
subjects on placebo, 8 subjects on fenfluramine 0.2 mg/kg/day, and 6 subjects on fenfluramine 0.7 
mg/kg/day). One subject in the fenfluramine 0.2 mg/kg/day treatment group did not receive any 
concomitant AED medication during the study but did have a vagal nerve stimulator implanted. 
Table 4.  Number of Concomitant AEDs Taken by Subjects (Safety Population) 
Dose expressed as fenfluramine hydrochloride (i.e. 0.8 mg/kg/day equivalent to 0.7 mg/kg/day fenfluramine. 
Fenfluramine hydrochloride 0.2 mg/kg/day rounds to 0.2 mg/kg/day when expressed as fenfluramine base) 
Table 4 presents a summary of all concomitant AEDs for the SAF population. The most commonly used 
background AEDs were clobazam (58.8%); topiramate (25.2%); valproate, which includes both 
formulations of salts and acids (valproate sodium, 23.5%; valproate semisodium, 21.8%; and valproic 
acid, 14.3%); and levetiracetam (21.8%). Differences of ≥ 10% between any of the treatment groups 
were noted for the following concomitant AEDs (placebo, fenfluramine 0.2 mg/kg/day, fenfluramine 0.7 
mg/kg/day, respectively): levetiracetam (27.5%, 28.2%, 10.0%), zonisamide (20.0%, 10.3%, 7.5%), 
potassium bromide (20.0%, 2.6%, 7.5%), any bromide (20.0%, 7.7%, 15.0%). Although there was a 
difference of ≥ 10% between treatment groups for various forms of valproate (placebo, fenfluramine 
0.2 mg/kg/day, fenfluramine 0.7 mg/kg/day, respectively): valproate sodium (22.5%, 17.9%, 30.0%), 
valproic acid (12.5%, 25.6%, 5.0%), the overall concomitant use of valproate from any form was 
similar between treatment groups (55.0%, 61.5%, and 62.5%, respectively). 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5.  Concomitant Anti-Epileptic Treatments, (Safety Population) 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Doses expressed as fenfluramine hydrochloride (0.8 mg/kg/day equivalent to 0.7 mg/kg/day fenfluramine. 
Fenfluramine hydrochloride 0.2 mg/kg/day rounds to 0.2 mg/kg/day when expressed as fenfluramine base) 
A 0.4 mg/kg/day dose of fenfluramine was selected as the dose for Study 1504 Cohort 2 to account for 
the anticipated drug interaction when fenfluramine is administered in combination with STP.  
Following the Baseline period, subjects were randomized to one of 2 treatment groups (ZX008 0.4 
mg/kg/day or placebo) and entered a 3 weeks titration period followed by a 12-week Maintenance 
period for a total of 15 weeks treatment. Enrolment included 105 subjects screened of which 87 were 
randomized approximately equally to ZX008 0.4 mg/kg/day or placebo.  
The primary efficacy measure was the change from baseline in the frequency of convulsive seizures 
(per 28 days) during the 15-week trial period. Convulsive seizures are the core feature of Dravet 
syndrome and thus appropriate for selection as the primary efficacy endpoint and measuring 
convulsive seizure frequency during the Baseline Period to convulsive seizure frequency during the 
T+M Period was considered by FDA and EMA an adequate manner to measure efficacy.  
The primary objective of Study 1504 was to determine whether fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day 
(maximum 17 mg/day) reduced MCSF relative to placebo in patients with Dravet syndrome who were 
taking STP-inclusive regimens. Seizure types contributing to the primary endpoint were GTC, 
secondarily GTC, clonic, drop seizures (tonic-atonic), hemiclonic, and focal seizures with a clear and 
observable motor component. Key secondary objectives included a comparison of the proportion of 
subjects who achieved a reduction of ≥50% in CSF and the median change in longest seizure-free 
interval between the fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day group and the placebo group. Secondary endpoints 
also included the number of subjects with ≥75% reduction from Baseline in CSF, and the Clinical 
Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I).  The efficacy results are as follows: 
• 
The study met its primary efficacy endpoint. Patients randomized to fenfluramine (0.4 mg/kg/day) 
achieved an estimated 54.0% (95% CI, 35.6%-67.2%) greater reduction in mean MCSF between 
their baseline and T + M periods than those that had received placebo (p < 0.001). 
•  At the end of the T+M period, the median (max, min) change from baseline in MCSF was -1.1% (-
82.8, 435.1) for the placebo group and -63.1% (-100.0, 115.0) for the fenfluramine 0.4 
mg/kg/day group. The median percent reduction in convulsive seizures observed by Week 5 (3 
weeks titration and 2 weeks maintenance) was consistent throughout the entire T+M period 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Median % Change from Baseline CSF per adjusted 28 days (mITT) 
Dose expressed as fenfluramine hydrochloride (equivalent to 0.4 mg/kg/day fenfluramine) 
• 
• 
The proportion of patients with a clinically meaningful ≥50% reduction in mean MCSF during the 
T+M period was 54% for fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day compared to 5% for placebo (p<0.001), with 
an Odds ratio (95% CI) of 26.0 (5.5, 123.2) (see Figure below). 
The proportion of patients with a ≥ 75% reduction in monthly convulsive seizures during the T+M 
period, a threshold considered profound by study investigators, was 35% for fenfluramine 0.4 
mg/kg/day and 2% for placebo (p=0.003), with an Odds ratio of 23.7 (2.9, 191.8) (see Figure 
below). 
Figure 3.  Responders with ≥ 50% & ≥75% Reduction in Convulsive Seizure Frequency (mITT 
Population) 
a A logistic regression model that included a categorical response variable (achieved XX% percentage point 
reduction, yes or no) as a function of treatment group (active or placebo), age group (< 6 years, ≥ 6 years), and 
baseline CSF was used. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose expressed as fenfluramine hydrochloride (equivalent to 0.4 mg/kg/day fenfluramine) 
• 
• 
The median longest convulsive seizure-free interval was 22.0 days (range: 3.0 - 105.0) for 
subjects in the fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day group vs 13.0 days (range: 1.0 - 40.0) in the placebo 
group (p = 0.004) and near convulsive seizure freedom (i.e., at most 1 seizure during the 14 week 
T+M period) was achieved in 5 of 43 subjects (12%) treated with fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day and 
no subjects treated with placebo (p = 0.03). 
The CGI-I as rated by the investigator showed a significant and clinically meaningful improvement 
(i.e., had a score of [2] “much improved” or [1] “very much improved”) in patients treated with 
fenfluramine, compared to their scores at baseline. Compared to the placebo group 
nineteen patients (44%) receiving fenfluramine 0.4 mg/kg/day achieved a clinically meaningful 
improvement during the T+M period, whereas only seven placebo-treated patients (16%) achieved 
the same response (p = 0.008)  
The sponsor has shown additive effects to standard of care + stiripentol which was considered 
sufficient to support the clinically relevant advantage. The sponsor also offered an indirect comparison 
to cannabidiol. It was noted that the data submitted for cannabidiol did not include combination use 
with stiripentol just data in combination with AEDs.  
The indirect comparison between cannabidiol and fenfluramine used in the same context showed a 
clinically superior effect for fenfluramine. As there is no comparison to cannabidiol used in combination 
with stiripentol and AEDs as is presented with fenfluramine the proposed indirect comparison does not 
seem to offer a complete picture. This is reflected in the proposed target patient population for 
fenfluramine in the approved therapeutic indication thus it is understood that the patient population is 
larger than that targeted with cannabidiol which can per se be considered a clinically relevant 
advantage. 
Major contribution to patient care considerations 
Non-seizure outcomes were measured to evaluate if the effect of fenfluramine on convulsive seizures 
would translate to improvement on comorbidities associated with Dravet syndrome. These other 
measures of efficacy, such as CGI-I, BRIEF, QOLCE, PedsQL, showed improvement, underscoring the 
enhanced efficacy when fenfluramine was added to the subject’s standard of care. The CGI-I provides 
a holistic assessment of the overall clinical status of the subject, and more subjects taking fenfluramine 
compared to placebo were rated by their parent/caregiver and their study doctor as very much or 
much improved, ratings that represent clinically meaningful changes. Results from the CGI-I were 
supported by directional improvements on the QOLCE in which subjects randomized to fenfluramine 
0.7 mg/kg/day were improved on several subscales during double-blind period, including physical 
restrictions, attention/concentration, language, other cognition, social interactions, and social 
activities, as well as the Overall Quality of Life score.  
During the double-blind studies, further evidence for an overall impact on quality of life was supported 
with the PedsQL and PedsQL Family Impact Module, where directional improvements were seen for 
subjects randomized to ZX008 on several scales. These results provide further evidence for an effect of 
fenfluramine on overall quality of life of the patient and the family.  
With increasing time in open label extension (OLE), the number of subjects rated with clinically 
meaningful improvement increased for both parent/caregiver and investigator ratings. The sustained 
clinically meaningful reductions in convulsive seizures also translated to improvements in quality of life 
during OLE, where statistically significant improvements from the core study. Baseline were observed 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on the General Health and Quality of Life Items, and the overall QOL score of the QOLCE, and 
directional improvements were observed on the PedsQL, and the PedsQL Family Impact Module.  
Figure 4.  Parent/Caregiver Ratings of Much Improved/Very Much Improved During OLE – LTE-DB 
Population 
*n=3 at Month 9 for ZX008 0.4 mg/kg/day; 2/3 rated as minimally improved, 1/3 rated as no change 
Evaluating trends of rescue medication use during the OLE shows that all subjects, regardless of 
original randomized dose group during the double-blind period, had numerically fewer days of rescue 
medication use during OLE compared to their pre-double-blind baseline and Month 1 of the OLE. 
Major contribution to patient care is supported by some data which offers evidence as can be seen in 
the CGI data. The QoL data supports this however the COMP noted that the claim of an improvement 
in patient/parent well-being was not fully substantiated.  
During the assessment of Fintepla, on 7 September and 12 September 2020, the CHMP received from 
the Dravet syndrome European Federation a correspondence and survey analyses regarding the benefit 
of fenfluramine from the perspective of DS patients. The correspondences and data highlighted the 
importance of increased treatment options for the DS patients and supported the Marketing 
Authorisation of Fintepla. 
This data was also presented to the COMP which noted those interventions. 
The sponsor has provided sufficient data and argumentation to support significant benefit for the 
purpose of maintaining the orphan designation for fenfluramine in the treatment of Dravet syndrome.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 21 October 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of Dravet syndrome (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be 0.2 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to psychomotor and cognitive impairment and the 
occurrence of pharmaco-resistant convulsive and non-convulsive seizure starting early in life and 
continuing in adults and can be life threatening for a major risk of occurrence of sudden 
unexpected death due to epilepsy, compared both to the general population and other epilepsies in 
general;  
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Fintepla may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data which shows a 
significant reduction in seizures when Fintepla is used alone or in combination with stiripentol 
and/or (sodium) valproate and clobazam, which, although not formally authorised for this 
condition, are recommended and may therefore be considered as a satisfactory method of 
treatment in Dravet syndrome  patients as defined in the granted therapeutic indication. Fintepla 
also targets a broader patient population than cannabidiol. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Fintepla, fenfluramine 
hydrochloride for treatment of Dravet syndrome (EU/3/13/1219) is not removed from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
