EMA/45802/2023  
EMEA/H/C/003933 
Fintepla (fenfluramine) 
An overview of Fintepla and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fintepla and what is it used for? 
Fintepla is a medicine used in addition to other epilepsy medicines to treat patients from 2 years of age 
who have Dravet syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, types of epilepsy that begin in childhood and 
continue into adulthood. 
These conditions are rare, and Fintepla was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases). Further information on the orphan designations can be found on the Agency’s website 
(Dravet syndrome: 18 December 2013; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome: 27 February 2017).   
Fintepla contains the active substance fenfluramine. 
How is Fintepla used? 
The medicine can only be obtained by ‘special’ prescription. This means that it is used under stricter 
conditions than normal to prevent misuse and to ensure doctors are informed about the need for 
regular heart checks in patients taking the medicine. Treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the treatment of epilepsy. 
Fintepla is available as a liquid to be taken by mouth twice a day. The dose depends on the patient’s 
weight and, for Dravet syndrome, whether the patient is taking another epilepsy medicine called 
stiripentol. The dose can be adjusted based on the response to treatment.  
For more information about using Fintepla, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Fintepla work? 
The active substance in Fintepla, fenfluramine, causes the release of serotonin in the brain. Serotonin 
is a substance used by nerve cells to communicate with neighbouring cells. The exact way that 
fenfluramine works is not fully understood. It is thought that serotonin acts on several targets in the 
brain to improve symptoms of patients with Dravet syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. 
Fenfluramine may also protect against seizures by acting on the sigma-1 receptor found on the surface 
of nerve cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Fintepla have been shown in studies? 
Studies showed that Fintepla reduces the frequency of seizures in children and young adults with 
Dravet syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who are taking at least one other epilepsy medicine.  
Two main studies involving a total of 205 patients with Dravet syndrome compared Fintepla with 
placebo (a dummy treatment), both given in addition to the patient’s standard of care.  
In the first study, the average (median) monthly number of seizures reduced from 21 to 5 in patients 
treated with Fintepla, and from 34 to 26 in those taking placebo. The study also showed that 73% of 
patients treated with Fintepla and 10% of those taking placebo had at least a 50% reduction in the 
monthly number of seizures.   
In the second study, patients were also taking stiripentol and at least one other epilepsy medicine. The 
average (median) monthly number of seizures reduced from 14 to 4 in patients treated with Fintepla 
and remained at 11 in patients taking placebo. In this study, 55% of patients treated with Fintepla and 
9% of those taking placebo had at least a 50% reduction in the monthly number of seizures.   
A third main study involving 263 patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome compared Fintepla with 
placebo, both given in addition to the patient’s standard of care. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the change in the frequency of drop seizures (brief loss of muscle tone and reduced 
consciousness, causing abrupt falls). The study found that the average (median) frequency of drop 
seizures reduced by 26.5% in the 87 patients receiving Fintepla compared with 7.6% in those receiving 
placebo (87 patients). The study also showed that the monthly number of drop seizures fell by at least 
half in 25% of patients treated with Fintepla and 10% of those taking placebo.   
What are the risks associated with Fintepla? 
In patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, the most common side effects with Fintepla (which may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people) are decreased appetite, tiredness, somnolence (sleepiness), vomiting 
and diarrhoea. 
In patients with Dravet syndrome, the most common side effects with Fintepla are decreased appetite, 
diarrhoea, fever, tiredness, upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection), lethargy (lack 
of energy), somnolence and bronchitis (chest infection). 
For the full list of side effects of Fintepla, see the package leaflet. 
Fintepla must not be taken by patients who have heart or lung problems called valvular heart disease 
or pulmonary hypertension. It must also not be used by patients who have used medicines called 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI), including MAOI antidepressants, in the last 2 weeks. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fintepla authorised in the EU? 
Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome are rare diseases with limited treatment options. 
Fintepla used in addition to other epilepsy medicines has been shown to reduce the frequency of 
seizures in children and young adults with these diseases. The side effects are considered manageable 
with the measures described below in place to prevent the risks. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Fintepla’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Fintepla (fenfluramine)  
EMA/45802/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fintepla? 
Serious cases of heart and lung problems (valvular heart disease and pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
have been reported with higher doses of the medicine used in the past for the treatment of obesity in 
adults. Although these effects have not been reported at the lower doses used in patients with Dravet 
syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, several measures have been put in place to minimise this 
risk:  
• 
• 
• 
The company that markets Fintepla will ensure that a system is put in place to control access to 
the medicine and prevent misuse. Doctors who are expected to prescribe this medicine will receive 
educational material with information about monitoring patients’ heart function and minimising 
misuse of the medicine.  
The company that markets Fintepla will also provide doctors with educational materials to give to 
patients to inform them about the need for heart monitoring and how to detect and manage heart 
and lung problems, should they occur. 
The company will set up a registry to collect data on the long-term safety of Fintepla and to assess 
whether the measures to minimise the risk of serious side effects have worked.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fintepla have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fintepla are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Fintepla are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Fintepla 
Fintepla received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 December 2020. 
Further information on Fintepla can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fintepla.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2023. 
Fintepla (fenfluramine)  
EMA/45802/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
