European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/350457/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Firazyr 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
icatibant 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/899 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ............................................. 3 
1.1  Submission of the dossier........................................................................................................... 3 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product ............................................................................ 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 4 
2.2  Quality aspects............................................................................................................................ 5 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects.................................................................................................................... 8 
2.4  Clinical aspects......................................................................................................................... 17 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance ................................................................................................................... 39 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation......................................... 41 
2/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Jerini AG submitted on 27 July 2007 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for  Firazyr,  which  was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/03/133 on 17 February 2003. Firazyr was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: treatment of hereditary angioedema. The 
calculated prevalence of this condition was 2 - 3 per 10.000 EU population. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to:  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: treatment of hereditary angioedema  
Protocol Assistance: 
The  applicant  received  Protocol  Assistance  from  the  CHMP  on  24 July 2003,  24 March 2004, 
29 July 2004  and  16 September 2004.  The  Protocol  Assistance  pertained  to  quality,  non-clinical  and 
clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:  Bengt Ljungberg 
Co-Rapporteur:  Ian Hudson 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 27 July 2007. 
The request for Accelerated Assessment procedure was accepted by the CHMP on 19 July 2007 
subject to review at time of discussion of the List of Questions. 
The procedure started on 15 August 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
1 November 2007.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 2 Novemeber 2007. 
During  the  meeting  on  10-13 December 2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 13 December 2007. 
The Accelerated Assessment was reviewed considering the consolidated List of Questions and 
during  the  meeting  on  10-13 December 2007,  the  CHMP  decided  to  continue  the  assessment 
under “normal” centralised timetable.  
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
18 January 2008 and supplementary information was provided on 25 February 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 29 February 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  17–19 March 2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
25 March 2008. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues on 7 April 2008. 
3/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During the meeting on 21–24 April 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Firazyr  on  24 April 2008.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 18 April 2008. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 11 July 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is an autosomal dominant disease caused by either a quantitative (Type 
I)  in  about  85%  of  patients  or  qualitative  (Type  II)  deficiency  of  C1  esterase  inhibitor  (C1-INH) 
caused  by  mutations  of  the  C1-INH  gene.  The  exact  prevalence  of  HAE  is  unknown  but  estimates 
suggest that 1:10,000 to 1:50,000 persons are affected.  
Clinically, HAE is characterised by unpredictable, recurring attacks of oedema at various body sites. 
Swelling of the skin is most often located on the lips and face, hands or feet. If angioedema occurs in 
the gastrointestinal tract, it can be very painful and may be mistaken for appendicitis, diverticulitis, or 
mesenterical ischemia. Swellings in the upper airways, particularly when involving the larynx, are life-
threatening. Most patients with symptomatic untreated HAE experience at least one acute exacerbation 
per  month.  Each  attack  typically  lasts  a  few  days  before  spontaneously  subsiding  (2  to  5  days).  If 
undiagnosed,  life-time  mortality  from  HAE  can  be  as  high  as  33%  mostly  due  to  laryngeal  oedema 
and upper airway obstruction. 
A  deficiency  of  C1-INH  is  accompanied  by  an  increased  release  of  bradykinin  (BK),  which  is 
probably  the  key  mediator  responsible  for  the  increased  vascular  permeability  during  angioedema 
formation and the theory behind development of icatibant, a bradykininantagonist. 
Current  treatment  options  are  divided  into  long-term  prophylaxis  to  prevent  attacks,  short-term 
prophylaxis  before  elective  surgical  procedures,  and  treatment  for  acute  attacks.  Long-term 
prophylactic treatments include attenuated androgens (e.g. danazol or stanozolol), which may reduce 
the  number  of  HAE  attacks,  but  with  safety  and  tolerability  problems,  including  weight  gain, 
virilisation,  menstrual  irregularities,  hypertension,  and,  potentially,  hepatotoxicity/hepatocellular 
adenoma with long-term use. Other prophylactic treatments include tranexamic acid (TA) and C1-INH 
concentrate, both of which are only approved for use in certain countries. The efficacy of TA is lower 
than  with  attenuated  androgens  and,  being  an  antifibrinolytic  agent,  the  drug  may  carry  a  risk  of 
causing  thromboembolic  events.  Acute  attacks  can  be  successfully  treated  with  C1-INH  concentrate 
(i.v. infusion), approved in some countries. 
Firazyr  contains  the  active  substance  icatibant,  which  is  a  selective  competitive  antagonist  at  the 
bradykinin type 2 (B2) receptor. It is a synthetic decapeptide with a structure similar to bradykinin, but 
with 5 nonproteinogenic amino acids. 
The  proposed  indication  for  Firazyr  is  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  acute  attacks  of  hereditary 
angioedema  (HAE)  in  adults  (with  C1-esterase-inhibitor  deficiency).  The  proposed  dose  is  one 
subcutaneous injection of 30 mg administered, preferably in the abdominal area. In case of insufficient 
relief or recurrence of symptoms, a second injection can be administered after 6 hours and if needed, a 
third  injection,  after  a  further  6 hours  could  be  given.  No  more  than  3  injections  should  be 
administered in a 24 hour period. 
4/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Firazyr  is  presented  as  solution  for  injection  for  subcutaneous  administration,  containing  30 mg  of 
icatibant (active substance) in 3 ml (10 mg/ml). The excipients used in the preparation of Firazyr are 
those typically used in injectable preparations. It contains sodium chloride as a tonicity agent, acetic 
acid and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment and water for injections as a vehicle. 
The solution is a clear and colourless. It is supplied in single dose, pre-filled clear glass syringe (3 ml 
of  solution  in  a  5  ml  syringe)  with  plunger  stopper  (bromobutyl  coated  with  fluorocarbon  polymer) 
and a Luer-lock adaptor (polycarbonate). 
Active Substance 
Icatibant,  which  is  a  selective  competitive  antagonist  at  the  bradykinin  type  2  (B2)  receptor,  is  a 
synthetic decapeptide with a structure similar to bradykinin, but with 5 nonproteinogenic amino acids. 
It consists of ten amino acids in the following sequence: H-D-Arg-Arg-Pro-Hyp-Gly-Thi-Ser-D-Tic-
Oic-Arg-OH. All the chiral amino acids of icatibant are in the L-configuration with the exception of 
arginine (position 1) and 1, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid (position 8).  
The  active  substance  is  chemically  designated  as  D-Arginyl-L-arginyl-L-prolyl-L[(4R)-4-
hydroxyprolyl]-glycyl-L[3-(2-thienyl)alanyl]-L-seryl-D-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-3-
ylcarbonyl)-L[  (3aS,7aS)-octahydroindol-2-ylcarbonyl]-L-arginine,  acetate  salt  (CAS)  or  H-D-
Arg-Arg-Pro-Hyp-Gly-Thi-Ser-D-Tic-Oic-Arg-OH, acetate salt (IUPAC Three-Letter Code) and 
has the following structure: 
Icatibant acetate is a white to almost white amorphous powder isolated by lyophilisation and existing 
as  an  acetate  salt  (1-4  moles  of  acetic  acid  present).  It  is  hygroscopic,  freely  soluble  in  water, 
phosphate buffer pH 7.4, isotonic saline solution, acetate buffer pH 3.5, ethanol and methanol. Only 
amorphous  form  of  icatibant  acetate  exists  and  no  other  polymorphic  forms,  including  crystalline 
forms, are known.  
Since the medicinal product is a solution, solid-state and bulk properties of the active substance have 
no impact on the product performance. 
•  Manufacture 
Icatibant is synthesised in a solid phase peptide synthesis (SPPS) process. It is synthesized from the 
appropriate protected L- and D-amino acids and protected glycine. The suitable coupling and cleavage 
methods  have  been  selected  to  minimize  isomerisation  of  both  starting  materials  and  the  growing 
5/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peptide chain. A detailed description of the manufacturing process including process flow diagram and 
in process controls was provided in the restricted part of the Active Substance Master File (ASMF). 
Initially icatibant acetate was manufactured by different ASMF Holder by synthesis in solution (SIS) 
and some of these batches were used in non-clinical and clinical studies. However it has been proven 
that  the  active  substance  manufactured  by  SPPS  process  is  comparable  to  the  active  substance 
produced by SIS process. 
The  ASMF  Holder  adequately  characterised  the  chemical  structure,  enantiomeric  purity,  the  amino 
acid sequence, the chemical impurities and residual solvents of the active substance.  
The  structure  of  icatibant  acetete  was  confirmed  by  amino  acid  analysis,  elemental  analysis,  IR-
spectroscopy,  nanospray 
ionization-mass 
spectrometry-collision  activated  dissociation-mass  spectrometry  (NSI-MS-CAD-MS)  (sequence 
analysis), 1H- and 13C-NMR spectroscopy and GC-MS (analysis of enantiomeric purity).  
The assessment of possible polymorphism has been performed using X-ray powder diffraction. It has 
been  demonstrated  that  the  active  substance  was  amorphous  in  nature  and  over  time  it  retains  its 
amorphous nature. 
ionization-mass  spectrometry  (NSI-MS),  nanospray 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, appearance of solution, identification 
(ESI-MS, IR, HPLC), related substances, assay, water content, acetic acid content, trifluoroacetic acid 
content, residual organic solvents, heavy metals, bacterial endotoxins and bioburden.  
All specification parameters except, acetic acid content by HPLC, trifluoroacetic acid content by IC, 
residual organic solvents by GC are tested according PhEur.  
For  the  non-compendial  analytical  methods  appropriate  validation  studies  were  performed  with 
regards  to  relevant  guidelines.  Validation  studies  were  performed  for  the  following  methods: 
identification  by  ESI-MS,  identification  by  amino  acid  analysis,  assay  and  related  substances  by 
HPLC,  water  content  by  Karl  Fischer  titration,  acetic  acid  content  by  HPLC,  trifluoroacetic  acid 
content  by  IC,  residual  organic  solvents  by  GC,  heavy  metals  by  ICP-OES,  bacterial  endotoxins 
(LAL), microbial limit test. 
The  same  HPLC  method  is  used  for  the  identification,  assay  and  related  substances.  The  validation 
studies included specificity, linearity, accuracy, precision and intermediate precision, limit of detection 
and limit of quantification as appropriate. 
The  GC  method  for  residual  has  been  validated.  The  validation  included  specificity,  linearity, 
accuracy, precision and intermediate precision, limit of detection and limit of quantification. 
In general, analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the active substance. 
Data  provided  on  six  batches  of  icatibant  acetate  produced  by  the  current  ASMF  Holder  were 
provided. All results complied with the requirements of the active substance specification.  
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  three  commercial  scale  batches  after  storage  at  less  than       
 - 15 °C and 5 °C for up to 24 months and for storage at 25 °C/60 % RH for up to 6 months, to cover 
short-term changes in the proposed storage conditions. The batches have been tested according to ICH 
requirements  Q1A(R2).  Additionally,  data  from  forced  degradation  studies  (exposure  to  elevated 
temperature,  presence  of  moisture  or  oxidative,  alkaline  or  acidic  conditions)  has  been  provided  to 
characterise the degradation pathways of icatibant acetate. 
The stability data provided for the active substance confirmed the proposed re-test period. 
6/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The formulation used in late-stage clinical studies, including Phase III clinical trials was identical to 
the  intended  commercial  formulation.  Initially  the  product  was  packaged  in  5  ml  glass  ampoules.  
After switching to disposable syringes, compatibility studies were performed.  
In  early  development  stage  a  number  of  formulation  factors  including  solution  pH,  buffer  types  and 
concentrations  were  tested.  The  obtained  results  indicated  that  the  development  of  aqueous 
formulations  was  possible.  Three  formulations  were  used  during  the  clinical  development  of  the 
medicinal product. All formulations employed acetate buffer systems targeted to a fixed pH value with 
sodium  chloride  as  the  tonicity  modifying  agent.  The  pH  value  and  osmolality  were  fixed  in  a 
physiologically  compatible  range.  The  respective  formulations  differed  in  the  concentration  of 
icatibant  and  were  administered  under  selected  intravenous  infusion  regimens  and  as  single  and 
multiple subcutaneous injections. Based on results from the tolerability of different concentrations of 
subcutaneous injections and the bioavailability of subcutaneous injection against intra-venous infusion 
in healthy subjects one of the tested formulations was selected as the commercial formulation. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  of  animal  or  human.  Only  chemically  modified 
amino acids sourced from non-human (animal) materials are used in the manufacturing process of the 
medicinal product. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  Firazyr  solution  for  injection  comprises  (1)  removal  of  the  active 
substance from refrigerated storage and weighing after equilibration, (2) preparation of a formulation, 
(3)  filtration,  (4)  filling,  (5)  terminal  sterilisation,  (6)  labelling  and  packaging.  Bioburden  is  tested 
prior to the filtration step and prior to the terminal sterilisation. The medicinal product is terminally 
sterilised according to the method specified in the PhEur. Terminal sterilisation of the filled syringes 
employs  a  validated  steam  sterilisation  cycle  (121.5°C,  20  min).  Sterility  is  assured  through  the 
validation of the sterilisation process and by final product sterility testing of each batch manufactured.  
A  detailed  manufacturing  process  description  was  provided.  Although  full  validation  of  the 
manufacturing process was not performed the key components of the manufacturing process including 
filter  extractables  and  maximum  filtration  time  have  been  validated.  Critical  steps  of  the 
manufacturing  process  have  been  identified  and  are  sufficiently  controlled  by  in-process  control 
testing. 
Batch analysis data on three production scale batches manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site 
indicate satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the proposed specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The specification for Firazyr solution for injection includes test for appearance, identification (HPLC), 
impurities  (HPLC),  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxins,  content,  pH,  osmolality,  particulate  matter  visible 
particles and subvisible particles, and uniformity of dosage units.  
Adequate  method  descriptions  were  provided  for  all  methods.  Validation  data  was  provided  for  the 
HPLC method and for the pharmacopoeial methods for sterility and bacterial endotoxins. The HPLC 
method  used  for  identification,  potency  and  organic  impurities  has  been  validated  including 
specificity, determination  of response factors, linearity and range ; purity:  limit of detection (LOD) 
and  limit  of  quantification  (LOQ),  precision  repeatability  and  intermediate  (for  assay  and  purity) 
accuracy (for assay and purity) and robustness.  
7/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  studies  included  evaluation  of  long-term  storage  under  ICH  conditions.  Results  were 
presented  for  primary  stability  batches  produced  at  the  proposed  manufacturer  and  supported  by 
stability data on three pilot scale batches. Further long-term stability data were provided on batches of 
the medicinal product used in clinical trials. 
The  stability testing  will  be  further  performed  on  the  first  three  production  scale  validation  batches. 
Also, as per GMP requirements, one batch per year will be tested for stability at long term conditions. 
•  Comparability Exercise for Medicinal Product 
Compatibility of the formulation with the proposed container closure system was demonstrated by the 
ongoing stability studies. Product specific leachables studies demonstrated low and acceptable levels 
of leachables when the proposed container closure system is used.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance and the  medicinal product have been appropriately characterised and  generally 
satisfactory documentation has been provided. The excipients used in the preparation of the medicinal 
product and manufacturing process selected are typical for injectable preparations. The results indicate 
that the active substance and the medicinal product can be reproducibly manufactured. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there ere minor unresolved quality issues which have no impact on 
the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve it as a Follow-up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed time-frame.  
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Most safety-pharmacology and pharmacokinetic studies are not GLP-compliant. Pivotal toxicity and 
toxicokinetic studies were conducted in compliance with GLP. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
 Icatibant  has  been  considered  for  several  clinical  indications  besides  the  current  (HAE)  and  the 
pharmacological  programme  reflects  this  fact.  Consequently,  many  of  the  studies  on  primary  and 
secondary  pharmacodynamics  are  not  very  relevant  for  the  current  application.  Nevertheless,  they 
demonstrate that icatibant is a selective bradykinin type 2 (B2) receptor antagonist, both in vitro and in 
vivo. The affinity of icatibant to the B2 receptor (IC50 values in the 1-10 nM range in various models) 
was comparable to that of bradykinin itself, while the affinity to the analogous bradykinin type 1 (B1) 
receptor was at least 100 times lower.  
An  interesting  finding  in  several  studies  was  that  icatibant  acted  as  a  bradykinin  agonist  at  high 
concentrations.  However,  the  only  clinical  situation where  such  concentrations are likely to occur is 
locally  at  the  injection  site,  contributing  to  an  inflammatory  reaction;  the  clinical  systemic  exposure 
(Cmax) is deemed to be far too low to trigger the agonist activity. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Screening  against  a  wide  variety  of  other  receptors  (other  than  bradykinin  type  2  receptor),  ion 
channels, and enzymes did not reveal any remarkable interactions.  
8/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Icatibant  was  tested  in  a  variety  of  disease  models  (few  of  these  having  any  direct  bearing  on 
hereditary angioedema). The overview of safety pharmacology studies is shown in the table below. 
9/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 - Overview of Safety Pharmacology Studies 
Study number 
GLP compliant 
Type of study 
Test system 
Noteworthy findings 
CNS effects 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Behavioural observation 
(IRWIN) 
Mice 
Spontaneous motor activity 
Mice 
Electroshock convulsions 
Mice 
Pentetrazol convulsions 
Mice 
Tetrabenazine ptosis 
Mice 
D,L-5-HT head twitches 
Mice 
Hexobarbital sleeping time 
Mice 
Apomorphine-induced 
climbing 
Mice 
Sodium nitrite hypoxia 
Mice 
Scopolamine-induced amnesia 
Mice 
Cardiovascular effects 
JE049-0202 
Non-GLP 
JE049-0203 
GLP 
JE049-0204 
Non-GLP 
hERG channel inhibition 
Xenopus oocytes 
hERG-channel inhibition 
CHO cells 
Mean arterial blood pressure 
(MAP) 
Anaesthetised rats 
Icatibant doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1, and 10 mg/kg, i.v. 
≤ 0.1 mg/kg: no effect 
≥ 1 mg/kg: motor activity ↓, body temperature ↓, ptosis 
No deaths occurred 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 6 h recording 
No effect 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 0.2 sec, 12 mA, 50 Hz AC 
No effect 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 125 mg/kg s.c. pentetrazol 
No effect 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 40 mg/kg, i.p. tetrabenazine 
No effect. 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v ; 200 mg/kg i.p. D,L-5-HT 
No potentiation of twitches during 90 min 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 55 mg/kg hexobarbital, i.v. 
Icatibant did not affect sleeping time 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 1.5 mg/kg apomorphine, 
s.c., 15 min after icatibant. 
No antagonism of climbing (no neuroleptic-like effect) 
Doses: 0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg, i.v.; 250 mg/kg, s.c., 15 min after 
icatibant. 
No prolongation of survival 
Mice were trained to avoid a dark chamber and were 
subsequently injected with scopolamine (2 mg/kg, s.c.). 
They were tested 24 h later. 
Icatibant (3, 10, or 30 µg/kg) on training and test days had 
no effect on the amnesia 
Icatibant (10, 30, 100 µM) did not inhibit IKr (hERG) 
Icatibant (≤ 308 µM) did not inhibit IKr  
Icatibant was administered i.v. (0.13, 1.3 mg), s.c. (1.3, 13 
mg/kg, or nasally (36 µg/kg). 
Intravenous administration, but not the others, decreased 
MAP for 3 min. The effect was deemed due to partial 
agonist activity of icatibant on the vascular endothelium. 
10/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study number 
GLP compliant 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Type of study 
Test system 
Blood pressure and heart rate 
Dogs 
JE049-0205 
Non-GLP 
Haemodynamics and ECG 
during exercise 
Dogs 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Acute renal hypertension 
Anaesthetised rats 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Post-ischaemic arrhythmias 
Isolated rat hearts 
Noteworthy findings 
Icatibant (0.01-1 mg/kg, i.v.) was administered at 90 min 
intervals, measuring blood pressure and heart rate (HR) 
with an ultrasonic monitor positioned onto the dog’s tail. 
Icatibant doses ≤ 0.1µg/kg had no effects  
0.6 mg/kg caused a pronounced drop in blood pressure/HR 
for 5-10 min  
1 mg/kg caused a drastic drop, resulting in immeasurable 
levels for the first 3 min and a marked effect for at least 30 
min; DAP at 1 mg/kg also caused a blood pressure drop but 
no details are presented in the report. 
High dose icatibant and DAP were accompanied by 
symptoms like pain reaction, restlessness and hyper 
salivation.  
It was concluded that the effects of high dose icatibant and 
DAP might be due to residual BK-agonist activity. 
The dogs were exercised on a tread-mill (7 km/h, 13% 
inclination) and each animal received 3 doses of icatibant 
(0.1, 0.3, 0.5 mg/kg, i.v.), usually on three consecutive 
days. 
As expected, exercise caused increases in heart rate (HR) 
and blood pressure, as well as a shortened QT interval. 
Icatibant (0.5 mg/kg) transiently increased HR by about 
20% and had a marginal accentuating effect on post 
exercise vasodilatation. 
Two animals had signs of catheter-induced ventricular 
endothelial damage post mortem and these animals had an 
increased frequency of ventricular ectopic activity, 
including episodes of ventricular tachycardia. However, 
icatibant did not appear to affect the intensity or severity of 
ectopic activity in these animals. 
The left renal pedicle was clamped for 4 h; following 
unclamping, there was a rapid and persisting increase in 
blood pressure. Icatibant (40 µg) or saline was infused 
during 30 min, starting 5 min before unclamping. 
Icatibant had no effect in this model 
Hearts were perfused for 20 min (control period), regional 
ischaemia was produced by clamping the left anterior 
descending coronary artery for 15 min (ischaemic period), 
and the clip was than opened for an additional 30 min 
perfusion (reperfusion period). Icatibant (0.1-10 nM) ± BK 
(0.1 or 1 nM) were added to the perfusion medium. 
Control period: 1 nM icatibant decreased LPV, LV dP/dt 
max and CF, while 10 nM had the opposite effect. 
Ischaemic period: occlusion caused a marked reduction of 
LPV, LV dP/dt max and CF. There was also an increase in 
LDH and CK activities. These changes were aggravated by 
1 nM, and improved by 10 nM, icatibant. 
Reperfusion period: the main finding was ventricular 
fibrillation that occurred in 100% of the control hearts 
(mean duration 17.2 min). Icatibant (0.1 and 1 nM) 
prolonged the fibrillations (mean duration 20.6 and 27.6 
min, respectively), while 10 nM shortened them (mean 
duration 7.4 min). 
BK at 10 nM by itself increased CF and it reversed the 
effects of icatibant. 
11/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
Study number 
GLP compliant 
JE049-0207 
Non-GLP 
Type of study 
Test system 
Ischemia-induced 
arrhythmias 
Anaesthetised rats 
JE049-0206 
Non-GLP 
Myocardial infarction model 
Anaesthetised dogs 
Respiratory effects 
JE049-0208 
GLP 
Respiratory function 
Rats 
Gastro-Intestinal effects 
JE049-0209 
GLP 
GI transit 
Rats 
JE049-0210 
GLP 
Gastric acid secretion 
Anaesthetised rats 
Noteworthy findings 
Rats were anaesthetised and ischemia was caused by 
clamping the left main coronary artery. One group of 
animals was ‘preconditioned’ by clamping for 3 min, 
followed by 10 min reperfusion, prior to 30 min occlusion. 
The other group was subjected to 30 min occlusion 
directly.  
Icatibant (40, 400, 4000 µg/kg, i.v.) was administered 10 
min before the experimental procedure, which caused a 
dose-dependent reduction in mortality and a trend towards 
a reduction in arrhythmias. Preconditioning reduced 
arrhythmia and this reduction was not influenced by 
icatibant.  
Infarction was induced by occlusion of the left descending 
coronary artery for 6 h. Icatibant was administered as an 
intracoronary infusion (0.5 ng/kg/min), starting 30 min 
before and continuing until 30 min after the end of the 
occlusion. 
Mortality: 
7 of 12 icatibant-treated dogs (58%) died vs. 4 of 14 (28%) 
in the control group. All control animals died within 20 
min of occlusion but 4 of the icatibant-treated animals died 
later. Thus, the immediate mortality was similar; the 
delayed mortality in the icatibant group appeared to be due 
to ventricular failure. There was no mortality in a group of 
‘non-ischaemic’ animals treated with icatibant in the same 
manner. 
Infarct size: 
There was no difference in infarct size and ‘area at risk’, as 
evaluated post mortem with a double staining technique. 
Possible mechanism(s): 
The authors of the report speculate that the excess mortality 
in the icatibant group might be due to antagonism of 
protective effects by bradykinin, which seems plausible. 
Whole body plethysmography was used to measure 
respiratory parameters. Icatibant (1, 3, 10 mg/kg, i.v.) was 
tested, using theophylline as a positive control. 
≤ 3 mg/kg icatibant had no effect, while 10 mg/kg had a 
slight effect suggestive of bronchodilation. As expected, 
theophylline had a marked effect. 
After overnight food deprivation, rats were administered 
charcoal suspension (2 ml, p.o.), measuring the distance 
travelled during 20 min as percentage of the total length of 
the small intestine. 
Icatibant (1, 3, 10 mg/kg, i.v.) administered 10 min before 
charcoal had no effect. 
Icatibant (1, 3, 10 mg/kg, i.v.) was administered, the rats 
were anaesthetised and the pylorus was tied. Gastric fluid 
was collected during 4 h. 
1 and 3 mg/kg had no effect 
10 mg/kg reduced volume, free chlorohydric activity and 
total acidity. Gastric fluid pH was marginally increased 
12/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
Study number 
GLP compliant 
JE049-0211 
Non-GLP 
Type of study 
Test system 
Histamine-stimulated gastric 
acid secretion 
Anaesthetised rats 
Renal effects 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Effect on plasma renin 
Anaesthetised rats 
JE049-0212 
Non-GLP 
Salidiuretic effect 
Rats 
JE049-0213 
Non-GLP 
Salidiuretic effect and renal 
clearance 
Dogs 
Metabolic effects 
JE049-001 
Non-GLP 
Blood glucose 
Rats 
Noteworthy findings 
Rats were anaesthetised, pylorus tied, and the stomach was 
perfused continuously with saline. The perfusate was 
collected at 15 min intervals, analysing pH and acid 
content. Histamine (10 mg/kg/h) was infused after an initial 
45 min basal period and icatibant (0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) was 
administered 90 min later. 
Icatibant had no effect in this model 
Icatibant or DAP was given as intra-arterial infusions (0,83 
nmol/kg/min; total dose not given explicitly), collecting 
blood samples for renin activity determination at 0, 30, and 
60 min. 
Neither icatibant nor DAP had any effect in this model. 
Rats were fasted overnight and given saline (20 ml/kg, 
p.o.). Icatibant (0.1, 1 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered and 
the animals were placed in diuresis cages, collecting urine 
from 1-5 and 6-24 h. 
Icatibant had a slight naturetic and chloruretic effect in the 
1-5 h period. Potassium excretion was unchanged. 
Diuresis was established by continuous i.v. infusion (1 
ml/kg×min) of saline, collecting blood and urine samples 
every 10 min for 60 min. Icatibant (0.03, 0.3 mg/kg) was 
administered as an i.v. bolus at the start of the collection 
period. 
0.3 mg/kg icatibant cased a moderate (about 30%) decrease 
in urine volume and sodium excretion; potassium 
excretion, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal 
plasma flow (CPAH) were unaffected. The lower dose had 
only marginal effects 
Icatibant doses: 0.1, 0.5, 1 mg/kg, i.v. 
0.1 mg/kg: no effect 
0.5 mg/kg: 6.6% reduction at 1 h, compared with controls 
1. mg/kg: 9.8-15% reduction at 1 h, compared with controls 
The effect was ambiguous due to variation in initial glucose 
values; it was deemed biologically irrelevant by the authors 
of JE049-001 
Besides  the  cardiovascular  effects,  the  safety  pharmacology  package  did  not  produce  any  signals 
causing  concerns  about  the  safety  of  icatibant.  On  the  other  hand,  the  cardiovascular  studies  raised 
such concerns. Bradykinin has been implicated in the protection of the myocardium during ischaemia 
and it seems likely that the serious adverse effects seen, e.g. prolongation of ventricular fibrillations in 
isolated rat hearts and excess mortality in a dog myocardial infarction study, are manifestations of a 
blockade of such protective effects by icatibant. The Applicant has suggested in their response to the 
D120  LOQs  a  warning  in  the  SPC  for  the  use  of  icatibant  in  the  presence  of  acute  ischaemic  heart 
disease or unstable angina pectoris, which has been endorsed by CHMP. 
Bradykinin  has  also  been  implicated  in  limiting  the  extent  of  brain  damage  in  stroke.  Theoretically, 
icatibant  may  antagonise  the  protective  effect  of  bradykinin  in  this  condition  as  well,  leading  to  a 
worsening of the ischaemic brain damage, which resulted in a question to the Applicant. In their reply, 
the  Applicant  discussed  this  issue  in  depth,  highlighting  the  complex  role  of  the  kallikrein-kinin 
system in ischaemic brain injury, and proposed a warning in the SPC. This warning has been endorsed 
by CHMP. 
13/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No non clinical studies on pharmacodynamic drug interactions were conducted. This is acceptable as 
drug interactions were investigated clinically. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  using  tritiated  icatibant.  Placental 
transfer  and  excretion  into  milk  were  determined  in  pregnant  and  lactating  rats,  respectively.  In 
addition  in  vitro  studies  were  used  to  partly  characterise  the  metabolic  pathways  of  icatibant.  No 
pharmacokinetic studies were made in the rabbit, which resulted in a question to the Applicant. In their 
reply  new  data,  showing  that  the  animals  were  adequately  exposed  to  icatibant  were  presented. 
Overall, there were no remarkable gender or species differences. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  icatibant  is  simple  and  straightforward.  Absorption  was  rapid  after 
subcutaneous  administration  in  both  rats  and  dogs;  no  calculation  of  bioavailability  was  made  but  a 
rough estimate indicates that it was in the 70-80% range for both species. Plasma protein binding was 
moderate  (38-49%)  with  only  small  species  differences.  Organ  distribution  studies  were  conducted 
mainly in the rat (Wistar) with whole body autoradiography, showing that the highest concentrations 
of  radioactivity  for  the  first  4  hours  were  found  at  the  injection  site  and  in  the  organs  involved  in 
excretion  (kidney,  liver  and  urinary  bladder);  supplementary  studies  in  mice  and  rats  with  longer 
sampling times showed that any long-lived radioactivity principally resided in the liver. Radioactivity 
was  generally  absent  from  the  central  nervous  system,  indicating  poor  penetration  across  the  blood-
brain barrier, and from the adipose tissue. Icatibant passes the placenta and it is excreted in rat milk. 
Metabolism of icatibant involves a cleavage of the molecule to two smaller peptides: icatibant (1-5) or 
M1, and icatibant (7-10) or M2. Interestingly, icatibant (1-6), which is formed during storage, was not 
detected in any species. Presumably, amino acid number 6 (Thi) is either lost in the cleavage step or 
too fast thereafter for icatibant (1-6) to be seen in vivo. Cytochrome P-450 is, apparently, not involved 
in the metabolism of icatibant and there were no species differences in the studied species, including 
humans. Excretion was also simple: most of the radioactive material was excreted in the urine and the 
only species difference detected was the proportion of intact icatibant, being highest in the mouse and 
lowest in the rat. Like the rat, humans excrete only a small proportion of intact icatibant in the urine. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
High single doses, particularly when given as an i.v. bolus, produced dramatic symptoms with death 
following  rapidly  in  mice  and  rats.  It  seems  likely  that  the  cause  is  exaggerated  pharmacological 
effects,  especially  bradykinin  agonist  activity,  leading  to  circulation  collapse.  Histamine  release,  a 
known  effect  of  bradykinin,  may  have  contributed  to  the  symptoms.  No  deaths,  and  much  milder 
symptoms,  occurred  in  rats  and  dogs  when  icatibant  was  administered  as  an  intravenous  infusion  or 
subcutaneously, despite higher total doses. Once again, the clinical symptoms can largely be explained 
from  the  known  pharmacological  profile  of  icatibant,  particularly  the  bradykinin  agonist  activity. 
Thus,  the  cardinal  symptoms  appear  to  be  more  or  less  general  erythema  and  swelling,  and  local 
reaction at the injection site(s). 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Two  findings  dominated  in  the  repeat-dose  studies:  nephrotoxicity  (necrosis/atrophy  of  proximal 
tubules) and changes in the sexual organs. In addition, there was a variety of symptoms like swelling 
and erythema that was likely due to an exaggerated pharmacological activity of icatibant, particularly 
the bradykinin agonist activity. Local irritation at the injection site(s) was also common, particularly in 
the rat studies, and this effect may also be a consequence of the bradykinin agonist effects of icatibant 
at high local concentrations. 
The effects of icatibant on the sexual organs appeared to be reversible and were interpreted as delayed 
sexual  maturation  by  the  Applicant.  This  interpretation  seems  reasonable  and  the  findings  are, 
14/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therefore,  not  considered  as  a  major  concern  at  the  moment.  However,  if  the  Applicant  considers  a 
wider indication, also including patients below the age of 18 years, the situation may change. In this 
context,  it  should  be  noted  that  no  formal  toxicity  studies  have  been  conducted  in  juvenile  animals, 
although  the  animals  in  some  of  the  regular  repeat-dose  toxicity  programme  were  young  and 
characterised as sexually immature. If the Applicant plans to initiate a clinical paediatric development 
programme, the existing non-clinical data must be carefully re-evaluated and probably supplemented 
with  studies  that  involve  a  direct  comparison  of  sexually  immature  and  mature  animals  over  a  wide 
span  of  dose  levels,  spanning  from  below  clinical  exposure  to  a  reasonable  multiple.  Further 
mechanistic studies to clarify the role of bradykinin and B2 receptors in sexual maturation and function 
of the gonads are also likely to be necessary.  
Signs  of  nephrotoxicity  were  seen  primarily  in  the  rat,  particularly  with  intravenous  administration, 
but  were  also  seen  in  one  dog  study  at  high  dose  levels.  Excretion  of  icatibant  and  its  metabolites 
occurs mainly in the urine and it is possible that the damage to renal proximal tubules is a consequence 
of a (too) high load on the excretory system at high dose levels, which should have little relevance for 
the clinical use of icatibant.  
Rats appear to be more sensitive than dogs, and rats and humans are similar in that a high proportion 
of  the  administrated  icatibant  is  eliminated  as  metabolites,  while  in  the  dog  a  higher  proportion  in 
urine is the intact mother substance. CHMP questioned whether the toxic effect could be due to M1, 
M2 or some other yet unknown metabolite, or whether it could be the result of the metabolism itself if 
it occurs in the proximal tubules. These concerns resulted in a question to the Applicant; it transpired 
the findings were confined to studies at Hoechst using an in-house strain of rats and that similar signs 
of nephrotoxicity have not been found in later studies.  
Chronic toxicity studies (6 months) have only been conducted with nasal administration of icatibant. 
Because  this  route  of  administration  results  in  a  low  systemic  exposure,  these  studies  are  regarded 
being of minor value for the present indication. Nevertheless, in one of two chronic rat studies with 
nasal  administration,  there  was  tubular  atrophy  at  15  weeks  in  two  high  dose  males  and  signs  of 
reactive  hyperplasia  of  the  renal  pelvic  epithelia  in  the  high  dose  group  at  6  months.  No  similar 
findings were reported in the other rat study but there was a dose-dependent tendency of increasing s-
urea. It should be noted that in both these studies, the high dose resulted in systemic exposures below 
the  expected  clinical.  These  findings  raised  concerns  that  the  threshold  for  long-term  renal  damage 
may be lower than that indicated by the shorter studies. However, in their response to the Day 180 List 
of Outstanding Issues, the Applicant submitted preliminary data (including histopathology) from the 
ongoing 26-week repeated dose toxicity study in the rat that substantially mitigate these concerns. 
The concerns about possible long-term effects are pertinent for the current indication, considering that 
the  frequency  and  severity  of  HAE  episodes  are  highly  variable.  Thus,  there  are  HAE  patients  that 
may  require  several  treatments  per  month  for  several  years,  and  each  treatment  may  require  several 
doses  of  icatibant.  For  this  group  of  patients  the  situation  will  rapidly  approach  a  chronic,  albeit 
intermittent, therapy and the lack of relevant chronic toxicity studies is unfortunate. It can therefore be 
argued that such studies may be required before approval. On the other hand, the proposed indication 
for  icatibant  is  treatment  of  HAE  episodes  and  each  treatment  will  be  short  (less  than  one  week). 
Strictly  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines,  chronic  toxicity  studies  should  be  unnecessary  if  each 
treatment  is  regarded  separately.  This  was  the  answer  given  to  the  Applicant  in  a  central  scientific 
advice about the non-clinical programme in 2003 (EMEA/H/SA/427/2003/PA/I). Given that 6 month 
study  is  available,  although  resulting  in  insufficient  exposure  compared  to  the  intended  clinical  use, 
and taking the arguments in the advice into account, the lack of chronic toxicity studies with a relevant 
route  of  administration  is accepted.  Consequently,  CHMP  requires  the  Applicant  to  conduct  chronic 
toxicity  studies  in  rodent  and  non-rodents  as  a  follow-up  measure.  This  solution  is  justified  on  the 
grounds that only a small part of the HAE patients would require frequent and intense treatment with 
icatibant. Furthermore, it should be noted that such studies are already ongoing further to requests by 
the FDA. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The genotoxicity studies submitted cover the required standard battery and produced negative results. 
Icatibant is not genotoxic. 
15/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were conducted by the Applicant, also in accordance with scientific advice. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
In  a  study  on  fertility  and  early  embryo-fetal  development  in  the  rat,  no  effects  were  seen  on  male 
fertility  in  animals  exposed  to  three  times  the  expected  level  of  icatibant.  The  females  in  the  same 
study  had  an  increase  in  pre-implantation  losses  at  the  same  exposure  level;  the  next  lower  dose, 
corresponding to about the expected clinical exposure, was considered NOAEL. 
In segment II studies, icatibant was found to have no embryotoxic or teratogenic potential in the rat at 
a dose level corresponding to roughly ten times the clinical exposure; no malformations were seen in 
the  rabbit  but  there  was  an  increased  rate  of  embryo-fetal  deaths  at  a  dose  level  of  10  mg/kg/d. 
Unfortunately,  no  toxicokinetic  data  are  available  and  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  made  in  the 
rabbit, which makes the results of the rabbit study difficult to interpret. Finally, the study on pre- and 
postnatal development clearly demonstrated that icatibant, at exposures about four times, the expected 
clinical  exposure,  caused  delayed  parturition  and  poor  perinatal  survival  in  the  rat.  The  Applicant 
proposes to include this information in sections 4.6 and 5.3 in the SPC, which is strongly endorsed by 
CHMP. Considering the proposed indication, Firazyr should not be contraindicated during pregnancy. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data were collected in the pivotal studies and plasma levels of M2 as well as icatibant 
were also measured in i.v. and s.c. studies in rats and dogs. There were no sex differences in either rats 
or  dogs,  and  no  accumulation  of  either  icatibant  or  M2  following  repeated  dosing.  Plasma 
concentrations  of  icatibant  and  M2  increased  with  dose,  but  there  was  no  consistency  in  dose 
proportionality, between or within studies. 
Exposures  at  the  NOAEL  in  the  animal  studies  were  similar  to  or  higher  than  those  in  man  at  the 
highest exposure seen following TID dosing. 
•  Local tolerance  
Icatibant was well tolerated in rabbits following subcutaneous, intraarterial, intravenous, paravenous, 
intraarticular,  dermal  and  ocular  administration.  However  injection  site  reactions  have  been  seen  in 
dogs and in man. Although icatibant at concentrations up to 1μM did not stimulate histamine release 
from  mast  cells,  a  subsequent  study  using  higher  concentrations  (50-1000μM)  have  shown  that 
icatibant produces degranulation of human skin mast cells, with the release of histamine and tryptase, 
and  also  leads  to  the  release  of  inflammatory  prostaglandin  and  leukotriene  mediators  that  are 
synthesised  de  novo.  Studies  with  mouse  skin  showed  icatibant  dose-dependently  (1-10mM) 
stimulated the release of iCGRP, in a partly calcium and TRPV1-dependent manner but that this was 
independent  of  mast  cells  and  the  B2  receptor.  The  findings  would  suggest  that  the  inflammatory 
reaction (reddening with occasional burning/pain sensation and/or pruritus and hives) noted in patients 
may result from a combination of mast cell activation, release of neuropeptides from peripheral nerves 
and partial agonist activity of icatibant, depending on local concentrations at the injection site.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
- Antigenicity 
Studies of the antigenic potential of icatibant showed that it is not a strong antigen but it was possible 
to  evoke  a  response  with  Freund’s  complete  adjuvant.  This  is  a  fairly  common  result  for  small 
peptides and raises no concerns for the clinical safety.  
16/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Impurities / Metabolites 
Two unnatural amino acids that are constituents of icatibant were tested in single-dose toxicity studies. 
D-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoliine-3-carboxylic acid (D-Tic) was found to be toxic but at a very high 
dose, which is totally unrealistic in clinical use. It would have been informative to test it at lower dose 
levels to establish the maximum non-lethal dose but this lack is not regarded as important. 
One  impurity,  icatibant  (1-6),  was  qualified  by  intravenous  single-dose  toxicity  in  rats,  AMES  test, 
and  an  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration  test  (human  lymphocytes).  The  results  were  unremarkable, 
except  for  the  chromosomal  aberration  test  where  an  increased  number  of  chromosome  aberrations 
were  seen  in  human  lymphocytes  at  high  concentrations  of  icatibant  without  S9.  However,  this 
increase  was  moderate  and  only  statistically  significant  after  44  h.  Moreover,  these  aberrations 
occurred at concentrations that caused a considerable inhibition in mitotic index. Thus, the results are 
not considered as a signal of any genotoxic potential for icatibant (1-6). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Applicant has provided an ERA with a Phase I Assessment, concluding that the nature of icatibant 
(small peptide) and limited number of patients make significant elimination to the environment very 
unlikely.  The  Applicant’s  arguments  are  accepted  and  it  is  agreed  that  no  further  evaluation  of  the 
potential environmental risk is necessary. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Icatibant was initially under development by Hoechst (now Sanofi-Aventis) in the early 1990s under 
the designation HOE 140.  Early human studies explored the pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety of 
intranasal and inhaled formulations of icatibant for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma, and of 
an  i.v.  infusion  in  preparation  for  later  development  as  a  treatment  for  post  operative  pain.  More 
recently, Sanofi-Aventis commenced development of an intra-articular dose of icatibant as a treatment 
for joint pain in osteoarthritis; this program is ongoing.   
In 2001 Jerini in-licensed certain development and commercialization rights for icatibant and the drug 
was  designated  as  JE049.    Initial  therapeutic  indications  of  interest  were  the  treatment  of  refractory 
ascites  in  liver  cirrhosis  and  the  treatment  of  HAE.  In  the  earlier  HAE  studies,  icatibant  was 
administered i.v.; in later studies, including the pivotal study, s.c. administration was used. The open 
label extensions to the Phase III studies for HAE are ongoing. There are no other studies ongoing or 
due to be commenced by Jerini for HAE. 
Apart from general regulatory guidance on the conduct of clinical trials with pharmaceutical products, 
there are no specific guidelines for the development of products to treat HAE.  
Centralised  scientific  advice  has  been  obtained  for  CMC,  preclinical  and  clinical  issues.  National 
scientific advice has not been given. 
The applicant also received regulatory advice from the FDA. 
The  principal  recommendations  obtained  from  the  Scientific  Advice  on  clinical  aspects  were  in 
relation to the choice of the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints, issues surrounding blinding of 
the  Phase  III  studies,  inclusion  of  tranexamic  acid  as  a  comparator  (EMEA),  examination  of  the 
potential immunogenicity of icatibant (EMEA), assessment of QTc (FDA), and validation of VAS as a 
measure of HAE symptoms (FDA). 
Jerini did not follow the advice of the EMEA and included patients with laryngeal attacks in the Phase 
III studies but these were treated with open label icatibant to accommodate the ethical concerns of the 
EMEA.   
17/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No formal Phase II dose ranging study was conducted (as requested by the FDA).  Instead based on 
PK/PD  modelling  using  a  bradykinin  challenge,  pharmacokinetic,  safety  and  efficacy  data,  a  dose 
rationale was developed. 
There is no paediatric development programme. 
Icatibant has received designation as an orphan medicinal product for the orphan indication: treatment 
of angioedema by COMP 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Two  multicentre  clinical  studies  presented  in  support  of  icatibant  in  the  indication  of  Hereditary 
Angioedema included clinical sites that were outside the European Union. Study number JE049 #2103 
was undertaken in the USA and Latin America. Study number JE049 #2102 included centres in Israel 
in addition to the European Union. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Plasma  concentration  of  icatibant  was  in  general  determined  by  LC-MS/MS  methods.  The  methods 
used  have  been  poorly  validated,  raising  some  doubts  regarding  the  accuracy  of  the  reported 
pharmacokinetic data. 
•  Absorption  
After s.c. administration of icatibant, absorption is rapid with maximum concentrations reached after 
about  30  min.  The  absolute  bioavailability  after  s.c.  administration  of  0.4  mg/kg  of  the  10  mg/ml 
formulation was 97 ± 15 %. 
•  Distribution 
Icatibant has a low extent of protein binding, 44 ± 3 %. The volume of distribution (Vss) is about 
20-25 l. 
•  Elimination 
Icatibant  is  mainly  eliminated  by  metabolism  resulting  in  formation  of  the  metabolites  M1  and  M2. 
The  metabolism  is  probably  mediated  by  NADPH-independent  proteolytic  enzymes,  with  no 
involvement  of  CYP450  enzymes.  Both  metabolites  are  principally  excreted  unchanged  in  urine 
(80 - 90 %)  and  faeces;  therefore  there  are  no  theoretical  concerns  about  inclusion  of  exogenous 
peptides and amino acids in the amino acid pool. A small part of the dose < 10 % is excreted in urine 
unchanged. Icatibant clearance is about 15-20 l/h. The terminal half-life is about 1-2 h. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality has been studied in the dose range 0.005 to 3.2 mg/kg. CL and Vss seem to be 
fairly consistent over the dose range 0.05 to 0.8 mg/kg. Due to the study design with parallel groups it 
is difficult to draw conclusions regarding linearity at higher doses. In study 1103 three repeated doses 
were  given  on  Day 1  (which  is  the  maximum  recommended  dose  over  24  h),  with  additional  single 
doses  on  Days  8  and  15.  Available  data  do  not  suggest  any  time  dependency  in  icatibant 
pharmacokinetics. 
AUC  of  M1  and  M2  are  similar  and  are  also  in  the  same  range  as  icatibant.  AUC  and  Cmax  of  the 
metabolites M1 and M2 seem to be dose proportional. The half-lives of M1 and M2 are similar to that 
of icatibant suggesting that M1 and M2 display formation rate limited elimination. 
18/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Inter- and intra-individual variability 
About  20-25%  CV%  (coefficient  of  variation)  has  been  reported  for  Cmax  and  AUC  after  s.c. 
administration. No information on intra-individual variability has been presented. 
•  Special populations 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  icatibant  in  patients  seems  to  be  similar  to  that  in  healthy  volunteers. 
Pharmacokinetic data in special populations are limited.  
The  available  data  suggest  no  significant  influence  of  hepatic  impairment  or  renal  impairment  on 
icatibant pharmacokinetics.  
In study 1103 evaluating effects of age and gender on icatibant pharmacokinetics there was a 4-fold 
difference  in  AUC  between  young  men  and  elderly  women  with  elderly  men  and  young  women 
having  exposure  in  a  similar  range  and  somewhere  in  between  the  other  two  groups.  Differences  in 
weight could not explain the age and gender related PK differences. A population PK analysis of all 
PK data indicated that age, but not weight or gender affected icatibant clearance resulting in 50-60% 
higher AUC in elderly (75-80 year old) compared to a patient aged 40 years. Due to the low level of 
detail  of  the  population  PK  report  full  analysis  has  not  been  possible.  However,  the  totality  of  data 
suggests that gender has no marked effect on icatibant PK and that clearance decreases with age.  
The influence of race on icatibant PK has not been evaluated and there are no PK data in children. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro  data  did  not  indicate  any  relevant  inhibition  of  CYP450  isoenzymes.  No  in  vivo  interaction 
studies have therefore been conducted 
In  summary,  there  is  a  remaining  uncertainty  regarding  the  validity  of  the  analysis  methods  used  in 
pharmacokinetic studies. However, given the proposed use of the product (intermittent administration 
in HAE patients, with the possibility of an additional dose in case of poor response), the uncertainty 
regarding the quality of the pharmacokinetic data can be accepted. The pharmacokinetic data suggest 
fairly  uncomplicated  pharmacokinetics  with  metabolism  by  proteolytic  enzymes  and  low  interaction 
potential.  Elderly  patients  have  been  identified  as  a  group  with  risk  for  increased  exposure; 
information regarding this is included in sections 4.2 and 5.2 of the SPC. Hence, given the use of the 
product the pharmacokinetic data, although limited, are considered sufficient. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
C1-INH  is  responsible  for  inactivating  approximately  40%  of  plasma  kallikrein.  The  lack  or 
dysfunction  of  C1-INH  causes  increased  plasma  levels  of  kallikrein.  Kallikrein  is  the  main  enzyme 
responsible  for  generation  of  bradykinin  (BK)  formation  from  high  molecular  weight  kininogen 
(HMWK). Furthermore, factor XIIa (activated Hageman factor), which converts prekallikrein to active 
kallikrein, is inactivated by C1-INH. 
BK  is  primarily  responsible  for  the  clinical  symptoms  of  angioedema  by  directly  causing  increased 
vascular  permeability,  vasodilatation  and  contraction  of  visceral  smooth  muscle.  Thus,  following  a 
triggering  event,  the  lack  of  C1-INH  leads  to  the  unabated  bradykinin  production  and  subsequent 
increased vascular permeability. The movement of fluid into the interstitial spaces leads to non-pruritic 
oedema. As HMWK is exhausted and bradykinin degraded, the episode begins to subside and finally 
the  fluid  is  resorbed  by  the  lymphatic  system.  Thus,  the  clinical  profile  is  one  of  rapid  evolution  of 
oedema  and  pain,  reaching  a  crescendo  after  a  few  hours  and  then  slowly  subsiding  over  time  with 
different time courses for the different symptoms of an attack.  
19/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Icatibant  is  a  potent  and  highly  selective  antagonist  of  the  bradykinin  type  2(B2)  receptor  and,  for 
these reasons, has become a standard research tool for investigation of interactions at the receptor with 
more than 1000 references in the scientific literature. The primary target for treating an acute attack of 
HAE  is  to  modulate  the  kallikrein-kinin  system  and  prevent  the  formation  or  the  pharmacological 
action of bradykinin. Thus, icatibant represents a logical therapeutic approach. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Exploration of PK-PD relationships was conducted using the inhibitory profile of icatibant following a 
bradykinin (BK) challenge in healthy volunteers. The antagonistic effect of icatibant was assessed by 
measuring  the  degree  of  inhibition  of  exogenous  BK-induced  decrease  in  blood  pressure  (systolic, 
diastolic,  and  mean  blood  pressure), 
tachycardia  (finger  plethysmography),  and  cutaneous 
vasodilatation (laser Doppler flow meter). Similar EC50 was obtained for the PD parameters, with the 
majority of values being between 8.54 and 9.77 µg/L.  Thus, a mean EC50 value of 9.5 µg/L (7.3 nM) 
was used in PK-PD simulation of the response to different i.v. doses. Based on this simulation the i.v. 
doses 0.4 mg/kg and 0.8 mg/kg were selected for phase II. 
The same data have also been evaluated using a population PK/PD model resulting in slightly higher 
EC50  values  ranging  from  9.2  to  10.8  nM  over  the  different  PD  endpoints.  The  PD  parameters 
determined in this analysis and estimated PK parameters after s.c. administration in study 1102 were 
used  to  estimate  the  duration  of  icatibant  effects  for  s.c.  doses  of  15,  30  and  60  mg.  The  applicant 
concluded that the 30 mg dose would be optimal, and used this dose in the phase III studies 2102 and 
2103. The PK/PD modelling showed that the duration of the effect of icatibant is relatively insensitive 
to the administered dose. In order to maintain effective plasma concentrations over a longer period of 
time, the simulated data suggest that it would be clinically more useful to repeat administration of the 
proposed dose of 30 mg when clinically needed instead of using a higher single dose of e.g. 60 mg for 
all  patients.  The  conducted  analyses  have  been  very  briefly  described  and  the  reports  were 
insufficiently  detailed  to  allow  a  thorough  assessment.  However,  further  analysis  of  these  data  in 
healthy volunteers with PD endpoints for which the relation to clinical outcome is unclear is expected 
to be of limited value.  
The rationale for development of icatibant as a medicinal product for treatment of attacks of HAE and 
its mechanism of action is reasonably well described.  
From available data, no indication of partial agonist activity was found for doses of icatibant up to 1.6 
mg/kg/1  hr,  but  at  3.2  mg/kg  signs  of  a  generalised  bradykinin  agonist  reaction  occurred.  In  the 
clinical trial program for HAE doses up to 0.4 mg/kg iv were given as single dose and subcutaneous 
doses of 30 mg- 45 mg up to three times/day with 6 hours in between the doses. From these data, the 
proposed dose of 30 mg s.c. given up to 3 times daily seems acceptable with respect to t½ of icatibant 
and the margin up to the dose levels where agonist reactions may occur.   
No  impact  on  renal  function  and  renal  hemodynamics  was  noted,  including  GFR,  and  renal  blood 
flow.  No  signs  of  nephrotoxicity  were  found  in  the  clinical  studies.  With  the  recommended  dose 
levels, the risk for nephrotoxicity seems low (despite the observations from non-clinical studies).  
Clinical efficacy  
Three  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  aim  to  support  efficacy  of  icatibant  in  acute  attacks  of 
hereditary angioedema (HAE). 
• 
• 
• 
JE049-2101: An  exploratory  open-label  Phase  II  study,  involving  15  patients  treated  for  20 
attacks  with  single  iv.  infusions  at  doses  up  to  0.8  mg/kg  over  30  minutes,  or  a  single  s.c. 
injection of 30 or 45 mg icatibant. 
JE049-2102: Double-blind, controlled Phase III, single dose of icatibant 30 mg s.c. injection 
compared  to  tranexamic  acid  in  77  patients.  Open-label  extension  was  following,  with  the 
option of giving 3 x 30 mg s.c. injections per attack according to response.  
JE049-2103: Double-blind, controlled Phase III, single dose of icatibant 30 mg s.c. injection 
compared to placebo in 64 patients. Open-label extension was following, with the option of 
giving 3 x 30 mg s.c. injections per attack according to response. 
20/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The open-label part of the studies is ongoing and a data cut-off point of March 31st 2007 (May 30th 
2007  for  adverse  event  data)  has  been  used  to  present  unaudited  results  of  the  open-label  extension 
(JE049-2102-B and JE049-2103-B) in the initially submitted documentation. Further patient data until 
September 2007 have been submitted in the response document  
•  Dose response studies 
JE049-2101 
In  this  open,  3  centres,  dose-finding  study  including  5  treatment  groups,  (3  intravenous,  2 
subcutaneous) 15 patients with known HAE received one dose of icatibant. 
The  primary  outcome  was  symptom  relief  according  to  visual  analogue  scale  (VAS)  reported  by 
subject  for  the  more  severe  symptom,  taking  only  “abdominal  pain”  and  “cutaneous  swelling”  into 
consideration. Symptom relief was defined as “absolute reduction from the pre-treatment VAS” of ≥20 
mm if baseline VAS was ≥30 mm and ≤50 mm, or of ≥30 mm if baseline VAS was >50 mm. 
Table 2 - Time from Onset of Symptoms to Start of Treatment, and Time to Onset of Symptom 
Relief According to VAS 
In  this  open  single  dose  study,  it  should  be  noted  that  symptoms  occur  from  a  variety  of  locations, 
corresponding to the characteristics of the disease. The main target in this study is the Median value 
for  the  outcome  parameter,  for  each  administration  form/dose,  which  has  been  used  to  support  the 
choice  of  dose.  The  number  of  patients  in  this  dose-finding  study  is  low;  moreover,  the  different 
appearances of HAE in combination with the great variability and wide range in the responses make 
evaluation  of  dose-finding  difficult.  However,  bearing  in  mind  these  limitations,  subcutaneous 
21/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration  is  convenient  and  is  to  be  preferred  for  the  patient.  The  chosen  30  mg  subcutaneous 
dose seems at least similar to the higher s.c. dose and this choice appears therefore reasonable. 
•  Main studies 
Study JE049-2102 
METHODS 
Study JE049-2102 was a Phase III, randomised, double blind, double dummy, multicentre, controlled, 
parallel-group  study  of  a  30  mg  s.c.  formulation  of  icatibant  compared  to  tranexamic  acid  for 
treatment  of  patients  with  moderate  to  very  severe  symptoms  of  cutaneous  and/or  abdominal 
symptoms of HAE.  
The three phases of the study were: 
Phase 1 
A  randomised,  double  blind,  controlled,  parallel  group  phase  for  patients  with  cutaneous  and/or 
abdominal angioedema 
OR 
An open label treatment with subcutaneous icatibant for patients with laryngeal angioedema as their 
first attack 
Phase 2 
Open label extension phase for all patients who experienced a hereditary angioedema attack after the 
controlled phase (either double blind treatment or open label treatment of laryngeal attack as their first 
attack). 
Phase 3 
Modified open label extension phase after the end of the double blind phase for all patients, including 
the patients who were screened, but did not experience an attack severe enough to require treatment 
while the double blind phase was still ongoing.  
Study Participants  
It was planned to enrol 74 patients with cutaneous and/or abdominal angioedema (37 patients in both 
the  icatibant  and  tranexamic  acid  groups)  to  provide  66  evaluable  patients  (33  patients  in  both  the 
icatibant and tranexamic acid groups). 
Treatments 
In the double blind phase of the study, patients who were randomised to receive study medication had 
one 30 mg (3 mL) subcutaneous (sc) icatibant injection in the abdominal region plus oral placebo or 3 
mL  sc.  placebo  injection  in  the  abdominal  region  plus  oral  tranexamic  acid,  (500  mg  tablets,  over-
encapsulated  with gelatine). Oral  medications were given as 3 x 2 capsules for 2 days, 6 to 8 hours 
apart. 
During the open label extension phase, patients experiencing any angioedema attack severe enough to 
warrant  treatment  were  treated  with  one  30  mg  (3  mL)  sc.  injection  of  icatibant  in  the  abdominal 
region. 
Additional injections of icatibant during an attack were allowed during the open label extension.  
The maximum dose for icatibant was set at eight injections of 30 mg over 4 weeks or 90 mg/day. 
Treatment was to be administered no later than 6 hours after the angioedema attack became moderate 
(according to the Investigator).  
22/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior and concomitant therapy 
All prescription and OTC medicinal products taken by the patient at entry of the study or were given 
in addition to the study treatment during the study, were regarded as concomitant treatments and were 
documented in the patient's CRF. All medication taken 30 days prior to study drug was documented. . 
Routine use of antipyretics (aspirin, acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]) 
antihistamines,  and  corticosteroids  was  to  be  avoided,  but  were  permitted  in  cases  of  demonstrated 
medical need.  
During the double-blind phase, narcotics and other pain medication were not to be used during onset 
of  the  acute  attack  and  study  treatment  and  avoided,  for  the  first  8  to  9  hours  following  study 
treatment. If required, rescue medication was to be administered and recorded. 
The  use  of  androgens  for  prophylactic  treatment  of  HAE  was  permitted  (if  the  dose  was  stable  or 
decreased).  However,  increasing  the  dose  resulted  in  exclusion  from  the  efficacy  analysis  of  the 
double blind study. 
Patients were to record details of all concomitant medications administered outside the study centre in 
the diary cards provided. 
If  a  patient  had  received  treatment  with  replacement  therapy,  including  C1-INH  products  within  3 
days  from  onset  of  any  new  angioedema  attack,  the  patient  was  not  to  receive  treatment  with  study 
medication for this new attack. 
Patients were not to be withdrawn from the study or from any study population as a result of receiving 
any concomitant medications. 
Rescue therapy 
In the double blind phase rescue therapy for the relief of any symptom was to be withheld during the 
period from the onset of attack for at least the first 8 to 9 hours of treatment. If rescue medication was 
provided,  the  investigator  documented  drug  name,  dose  and  time  administered.  Administration  of 
rescue therapy could include C1-INH and symptomatic therapy (e.g. for nausea or vomiting). 
Objectives 
Primary Objective: 
The primary objective was to assess the efficacy of icatibant, compared with tranexamic acid, on the 
onset of relief of symptoms resulting from moderate to very severe acute cutaneous and/or abdominal 
oedema attacks in patients with HAE. 
Secondary Objectives: 
(cid:131)  Rate of response 
(cid:131)  Time to almost complete relief 
(cid:131)  Global outcome 
(cid:131)  Severity of each symptom 
(cid:131)  Safety 
(cid:131)  Tolerability 
The efficacy and safety of repeated treatments with s.c. icatibant were also assessed during the open 
label extension phase.  
The efficacy and safety of open-label treatment with s.c. icatibant in patients experiencing laryngeal 
oedema  attacks  were  also  assessed  during  the  study  period.  For  clarification,  the  definition  of 
laryngeal oedema included any angioedema that occurred in the laryngeal or pharyngeal area. 
In  addition,  the  relative  pharmacoeconomic  impact  of  icatibant  and  the  economic  burden  associated 
with  onset  of  an  oedema  attack  under  icatibant  treatment  were  to  be  assessed  and  compared  with 
tranexamic acid after the double blind treatment of the first attack and compared with historical data 
after  6  months  open  label  treatment.  The  pharmacoeconomic  results  were  not  part  of  the  CHMP 
review. 
23/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion criteria 
Eligible patients must have met all of the following inclusion criteria before treatment initiation: 
(cid:131)  Age ≥ 18 years 
(cid:131)  Documented  diagnosis  of  HAE  Type  I  or  II.  The  diagnosis  could  be  confirmed  either  by 
functional and immunogenic C1-INH deficiency results from the central laboratory or by medical 
history. Inclusion was permitted initially based on medical history alone if a clear diagnosis had 
been made on all of the following criteria: 
(cid:131)  Family history 
(cid:131)  Characteristic attack manifestations, recurrent attacks 
(cid:131)  Historical functional C1-INH level < 50% 
(cid:131)  Exclusion of other forms of angioedema 
Subsequent  confirmation  of  the  diagnosis  was  to  be  made  by  functional  C1-INH,  measured  in  the 
central  laboratory.  If  there  were  any  discrepancies  between  central  and  local  laboratory  results,  the 
patient could only be included in the efficacy analysis if diagnosis of HAE had been clearly confirmed 
and a rationale for the functional level of C1-INH > 50% could be given 
(cid:131)  Current angioedema attack was in the cutaneous, abdominal, and/or laryngeal areas 
(cid:131)  Current attack was moderate to very severe 
(cid:131)  Able  to  complete  Baseline  assessments  and  commence  treatment  no  later  than  6  hours  after  the 
current attack became moderate 
(cid:131)  Women  of  childbearing  potential  were  to  have  a  negative  urine  pregnancy  test  before  treatment 
and for the duration of the study was to use consistently and correctly a highly effective method of 
birth  control  (failure  rate  less  than  1%  per  year)  such  as  implants,  injectables,  combined  oral 
contraceptives, reliable intrauterine devices (IUDs), sexual abstinence or a vasectomised partner 
(cid:131)  Signed written Informed Consent given 
(cid:131)  Patients with abdominal and/or cutaneous symptoms only: 
(cid:131)  Visual  Analogue  Scale  (VAS)  for  primary  symptoms  (abdominal  pain  or  cutaneous  pain  or 
cutaneous swelling) at time of randomisation ≥ 30 mm. 
Exclusion criteria 
(cid:131)  Eligible patients must have had none of the following exclusion criteria at treatment initiation: 
(cid:131)  Diagnosis of angioedema other than HAE, for example, acquired angioedema (AAE) 
(cid:131)  Participation in a clinical trial of another investigational medicinal product (IMP) within the 
past month 
(cid:131)  Treatment with any pain medication since onset of the current angioedema attack 
(cid:131)  Treatment  with  replacement  therapy,  including  C1-INH  products,  less  than  3  days  before 
onset of the current angioedema attack 
(cid:131)  Treatment with tranexamic acid replacement therapy within a week before onset of the current 
angioedema attack 
(cid:131)  Treatment with ACE inhibitors 
(cid:131)  Contraindications  for  tranexamic  acid  i.e.  known  hypersensitivity  to  tranexamic  acid,  severe 
renal failure, active thromboembolic disease, massive bleeding in upper urinary tract, impaired 
colour vision 
(cid:131)  Evidence  of  coronary  artery  disease  based  on  medical  history  or  screening  in  particular 
unstable angina pectoris or severe coronary heart disease 
(cid:131)  Congestive heart failure (class 3 and 4) 
(cid:131)  Serum creatinine level of ≥ 250 μmol/L (≥ 2.82 mg/dl) 
(cid:131)  Serious concomitant illness considered to be a contraindication for participation in the trial 
(cid:131)  Pregnancy (as assessed prior to treatment) and/or breast-feeding 
(cid:131)  Mental condition rendering the patient unable to understand nature, scope, and consequences 
of the study 
(cid:131)  Unlikely to comply with the Protocol. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Visual  Analogue  Scale:  (No  Symptom  (0  mm)  -  Worst  Possible  symptom  (100  mm)),  measuring 
intensity of each symptom of the attack at Baseline for cutaneous swelling, cutaneous pain, abdominal 
24/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pain and nausea, and also symptom relief at the predetermined time points throughout the treatment 
period.  
Symptom score (patient and investigator): Symptoms assessed by the patient and the investigator or 
designee using 5-Point Symptom Score Scale [0 = None, absence of symptoms; 1 = Mild (no or mild 
interference  with  daily  activities);  2  =  Moderate  (moderate  interference  with  daily  activities  and  no 
other  countermeasures  required);  3  =  Severe  (severe  interference  with  daily  activities  and  with  or 
without  other  countermeasures);  4  =  Very  severe  (very  severe  interference  with  daily  activities  and 
other countermeasures required)]. 
Cutaneous swelling, cutaneous pain, abdominal pain, nausea, erythema, irritation (patient assessment 
only), abdominal tenderness (investigator (or designee) assessment only), vomiting and diarrhoea were 
assessed. For laryngeal HAE attacks, the patient and investigator (or designee) made an assessment of 
dysphagia and voice change. In addition, the investigator assessed breathing difficulties, stridor, and 
asphyxia.  
Global assessment 
The investigator (or designee) made a Global Assessment (i.e., considering all abdominal symptoms 
combined, all cutaneous symptoms combined and/or all laryngeal symptoms combined) using the 5-
point scale. 
Clinical global impression and improvement 
At  Baseline,  the  investigator  completed  a  Clinical  Global  Impression  (Severity  of  Illness):  Seven-
Point Clinical Global Impression Symptom Scale 
Global improvement was  assessed by the investigator on Day 1 (4 hours post-treatment), Day 2 (24 
hours post-treatment) and Day 14 ± 2 of the double-blind phase using a ”Seven-Point Clinical Global 
Improvement Symptom Scale. 
Primary endpoint 
The primary endpoint: time to onset of symptom relief of the first attack using VAS. 
Symptom  relief  was  defined  as  a  reduction  from  the  pre-treatment  VAS  between  21  mm  (Baseline 
VAS  of  30  mm)  and  30  mm  (Baseline  VAS  of  100  mm).  Only  symptoms  with  VAS  ≥  30  mm  at 
Baseline were included in this analysis. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  assessed  for  a  single  primary  symptom:  cutaneous  swelling, 
cutaneous  pain,  or  abdominal  pain.  The  decision  to  count  each  subject  only  once  for  the  endpoint 
analysis mandated to define a single primary symptom for each patient, despite the fact that patients 
often presented with mixed symptoms (e.g. cutaneous and abdominal). 
For  the  patients  presenting  with  cutaneous  symptoms,  the  primary  symptom  was  defined  either  as 
cutaneous swelling or cutaneous pain, taking the most severe (VAS). For the patients presenting with 
abdominal symptoms (e.g. abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, or diarrhea), the primary symptom was 
defined  as  abdominal  pain.  Patients  presenting  with  both  cutaneous  and  abdominal  symptoms  were 
allocated to the abdominal group if abdominal symptoms were classified as moderate to very severe 
by  the  investigator  (based  on  Global  Assessment,  which  considers  all  abdominal  symptoms 
combined). Patients were classified as cutaneous if the abdominal symptom(s) were mild, and at least 
one cutaneous symptom was moderate to very severe. 
Patients presenting with laryngeal symptoms were always assigned to the laryngeal group irrespective 
of the severity of other symptoms. 
Time  to  onset  of  symptom  relief  was  defined  as  the  time  between  time  of  injection  to  time  of  first 
documented onset of symptom relief. This time point was determined retrospectively after symptom 
relief had been documented at three consecutive measurements. The earliest of the three measurements 
was taken as the point of cessation. 
Patients with no documented onset of symptom relief were censored at the time of their last symptom 
assessment.  Patients  were  censored  when  the  events  (symptom  relief)  did  not  occur  within  the 
observation period. 
25/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint 
Response  rate  at  4  hours  after  start  of  treatment:  proportion  of  patients  with  onset  of  symptom 
relief for the primary symptom within 4 hours after treatment. 
Time to relief of each symptom present in pre-dose VAS other than the primary symptom: time 
of  injection  to  time  of  first  documented  onset  of  symptom  relief  (Response)  defined  as  a  reduction 
from the pre-treatment VAS as described for the primary endpoint. 
Time  to  almost  complete  symptom  relief:  time  from  injection  to  the  first  measurement  of  a  value 
between  0  and  10  mm  on  the  VAS  for  at  least  three  consecutive  measurements  for  all  symptoms 
(present at pre-dose or not). 
Symptom score (patient and investigator): assessment of each symptom and were assessed by the 
Symptoms assessed by the patient and the investigator or designee using the 5-Point Symptom Score 
Scale 
For  laryngeal  HAE  attacks,  the  patient  and  investigator  assessed  dysphagia  and  voice  change.  In 
addition, the investigator assessed breathing difficulties, stridor, and asphyxia.  
Global assessment 
Global  assessments  considered  all  abdominal,  cutaneous,  and/or  laryngeal  symptoms  combined 
performed by the investigator using the 5-point scale and 7-point scales. 
Clinical  global  impression/improvement:  by  the  investigator  using  the  5-point  scale  and  7-point 
scales. 
Regression of symptoms (start of improvement) according to patient: time of injection until time 
of start of improvement. 
Observable regression of visual symptoms according to investigator: time of injection to the time 
visual (visible) symptoms started to improve. 
Overall  patient  improvement  according  to  investigator:  time  of  injection  to  time  when  overall 
patient improvement was first noted. 
Patient satisfaction questionnaire: assessed during the open label extension phase (Week 24). 
Sample size and Randomisation 
Screening took place prior to enrolment in the study. The investigator instructed the patient about the 
specifics of the onset of an angioedema attack.  
A  total  of  74  patients  with  moderate  to  very  severe  cutaneous  and/or  abdominal  angioedema  were 
randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive treatment with icatibant (s.c.) plus placebo (oral) or placebo (s.c.) 
plus Tranexamic acid (oral). 
The  randomisation  was  performed  using  a  validated  centralised  procedure  (International  Drug 
Development  Institute  [IDDI])  that  automated  the  random  assignment  of  treatment  groups  to 
randomisation numbers, using the unique kit numbers for allocation.  
Patients  with  both  cutaneous  and  abdominal  symptoms  were  allocated  to  the  abdominal  group  if  at 
least  one  abdominal  symptom  (abdominal  pain,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  nausea)  was  moderate  to  very 
severe irrespective of the severity of cutaneous symptoms. The patient was stratified as cutaneous if 
the  abdominal  symptom(s)  were  mild,  and  at  least  one  cutaneous  symptom  was  moderate  to  very 
severe. 
Only when the double blind phase of the study was completed, the data file verified, and any protocol 
violations  determined,  were  the  randomisation  codes  broken  and  made  available  for  the  final  data 
analysis. 
Patients  with  symptoms  of  laryngeal  angioedema  (whether  in  combination  with  cutaneous  and/or 
abdominal symptoms or not) were not randomised to the double blind treatment but treated open label. 
The randomisation procedure was based on the stochastic minimization procedure.  
Blinding (masking) 
During the double blind, phase of the study, icatibant and injectable placebo as well as tranexamic acid 
and  oral  placebo  were  labelled  such  that  each  remained  unidentifiable  by  the  investigator  and  the 
patient. 
However, a high number of patients experience local injection skin reactions complicating blinding.  
26/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Standard  statistical  methods  were  used  for  the  Phase  III  studies  according  to  the  individual  study 
plans. All randomised patients who received a dose of study medication in the controlled phase of the 
studies  were  included  in  the  ITT  population.  Patients  who  were  not  protocol  violators  and  who 
received  the  dose  within  6  h  of  their  attack  becoming  moderate  were  included  in  the  Per-Protocol 
population with the exception of patients with a baseline VAS score for the primary symptom of <30 
mm. 
Patients in the Phase III studies were allocated to either the ‘cutaneous’ or ‘abdominal’ groups’ after 
completion  of  the  controlled  phase  but  prior  to  lock  of  the  study  database.  Patients  presenting  with 
both  cutaneous  and  abdominal  symptoms  were  allocated  to  the  ‘abdominal’  group  if  abdominal 
symptoms  were  classified  as  moderate  to  very  severe  by  the  physician  on  the  Global  Assessment 
rather than by symptom severity as originally intended. Although useful for the purpose of statistical 
analysis,  this  categorisation  does  not  reflect  the  true  clinical  picture  as  many  patients  have  a  mix  of 
symptoms with different time courses. Therefore, it is important to assess all the endpoints and their 
clinical relevance in determining the efficacy of icatibant. 
The following post-hoc analyses were conducted: 
(cid:131)  Analysis taking into account all the symptoms (primary or secondary) with only symptoms with a 
VAS ≥30 mm at baseline being included. 
(cid:131)  Analysis using the VAS with the highest score at baseline as primary symptom. 
(cid:131)  Analysis increasing the stringency of the primary endpoint measure by altering the threshold for 
meeting the criteria for a response from “any value to right and below a line Y = 6/6X-16, with X 
≥30  mm”  (with  X  being  the  baseline  VAS  score  and  Y  the  post-treatment  VAS  score),  to  “any 
value to the right and below a line Y = 4/7X-50/7, with X ≥30 mm”. This change corresponds to a 
reduction of 50 mm from a baseline VAS of 100 mm and of 20 mm from a baseline VAS of 30 
mm.  A report of all post-hoc analyses is given in addendum reports (JE049-2102-A and JE049-
2103-A) 
Missing  data  was  handled  by  censoring  those  patients  at  their  last  observed  time  point  for  any 
symptom.  This  is  a  conservative  approach  since  it  makes  the  worst  possible  assumption  about  the 
treatment outcome, e.g. if time to regression of a symptom was not reported then it was assumed not to 
have occurred. 
Additional  statistical  analyses  were  requested  by  the  FDA  at  the  pre-NDA  meeting  and  these  are 
reported in JE049-2102-A and JE049-2103-A. 
RESULTS 
Recruitment and conduct of the study 
A total of 74 patients (36 in the icatibant group and 38 in the tranexamic acid group) were randomised 
into  the  study  and  3  patients  with  laryngeal  symptoms  at  baseline  were  treated  with  icatibant  open 
label. 
At  data  cut-off,  25  July  2006,  there  were  31  active  centres;  (Austria,  France,  Germany,  Hungary, 
Switzerland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, UK and Sweden). 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics are described in table 3. 
27/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Table 4 - History of Hereditary Angioedema: Number of attacks during the last 6 months – ITT 
population 
Participant flow 
As seen below 77 patients with HAE were included in the study. 
28/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 – Patient Populations 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  time  to  onset  of  symptom  relief  (primary  endpoint)  was  significantly  shorter  in  the  icatibant 
group (see Table 7 below summarising the efficacy results for both pivotal trials). This was also true 
for the secondary analyses of the subgroups (cutaneous, abdominal symptoms). Time to response was 
shorter in abdominal attacks than in cutaneous attacks. 
Efficacy  obtained  in  the  11  events  with  laryngeal  symptoms,  treated  open  label  with  icatibant, 
appeared  similar  to  efficacy  in  cutaneous  and  abdominal  attacks.  The  number  of  patients  receiving 
rescue was higher in the tranexamic acid group compared with icatibant.  
Rescue medication  
No  patient  in  the  icatibant  group  received  rescue  medication  within  12  hours  of  administration  of 
study drug, compared to 5 patients in the tranexamic acid group, and within 48 hours 5 patients and 11 
patients respectively. 
Laryngeal symptoms 
In summary, a total of 7 patients with 11 laryngeal attacks were treated open label with icatibant in the 
controlled  phase  and  in  the  open  label  extension  phase  of  the  study.  The  efficacy  results  in  the 
controlled  phase  for  patients  with  laryngeal  symptoms  were  consistent  with  those  reported  for 
cutaneous  and  abdominal  attacks:  median  time  to  regression  of  symptoms  (start  of  improvement) 
according  to  patient  was  1.0  hour;  median  time  to  overall  patient  improvement  according  to 
investigator was 0.7 hours.  
Open label phase of Study 2102 
During  the  open  label  extension  phase  (cut-off  date  31  March  2007),  47  patients  were  treated  with 
icatibant up to 80 times (one patient) for a total number of 233 attacks. Of these 47 patients, 42 had 
been  randomised  (22  to  icatibant  and  20  to  tranexamic  acid)  during  the  controlled  phase,  2  patients 
with  laryngeal  symptoms  at  baseline  treated  with  icatibant  open  label  during  the  controlled  phase 
entered the open label extension phase and 3 patients, who had not received any treatment during the 
controlled  phase,  were  treated.  A  total  of  17  male  and  30  female  patients  (age  between  22  and  66 
years) were treated in the open label extension phase of the study.  
Of  233  attacks,  there  were  115  cutaneous,  101  abdominal  and  17  laryngeal  attacks.  Two  hundred 
twelve  attacks  (91.0  %)  were  treated  only  with  1  icatibant  injection,  20  attacks  (8.6%)  with  2 
injections and 1 attack (0.4%) with 3 injections. Only 3 patients required a second injection as early as 
29/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6-7  hours  after  the  initial  treatment  (for  7  attacks).  All  other  patients  received  repeated  icatibant 
injections more than 7 hours after the first injection. Overall, 14 patients were discontinued from the 
study.  Nine  patients  were  discontinued  during  the  controlled  phase  (4  patients  in  the  icatibant 
treatment  group,  4  in  the  tranexamic  acid  group  and  1  patient  with  laryngeal  symptoms  at  baseline) 
and 5 patients were discontinued during the open label extension phase. No patient was discontinued 
due to AEs or any significant medical condition.  
Study JE049-2103 
Study 2103  comparing  icatibant  to  placebo  had  a  similar  design  as  study  JE049-2102  with  identical 
definitions of endpoints.  
METHODS 
This was a multicentre (26 active centres: 17 active centres in the US, 5 centres in Canada, 3 centres in 
Australia, 1 centre in Argentina), Phase III study consisting of: 
1)  A  randomised  double  blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel  group  phase  for  patients  with  cutaneous 
and/or abdominal angioedema An open label treatment with subcutaneous icatibant for patients with 
laryngeal angioedema as their first attack. 
2) An open label extension phase for all patients who experienced a HAE attack after the first attack 
(double blind treatment or open label treatment of laryngeal attack). 
3) A modified open label extension phase, for all patients, including the patients who were screened, 
but were not treated with study drug while the double blind phase was still ongoing. The results of this 
phase of the study will be presented separately. 
Study Participants  
It was planned to enrol 56 patients with cutaneous and/or abdominal oedema to provide 50 evaluable 
patients (25 patients in both the icatibant and placebo groups). 
Treatments 
Icatibant  subcutaneously  was  the  active  therapy  included  in  this  study  and  was  compared  with 
placebo. 
For concomitant use of other medications see study 2102. 
Rescue therapy 
In the double blind phase, rescue therapy for the relief of any symptom was to be withheld during the 
period from the onset of attack for at least the first 8 to 9 hours of treatment to limit study variability. 
However, if pain medication was required, morphine sulphate could have been administered at a dose 
of 0.05 mg/kg or an alternative low-dose narcotic. An anti-emetic could be used to treat nausea.  
Objectives 
Study 2103 is identical in design, objectives and outcome/endpoints as study 2102. 
RESULTS 
Recruitment and conduct of the study 
A total of 178 patients were screened for this study. Of these, 64 patients were enrolled, 56 patients 
were randomised into the study (27 patients in the icatibant group and 29 patients in the placebo 
group) and 8 patients with laryngeal symptoms at baseline were treated with icatibant open label. 
30/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Table 6 - Patient populations in JE 049-2103 
Outcomes and estimation 
The time to onset of relief (primary endpoint) was shorter with icatibant but a statistically difference as 
compared to placebo was not achieved with regard to the primary endpoint (table 1 below). However, 
a rather strong trend consistent with the results of study JE049-2102 was seen and beneficial effects 
were  demonstrated  in  a  number  of  secondary  endpoints  (Table  1).  There  were  furthermore  more 
patients  receiving  rescue  within  12  hours  in  the  placebo  group  (11  patients)  than  with  icatibant  (3 
patients).  
See also combined efficacy tables for the two studies below. 
Rescue medication 
A total of 20 patients (35.7%) in the ITT population received rescue medication during the controlled 
phase of the study. In the icatibant treatment group, 6 patients (22.2%) received rescue medication on 
the day of study drug administration. Of these, 3 patients (11.1%) received rescue medication within 
the first 12 hours of administration of icatibant. Some patients required several different medications 
and some patients received multiple administrations. 
In the placebo treatment group 14 patients (48.3%) required rescue medication during the controlled 
phase  of  the  study.  Of  those,  11  patients  (37.9%)  received  rescue  medication  within  12  hours  of 
receipt  of  placebo.  Some  patients  required  several  different  medications  and  some  patients  received 
multiple  administrations.  There  was  1  patient  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  who  experienced  a 
laryngeal HAE attack after entry to the study and was treated open label with icatibant. 
Laryngeal symptoms 
At  baseline,  the  Global  Assessment  by  investigator  showed  1  patient  with  severe,  2  patients  with 
moderate, and 5 patients with mild laryngeal symptoms. At 4 hours after administration of icatibant, 
all  patients  were  assessed  by  the  investigator  as  ‘much’  or  ‘very  much’  improved  (Clinical  Global 
Improvement)  with  only  1  patient  assessed  as  having  mild  symptoms  and  7  patients  having  no 
symptoms. 
Of the 8 patients with laryngeal symptoms at baseline, 3 patients (37.5%) received rescue medication 
within  24  hours  of  receiving  treatment  with  icatibant.  Of  these,  2  patients  received  a  single 
31/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration  of  rescue  medication,  1  of  whom  received  icatibant  as  a  rescue  medication,  and  1 
further patient received many rescue medications due to recurrent abdominal HAE attacks. 
Open label extension phase 
Concomitant medication 
A  total  of  35  patients  (89.7%)  received  concomitant  medications  during  the  open  label  phase  of  the 
study. "Antigonadotropins and similar agents" (danazol; 13 patients, 33.3%) and anilides (11 patients, 
28.2%)  were  the  most  common  concomitant  medications.  In  patients  with  laryngeal  symptoms  at 
Baseline, anilides (2 patients, 66.7%) were the most common concomitant medications. 
Rescue medication 
Of  the  42  patients  who  were  treated  in  the  open  label  extension  phase  of  the  study,  a  total  of  10 
patients  (23.8%)  received  rescue  medication.  The  most  common  rescue  medications  in  the  ITT 
population  were  aminoalkyl  ethers  (diphenhydramine;  3  patients,  7.7%),  natural  opium  alkaloids  (3 
patients, 7.7%) and piperazine derivatives (3 patients, 7.7%). One patient received rescue medication 
within 6 hours of receiving icatibant, 2 within 12 hours, 3 within 24 hours, 1 within 35 hours, 1 within 
72  hours,  1  within  50  to  66  hours  and  1  unknown.  Two  of  the  3  patients  (66.7%)  with  laryngeal 
symptoms at Baseline received rescue medication during the open label extension phase of the study 
(one within 18 hours and one within 13 days of receipt of icatibant,). 
32/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Efficacy results from both main studies are shown in table 7. 
Table 7 – Comparison of Key Efficacy Results: JE049 #2102 and JE049 #2103 
33/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional data provided in Response document (cut-off date, September 2007) 
Additional supporting data on efficacy have been submitted, describing 118 patients who have been 
treated with icatibant for a total number of 597 HAE attacks treated in the open label phase. Of these 
118 patients, 93 were initially randomised (46 to icatibant, 21 to tranexamic acid and 26 to placebo) 
during the controlled phase; 5 patients with laryngeal symptoms at baseline were treated with icatibant 
during the controlled phase and then entered the open-label extension phase and 20 patients, who had 
not received any treatment during the controlled phase, were treated solely in the open-label phase. A 
number of patients were screened initially but were  never treated (e.g. never presented with eligible 
attack during the study period). In the controlled phase, a total of 63 attacks in 63 patients were treated 
with  a  single  injection  of  icatibant  (as  described  above,  the  same  patients  may  appear  in  both 
populations).  
Most  of  the  597  treated  attacks,  needed  only  one  icatibant  administration,  and  very  few  required 
rescue  medication.  Within  these  treated  attacks,  there  are  no  signs  of  exacerbation  of  severe 
symptoms. 
Table 8 – Number of Attacks Treated with 1 to 3 Icatibant Injections 
34/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fifty-nine  of  597  attacks  (9.9  %)  became  worse  after  the  initial  treatment  with  icatibant.  Thirty  of 
them (50.8 %) were treated with icatibant injection only, 7 (11.9 %) were treated with both, icatibant 
and rescue medication, 11 (18.6 %) were treated only with rescue medication, and 11 (18.6 %) attacks 
that worsened according to the given definition required no additional treatment. 
Of these 59 attacks, worsening of symptoms within the first 10 hours occurred in only 3 of the attacks. 
One  of  them  was  treated  with  rescue  medication  (the  time  point  of  treatment  is  unknown),  one  was 
treated with icatibant, and one attack required no additional treatment. 
Seven  of  597  attacks  (1.2%)  were  treated  with  additional  medication  due  to  persistent  initial 
symptoms.  Five  of  them  were  treated  with  icatibant  alone;  two  attacks  were  treated  with  rescue 
medication alone. 
Ten of 597 attacks were treated with additional medication due to investigator judgement without any 
reporting  of  reappearance  of  symptoms  or  appearance  of  new  symptoms  as  well  as  long  persisting 
initial  symptoms.  Five  of  them  were  treated  with  icatibant  alone,  and  five  attacks  were  treated  with 
rescue medication alone. 
Laryngeal symptoms 
Additional  reassuring  experience  from  open  label  treatment  of  61  HAE  attacks  with  symptoms 
indicating laryngeal involvement has been submitted. All individuals (n=36) with laryngeal symptoms 
(n=61)  have  been  satisfactorily  described.  Regression  of  symptoms  indicates  sufficient  treatment 
effect with icatibant. 
The  treated  patients  had  experienced,  from  2  up  to  44  HAE  attacks  (with  different  locations  of 
symptoms) during 6 months before study entry. These pre-study attacks had duration of 1-4 days. The 
61 open label treated laryngeal attacks, were of moderate to very severe character in 52 of the attacks 
(27/61 attacks were severe-very severe; nine were mild) when icatibant treatment was initiated. Most 
attacks  therefore  seem  to  be  severe  enough  to  reflect  the  risk  population  with  laryngeal  oedema 
attacks. One icatibant injection was sufficient in the majority of cases and efficacy noted by the patient 
as "time to regression" was less than 1 hour in 38/61 attacks. Another relevant indication of treatment 
effect is "hours at hospital" which was registered in 22/61 attacks with observation time at hospital no 
longer than 15 hours, but often much shorter.    
The additional data submitted and the discussion provided, are reassuring in describing efficacy with 
icatibant in both general attacks of HAE but also in laryngeal attacks. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Gender analyses in Study JE49-2102 
No effect of icatibant on gender was seen for the median time to onset of symptom relief, the median 
time to almost complete relief and evaluation of durability of response. In male patients, the median 
time to onset of symptom relief was 3.5 hours in the icatibant group and 14.0 hours in the Tranexamic 
acid group (p = 0.013). In female patients, the median time to onset of symptom relief was 1.6 hours in 
the icatibant group and 10.0 hours in the Tranexamic acid group (p < 0.001). 
For male patients the median time to almost complete relief for all symptoms was 12.5 hours in the 
icatibant  treatment  group,  and  51.0  hours  in  the  Tranexamic  acid  treatment  group  (p  =  0.014).  For 
female  patients  the  median  time  to  almost  complete  relief  for  all  symptoms  was  5.1  hours  in  the 
icatibant treatment group, and 34.0 hours in the Tranexamic acid treatment group (p = 0.002). 
In female patients the response rate 4 hours after the start of treatment was 91.7% for icatibant versus 
33.3% for the Tranexamic acid (p ≤ 0.001). 
Thus, there appears to be a gender effect on the efficacy endpoints irrespective of the treatment arms.  
This may be related to how females and males perceive their symptom severity. Since the size of the 
gender effect is similar for the icatibant and the comparators, it is unlikely that differences in systemic 
exposure  to  icatibant  can  account  for  the  observation.  Accordingly  there  is  no  need  to  recommend 
different doses. 
35/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight analyses in Study JE49-2102 
For  the  50  kg  to  75  kg  population  median  time  to  onset  of  symptom  relief  was  2.0  hours  for  the 
icatibant treatment group and 11.1 hours for the tranexamic acid treatment group (p = 0.002). For the 
75  kg  to  100  kg  population  median  time  to  onset  of  symptom  relief  was  2.0  hours  for  the  icatibant 
treatment group and 14 hours for the tranexamic acid treatment group (p = 0.001). The median time to 
almost complete relief was 4.0 hours for icatibant and 51.0 hours for tranexamic acid for the 50 kg to 
75 kg population (p = 0.001) and 10.0 hours for icatibant and 58.8 hours for tranexamic acid for the 75 
kg to 100 kg population (p = 0.003). The response rate at 4 hours for the 50 kg to 75 kg population 
was 80.0% for icatibant and 30.0% for tranexamic acid (p = 0.006) and 81.3% for icatibant and 28.6% 
for tranexamic acid for the 75 kg to 100 kg population (p = 0.009). 
Any trends are most likely explained by the gender effect described above. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Icatibant as a treatment for patients with hereditary angioedema attacks, has been clinically evaluated 
in one open dose-finding study and two comparative, double-blind studies including 130 patients with 
hereditary angioedema type I or II, whereof 63 patients received icatibant as single dose in the double-
blind phase. Open extension phases are ongoing. 
The chosen dose based on PK data  and an adequately performed  dose finding study is judged to be 
sufficiently justified.  
Attacks of hereditary angioedema have a complex pattern with varying symptoms from different organ 
systems, more or less difficult to analyse in an objective way (e.g swelling of lips is probably easier to 
estimate compared with e.g. swelling in a leg). Symptoms vary from one attack to another and within-
patient. Given these difficulties, the approach taken by the applicant to divide symptoms into two main 
groups, cutaneous and abdominal seems adequate. There are no established tools for evaluating attacks 
of HAE or any generally accepted study endpoints. The efforts made to define the primary endpoint, 
onset  of  symptom  relief,  are  acknowledged  as  a  reasonable  and  a  rather  conservative  approach.  In 
addition, to request 3 time points showing response, and thereafter assess the time to response, defined 
as  “time  to  the  first  response”    is  also  acknowledged  as  a  clinically  relevant  and  conservative 
approach. 
A beneficial effect was shown for icatibant in the primary endpoint, time to onset of symptom relief, 
in comparison with tranexamic acid. In the second pivotal study, comparing icatibant with placebo, a 
similar  rather  strong  trend  was  observed  which  however  failed  to  achieve  statistical  significance. 
However, the use of a responder analysis as the primary endpoint was likely to decrease the chance of 
detecting a difference between treatments as this analysis does not use all the available data. When a 
change from baseline analysis to 4 and 12 hours analysis was conducted clear evidence of superiority 
over placebo at both time points was seen.  Further sensitivity analyses have also been provided fitting 
centre as a fixed rather than a random effect. These analyses produce very similar results and confirm 
the superiority of icatibant over placebo for the VAS endpoint. In addition, icatibant was superior to 
both  controls  (tranexamic  acid  and  placebo)  in  a  number  of  secondary  endpoints  and  all  endpoints 
tended  to  be  in  favour  of  icatibant,  with  less  variability  and  a  consistently  shorter  time  to  symptom 
relief. The effect demonstrated in the double-blind studies is judged to be clinically relevant.  
In  the  open  label  follow  up  studies  that  are  still  ongoing,  patients  have  been  treated  with  repeated 
doses (up to 3 administrations in 24 hours) and during recurrent attacks. The additional data and the 
discussion  provided  are  consistent  with  the  pivotal  study  results  and  further  support  the  efficacy 
conclusions. A beneficial effect is judged to have been demonstrated both in the treatment of "general" 
HAE  attacks  without  laryngeal  symptoms  and  in  attacks  with  laryngeal  symptoms.  Most  of  the  in 
total,  597  treated  attacks,  needed  only  one  icatibant  administration,  and  very  few  required  rescue 
medication. Within these treated attacks, there are no signs of exacerbation of severe symptoms. 
36/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data from 61 attacks occurring in 36 patients, with laryngeal symptoms have been submitted. Most of 
the treated attacks seem to represent clinically relevant laryngeal symptoms (27/61 attacks were severe 
or very severe). Time to regression of symptoms, as well as time to “release from hospital” indicates 
clinically  relevant  efficacy  of  icatibant.  In  addition,  one  injection  was  sufficient  in  the  majority  of 
cases. 
As requested by CHMP the applicant proposed additional text in the SPC regarding the instructions of 
use, with the recommendation to manage patients with laryngeal attacks in hospital setting. However 
in the future, post-marketing experience and a proposed study may provide more data to ensure safe 
use with self-administration.  
Information from treatment in special populations is limited or lacking. Children/adolescents were not 
included and only 3 patients above the age of 65 were included in the performed studies. Appropriate 
information on this lack of knowledge has been included in the SPC 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Patient exposure in clinical trials, as submitted in the initial dossier is presented in table 9: 
Table 9 – Total Number of Healthy Subjects and Patients Receiving At Least One Dose of 
Icatibant in all Clinical Trials and Via all Routes of Administration 
New  interim  clinical  study  reports  have  been  prepared  including  data  collected  from  patients 
participating  in  the  open-label  phase  of  the  phase  III  studies  up  to  a  cut-off  date  of  30th  September 
2007.  Up  to  the  cut-off  date,  118  patients  have  been  treated  open  label  with  icatibant  for  a  total 
number of 597 HAE attacks.  
37/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Experience  from  open  label  treatment  of  61  HAE  attacks  with  symptoms  indicating  laryngeal 
involvement has in the response document been submitted and described. All individuals (n=36) with 
laryngeal symptoms (61 attacks) have been satisfactorily described. 
•  Adverse events  
The  most  common  adverse  events  reported  were  symptoms  related  to  injection  site  reactions  with 
icatibant. These reactions are more common with s.c. icatibant than following i.v. administration. 
Injection  site  reactions  were  seen  in  the  majority  of  patients  following  the  s.c.  dose  of  icatibant, 
generally  mild  to  moderate  in  severity  and  resolved  spontaneously  within  a  short  time.  Symptoms 
were itching, burning sensation, erythema, swelling, feeling of warmth, pruritus, as well as pain lasting 
from 10-20 minutes up to a few hours.  
There  were  5  reports  on  chest  pain,  but  the  case  reports  did  not  indicate  any  cardiovascular  related 
events.  None  of  the  reports  indicate  a  relation  to  icatibant  therapy  and  some  of  the  patients  were 
rechallenged with no similar symptoms.  
Immunological events 
A  number  of  patients  have  received  repeated  treatment  indicating  maintained  efficacy,  whereof  one 
patient  has  treated  110  attacks.  Of  the  overall  total  of  36  patients  treated  for  laryngeal  attacks  (61 
attacks), 24 patients received treatment for a single laryngeal attack, 8 patients for 2 laryngeal attacks, 
2 patients for 3 laryngeal attacks, and one each for 5 and 10 laryngeal attacks.  
No  signals  of  potential  immunological  events  have  been  found.  However,  no  method  of  antibody 
detection is available. The risk for antibody development is considered low, also supported by animal 
data.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
One patient on tranexamic acid died 41 days after administration (coronary artery atherosclerosis and 
aortic valve sclerosis).  
There were 6 patients (7 events) reporting serious events with the dose of icatibant intended for use. 
No serious event was reported for TA or placebo. 
The  reported  SAE  include  recurrent  attacks.  One  “hypertensive  crisis”  (this  diagnosis  could  be 
questioned) does not seem to be related in time to icatibant. Laryngeal oedema in one patient describes 
a rapid deterioration of symptoms, probably not related to icatibant given just 5 minutes before a need 
for intubation  
38/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Laboratory findings 
ECGs  including  QT  evaluations  have  been  thoroughly  performed  by  the  applicant,  also  involving 
expert opinion. No safety signals of concern have been found 
•  Safety in special populations 
No difference in safety reporting was found between male and female. 
Icatibant  has  been  studied  in  severely  ill  patients  with  liver  cirrhosis  and  concomitant  hepato-renal 
dysfunction, no safety signals were found. 
Bradykinin  has  been  implicated  in  the  protection  of  the  myocardium  during  ischemia  and  it  seems 
likely  that  the  serious  adverse  effects  seen  in  preclinical  infarction  studies  are  manifestations  of  a 
blockade  of  such  protective  effects  by  icatibant  (see  preclinical  issues).  The  Applicant  suggests  a 
warning in the SPC for the use of icatibant in the presence of acute ischaemic heart disease or unstable 
angina pectoris, which is endorsed. Bradykinin has also been implicated in limiting the extent of brain 
damage  in  stroke.  Theoretically,  icatibant  may  antagonise  the  protective  effect  of  bradykinin  in  this 
condition  as  well,  leading  to  a  worsening  of  the  ischaemic  brain  damage  (see  preclinical  issues).  A 
warning in the SPC has been proposed, which is endorsed. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Inhibition  of  degradation  of  bradykinin  by  ACE  inhibitors,  leading  to  an  increased  bradykinin 
concentration, may contribute to the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Thus, there is a theoretical 
risk of a pharmacodynamic interaction whereby icatibant would attenuate the antihypertensive effect 
of  ACE  inhibitors.  Clinical  trials  excluded  subjects  taking  ACE  inhibitors.  However,  the  possibility 
that short term administration of icatibant will alter significantly the chronic antihypertensive effect of 
an ACE inhibitor is remote, especially since patients with HAE  should not be using ACE inhibitors 
(risk for development of HAE attacks). 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
There were no reports of discontinuations due to adverse events. 
•  Post marketing experience 
There is no post-marketing experience. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
39/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed PhV 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Injection site reactions 
Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Erythema,  swelling,  warm  sensation,  burning, 
itching,  cutaneous  pain  is  described  as  very 
common  administration  site  reactions  in  the  
section 4.8 of the SPC (undesirable effects) 
Potential worsening of 
cardiac ischemia due to 
antagonism of beneficial 
bradykinin effects 
Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Safety data monitoring 
via a HAE Register. 
The  following  information  is  included  in  the 
section  4.4  of  the  SPC  (special  warnings  and 
precautions for use): 
Under  ischemic  conditions,  a  deterioration  of 
cardiac  function  and  a  decrease  in  coronary 
blood  flow  could 
theoretically  arise  from 
antagonism  of  bradykinin  receptor  type  2. 
Caution  should  therefore  be  observed  in  the 
administration  of  Firazyr  to  patients  with  acute 
ischemic  heart  disease  or  unstable  angina 
pectoris 
Routine risk minimisation activities for injection 
site reactions only (see above). 
the 
currently 
proposed 
At 
and 
administration  form,  no  bradykinin  agonistic 
effects  other  than  injection  site  reactions  are 
expected. 
dose 
Routine PhV 
Safety data monitoring 
via a HAE Register.   
Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Contraindications in section 4.3 of the SPC list: 
Hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance  or  to 
any of the excipients 
Potential partial brady-
kinin agonism 
-  generalized reactions 
such as hypotension, 
swelling of mucous 
membranes, broncho-
constriction, 
aggravation of pain, 
erythema or itching 
injection site reactions 
Antigenicity 
-  potential 
hypersensitivity 
-  potential lack of 
efficacy 
Safety data monitoring 
via a HAE Register. 
Lack of efficacy 
Routine PhV  
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Potentially life-
threatening in case of 
laryngeal oedema 
Safety data monitoring 
via a HAE Register 
The  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  (posology  and 
method of administration) specifies: 
Patients  with  laryngeal  attacks  need  to  be 
carefully  managed  in  an  appropriate  medical 
institution  after  injection  until  the  physician 
considers discharge to be safe. 
40/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: 
Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Use in children and 
adolescents 
Safety data monitoring 
via a HAE Register. 
Paediatric 
Investigation Plan. 
Section 4.1 of the SPC (therapeutic indications) 
indicates  that  Firazyr  is  indicated  in  adults  and 
section 4.2 specifies that “there is no experience 
in children”  
Use during pregnancy 
and lactation  
Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Follow-up until 
outcome of pregnancy 
is known 
The  section  4.6  of  the  SPC  (pregnancy  and 
lactation)  informs  that  “animal  studies  showed 
effects  on  uterine  implantation  and  parturition 
(see  section  5.3)  but  the  potential  risk  for 
humans  is  unknown.  Firazyr  should  be  used 
during  pregnancy  only  if  the  potential  benefit 
justifies the potential risk for the foetus (e.g. for 
treatment  of  potentially 
threatening 
laryngeal attacks).” 
life 
It is also specified in the section 4.6 of the SPC 
that “it is unknown whether icatibant is excreted 
in  human  milk  but  it  is  recommended  that 
lactating  women,  who  wish  to  take  icatibant, 
should  not  breastfeed  for  12  hours  after 
treatment.” 
Use in self-administration  Routine PhV 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Study on self-
administration 
The  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  (posology  and 
method  of  administration) 
that 
“Firazyr is not for self-administration”. 
specifies 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The active substance and the  medicinal product have been appropriately characterised and  generally 
satisfactory documentation has been provided. The excipients used in the preparation of the medicinal 
product and manufacturing process selected are typical for injectable preparations. The results indicate 
that the active substance and the medicinal product can be reproducibly manufactured. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were minor unresolved quality issues which have no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve it as a Follow-up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed time-frame.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  safety  pharmacology  package  did  not  produce  any  signals  causing  concerns  about  the  safety  of 
icatibant other than the cardiovascular effects. Bradykinin has been implicated in the protection of the 
myocardium  during  ischaemia  and  it  seems  likely  that  the  serious  adverse  effects  seen,  e.g. 
prolongation of ventricular fibrillations in isolated rat hearts and excess mortality in a dog myocardial 
infarction study, are manifestations of a blockade of such protective effects by icatibant. Theoretically, 
in stroke icatibant may also antagonise the protective effect of bradykinin (limiting the extent of brain 
damage). A warning has been introduced in the SPC (see Conclusion on Safety). 
41/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The cardinal symptoms in single dose toxicity studies were erythema and swelling and local reaction 
at  the  injection  site.  The  dominant  findings  in  repeat  –dose  toxicity  studies  were  nephrotoxicity 
(necrosis/Atrophy of proximal tubules) and delayed sexual  maturation. The latter are not relevant to 
the current indication (adults).   
The  renal  findings  in  the  short  term  studies  were  mostly  explained  by  the  use  of  a  certain  in-house 
strain of rats. However, renal findings observed in chronic toxicity studies (intranasal administration at 
low systemic exposure) raised some concern about possible long-term renal effects, considering that 
the frequency and severity of HAE episodes are highly variable.  However, as the proposed indication 
is treatment of HAE episodes, and given that  a 6 month study is available (although at lower exposure 
than the intended use), the lack of the chronic toxicity studies with a relevant route of administration is 
accepted; the applicant has committed to conduct  chronic toxicity studies in rodents and non-rodents  
as a follow-up measure. 
Efficacy 
A beneficial effect was shown for icatibant in the primary endpoint, time to onset of symptom relief, 
in comparison with tranexamic acid.  
In  the  second  pivotal  study,  comparing  icatibant  with  placebo,  a  similar  rather  strong  trend  was 
observed.  When  a  change  from  baseline  analysis  to  4  and  12  hours  analysis  was  conducted  clear 
evidence of superiority over placebo at both time-points was seen.  Further sensitivity analyses have 
also been provided fitting centre as a fixed rather than a random effect. These analyses produce very 
similar results and confirm the superiority of icatibant over placebo for the VAS endpoint.  
In  addition,  icatibant  was  superior  to  both  controls  (tranexamic  acid  and  placebo)  in  a  number  of 
secondary endpoints and all endpoints tended to be in favour of icatibant, with less variability and a 
consistently  shorter  time  to  symptom  relief.  The  effect  demonstrated  in  the  double-blind  studies  is 
judged to be clinically relevant.  
In  the  open  label  follow  up  studies  that  are  still  ongoing,  patients  have  been  treated  with  repeated 
doses (up to 3 administrations in 24 hours) and during recurrent attacks. The additional data and the 
discussion  provided  are  consistent  with  the  pivotal  study  results  and  further  support  the  efficacy 
conclusions. A beneficial effect is judged to have been demonstrated both in the treatment of "general" 
HAE attacks without laryngeal symptoms and in attacks with laryngeal symptoms. Most of the in total 
597  treated  attacks,  needed  only  one  icatibant  administration,  and  very  few  required  rescue 
medication. Within these treated attacks, there are no signs of exacerbation of severe symptoms. 
Data from 61 attacks occurring in 36 patients with laryngeal symptoms have been submitted. Most of 
the treated attacks seem to represent clinically relevant laryngeal symptoms (27/61 attacks were severe 
or very severe). Time to regression of symptoms, as well as time to “release from hospital” indicates 
clinically  relevant  efficacy  of  icatibant.  In  addition,  one  injection  was  sufficient  in  the  majority  of 
cases. 
As requested by CHMP the applicant proposed additional text in the SPC regarding the instructions of 
use, with the recommendation to manage patients with laryngeal attacks in hospital setting.  
Information from treatment in special populations is limited or lacking. Children/adolescents were not 
included and only 3 patients above the age of 65 were included in the performed studies. Appropriate 
information on this lack of knowledge has been included in the SPC 
Safety 
In  the  double-blind,  controlled  studies  63  attacks  were  treated  in  63  patients,  with  a  single  dose  of 
icatibant.  Up  to  the  cut-off  date,  118  patients  have  been  treated  open  label  with  icatibant  for  a  total 
number  of  597  HAE  attacks.  This  is  considered  an  appropriate  number  of  attacks  in  this  orphan 
indication also taking into account that during the clinical studies with icatibant and in the open label 
treated attacks, no alarming signals have been found.  
42/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  clinical  trials  a  high  number  of  injection  site  reactions  were  identified.  These  reactions  are 
mainly  mild-moderate  and  resolve  within  a  few  hours.  The  mechanism  of  mast-cell  degradation  is 
plausible but also the rather large injection volume of 3 ml might influence the skin reaction. 
Theoretically  a  potential  risk  is  a  deterioration  of  cardiac  function  and  decrease  in  coronary  blood 
flow,  under  ischaemic  conditions  (e.g.  during  an  acute  myocardial  infarction),  due  to  a  possible 
protective effect of bradykinin. Therefore, in the clinical trials, patients with cardiac risk factors were 
excluded  and  in  the  SPC,  a  warning  is  included  on  patients  with  acute  ischaemic  heart  disease  and 
unstable angina pectoris and also stroke.  
Antigenicity cannot be excluded but no method of detecting antibodies has been possible to develop. 
No  signs  of  hypersensitivity  increasing  over  time  have  been  found  in  subjects  with  repeated 
administrations.  The  risk  of  developing  antibodies  with  this  small  peptide  seems  however  low,  also 
supported by animal data.  
A  major  concern  is  the  potential  risk  for  lack  of  efficacy  in  patients  developing  laryngeal  oedema 
which must be met with appropriate risk minimisation measures. Cases with laryngeal oedema are of 
particular  concern  due  to  its  life-threatening  character  resulting  in  serious  complications  due  to 
delayed  transport  to  hospital  or  a  delay  in  acute  care.  Reassuring  data  have  been  received  from  61 
attacks involving laryngeal symptoms, whereof the majority had moderate- very severe symptoms at 
baseline.  It  is  necessary  to  learn  more  from  thoroughly  assessed  open  label  treated  patients  and  to 
continuously monitor post-authorisation. Instructions for use in appropriate medical settings have been 
included in the SPC. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these  
• 
User consultation 
The applicant has submitted results from user testing of the package leaflet, which was performed in 
English. Overall, the user test is found acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  risk/benefit  balance  is  from  a  clinical  perspective  positive.  Statistically  significant  efficacy  has 
been  shown  compared  with  both  tranexamic  acid  and  placebo  for  change  from  baseline  in  VAS 
measuring the severity of the attack, and with a consistent pattern of less variability in time to response 
(primary  endpoint)  compared  to  placebo  and  tranexamic  acid.  This  is  also  true  for  secondary 
endpoints. 
No major safety concerns have been found.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Firazyr  in  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  of  acute  attacks 
hereditary  angioedema  (HAE)  in  adults  (with  C1-esterase-inhibitor  deficiency)  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
43/43 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
