22 February 2018 
EMA/271222/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): icatibant 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001714/201707 
Period covered by the PSUR: 12 July 2016 to 11 July 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for icatibant, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
In total 16 cases of urticaria have been reported from health care professionals or consumers related to 
the use of icatibant during the interval of this Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) 
In one female patient with previous drug hypersensitivity to penicillin developed hives after injection. The 
physician confirmed an allergy with a positive skin test. Causality was considered as definite. Firazyr was 
discontinued.  
In another patient the urticarial occurred following both the first and the second injection.  
Among the rest of cases, although there was limited information in some cases from Patient supporting 
program, there was a close temporal relationship between the Firazyr injection and the occurrence of 
urticarial in a number of cases.  
In addition, there seems to be biological plausibility, as both Partial Bradykinin Agonism (including 
hypersensitivity/drug hypersensitivity) and Antigenicity are labelled as potential risks. In clinical trials of 
the approved dose of icatibant, the most frequent adverse reactions were injection site reactions (skin 
irritation, swelling, pain, itchiness, erythema, burning sensation). Based on the data from preclinical 
studies, it is presumed that these are related to mast cell activation, and partial bradykinin agonism. 
Based on available data, it is proposed that Urticaria is included under SOC Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders with frequency “Unknown” in table 2, section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for icatibant the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing icatibant is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/271222/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
