European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/793638/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Zenas 
International Nonproprietary Name: amifampridine 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/001032 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................ 3 
1.1  Submission of the dossier ............................................................................................................. 3 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product............................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.1  Introduction................................................................................................................................... 5 
2.2  Quality aspects .............................................................................................................................. 6 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects .................................................................................................................... 11 
2.4  Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................... 23 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance ...................................................................................................................... 44 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ........................................... 47 
2/49 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  EUSA  Pharma  SAS  submitted  on  5 June 2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
Zenas,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/02/124  on  18 December  2002. 
Zenas  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  Treatment  of 
Lambert-Eaton  myasthenic  syndrome.  The  calculated  prevalence  of  this  condition  was  about  1  per 
100,000 EU population. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  Treatment  of  Lambert-Eaton  Myasthenic 
Syndrome.   
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
A – Centralised / Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant did not seek Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur:  Bengt Ljungberg 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 5 June 2008. 
The procedure started on 25 June 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
12 September 2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
members on 19 September 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  20-23  October 2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 October 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
24 April 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 5 June 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-25 June 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  outstanding  issues  on 
21 September 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 6 October 2009. 
3/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During the meeting on 19-22 October 2009 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances  to  Zenas  on  22 October 2009.  The 
applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the specific obligations and follow-up measures 
to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 20 October 2009. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 23 December 2009. 
4/49 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
In 1956, Lambert Eaton and Rooke, and in 1957, Eaton and Lambert described the essential clinical 
and  EMG  features  of  a  syndrome  which  has  subsequently  been  referred  to  as  the  LEMS.  Given  a 
prevalence of LEMS as  estimated  the European Committee for  Orphan Medicinal Products of 1 per 
100,000,  approximately  4,000  individuals  in  the  European  Union  can  be  assumed  to  be  currently 
suffering from LEMS.   
LEMS is considered to be a neuromuscular transmission defect. Typically in LEMS, too few synaptic 
vesicles  are  released  in  response  to  nerve  stimulation  resulting  in  an  abnormally  low  end-plate 
potential.  The  impairment  of  acetylcholine  release  is  a  consequence  of  the  production  of  antibodies 
directed against voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC), type P/Q. These auto-antibodies are found 
in 75% to 95% of cases.  
LEMS is clinically characterised by muscle weakness and fatigability (mainly of the legs and trunk); 
ptosis  and  dysartria  are  also  frequently  detected.  The  increase  of  muscle  strength  immediately  after 
exercise  and  the  elicitation  of  tendon  reflexes  after  brief  muscle  contraction  are  characteristic.  The 
syndrome  also  includes  a  sensory  neuropathy  presenting  e.g.  as  numbness  or  tingling  in  hands  and 
feet.  Autonomic  disturbances,  due  to  both  parasympathetic  and  sympathetic  dysfunction,  are  very 
common,  causing  dry  eyes,  dry  mouth, constipation, impaired  sweating,  orthostatic  hypotension  and 
impotence.  The  onset  of  symptoms  is  usually  gradual  and  insidious.  In  rare  cases,  weakness  of  the 
respiratory muscles can lead to a life-threatening condition necessitating artificial respiration.  
LEMS occurs in two forms, neoplastic and non-neoplastic LEMS. LEMS is a paraneoplastic syndrome 
in at least 60 % of patients. The neoplastic LEMS is linked to small lung cell carcinoma (SCLC); 3 % 
of  patients  with  SCLC  are  estimated  to  have  LEMS.  Conversely,  42  %  of  those  with  LEMS  have 
SLCL and 5 % have other carcinomas. LEMS occurs also in the absence of a neoplasm and such cases 
are often associated with an autoimmune disorder.  
Electrophysiological tests are useful for diagnosis as well as for monitoring the course of illness. 
The typical abnormalities are: 
• 
• 
• 
a reduced amplitude of resting compound muscle action potential (CMAP). 
a decrement in CMAP amplitude at low rates of repetitive nerve stimulation (3 Hz). 
an  increment  in  CMAP  amplitude,  typically  over  100%,  after  either  high  rates  of  nerve 
stimulation or 10 to 15 seconds maximal voluntary contraction. 
3,4-DAP  has  been  found  to  block  voltage-dependent  potassium  channels,  thereby  prolonging  pre-
synaptic  cell  membrane  depolarisation.  Prolonging  the  action  potential  enhances  the  transport  of 
calcium  into  the  nerve  ending.  The  resulting  increase  in  intra-cellular  calcium  concentrations 
facilitates the exocytosis of acetylcholine-containing vesicles, which in turn enhances neuromuscular 
transmission. 
3,4-DAP has been widely used as an ad-hoc hospital preparation in the treatment of LEMS for over 
twenty years. It currently has orphan drug status within the EU and has been used in compassionate 
use programmes for the treatment of LEMS in several Member States. It is recognised as a first-line 
symptomatic  treatment  for  this  disease  as  reflected  in  the  recommendations  of  the  European 
Federation of Neurological Societies  (EFNS) Task Force (European Journal of Neurology 2006, 13: 
682–690). 
On-demand  preparations  of  3,4-DAP  base  may  exhibit  variability  and  a  lack  of  reliability  in  the 
quality of the drug product. Moreover, the supply of 3, 4-DAP under this specific access scheme does 
not  allow  the  medical  community  and  regulatory  bodies  to  collect  safety  data  according  to  current 
pharmacovigilance procedures. Therefore, a new formulation has been developed to try and overcome 
these issues. 
5/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Zenas is presented as tablets containing 10 mg of amifampridine (active  substance) in the form of  a 
phosphate salt. Excipients used in the preparation of Zenas are well known substances typically used 
in  the  tablet  formulations,  such  as  microcrystalline  cellulose,  anhydrous  colloidal  silica  and  calcium 
stearate. 
Tablets  are  white,  round,  flat-faced  and  scored  on one  face  so  each  tablet  can  be  divided into  equal 
halves.  Zenas  is  supplied  in  perforated  unit  dose  thermoformed  blisters  composed  of  aluminium-
PVC/PVDC laminate sheets. 
Active Substance 
The  active  substance  is  chemically  designated  as  3,4-diaminopyridine  phosphate  (DAPP)  or  3,4-
pyridinediamine, phosphate salt and has the following structure: 
Amifampridine  phosphate  is  a  white,  crystalline  powder,  soluble  in  water,  slightly  soluble  in 
dimethylsulfoxide,  glacial  acetic  acid  and  methanol  and  very  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol  and 
dimethylformamide. Its melting point is 229 ± 2 oC. pH of 1% solution in water at 25 oC is 4.6 ± 0.2 
The molecule does not contain chiral centres, therefore stereoisomerism does not occur. 
The  substance  does  not  exhibit  polymorphism  and  only  one  crystal  form  is  known.  The  same 
crystalline form is consistently produced using the commercially utilised manufacturing process. 
• 
Manufacture 
The  synthesis  of  the  active  substance  has  been  described  in  sufficient  detail,  and  adequate  evidence 
has been provided that the process is reproducible, and sufficiently controlled.  
3,4-diaminopyridine  phosphate  (DAPP)  is  manufactured  through  a  multi-step  process  to  obtain  the 
active substance in form of a phosphate salt.  
The proposed manufacturer of the active substance has more than 10 years of experience in 
manufacturing this compound. During the development program first studies dealt with selection of 
salt and different ways of synthesis. Different salts were investigated but problems with e.g. yield and 
impurity profiles led to the final choice of the phosphate salt.  
A  detailed  description  of  the  process  (including  equipment,  materials,  amounts,  conditions, 
parameters,  process  controls  and  yields)  is  provided  as  are  also  synthesis  schemes  and  process  flow 
diagrams.  Process  controls  are  specified.  Appropriate  specifications  are  in  place  for  the  starting 
material, intermediates and reagents, solvents and process aids used in synthesis. 
The  information  provided  in  terms  of  process  validation  and  manufacturing  process  development  is 
satisfactory. Preliminary validation of the synthetic process has been performed, and was described for 
6/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9  batches  of  the  active  substance.  Results  of  the  full-scale  process  validation  were  performed  on  3 
further batches of the active substance with process parameters, in-process control results and yields 
tabulated for each step of the process. These data constitute satisfactory evidence that the synthesis is 
suitably controlled and capable of consistently yielding active substance of the desired quality. 
The  structure  of  3,4-diaminopyridine  phosphate  has  been  confirmed  by  means  of  spectroscopic 
methods as UV, IR, MS and 1H- and 13C-NMR. Solid state investigations have been performed by X-
ray powder diffraction. Studies confirmed the presence of only one crystal form.  
Potential impurities have been listed and well discussed in relation to their origin and potential carry-
over into the final drug substance. 
• 
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  clearness  and  coloration  of  solution, 
solubility, pH, assay (potentiometric titration), identification (FT-IR and melting range), identification 
of  phosphates,  water  content  (Karl  Fisher),  residual  solvents  (GC),  heavy  metals,  palladium  (ICP-
AES), related substances (HPLC), microbial purity. 
A detailed description for analytical methods was provided. Standard pharmacopoeial methodology is 
largely  employed.  Validation  reports  are  presented  for  the  critical  non  compendial  analytical 
procedures. 
Residual  solvents  are  determined  using  in-house  GC  method.  The  method  has  been  validated 
satisfactorily with  regard  to  specificity,  precision  (repeatability  and  intermediate  precision), linearity 
and  accuracy.  Limits  of  detection  and  quantification  have  been  determined  based  on  signal/  noise 
ratios of 3:1 and 10:1. 
An in-house HPLC method is employed for the determination of related substances. The method has 
been  validated  satisfactorily  with  regard  to  specificity,  precision  (repeatability  and  intermediate 
precision), linearity and accuracy, for the named impurity. Limits of detection and quantification have 
been  determined  based  on  signal/noise  ratios  of  3:1  and  10:1,  respectively.  The  robustness  of  the 
method has also been demonstrated. 
An in-house potentiometric endpoint titration method is employed for the determination of assay. The 
method has been validated satisfactorily with regard to specificity, linearity, precision and accuracy. 
Palladium content is determined by atomic emission spectroscopy. The method has also been validated 
with regard to determination of limits of detection and quantification.  
In  general  analytical  methods  proposed  are  suitable  to  control  the  quality  of  the  drug  substance 
however some minor issues need to be further addressed as post approval commitments. 
Data on 3 batches of active substance obtained by the proposed drug substance manufacturer and on 6 
batches  from  the  manufacturer  of  the  finished  product  have  been  provided.  Full  compliance  with 
proposed specification has been demonstrated. 
• 
Stability 
The active substance manufacturer has initiated stability studies on three commercial scale batches of 
the active substance. Samples were stored in containers representative of the commercial packaging, 
under  conditions  in  accordance  with  ICH  recommendations  (long-term:  25  ±  2  oC  /  60  ±  5%  RH; 
accelerated:  40  ±  2  oC  / 75  ±  5%  RH).  Data  from  completed  (12-month)  accelerated  studies  and  18 
months of ongoing long-term studies were included in the dossier. 
Photostability studies on three batches of the active substance have been reported, with sample having 
been exposed to 13500 Lux / 1.96 W/m2 at 25  oC for 102 hours. No significant increase in impurity 
7/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levels was apparent, but slight darkening of powder was observed and hence, it has been concluded 
that the active substance is light sensitive. 
Additional, supportive stability data was provided from the finished product manufacturer; 3 batches 
entered in these studies have been prepared via an earlier manufacturing process, and stored in glass 
bottles.  Data  from  up  to  15  months  of  accelerated  studies  and  5  years  of  long-term  studies  were 
presented. Compliance with the specification was confirmed for the duration of the long-term studies. 
In summary the stability data provided support the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions. 
The  active  substance  manufacturer  has  given  a  commitment  to  continue  ongoing  long-term  stability 
studies  for  the  duration  of  the  proposed  retest  period.  Their  stability  protocol  also  prescribes  the 
inclusion of 1 further commercial scale batch per year in stability studies. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  programme  was  a  straightforward,  reproducible 
manufacturing  process,  yielding  immediate-release  tablets  containing  10  mg  of  amifampridine  (3,4-
diaminopyridine)  in  the  form  of  a  phosphate  salt  (DAPP).  Currently  amifampridine  is  supplied  (as 
base form) to hospital pharmacies where capsules containing 5 and 10 mg of the active substance are 
prepared  extemporaneously.  The  focus  has  therefore  been  on  the  development  of  immediate  release 
tablets  allowing  appropriate  dosing.  The  stability  of  the  product  has  also  been  in  focus  as  the  base 
form is not stable. 
The  chosen  excipients  are  widely  used  for  their  respective  proposed  function  in  the  current 
formulation in pharmaceutical products, and in direct compression manufacture. The use of lactose as 
a  diluent  was  excluded  on  the  basis  of  the  potential  for  a  Maillard  reaction  to  occur  with  the  active 
substance.  Calcium  stearate  was  chosen  over  magnesium  stearate  due  to  the  potential  effect  of 
magnesium on neuromuscular transmission, hence it being considered unsuitable for use in a product 
for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton syndrome. No pre-formulation compatibility work was performed 
on the selected excipients, which are recognised as being chemically inert. 
A  secondary  aim  of  the  formulation  development  was  the  incorporation  of  tablet  score-lines  for 
posology adjustment. The proposed posology is: initially 5 mg three times daily, increasing by 5 mg 
increments up to maximum of 60 mg per day, with doses ≥ 20 mg/day divided into 4 separate doses. 
This means that standard posology will recommend the administration of half-tablets.  
A series of trial batches were produced to study the effects of formulation on tablet pharmacotechnical 
properties.  Having  decided  upon  the  final  formulation,  work  on  the  optimisation  of  manufacturing 
process parameters was undertaken. 
Comparative  analyses  (dissolution  and  impurity  profiles)  of  the  current  product  and  the  previously 
used  extemporaneously  prepared  capsules  containing  active  substance  in  form  of  the  base  were 
performed in order to demonstrate that the products can be considered pharmaceutically equivalent to 
a sufficient degree in support of the use of literature references for safety and efficacy data. Similar, 
rapid dissolution behaviour has been demonstrated for the tablets containing amifampridine phosphate 
(DAPP) and for the capsules containing amifampridine base (DAP). Based on the data provided it was 
concluded  that  dissolution  behaviour  of  tablets  formulated  with  DAPP  and  the  range  of 
extemporaneously prepared capsules formulated with DAP, will not differ significantly to impact upon 
the rate and extent of absorption of the active moiety and consequently safety and/or efficacy. 
No  pharmaceutical  development  work  on  the  uniformity  of  subdivided  tablets  has  been  presented; 
however, this property is to be controlled in the finished product specification; and as  an in-process 
control during tablet manufacture. 
8/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A simple and reliable method for the evaluation of dissolution of DAPP tablets has been developed, 
according  to  the  current  edition  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia.  The  results  of  solubility  studies  in 
association with the determination of partition coefficient confirm that 3,4-diaminopyridine belongs to 
Category  3  (High  Solubility  –  Low  Permeability  Drugs)  of  the  Biopharmaceutics  Classification 
System (BCS). In these conditions, dissolution and permeability are critical parameters affecting the 
drug  absorption.  Rapid  dissolution  is  a  criterion  which  maximise  the  contact  time  between  the 
dissolved drug and absorption mucosa. Category 3 drugs exhibit a high variability in rate and extent of 
absorption. However, where dissolution is fast, such as is the case for DAPP tablets where it has been 
demonstrated  that  85%  of  the  drug  dissolves  in  15  minutes,  variation  may  be  attributed  to  gastro-
intestinal  transit,  luminal  contents,  and  membrane  permeation,  rather  than  dosage  form  factors.  As 
drug permeation is rate controlling, limited or no in vitro – in vivo correlation is expected. Given the 
highly soluble nature of the active substance, dissolution testing is considered to be of limited use as a 
QC tool therefore, demonstration that the dissolution method is discriminatory was not considered to 
be critical. Rather than performing routine dissolution testing, the Applicant claimed that release of the 
active substance is adequately controlled by disintegration time. It has been demonstrated during the 
development  program  that  the  finished  product  has  consistently  rapid  drug  substance  release 
characteristics  as  defined  by  the  Decision  Tree  #7(1)  of  the  guideline  on  test  procedures  and 
acceptance  criteria  for  new  substances  and  new  drug  products  (CPMP/ICH/367/96),  therefore  the 
substitution of dissolution testing with disintegration testing for routine control of the finished product 
have been considered acceptable. 
The development work resulted in the applied formulation and with a standard manufacturing process 
(tabletting) consisting of a series of steps of sieving and blending prior to compression. 
• 
Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  used  in  the  drug  product  are  of  animal  origin.  Calcium  stearate  used  in  the 
formulation is of vegetal origin. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  sufficiently  described  and  a  process  flow  diagram  was  provided.  The 
process  comprises  a  series  of  steps  of  sieving  and  mixing  of  ingredients,  lubrication  and  finally 
compression  of  tablets  followed  by  packaging.  Critical  steps  have  been  identified  and  relate  to  the 
established in-process controls. The mixing steps are critical in respect of achieving blend uniformity 
(absence  of  agglomerates)  and  during  the  compression  steps  it  has  to  be  ensured  that  tablets  with 
satisfactory properties are produced. This is ensured by in-process controls.  
Process  validation  has  been  performed  on  3  batches.  Satisfactory  results  have  been  observed  with 
regard  to  blend  uniformity  and  compression.  Uniformity  of  mass  of  half  tablets  was  shown  to  be 
consistent.  The  validation  satisfactorily  demonstrates  the  manufacturing  process  to  be  consistently 
capable of yielding product of the desired quality. 
• 
Product Specification 
The product specifications (at release and during shelf-life) are standard for tablets and contain tests 
with  suitable  limits  for  appearance,  identification  (UV),  identification  of  phosphates,  divisibility  of 
tablets,  disintegration,  dissolution,  mean  mass,  resistance  to  crushing,  control  of  dimensions, 
uniformity  of  dosage  units,  assay  (HPLC  or  UV),  related  substances  (HPLC),  microbial 
contamination. 
Methodology employed for monitoring of tablet characteristics is largely according to Ph Eur. 
The  active  substance  is  identified  in  the  product  via  UV  spectrophotometry,  with  a  further 
identification test confirming the presence of phosphate, as per the Ph Eur method. It is also stated that 
identification can be confirmed via HPLC retention times. 
9/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  in-house  HPLC  assay  method  has  been  developed  and  validated  satisfactorily  with  regard  to 
specificity, linearity and accuracy over the range 80 – 120% of theoretical sample concentration and 
precision (repeatability and intermediate precision). 
The UV assay method and for determining uniformity of dosage units has been validated satisfactorily 
with regard to specificity, linearity and accuracy over the range 80 – 120% of theoretical sample 
concentration and precision (repeatability and intermediate precision). 
An  in-house  HPLC  method  for  evaluation  of  related  substances  has  been  developed  and  validated 
however further minor work is needed in order to complete the validation program for this method. 
Batch analysis data have been presented for 3 production scale batches and as a supportive data further 
results  for  3  smaller  (non-commercial)  scale  batches,  manufactured  according  to  an  earlier  process, 
have  also  been  provided.  Compliance  with  the  proposed  specification  was  demonstrated.  Results 
showed that tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished product specifications. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  have  been  initiated  on  3  production  scale  batches,  in  the  proposed  commercial 
packaging. The studies have been undertaken in accordance with ICH recommended conditions: long-
term  studies  at  25  oC/60%  RH,  intermediate  studies  at  30  oC/65%  RH  and  accelerated  studies  at 
40 oC/75%  RH.  18  months  for  one  batch  and  12  months  for  two  batches  of  long-term  data  were 
resented,  along  with  completed  accelerated  (6-month)  and  intermediate  (12-month)  study  results  for 
all 3 batches.  
The results from long-term studies (12 or 18 months) from the batches manufactured according to the 
proposed manufacturing process, follow similar trends, remaining within specification. Assay results 
are  subject  to  fluctuation,  but  no  significant  downward  trend  is  apparent.  Completed  studies  under 
intermediate  conditions  on  these  batches  showed  the  product  to  remain  within  specification  for  the 
duration of the testing. The proposed shelf-life and storage conditions were considered justified. 
Supporting  stability  data  have  been  provided  for  6  batches  manufactured  according  to  a  previous 
process. Between 24 and 48 months of data are presented for studies conducted at 25 oC/60% RH on 
these batches, with completed (6-month) accelerated studies at 40 oC/75% RH, as well as 7.5 months 
data from studies conducted at 30 oC/65% RH for 2 of the batches. 
In  addition  photostability  studies  have  been  performed  on  the  finished  product,  with  three  batches 
exposed to 13500 Lux/1.96 W/m2 at 25 oC, for 102 hours (unprotected tablets and tablets in blisters). 
Some  discolouration  of  tablets  exposed  directly  to  light  was  reported,  but  no  change  in  quality  was 
apparent for the blistered tablets. 
Based on the stability data the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were minor unresolved quality issues, which have no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve them as Follow-up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed time-frame.  
10/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
3,4-diaminopirydine  (3,4-DAP)  blocks  voltage-dependent  potassium  channels.  This  blockage  causes 
depolarisation  of  the  presynaptic  membrane  and  slows  down  or  inhibits  repolarisation.  Prolonged 
depolarisation induces the opening of slow voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) and the influx of 
calcium.  The  increased  concentration  of  intracellular  calcium  induces  exocytosis  of  the  synaptic 
vesicles  containing  ACh.  It  has  been  proposed  that  treatment  with  3,4-DAP  counteracts  the 
pathologically-reduced ACh release in patients with LEMS and hence provides symptomatic relief to 
the patient. These pharmacological actions support the proposed clinical indication. 
All pivotal studies were conducted in compliance with Good Laboratory Practice as claimed by the 
applicant. The applicant refers to extensive bibliographic data available for the 3,4- DAP in the base 
form. The statement on the GLP status of these studies is not available. 
Pharmacology 
The  pharmacology  of  3,4-DAP  phosphate  is  based  on  bibliographic  data  obtained  from  research 
mainly with 3,4-DAP base, and safety pharmacology studies conducted by the applicant with the 3,4-
DAP phosphate salt.  
Primary pharmacodynamics  
• 
The primary pharmacology section was based on bibliographic data sourced from scientific literature 
published over the past four decades. 
In vitro data 
3,4-DAP effectively inhibits voltage-dependent potassium channels and by this mechanism triggers an 
increased release of ACh. In 1964, it was discovered that the direct stimulation of the smooth muscle 
tonus induced by 3,4-DAP can be partly antagonised by atropine (Vohra and Pradhan, 1964), in line 
with the proposed pharmacological effect of 3,4-DAP, i.e. the increased release of ACh via blockage 
of presynaptic potassium channels.  
Potassium  currents  play  an  important  role  in  resting  and  action  potentials  of  neurons.  In  1990,  the 
mechanism  of  potassium  channel-triggered  neurotransmitter  release  was  investigated  in  stellate 
ganglia  of  the  squid  Loligo  opalescens  and  Loligo  pealei  (Augustine,  1990).  The  investigators 
described  a  pronounced  effect  of  intracellular  or  extracellular  3,4-DAP  on  potassium  currents.  3,4-
diaminopyridine inhibited potassium currents with an effective dissociation constant of 7 µM. These 
findings  are  in  line  with  results  published  in  1978  in  the  same  species,  reporting  an  apparent 
dissociation constant of 5.8 µM (external application) for blockage of potassium currents (Kirsh and 
Narashi,  1978).  McGiverns  et  al.  (1993)  published  results  from  a  study  that  demonstrated  that  3,4-
DAP  appears  to  have  affinity  for  more  than  one  potassium  channel  type,  as  the  snake  toxin  α-
dendrotoxin  was  only  partially  able  to  abolish  the  3,4-DAP-sensitive  potassium  current  and  the 
residual potassium current could be effectively inhibited by 3,4-DAP.  
Several  papers  published  in  the  1980’s  have  shown  that  the  inhibitory  effects  of  botulinum  toxin 
serotype A (but not of serotypes B, D or F; results on serotype E are equivocal) on spontaneous as well 
as  evoked  ACh  release  could  be  abolished  by  3,4-DAP  in  vitro  (Siegel  et  al.  1980;  Simpson,  1986; 
Rowan and Harvey, 1988; Molgo et al. 1989). 3,4-diaminopyridine was ~ 10-fold more effective than 
the structural analogue, 4-aminopyridine. 3,4-diaminopyridine in the lower micromolar concentration 
range abolished the toxin-induced reduction in motor end plate potentials induced by botulinum toxin 
serotype  A.  A  more  recent  study  (Adler  et  al.,  1996)  using  rat  muscle  preparations  showed  that  the 
effects of botulinum toxin A (and partially for toxin E) could be antagonised by 3,4-DAP. In 1989 and 
1998  it  was  reported  that  by  diminishing  potassium  influx  via  blockage  of  fast  voltage-dependent 
potassium  channels,  the  presynaptic  depolarisation  is  prolonged,  resulting  in  an  increase  in  calcium 
ion  influx,  which  in  turn  increases  the  release  of  neurotransmitter  (viz  ACh)  quanta  (Huang  et  al. 
1989; Maddison et al. 1998).  
11/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thomsen  et  al.  (1983)  reported  that  in  rat  diaphragm  neuromuscular  junction  preparations,  a 
concentration of 100 µM 3,4-DAP, in vitro, prolonged the endplate potential from 6.1 ± 0.9 msec to 
9.1 ± 1.1 msec. Furthermore, in 1990, Hong et al. reported a direct modulation of the function of the 
calcium  channels  involved  by  potassium  channel  function  based  on  electrophysiological  results 
obtained  in  mural  nerve-hemidiaphragm  preparations.  Braga  et  al.  in  1991  examined  and  confirmed 
the  selective  potassium  channel  blocking  characteristics  of  3,4-DAP  in  mural  triangularis  sterni 
muscle preparations by extracellular recording of potassium current wave form. At a concentration of 
10 mM, 3,4-DAP has been found to be able to reverse a 70% reduction in twitch height induced by 1 
to 5 mM tubocurarine, a competitive acetylcholine antagonist. In 1998, van Lunteren et al. published 
results  from  a  study  in  young  (3  -  4  months)  and  old  (20  -  21  months)  male  Fisher  rats  that 
investigated  the  influence  of  age  on  the  pharmacodynamic  effect  of  3,4-DAP.  In  tissue  from  young 
adult  animals,  a  more  pronounced  effect  was  observed  compared  with  muscle  preparations  obtained 
from  old  animals.  The  isometric  twitch  force  was  increased  by  181  ±  12%  in  young  adult  animal 
muscle,  while  the  increase  was  only  144  ±  24%  in  old  animals  (p  <  0.05).  The  authors  considered 
these differences to be of minor influence on the clinical efficacy of 3,4-DAP in elderly patients and 
fully recommended the use in this population. 
Moreover,  in  papers  published  in  1990  and  1995,  investigators  reported  that  3,4-DAP  appears  to 
activate calcium-dependent choline uptake, preventing membrane depletion from phosphatidylcholine 
and other major phospholipids (Hong and Chang, 1990; Buyukuysal et al. 1995). 
In vivo data 
Siegel  (1986)  showed  that  3,4-DAP  given  intraperitoneally  prolonged  survival  time  in  mice  treated 
with botulotoxin type A. This study was performed with the phosphate salt. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
• 
The secondary pharmacology profile of 3,4-DAP, also presented as a bibliographic review, indicates 
that 3,4-DAP could potentially exert effects on the cardiovascular system, central nervous system and 
gastrointestinal tract.  
It is well-documented that, in vitro, 3,4-DAP is able to modify cardiac conduction and, in particular, to 
induce phasic contractions in different arteries from several species (including humans).  
Furthermore,  3,4-DAP  has  stimulatory  effect  on  potassium-evoked  dopamine  release,  noradrenaline 
release in rat hippocampal slices and upregulates ACh release in the brain. 
Finally,  3,4-DAP  base  has  been  shown  to  potentiate  adrenergic  and  cholinergic  neuromuscular 
transmission in the gastrointestinal tract. These in vitro data are consistent with the moderate digestive 
adverse effects observed in the clinic. 
Effects of 3,4-DAP on different organs and functions 
3,4-DAP has been shown to dose-dependently increase blood pressure, induce salivation in the cat and 
induce full, dose-dependent myosis in anaesthetised rats.  
• 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Because  of  the  well-documented  fact  that  3,4-DAP  acts  on  ion  channels  involved  in  cardiac 
transmission  and  its  effects  on  the  CNS,  the  applicant  has  conducted  safety  pharmacology  studies 
addressing these specific issues. 
12/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety pharmacology studies submitted are summarised in the table below. 
Organ system 
evaluated/ 
Report No. 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Method of 
administrat
ion 
Doses  
Study design/ 
Main findings 
CNS (Functional 
observatory 
battery)/ 
20070139PGR 
Cardiovascular/ 
1710/AGE/03 
Wistar rats 
8 males/group 
(4 treated 
groups, 1 
negative 
control group 
and 1 positive 
control group 
(clonidine 3 
mg/kg) and 9 
supplementary 
males in each 
group for TK 
Female Rabbit 
Purkinje fibres 
Oral gavage 
single 
5, 10, 20 or 
40 mg/kg 
3,4-DAP 
phosphate 
in 1%  (w/v) 
CMC 
Irwin standardised observation battery 
and body temperature evaluated. 
Measurements of the Irwin scores and 
body temperature were performed at 
0.08, 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 hrs after 
administration. At 24 hrs post-dosing, 
only mortality was recorded.  
Tissue bath 
3,4-DAP 
phosphate  
0.1, 1.0, 10, 
30 or 100 
μM 
No effects on standard parameters. 
NOAEL: 40mg/kg  
At 30 and 100 μM, the duration of the 
action potential at 90 and 50% 
repolarisation increased by 18 and 40% 
during bradycardia, indicating block of 
potassium channels (class III 
antiarrhythmic effects). The amplitude, 
the maximum upstroke velocity and the 
resting membrane potential were not 
modified by any tested concentration. 
No effects. 
IC50 value for 3,4–diaminopyridine 
phosphate could not be determined, > 
30 μM. 
Cardiovascular/ 
1711/AGE/03 
hERG K+ 
currents in 
CHO-K1 
hERG cells 
Perfusion 
chamber 
3,4-DAP 
phosphate  
0.3, 3.0 or 
30 μM 
Cardiovascular system 
Treatment-related  increases  in  the  action  potential  of  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres  were  recorded  at 
concentrations  of  30  and  100  μM  3,4-DAP  phosphate.  In  humans  receiving  the  dose  of  3,4-DAP 
phosphate  equivalent  to  20  mg  of  3,4-DAP,  Cmax  of  3,4-DAP  was  51.8  ng/ml,  i.e.  ~  0.5  μM.  This 
concentration  is  63  times  lower  than  the  lowest  concentration  shown  to  modify  the  action  potential 
duration  in  isolated  Purkinje  fibres.  3,4-DAP  phosphate  did  not  produce  a  detectable  inhibition  of 
hERG current at all applied concentrations (please see discussion for more detail).  
Central nervous system 
Following  the  FOB  in  rats  the  NOAEL  was  observed  at  40  mg/kg.  Noteworthy  physical  signs 
included: decrease in motor activity and number of rearings and increase in finger approach. 
Other systems 
No  pre-clinical  studies  specifically  addressing  respiratory  or  digestive  functions  were  performed. 
However, information on the effects of 3,4-DAP on these systems has been gathered from the long- 
term  clinical  experience  with  3,4-DAP  in  the  treatment  of  LEMS  and  other  conditions,  such  as 
multiple sclerosis (MS).  
Respiratory system  
Adverse  effects  related  to  the  respiratory  system  are  cough,  bronchial  hypersecretion  and  asthma 
attacks in asthmatic patients or in patients with a history of asthma. This is adequately reflected in the 
SmPC and the risk management plan for Zenas. 
13/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastro-intestinal tract  
Because  of  its  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect,  viz.  increasing  the  release  of  the  neurotransmitter 
ACh, 3,4-DAP is known to produce nausea and adverse effects related to the gastrointestinal system, 
such  as  diarrhoea  and  abdominal  pain.  This  is  adequately  reflected  in  the  SmPC  and  the  risk 
management plan for Zenas. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  specific  pre-clinical  studies  investigating  drug  interactions  have  been  performed.  Please  see 
clinical part of the report for more information. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  performed  at  the  time  of  submission  were  bioavailability  studies  in  rodent 
and  non-rodent  species  (dog)  to  compare  the  pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  3,4-DAP  base  and  its 
phosphate salt. These studies were performed in order to justify bridging to non-clinical bibliographic 
data available for 3,4-DAP in base form in support of the current application for 3,4-DAP phosphate 
salt.  
In addition, a comparative metabolic clearance study was performed in isolated hepatocytes harvested 
from  monkeys,  rats,  dogs  and  human  subjects  in  order  to  justify  the  choice  of  the  dog  as  the  non-
rodent species employed in toxicology studies.  
Methods of analysis 
The  assays  of  3,4-DAP  in  plasma  were  analysed  by  High  Performance  Liquid  Chromatography 
(HPLC) with fetal calf serum used as a matrix.  
Absorption  
Male (n=12) and female (n=12) Sprague-Dawley rats received a single oral administration of 1 mg/kg 
of  3,4-DAP  base  either  as  free  base  or  as  phosphate  salt  (1.9  mg/kg).  The  same  doses  were  orally 
administered in the dog study (one male and one female) in a cross-over design with a wash-out period 
of 14 days. Blood sampling was performed before dosing, 5, 15, 30, 45 minutes and 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 
3.5, 4, 6, 12 and 24 hours after dosing, in both species. The results of the studies are presented below. 
F (n=12) 
Table. MDS 266/009, pharmacokinetic indices after a single oral administration of 1 mg/kg 3,4-DAP 
base or 1.9 mg/kg phosphate salt to Sprague-Dawley rats. 
Animal (Sprague-Dawley 
rats) 
Formulation 
t1/2 (min) 
Tmax (min) 
Cmax (μg/L) 
AUC0.5-120 min (min*μg/L) 
Base 
62 
15 
28.3 
1609 
Base 
164 
5 
15.0 
1186 
Salt 
134 
5 
16.5 
1198 
Salt 
105 
5 
16.7 
1299 
M (n=12) 
M (n=12) 
F (n=12) 
14/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. MDS 266/008, pharmacokinetic indices after a single oral administration of 1 mg/kg 3,4-DAP 
base or 1.9 mg/kg phosphate salt to Beagle dogs.  
Female (n=1) 
Animal (Beagle dogs) 
Formulation 
Time Point 
t1/2 (min) 
Tmax (min) 
Cmax (μg/L) 
AUC0-720 min (min*μg/L) 
Base 
Day0 
148 
15 
396 
62960 
Female (n=1)  Male (n=1)  Male  
(n=1) 
Base 
Day14 
136 
30 
363 
76534 
Salt 
Day 14 
135 
45 
336 
73230 
Salt 
Day0 
104 
15 
442 
NA 
The data generated indicate that, in both species, all indices are of the same order of magnitude and the 
bioavailability of the base form of 3,4-DAP vs. the phosphate salt is similar. In addition, no significant 
gender differences were apparent. Hence cross-referring to the non-clinical profile for 3,4-DAP base 
in the rat and dog can be considered a valid approach.  
Distribution 
No new tissue distribution studies were performed during the development of Zenas. References to the 
two  absorption  studies  described  above  (MDS  266/008  in  dog  and  MDS  266/009  in  rat)  were 
provided.  In  the  single-dose  (1  mg/kg)  rat  oral  bioavailability  study,  the  apparent  volume  of 
distribution (Vd) ranged from 38.2 – 76.7 l/kg. In the dog oral bioavailability study, a Vd value of 2.71 
l/kg was recorded. The clearance rate was 325 – 429 ml/min/kg in rats and 95 – 138 ml/min in dogs.  
Moreover, an article describing penetrability of 3,4-DAP into cerebrospinal fluid in anesthetised rats 
(Lemeignan  et  al.,  1984)  was  also  presented.  3,4-DAP  was  less  absorbed  than  4-AP  (4-amino-
pyridine)  suggesting  that  there  might  be  more  favourable  safety  profile  for  3,4-DAP  than  for  4-
aminopyridine with respect to CNS effects. 
Metabolism 
No new in vivo metabolism studies were performed during the development of Zenas. The applicant 
has  initiated  a  new  ADME  programme  to  provide  more  data  on  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  3,4-
DAP and results from this programme will be submitted as a follow-up measure. 
In vitro studies 
A  comparative  clearance  study  (study  number:  PR6958/CC2206)  was  performed  with  hepatocytes 
from  different  species  in  order  to  compare  the  clearance  of  3,4-DAP  so  that  the  choice  of  the  non-
rodent species for repeat-dose toxicity studies could be justified. Monolayer hepatocyte cultures were 
prepared from isolated cryopreserved hepatocytes obtained from a male Sprague-Dawley rat, a male 
Beagle  dog,  a  male  Cynomolgus  monkey  and  three  male  human  subjects.  The  test  item  at 
concentrations of 1, 10 or 100 µM (0.5 ml/well) was incubated in the cell cultures. After 0, 0.25, 0.5, 
1,  2  and  4  hours,  the  3,4-DAP  concentration  in  culture  was  assayed  using  a  MS/MS/HPLC  method 
with  the  LLOQ  of  0.05  µM.  Hepatocyte  activity  was  characterised  by  measuring  one  phase  I 
enzymatic  activity  (ethoxyresorufin  O-deethylase  (CYP1A))  and  one  phase  II  enzymatic  activity 
(paracetamol  glucoronyltransferase)  in  animals,  as  well  as  two  phase  I  enzymatic  activities 
(phenacetin O deethylase (CYP1A2) and nifepidine oxidase (CYP3A4/5)) and one phase II enzymatic 
activity (paracetamol glucoronyltransferase (UGT1A6)) in humans. 
In  rat  and  monkey  hepatocytes,  there  was  a  time-dependent  decrease  in  the  test  item  at  every 
concentration tested. In dog hepatocytes, the concentration of the test item remained stable, indicating 
that  the  test  item  is  poorly  metabolised  by  hepatocytes  in  this  species.  In  humans,  the  results  were 
variable from one donor to another: in the first subject, the concentration of 3,4-DAP remained stable 
during the incubation period, in the second subject, there was a decrease in the test item concentration 
at 1 and 10 µM and in the third subject, a slight decrease in 3,4-DAP content was observed at every 
concentration.  The  metabolic  intrinsic  clearance  was  only  calculated  for  the  species  where  3,4-DAP 
biotransformation was observed. 
15/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose of 3,4- DAP 
 1
Species 
Rat 
Monkey 
Human HEP187045 
Human HEP187053 
10μM 
μM 
Metabolic intrinsic clearance of 3,4-DAP phosphate (ul/min/106 hepatocytes ) 
20.2 
17.1 
12.1 
7.57 
10.7 
10.0 
8.07 
8.28 
17.4 
14.4 
10.7 
7.62 
100μM 
The study did not investigate the metabolic pathway and elimination route of 3,4-DAP phosphate and 
did not provide information on 3,4-DAP metabolites. The comprehensive ADME programme has been 
started with the aim of providing new data to give reassurance that the species chosen for the toxicity 
studies metabolise 3,4-DAP in a similar manner to humans, and hence were a valid choice. 
Excretion 
No  new  data  have  been  submitted.  A  comprehensive  ADME  programme  has  been  started  by  the 
applicant  including  also  excretion  studies  and  results  from  this  programme  will  be  submitted  as  a 
follow-up measure. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No new preclinical data have been submitted. Please refer to the clinical part of the report for further 
information. 
Toxicology 
Single-dose toxicity studies were performed in the mouse and the rat while repeat-dose toxicology was 
studied  in  the  rat  and  the  dog.  Additionally,  the  toxicology  programme  was  supplemented  with 
bibliographic data on toxicology of 3,4-DAP base. 
• 
Single-dose toxicity 
Acute studies include: single-dose administration of 3,4-DAP phosphate in mice and rats, either by the 
oral  route  (intended  clinical  route)  or  by  the  intravenous  route.  One  single-dose  rat  study  was 
performed with 3,4-DAP base in order to compare the toxicity of the free base and the phosphate salt. 
In general, the observed CNS-related toxicities were similar in all dose groups in both mice and rats 
regardless  of  the  route  of  administration.  These  findings  were  also  reported  in  published  scientific 
literature and included subdued behaviour, convulsions, irregular breathing, hypersalivation, agitated 
paw movements, excessive grooming, unsteady gait, and piloerection. In rats, 3,4-DAP base exhibited 
similar  noteworthy  findings  to  those  observed  with  the  phosphate  salt  and  the  reported  NOEL  and 
minimal lethal doses were also comparable. The approximate oral LD50 was >25mg/kg in rats and 100 
mg/kg in mice. The approximate IV LD50 was 25 mg/kg in both rats and mice.   
• 
Repeat-dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Non-pivotal rat and dog repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Data from two four-week non-pivotal studies (3,4-DAP phosphate) were presented in addition to two 
pivotal  studies  of  the  same  duration  in  the  same  species  (rat  and  dog).  The  first  set  of  studies  was 
repeated because there were discrepancies in the extent of exposure to the test item, an invalid HPLC 
method was used for analyses and a deficient blood sampling schedule was adopted. Therefore, these 
studies are considered as supportive.  
16/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below summarises the non-pivotal repeat dose toxicity studies in rats. 
Study ID 
MDS 
266/013 
Non-pivotal 
Species/ 
Sex/ 
Number/ 
Group 
Rat/ Sprague-
Dawley/10 F and 
10 M 
Product 
Dose (mg/kg/day) 
/Route 
/Duration 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
7.5/24 mg/kg 
3,4-DAP 
phosphate in 
1% aqueous 
solution of 
CMC 
0, 7.5, 24 and 75 
PO (gavage) 
4 weeks + 2 weeks 
follow-up period for 
5F and 5M in control 
and high-dose group 
respectively 
Test item divided into 
3 daily doses 
Main findings 
CNS toxicity from 24 mg/kg (hypersalivation). 
Dose-dependent  increase  in  urine  volume  (6.2  ml  in  controls,  9.2  ml  at  75  mg/kg)  and  decreased  urine 
gravity in F. 
Increased liver and kidney weights for F at 75 mg/kg. 
Dark areas/colour in mandibular lymph nodes in M and F from all dose groups and in one F control. These 
changes correlate with congestion seen microscopically. 
The table below summarises the non-pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies in dogs. 
Study ID 
MDS 
266/014 
Non pivotal 
Species/ 
Sex/ 
Number/ 
Group 
Dog/Beagle/4 M 
and 4F 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
NOAEL: 1.9 mg/kg 
Product 
3,4-DAP 
phosphate in 
1% aqueous 
solution of 
CMC 
Dose (mg/kg/day) 
/Route 
/Duration 
0, 1.9, 5.7 and 7.5 
PO (gavage) 
4 weeks 
Test item divided into 
3 daily doses. 
Main findings 
Two males dead on Day 0 at 7.5 mg/kg, convulsions. 
Clinical  signs:  CNS  toxicity  from  1.9  mg/kg  (tremors,  hyperaesthesia,  panting,  coughing, hypersalivation, 
muscular tension, severe loss of balance and apparent changes in body temperature (hot or cold to touch). 
Conjunctivitis, lacrimation, pale or red mucous membranes (ocular, buccal or both), red ears and changes in 
muscular tone e.g., outstretched limbs and stiffness of hind limbs. 
Ophthalmology:  increase  in  the  incidence  of  white  filaments  in  the  posterior  lens  capsule  and  within  the 
vitreous body in F at 5.7 and 7.5 mg/kg at W4, not seen pretest. Pinpoint opacity posterior lens capsule and 
brown spot in the tapetum in one F at 5.7 mg/kg at W4, not seen pre-test.  
Haematology: decrease in red blood cell counts and haemoglobin in 2/4 F at 7.5 mg/kg. 
Clinical chemistry: decrease in urine volume of 1 M and of females (-65%) at 7.5 mg/kg/day. 
Macroscopic findings: Dark and/or raised areas in the stomach and duodenum in all dose groups. 
Microscopic  findings:  Myodegeneration  in  the  tongue  and  skeletal  muscle  and  focal/  multifocal  alveolar 
macrophages in the lungs from 1.9 mg/kg. 
No  effect  of  treatment  on  arterial  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  cardiac  conduction,  cardiac  rhythm  or  wave 
forms. 
17/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pivotal studies 
Study MDS AA40848 - 4-week subchronic repeat-dose oral rat study without recovery  
Female  and  male  Sprague  Dawley  rats  (14/sex/control  group;  21/sex/treatment  group)  were  given 
vehicle  control  (1.0%  CMC  in  water  for  injection),  or  7.5  or  24  or  75  mg/kg/day  of  3,4-DAP 
phosphate split into 3 administrations (5 ml/kg approximately 6 hourly) for 4 weeks. At appropriate 
intervals, full clinical examinations were performed and blood samples were taken on day 0 and day 
27 at: 
• 0 (before dosing), 5, 15, 30, 45 minutes and 1, 2, 3 and 6 hours after the 1st daily dosing 
• 5, 30 minutes and 6 hours after the 2nd daily dosing 
• 5, 15, 30, 45 minutes and 1, 2, 3, 6 and 12 hours after the 3rd daily dosing 
This study was performed in order to verify the exposure of animals to 3,4-DAP phosphate and hence 
validate results obtained in the previous 4-week rat repeat-dose study (MDS 266/013; please see table 
above).  The  blood  sampling  schedule  was  designed  based  on  3,4-DAP’s  pharmacokinetic  profile  in 
the rat to give a precise picture of the animals' systemic exposure in relation to the dose, gender and 3 
daily administrations (intended clinical therapeutic regimen is 4 times daily for doses >20 mg and 3 
times daily otherwise). 
A  dose-related  increased  incidence  of  hypersalivation  was  noted  in  treated  animals.  A  dose-related 
increase  in  the  body  weight  gain  was  observed  in  treated  females;  this  increase  was  statistically 
significant for the two highest dose groups (24 or 75 mg/kg/day). No biological chemistry, necropsy or 
microscopic examinations were included in the study design.  
The NOAEL was not determined. 
Study MDS AA40847 - 4-week subchronic repeat-dose oral dog study with 2-week recovery  
This  study  was  performed  in  order  to  establish  the  extent  of  exposure  of  animals  to  3,4-DAP 
phosphate and determine a NOAEL. Female and male Beagle dogs (3-5/sex/group) were given vehicle 
control (1.0% CMC in water for injection), or 1.0, 2.5 or 6.5 mg/kg/day of 3,4-DAP phosphate split in 
3 administrations (5 ml/kg approximately 6 hourly) for 4 weeks followed by a 2-week recovery period. 
At appropriate intervals, full physical examinations, including cardiovascular examination in the pre-
test period and on days 1, 22 and 40, were performed. Appropriate blood and urine chemistry indices 
were recorded in the pre-test period and on days 21, 26 and 41. Blood samples were taken on day 0 
and day 26 according to the following schedule: 
• Pre-dosing, then 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 2, 4 and 6 hours after the first daily dosing 
• 0.25, 2 and 6 hours after the second daily dosing 
• 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 2, 4 and 6 hours after the third daily dosing 
• 24 hours after the first daily dosing. 
There  were  no  deaths,  treatment-related  changes  in  urine  analysis,  treatment-related  macroscopic 
haematological  or  ophthalmology  findings.  A  reduction  in  bodyweight  gain  was  observed  in  all 
treatment  groups.  These  changes  were  statistically  significant  in  high-dose  females.  No  effect  on 
bodyweight was noted throughout the treatment-free period.  
Treatment-related  toxicity  observed  after  low  doses  included  tremors,  subdued  behaviour  and 
decreased  activity  in  single  females.  In  the  intermediate-dose  group,  both  males  and  females  had 
tremors.  Moreover,  one  female  had  subdued  behaviour,  laboured  breathing,  paresis  and  stiff  hind 
limbs. In the high-dose group, treatment-related toxicity was observed in most animals. These findings 
included  subdued  behaviour, 
tremors,  anxious  behaviour,  panting 
hypersalivation,  prostration,  paresis,  loss  of  balance,  aggressiveness,  laboured  breathing,  poor  motor 
coordination, stiff hind limb, liquid faeces and tonic convulsions.  
increased  muscle 
tone, 
18/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tremors,  decreased  activity  and hypersalivation  persisted  in  a  few  animals  throughout  the treatment 
period  while  other  signs  decreased  over  time.  Physical  signs  were  reversible  as  there  were  no 
treatment-related signs during the recovery period. 
3,4-DAP treatment did not modify heart rate, rhythm and cardiac conduction. There was no effect on 
PR or PQ intervals and QRS complex duration. Second degree atrioventricular blocks were observed 
in 1 intermediate-dose female. However, since this finding was isolated and is known to occur in the 
young dog, it was considered not to be treatment-related. 
Treatment-related increases in the relative liver weight in high-dose females were recorded. Increases 
in  male  absolute  and  relative  weights  were  not  statistically  significant.  No  correlation  with  blood 
chemistry or histological examination was apparent and, therefore, these findings were not attributed 
by the applicant to the test item. No other changes in organ weights related to treatment were recorded. 
After recovery, liver organ weights were similar to those of the controls. 
Because of the marked neurotoxicity in the low-dose animals, the NOAEL was not determined.  
In  conclusion,  findings  in  repeated-dose  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  were  generally  related  to  the 
pharmacological  effect  of  3,4-DAP  phosphate  and  consisted  of  CNS-related  toxicity  and  adverse 
effects  on  muscles  (necrosis).  These  toxicities  have  been  demonstrated  to  be  either  partially  or 
completely  reversible.  There  were  no  obvious  target  organs  in  either  species;  however,  liver  and 
kidney organ weights were seen to increase in treatment groups, although no corresponding changes in 
haematological indices or corresponding microscopic observations were noted. 
In  the  non-pivotal  four-week  rat  study,  the  dose  levels  of  24  mg/kg/day  and  7.5  mg/kg  were 
established as the NOAEL and NOEL, respectively. No NOAEL could be established in the four-week 
repeat-dose  oral  toxicity  studies  in  dogs  because  of  marked  neurotoxicity  in  the  low-dose  animals. 
Although adverse physical signs appeared to be reversible in the rat and dog studies and not associated 
with  chemical  pathology  and  histopathology  changes,  no  clinical  safety  margin  for  the  treatment-
related findings could be established. 
Please refer to the toxicokinetic section below for an assessment of the PK indices. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The genotoxicity of 3,4-DAP was assessed in a standard battery of tests. 
19/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
test/study ID 
Study 
Number 
Test system 
Concentrations/ 
Concentration range/ 
Metabolising system 
Results 
Positive/ 
negative/ 
equivocal 
IPL-R 010310  Strains: Salmonella 
typhimurium  
(TA 1535, TA 
1537, TA 98, TA 
102 and TA 100) 
0, 50, 150, 500, 1500, 
and 5000 μg/plate, +/- 
S9 (rat) 
negative 
Gene mutations 
in bacteria  
IPL-R 010506  Strains: Salmonella 
typhimurium  
(TA1538 and 
TA98) 
IPL-R 010515 
Gene mutations 
in mammalian 
cells 
L5178Y mouse 
lymphoma cells 
0, 50, 150, 500, 1500, 
and 5000 μg/plate, +/- 
S9 (hamster) 
negative 
No mutagenic activity 
was noted after 3 hours 
treatment, however 
after 24 hour treatment 
a weak mutagenic 
activity was reported 
without metabolic 
activation at 2000 and 
3000 μg/ml. 
negative 
3 hours incubation: 
700.3, 910.3, 1183.4, 
1538.5 or 2000 μg/ml 
+/- S9  
24 hours incubation:  
(592.6, 888.9, 1333.3, 
2000 or 3000 μg/ml)  
-S9 (rat) 
Single oral dose  of 40 
or 20 mg/kg  
(10 ml/kg) 
administered to  
3 rats/group (2-4 hours 
exposure or 12-16 
hours exposure)  
IPL-R 020404 
Fischer Rat 
hepatocytes; males 
only. 
NB no 
toxicokinetics 
Measurement of 
unscheduled 
DNA synthesis 
(UDS) in rat 
hepatocytes in 
vivo 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in 
vivo 
IPL-R 010417 
Rat, micronuclei in 
bone marrow.  
NB no 
toxicokinetics 
Repeat oral dose of 80, 
40 or 20 mg/kg/day  
(5/sex/group) 
administered for 
3 days. 
negative 
In the performed standard package of genetic toxicology studies, a positive in vitro finding was seen in 
the Mouse Lymphoma L5178Y locus assay at and above 2000 µg/ml (≥9.7 mM) with 24 h treatment 
in  the  absence  of  the  rat  liver  activation  system  (S9).  Both  small  and  large  colony  inductions  were 
observed. These dose levels equate to several orders of magnitude greater than the clinical Cmax and 
therefore this finding is not expected to be clinically significant. No genotoxic potential was evident in 
any  other  test  system  when  tested  up  to  appropriate  concentrations  and  dose  levels  according  to 
guidelines. Due to the presence of an  aromatic  amine, the  compound was further tested in  an Ames 
test with metabolic activation by a microsomal hamster liver fraction with strains TA98 and TA1538. 
No genotoxic effects were observed. Overall, 3,4-DAP was considered to lack genotoxic potential. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted. The appropriate information has been included in the 
SmPC. The carcinogenicity study will be performed as a specific obligation. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No reprotoxicity studies have been conducted. The applicant has committed to conduct Segment II and 
pre- and post-natal studies, according to current guidelines, as a follow-up measure to determine the 
potential  for  teratogenic  effects  of  3,4-DAP  phosphate.  In  addition  to  this  commitment,  the  present 
lack of reproductive toxicity data is dealt with by an inclusion of strict wording in Section 4.6 of the 
SmPC to warn against exposure during pregnancy and / or lactation in W(o)CBP. 
20/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  indices  were  evaluated  during  the  4-week  bioavailability  study  MDS  AA40848 
performed with 3,4-DAP phosphate in Sprague-Dawley rats to support the 4-week toxicity study MDS 
266/013 conducted under the same experimental conditions. 
Sex 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
T1 
Tmax 
(h) 
18.3/ 
30.9 
131/227 
NA/5.68  NA/
0.5 
0.25
/0.5 
0.5/
0.5 
0.5/
0.25 
6.64/ 
12.6 
Time 
point 
Dose 
(mg/
kg/ 
day) 
Day 0 
7.5 
24 
75 
Wk 4 
7.5 
24 
75 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
T2 
Tmax 
(h) 
Cmax 
(ng/m
L) 
AUC0-
6h 
(ng*h/
mL) 
NA 
NA 
187/31
2 
NA 
7.55/
8.64 
32.4/
43.8 
743/ 
219 
16.9/
12.9 
T3 
Tmax 
(h) 
0.5/0.
5 
0.08/
0.75 
0.25/
0.75 
0.25/
0.25 
0.25/
0.75 
0.25/
0.5 
AUC0-
6h 
(ng*h/
mL) 
NA 
NA 
166/ 
385 
NA 
AUC0-15h 
(ng*h/mL) 
NA 
NA 
2558/1320 
NA 
NA 
NA 
368/ 
629 
2411/3565 
Cmax 
(ng/m
L) 
10.5/
13.2 
29.3/
82.9 
232/ 
285 
10.5/
15.7 
51.9/
80.2 
268/ 
516 
0.083
/0.5 
0.50/
0.5 
0.5/ 
0.5 
0.083
/0.08
3 
0.5/0.
5 
0.5/0.
5 
32.9/ 
64.6 
243/413 
0.5/
1.0 
0.5/
0.5 
NA 
397/47
9 
41.3/
55.6 
556/8
35 
Moreover,  toxicokinetic  indices  were  also  evaluated  during  the  4-week  toxicity  study  with  2-week 
recovery period, MDS AA40847, performed with 3,4-DAP phosphate in Beagle dogs. 
Sex 
T1 
Time 
point 
Dose 
(mg/
kg/ 
day) 
Cmax 
(ng/ 
mL) 
Tmax 
(h) 
46/59  0.75/
0.25 
0.75/
145/ 
0.75 
188 
0.75/
352/ 
345 
0.75 
51/56  0.25/
0.25 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
95/ 
146 
287/ 
261 
AUC0-
6h 
(ng*h/
mL) 
136/ 
143 
391/ 
421 
918/ 
912 
136/ 
139 
303/ 
396 
833/ 
741 
Day 
0 
1 
2.5 
Male/ 
Female 
Male/ 
Female 
6.25  Male/ 
Wk 
4 
1 
2.5 
Female 
Male/F
emale 
Male/F
emale 
6.25  Male/Fe
male 
T2 
Tmax 
(h) 
Cmax 
(ng/ 
mL) 
37/31  2.0/
0.25 
2.0/
106/ 
2.0 
96 
2.0/
271/ 
326 
0.25 
37/36  2.0/
2.0 
2.0/
2.0 
2.0/ 
2.0 
112/ 
96 
241/ 
221 
AUC0
-6h 
(ng*h
/mL) 
158/ 
120 
442/ 
369 
1072/ 
1074 
154/ 
156 
480/ 
399 
997/ 
922 
Cmax 
(ng/ 
mL) 
57/57 
176/ 
120 
329/ 
377 
46/54 
166/ 
136 
367/ 
324 
T3 
Tmax 
(h) 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
0.75/
0.75 
AUC0-15h 
(ng*h/m
L) 
513/438 
1375/ 
1243 
3211/ 
3059 
500/523 
1414/ 
1314 
3146/ 
2841 
AUC0
-6h 
(ng*h
/mL) 
186/ 
151 
473/3
89 
1047/
956 
170/ 
185 
514/ 
441 
1094/
984 
The ratios between the human (at the maximum dose of 20 mg at one dose interval: 0.4 mg/kg based 
on a 50 kg human) and rat pharmacokinetic and dog indices are tabulated below. 
21/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose 
(mg/kg/day) 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
Ratio 
Animal/Human 
AUC0-24hrs 
(ng*h/mL) 
Ratio 
Animal/Human 
Human 
Male rat 
Female 
rat 
Male 
dog 
D0 
D0 
0.4 
7.5 
24 
75 
W4  7.5 
24 
75 
7.5 
24 
75 
W4  7.5 
24 
75 
1 
2.5 
6.25 
D0 
W4  1 
Female 
dog 
D0 
2.5 
6.25 
1 
2.5 
6.25 
W4  1 
2.5 
6.25 
64.8 ng/mL 
0.0 
18.3 
131.0 
6.6 
32.9 
243.0 
5.7 
30.9 
227.0 
12.6 
64.6 
413.0 
46.0 
145.0 
188.0 
51.0 
95.0 
287.0 
56.0 
146.0 
261.0 
12.6 
64.6 
413.0 
NA 
0.3 
2.0 
0.1 
0.5 
3.8 
0.1 
0.5 
3.5 
0.2 
1.0 
6.4 
0.7 
2.2 
2.9 
0.8 
1.5 
4.4 
0.9 
2.3 
4.0 
0.2 
1.0 
6.4 
115.8  
NA 
NA 
187.0 
NA 
NA 
397.0 
NA 
NA 
312.0 
NA 
NA 
479.0 
136.0 
391.0 
918.0 
136.0 
303.0 
833.0 
143.0 
421.0 
912.0 
139.0 
396.0 
741.0 
NA 
NA 
1.6 
NA 
NA 
3.4 
NA 
NA 
2.7 
NA 
NA 
4.1 
1.2 
3.4 
7.9 
1.2 
2.6 
7.2 
1.2 
3.6 
7.9 
1.2 
3.4 
6.4 
The toxicokinetic data were generally unremarkable. In the rat absorption was rapid (Tmax was between 
5  min  and  1  h)  and  not  dose-related.  At  the  highest  dose  values  recorded  for  Cmax  and  AUC  were 
higher  in  females  than  in  males  and  there  was  evidence  of  only  slight  accumulation  of  3,4-DAP 
phosphate. In the dog, absorption was slow (Tmax was between 0.75 min and 2 h) and not dose-related. 
indices  determined  and  no 
There  were  no  gender-specific  differences 
accumulation was evident.  
in  pharmacokinetic 
Local tolerance  
• 
Specific local tolerance studies are not required for orally administered formulation. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
The impurities in 3,4-DAP phosphate drug substance include: 
• 
• 
• 
4-aminopyridine (4-AP) - controlled to <0.05% at release and shelf life 
4-ethoxycarnonylaminopyridine (ECAP) 
4-amino-3-nitropyridine (ANPB) - controlled to <0.05% at release and shelf life. 
In silico tests have been performed (DEREK) for all three impurities. No alerts were triggered for 4 
AP  and  ECAP;  however  alerts  for  mutagenicity  and  carcinogenicity  have  been  triggered  for  ANPB. 
Therefore, an Ames test was conducted on 4-amino-3-nitropyridine. Results showed that 4-amino-3-
nitropyridine  did  not  have  mutagenic  activity  in  the  five  Salmonella  typhimurium  strains  TA1535, 
TA1537,  TA98,  TA100  and  TA102  tested,  either  in  the  absence  or  in  the  presence  of  metabolic 
activation.  
The  listed  impurities  have  been  controlled  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  Guidance  for  Industry 
“Impurities in New Drug Substances” Q3A(R) as claimed by the applicant. It was unknown whether 
these might be genotoxic and hence the proposed limits of <0.05% at release and at shelf life (for  
4-AP and ANPB) have been justified by toxicology data.  
22/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moreover,  the  carcinogenicity  studies  will  investigate  further  the  carcinogenic  potential  of  the  drug 
substance and its impurities.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment concerning 3,4-DAP ending in Phase I was provided. The log Kow 
was  calculated  to  -1.442,  and  it  was  concluded  that  screening  for  persistence,  bioaccumulation,  and 
toxicity  was  not  necessary.  Considering  the  orphan  medicinal  product  status  of  3,4-DAP,  it  is 
reasonable  to  calculate  the  Fpen  according  to  the  prevalence  of  LEMS  in  Europe  (i.e.  1:100,000 
inhabitants). The PECsurfacewater was calculated to 0.0004 µg/L, using a refined Fpen (0.00001), the 
the  guideline 
maximum  daily  dose 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00). Therefore 3,4-DAP is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
the  default  values  provided 
(80  mg),  and 
in 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Limited  information  is  currently  available  on  the  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and 
toxicology of 3,4-DAP.  
The mechanism of action of amifapridine (increase in calcium influx into the nerve and prolongation 
of the action potential duration leading to the acetylcholine release) supports its use in the proposed 
clinical  indication.  The  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  3,4-DAP  contribute  also  to  some  of  the 
findings observed in the safety studies or reported in the literature including convulsions and possible 
QTc  prolongation.  Therefore,  as  a  precautionary  measure,  Zenas  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with 
epilepsy. The risk of convulsions is dose-dependent and is increased for patients with risk factors that 
are capable of lowering the epileptic threshold, including concomitant use of other medicinal products 
liable to lower the epileptic threshold. Relevant guidance has been included in the SmPC.  
Furthermore, due to a theoretical potential for QTc prolongation a thorough QT/QTc study according 
to  ICH  E14  guideline  will  be  performed  as  a  specific  obligation,  and  relevant  contraindications, 
warnings and guidance have been included in the SmPC.  
The  available  pharmacokinetic  data  deriving  from  the  bioequivalence  study  indicate  similar 
bioavailability of the base form of 3,4-DAP and the phosphate salt thus allowing to cross-refer to the 
non-clinical profile for 3,4-DAP base. A number of ADME investigations are scheduled to complete 
the information relating to the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the toxicology species and results from 
this programme will be submitted as a follow-up measure.  
The  4-week  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  revealed  3,4-DAP  effects  on  the  central 
nervous  system,  increased  liver  and  kidney  weight,  muscle  necrosis  and  second  degree  atrio-
ventricular  block.  As  the  duration  of  the  available  toxicology  studies  was  limited  to  1  month  the 
applicant has committed to performing a three-month repeat dose toxicology study in rats as a follow-
up measure in order to provide chronic toxicology data to support long-term use of the product.  
Amifampridine was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests.  
As no specific reproductive toxicity or carcinogenicity studies have been performed the applicant has 
committed to conducting a carcinogenicity study in the rat as a specific obligation and a reprotoxicity 
study  as  a  follow-up  measure.  The  CHMP  considered  these  commitments  together  with  appropriate 
labelling and other risk minimisation measures including the patient registry as an adequate approach. 
On  this  basis,  it  is  accepted  that  the  proposed  indication,  including  patients  with  the  non-
paraneoplastic form of LEMS, can be supported. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
3, 4- DAP phosphate has been developed for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. 
3,  4-DAP  has  been  found  to  block  voltage-dependent  potassium  channels,  thereby  prolonging  pre-
synaptic  cell  membrane  depolarisation.  Prolonging  the  action  potential  enhances  the  transport  of 
calcium  into  the  nerve  ending.  The  resulting  increase  in  intra-cellular  calcium  concentrations 
23/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
facilitates the exocytosis of acetylcholine-containing vesicles, which in turn enhances neuromuscular 
transmission supporting the proposed indication. 
According to the conclusion of the COMP (opinion dated 15/11/02) the prevalence of the “condition” 
Lambert-Eaton  Myaesthenic  Syndrome  is  0.1  per  10  000  individuals  in  the  EU.  According  to 
Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 of 16 December 1999, the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products 
(COMP)  adopted  on  15  November  2002  a  positive  opinion  and  on  18  December  2002,  orphan 
designation  (EU/3/02/124)  was  granted  by  the  European  Commission  for  3,4-diaminopyridine 
phosphate for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. 
The applicant received scientific advice from FR, SE and the UK during 2007.  
The clinical evaluation of the product is based on published literature which mainly refers to clinical 
experience with the free base form of 3,4-DAP. 
In  order  to  demonstrate  that  3,4-DAP  phosphate  scored  tablets  are  an  appropriate  alternative  to 
capsules  containing  3,4-DAP  as  base,  the  applicant  conducted  a  bioequivalence  trial  comparing  the 
two  different  formulations  (DAPSEL  Study).  This  study  has  provided  some  safety  data  also.  In 
addition, clinical and safety information has been gathered through Named Patient Basis Experience in 
France  from  December  2006  to  March  2008,  in  which  82  patients  have  been  treated  with  3,4-DAP 
phosphate to date (March 2008). 
The claimed indication is Treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. 
The approved indication is Symptomatic treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome (LEMS) 
in adults. 
There  is  no  paediatric  development  programme.  According  to  the  European  legislation  valid  at  the 
time  of  submission  there  was  no  requirement  to  submit  a  paediatric  investigation  plan  before  July 
2008.  
3,4-DAP has been widely used as an ad-hoc hospital preparation in the treatment of LEMS for over 
twenty  years  including  compassionate  use  programmes  in  DE,  FR,  PT  and  the  UK.  As  mentioned 
earlier on-demand preparations of 3,4-DAP base might exhibit variability and a lack of reliability in 
the quality of the drug product. Moreover, the supply of 3, 4-DAP under this specific access scheme 
does  not  allow  the  medical  community  and  regulatory  bodies  to  collect  safety  data  according  to 
current  pharmacovigilance  procedures.  Therefore,  this  product  has  been  developed  to  address  these 
issues. 
GCP 
To  support  this  application  the  applicant  has  performed  a  bioequivalence  study  of  crossover  design. 
This  trial  was  conducted  according  to  current  ICH  E6  GCP  guidelines.  The  application  makes 
reference to published literature. The information on the GCP status of these trials is not available.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  provides  a  comparative  bioequivalence  study  (DAPSEL)  between  capsules  with 
amifampridine  base,  which  have  been  used  clinically  as  extempore  product,  and  a  tablet  with 
amifampridine phosphate, the formulation applied for in this application.  
Two literature references have also been provided: one to an indirect clinical comparison between the 
oral  route  and  intravenous  route  of  administration  for  3,4-DAP  base,  and  another  examining  basic 
pharmacokinetics of 3,4-DAP in patients with multiple sclerosis. 
24/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Absorption  
Bioequivalence  
DAPSEL Study: Relative bioavailability of 3,4-DAP administered as a salt or a base. 
Study Centre: Clinical Investigation Centre, St. Antoine University Hospital, Paris, France 
27  healthy  adult  males,  aged  18-45  years,  were  included  in  this  study.  One  subject  was  withdrawn 
from the study due to an elevation of liver enzymes during Phase I, and 26 completed the study.  
For the first ‘phase’ of this study, five subjects received a 10 mg dose of the test 3,4-DAP phosphate 
formulation  to  assess  tolerability.  Thereafter,  each  of  the  27  subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  a 
single  20  mg  dose  of  either  the  3,4-DAP  salt  or  base  formulations.  A  randomization  scheme  was 
submitted  with  the  study  report.  According  to  the  study  report  this  phase  of  the  trial  was  ‘double-
blind’. The following formulations were administered: 
Reference: 3,4-DAP Base 10 mg x 2 Capsules (Mfg by Pharmacy Department of the Henri Mondor 
University Hospital, Creteil, France, Batch no. N°03M152)   
Test: 3,4-DAP Phosphate 10mg x 2 Tablets (Mfg by Etablissement Pharmaceutique des Hopitaux de 
Paris, Batch no. N°03M153). 
In the first phase subjects were fasted since midnight the day before, in the second phase – for at least 
12 hours. Blood samples were taken at pre-dose and followed with 16 samples over the following 24 
hours  after  administration  of  the  products.  There  followed  a  washout  period  of  at  least  72  hours, 
thereafter  the  subjects  crossed  over  to  the  second  3,4-DAP  base  or  salt  formulation  and  the  process 
repeated as above. The half-life of 3,4-DAP is reported as 2 hours. Therefore, 72 hours is considerably 
longer than 5 half-lives and should represent a sufficiently long wash-out period. This was confirmed 
with a pre-dose plasma 3,4-DAP concentration <LLOQ in all subjects at the start of period II. 
Plasma samples were  analysed for 3,4-DAP concentration by the HPLC  method. The lower limit of 
quantification was 5 ng/ml for 3,4-DAP with an upper limit of 150 ng/ml. The method was validated 
and the validation report was provided. 
AUC(0-t), Cmax, tmax and t½ were calculated according normal standard procedures. 
Statistical  evaluation  was  performed  for  AUC(0-t)  and  Cmax  with  ANOVA  and  the  90%  confidence 
intervals (CI) for the ratio of reference formulation over the test formulation were calculated. 
Table. Mean reference/test ratios and 90% confidence intervals for AUC and Cmax comparing tablets 
(salt) and capsules (base); log-transformed data 
PARAMETER 
RATIO R/T (%) 
90% CI 
AUC0-∞ 
Cmax 
102.7 
86.3 
93.1-113.3 
73.7-100.8 
Figure. Plasma concentrations of 3,4-DAP after administration of salt in tablets and compared to base 
in capsules (the curve with the highest Cmax corresponds to salt administration) 
25/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, AUCs ratio fell within the pre-specified bioequivalence limits (80-125%). For Cmax the 
observed inferior limit exceeded the 80.0% bound and was near the 75% bound proposed for highly 
variable drugs. Tmax was significantly shorter for the salt formulation as compared to the base (0.6 h + 
0.3  vs.  0.9  h  +  0.4,  respectively;  p<0.001).  With  regards  to  the  oral  bioavailability  of  3,4-DAP 
phosphate, it has been demonstrated that following a 20 mg dose, a plasma Cmax of approximately 44 
ng/ml can be expected to be achieved at 30 minutes post-dosing.  
Bioavailability 
Bever  C,  Leslie  J,  Camenga  D,  Panitch  H,  Johnson  K  Preliminary  trial  of  3,4-diaminopyridine  in 
patients with multiple sclerosis. Ann Neurol 1990;27:421-427. 
Ten male patients, aged 38-61 years, with multiple sclerosis were enrolled in a preliminary trial of 3,4-
DAP  to  evaluate  drug  toxicity  and  pharmacokinetics.  No  patients  with  any  complicating  illness, 
including history or EEG evidence of epilepsy, were included. 
After informed consent was obtained, patients entered a two-phase, open label treatment protocol. In 
the first phase, patients were challenged with single oral doses of 3,4-DAP. Patients 1-3 received doses 
on alternate days, starting with 20 mg and increasing by 10 mg until a maximum tolerated dose or 100 
mg was reached, whichever was the lower. Blood samples were taken to measure 3,4-DAP levels. As 
these results showed that the serum half-life was <2 hours and that no DAP was detectable  after 24 
hours, patients 4-10 were treated daily, increasing in 20 mg increments. Phase II of the trial consisted 
of treating with the maximum tolerated dose or 100 mg in divided dosages for 5 to 21 days. Toxic side 
effects and neurological status were monitored throughout and blood samples were obtained for peak 
and trough DAP concentrations. 
Serial  serum  DAP  levels  were  available  from  39  treatment  days  in  9  patients,  with  doses  ranging 
between 20-100 mg. Time to peak serum level varied from <20 minutes to 1 hour after oral dosing. 
For  each  patient,  DAP  pharmacokinetics  were  consistent  and  levels  correlated  closely  with  the  dose 
administered. It was noted that there  was considerable patient-to-patient variability in dose response 
magnitude,  with  one  patient  achieving  a  plasma  concentration  of  80  ng/ml  following  a  50  mg  dose, 
and another patient achieving a level of 40 ng/ml following a 100 mg dose. There was a similar degree 
of variability seen in the peak to trough levels between patients. Lumbar punctures were performed on 
2 patients during the Phase II treatment and DAP concentrations assayed. The suggestion is that CSF 
levels reached around 10% of serum levels. 
26/49 
 
 
 
 
 
Lundh H, Nilsson O, Rosen I. Treatment of Lambert-Eaton syndrome: 3,4-DAP and pyridostigmine. 
Neurology 1984;34:1324-1330. 
In this small study, the investigators compared the clinical effects of either oral, rectal or intravenous 
administration  of  3,4-DAP  base  in  5  subjects  with  an  EMG  confirmed  diagnosis  of  LEMS.  Muscle 
power,  before  and  after  treatment,  was  quantified  by  counting  the  number  of  repeated  identical 
movements or the time of isometric contraction of several affected muscle groups following electrical 
stimulation  of  a  motor  nerve.  One  patient  suffered  with  dysarthria  which  was  evaluated  blindly  by 
logopedists from tape recordings. 
All patients demonstrated transient improvements in the measured parameters following both IV and 
oral  administrations  although  no  statistical  analysis  was  performed  on  these  data.  No  plasma 
concentrations  of  3,4-DAP  were  assessed.  The  doses  given  varied  between  the  five  patients  and  are 
summarised  as  follows,  in  relation  to  the  change  from  baseline  seen  in  compound  action  potential 
(CMAP) after electro-stimulation of the median nerve: 
Patient  CMAP, 
thenar; rest/2s 
after max vol 
contr (mV) 
1.5/5 
2.5/8.5 
0.35/1.6 
2.7/4.7 
5.0/7.0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Oral Administration 
Dose (mg) 
CMAP, 
rest (mV) 
12 
30 
30 
12 
18 
3.5 
5.0 
1.5 
5.0 
7.0 
Latency 
to max 
effect 
(h) 
3.5 
1.5 
3 
1 
2.5 
IV Administration 
Dose (mg) 
CMAP, 
rest (mV) 
18 
8 
8 
Not given 
8 
8.0 
5.0 
2.0 
Not given
8 
The  investigators  stated  that  in  sufficient  doses,  3,4-DAP  was  successful  in  treating  LEMS  when 
administered by oral, rectal and IV routes, however no suggestion as to what a sufficient dose might 
be was made. 
• 
Distribution and Elimination 
At  present  there  are  no  clinical  data  known  for  3,4-DAP  as  regards  protein  binding,  distribution, 
metabolism  and  route  of  excretion.  Based  on  literature  data  (Bever  et  al.,  1990)  3,4-DAP  is  rapidly 
cleared and would appear to have a serum half-life between 20 minutes and 2 hours. It has been also 
suggested that the main pathway of elimination may be renal excretion due to hydrophilic properties 
of 3,4-DAP. 
Metabolism 
The  metabolism  of  amifampridine  has  not  been  investigated  in  vitro  or  in  vivo.  The  applicant 
performed  a  comparative  clearance  study  PR6958/CC2206  which 
incubation  of 
amifampridine  with  human  hepatocytes  (please  see  non-clinical  part  of  the  report).  The  hepatocytes 
were from 3 donors, all with a cancer diagnosis. It is unknown, but not excluded, that the tissue was 
from metastases; hence, the protein expression could have been altered. 
The activity of CYP1A2 and CYP3A as well as UGT1A6 was measured to assess enzymatic activity. 
The  enzyme  activities  were  within  the  range  of  historical  data  from  the  laboratory.  There  was  no 
metabolism in the hepatocytes from one of the donors. The CLint values determined were in line with 
the  values  reported  for  rat  and  monkey  hepatocytes  in  the  same  study.  The  study  did  not  include 
metabolite detection. The CHMP considered this study as inconclusive.  
Further in vitro metabolism studies will be performed as a follow-up measure (please see discussion 
on PK). 
included 
27/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Presented  literature  data  did  not  allow  detailed  assessment  of  dose-dependency  in  the  studied 
population.  No  studies  investigating  time  dependency  or  multiple  dose  pharmacokinetics  were 
submitted. The dose has been determined on the basis of clinical experience. 
• 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
The  inter-individual  variability  is  reported  to  be  quite  high  (CV  about  50%).  The  intra-individual 
variability is unknown. The CHMP concluded that doses should be titrated individually in a stepwise 
manner with particular care in patients with renal and hepatic impairment (see SmPC sections 4.2 and 
4.4). 
• 
Special populations 
There  are  no  data  on  the  use  of  3,4-DAP  in  any  special  populations,  no  information  on  its  use  in 
hepatically or renally impaired subjects. As discussed above, the appropriate information is included 
in the SmPC.  
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
There  are  no  data  on  PK  interactions.  The  appropriate  information  is  included  in  Section  4.5  of  the 
SmPC. 
No  food  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  Due  to  the  fact  that  it  is  not  known  whether 
standardisation of administration of drug in relation to food intake will reduce the variability of drug 
exposure,  and  because  Zenas  tablets  are  to  be  taken  with  food,  a  food  interaction  study  will  be 
performed as a specific obligation. 
• 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Please see metabolism section above. 
Discussion on pharmacokinetics  
There  are  few  data  available  on  bioavailability  of  3,4-DAP.  The  applicant  provides  a  comparative 
bioequivalence  study  (DAPSEL)  between  oral  base  and  an  example  of  the  salt  formulation,  which 
displays a difference between the salt and base formulations with respect to Cmax. Given the results of 
the  DAPSEL  study,  i.e.  that  the  proposed  formulation  was  more  rapidly  dissolved  and  more 
completely absorbed, leading to a higher Cmax and shorter Tmax than the reference formulation, and the 
fact that the submitted dossier depended entirely on the demonstration that the proposed formulation is 
suitably  similar  to  those  referenced  in  the  published  efficacy  studies,  CHMP  expressed  concern 
whether literature data provided for the base formulation can be extrapolated to the salt.  
In  further  discussion  it  was  acknowledged  that  the  PK  profiles  of  the  formulations  used  in  the 
published literature were not known, therefore a comparison could not be made. Moreover, the extent 
of  absorption,  as  measured  by  AUC,  was  similar  between  products,  hence  it  was  accepted  that  the 
extent of exposure to the active moiety would be similar, irrespective of the formulation difference. It 
was  suggested  that  this  profile  would  not  impact  on  efficacy,  but  may  have  an  effect  on  safety. 
Consequently,  a  reduction  in  the  maximum  daily  dose  from  80  mg  to  60  mg  was  proposed  and 
endorsed.  
The  applicant  also  provided  two  literature  references:  one  to  basic  pharmacokinetics  of  3,4-DAP  in 
patients  with  multiple  sclerosis.  These  data  would  suggest  that  3,4-DAP  base  is  rapidly  absorbed 
following  oral  dose,  with  peak  plasma  concentrations  being  reached  within  1  hour.  There  would 
appear  to  be  a  significant  level  of  inter-individual  variability  in  the  plasma  concentrations  reached. 
3,4-DAP  is  rapidly  cleared  and  would  appear  to  have  a  serum  half-life  between  20  minutes  and  2 
hours. Another study examined an indirect clinical comparison between the oral route and intravenous 
route of administration for 3,4-DAP base. However, no conclusion could be made from this study with 
regards to the oral bioavailability of 3,4-DAP.  
28/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant has committed to perform in vitro studies to assess the potential of 3,4-DAP to inhibit 
human hepatic cytochrome P450, to assess the effect of 3,4-DAP on NAT and Pgp and to assess which 
enzymes are involved in the metabolism of 3,4 DAP, within a prespecified time frame. Similarly, the 
potential for enzyme induction is to be investigated as well as an attempt to identify human 3,4-DAP 
metabolites in vitro is to be made as at present there are no human data known for 3,4-DAP as regards 
protein binding, distribution, metabolism and route of excretion or information about potential PK or 
PD interactions.  
There are no data on the use of 3,4-DAP in any special populations, including hepatically or renally 
impaired  subjects.  This  is  adequately  reflected  in  the  SmPC.  No  food  interaction  study  has  been 
performed.  The  CHMP  has  requested  that  the  applicant  performs  this  study  as  one  of  the  specific 
obligations which form the basis for the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances.  
Pharmacodynamics 
As  discussed  earlier,  in  patients  with  LEMS,  a  reduced  number  of  synaptic  vesicles  are  released  in 
response to nerve stimulation so that the quantal content of the end-plate potential is abnormally low. 
The  relationship  between  the  number  of  vesicles  released  in  response  to  nerve  stimulation  and 
extracellular calcium is disturbed in LEMS, indicating that calcium entry into the nerve terminations is 
compromised.  The  auto-antibodies  found 
the  release  of 
neurotransmitters. This decrease in neurotransmitters is thought to cause the reduced action potential 
of the muscle in those patients. 
induce  a  decrease 
in  LEMS 
in 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Animal  models  have  shown  that  3,4-DAP  blocks  voltage  dependent  potassium  channels.  This 
blockade sustains depolarisation of the presynaptic membrane and slows or inhibits repolarisation. The 
resulting  prolonged  action  potential  increases  calcium  influx  to  the  nerve  terminal.  The  increased 
concentration  of  intracellular  calcium  promotes  exocytosis  of  acetylcholine-containing  synaptic 
vesicles. This hypothesis implies that in man 3,4-DAP not only improves resting muscle responses by 
increasing  the  inward  flow  of  calcium  but  also  increases  the  rate  of  calcium  efflux  from  the  pre-
synaptic terminal after nerve stimulation. 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The proposed primary pharmacology has been outlined in animal models, whereby 3,4-DAP has been 
shown  to  block  voltage  dependent  potassium  channels  thereby  sustaining  depolarisation  of  the  pre-
synaptic  membrane  and  slowing  repolarisation.  No  specific  studies  in  man  have  been  performed. 
There  are  a  number  of  literature  references  which  report  the  effect  of  3,4-DAP  on  increasing  the 
amplitude of the compound muscle action potential, an example of which is outlined below: 
Effect  of  3,4-Diaminopyridine  on  the  time  course  of  decay  of  compound  muscle  action  potential 
augmentation  in  the  Lambert-Eaton  Myasthenic  Syndrome.  Maddison  P,  Newsom-Davis  J,  Mills  K. 
Muscle Nerve 21: 1196-1198, 1998. 
6 patients with LEMS, all positive for autoantibodies to voltage gated calcium channels, were studied. 
Measurements  of  peak-to-peak  compound  muscle  action  potential  (CMAP)  amplitudes  were  made 
from  abductor  digiti  minimi  using  standard  bipolar  surface  electrodes.  A  single  supra-maximal 
stimulus  was  delivered  at  rest  prior  to  a  10  second  maximal  voluntary  contraction,  which  was 
immediately followed by thirty 1Hz stimuli. An identical series of recordings was made exactly 1 hour 
after ingestion of 10 mg oral 3,4-DAP. All patients had abnormally small resting CMAP amplitudes 
prior  to  the  ingestion  of  DAP.  They  all  demonstrated  characteristic  augmentation  of  the  CMAP 
amplitude after 10 s voluntary contraction. After ingestion of DAP, 4 out of 6 patients had an increase 
in  resting  CMAP  amplitude.  The  time  constant  for  decay  in  CMAP  amplitude  was  significantly 
reduced after treatment indicating an effect on the efflux of calcium ions from the presynaptic nerve 
terminal.  
29/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  studies  have  been  provided  regarding  the  secondary  pharmacology.  Based  on  the  mechanism  of 
action  and  literature  data  it  is  believed  that  3,4-DAP  may  cause  cholinergic  effects.  For  more  detail 
please refer to the non-clinical part of the report. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
• 
As  discussed  under  pharmacokinetics,  there  would  appear  to  be  a  high  degree  of  inter-individual 
variability in the plasma concentration reached following a given oral dose. It is not known, therefore, 
what plasma concentration can be expected to be reached from a given dose of 3,4-DAP and the dose 
has to be individually titrated.  
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances 
• 
The applicant has provided no formal PD interaction studies. However, there are data available from 
published literature relating to DAP which would suggest a number of areas for consideration. 
3,4-DAP  has  been  associated  with  reports  of  seizures,  especially  at  high  doses.  It  is  reasonable  to 
hypothesise that concomitant administration of 3,4-DAP with other agents lowering the epileptogenic 
threshold may give rise to an increased risk of convulsions. This potential interaction is identified as a 
precaution for use in the SmPC. 
Through the suggested pharmacodynamic effect on K+ channel blockade, and resultant prolongation of 
the action potential, an effect on cardiac repolarisation cannot be fully excluded, as discussed earlier. 
No  specific  impact  on  ECG  was  observed  in  the  DAPSEL  study.  However,  there  are  at  least  two 
reports of potential effect on QTc in the literature, including one ventricular tachycardia confirmed on 
a  Holter  and  one  QTc  prolongation.  This  potential  interaction  with  other  QTc  prolonging  drugs 
including sultopride is identified as a contraindication in the SmPC.  
It is also reasonable to assume, based on theoretical considerations of the pharmacodynamic properties 
of  3,4-DAP,  that  it  may  cause  cholinergic  effects.  Although  clear  clinical  evidence  is  lacking, 
interactions  between  3,4-DAP  and  cholinergic  substances  including  acetylcholine  esterase  inhibitors 
would  seem  to  be  possible.  In  addition,  caution  should  be  exercised  with  drugs  having  an  anti-
cholinergic  effect  (such  as  phenothiazine,  neuroleptics,  antispasmodics,  H1-blockers)  since  3,4-DAP 
might  mitigate  their  effectiveness  or  a  cholinergic  attack  might  occur  on  discontinuation.  The 
acetylcholine  releasing  properties  of  3,4-DAP  may  reduce  the  action  of  depolarising  and  non-
depolarising muscle relaxants. These potential interactions are identified as combinations to be taken 
into consideration in the SmPC.  
Discussion on pharmacodynamics 
In  conclusion,  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  as  literature  references  for  3,4-DAP  base, 
considered to be studies of efficacy in small populations, suggest that 3,4-DAP almost certainly has an 
impact  on  the  amplitude  of  compound  muscle  action  potential  (CMAP),  which  in  turn  improves 
clinical motor function in patients. In terms of defining a specific receptor, its occupancy, the agonist 
vs. antagonist effect no studies have been provided. Due to limited data a dose-response relationship 
remains  not  clarified.  Consequently,  a  number  of  precautions  have  been  advised  in  the  SmPC  on 
potential pharmacodynamic interactions. 
Clinical efficacy  
This was a mixed application, and the pivotal efficacy data are based on published studies. 
The  results  from  four  randomised  placebo-controlled  studies  and  one  active  controlled  study  have 
been published. Two of the placebo-controlled studies, McEvoy et al. , 1989 and Sanders et al., 2000, 
were  published  as  journal  articles  and  both  were  included  in  a  recent  Cochrane  review.  These  two 
studies are considered as the pivotal studies. 
The other controlled trials were published in abstract form [Murray et al., 1984, Wirtz et al., 2002] or 
as a short book article [Sanders et al., 1993] and they are considered as supportive. In addition, there 
are  reports  of  uncontrolled  investigations  and  case  reports  which  provide  supportive  information  on 
efficacy. 
30/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moreover, the available data relating directly to the use of 3,4-DAP phosphate from the Named Patient 
Basis experience in France is also presented – 82 patients have been treated with 3,4-DAP phosphate 
10 mg tablets between December 2006 and March 2008. 
• 
Main study(ies) 
Study by McEvoy at al, 1989.1 
This  was  a  prospective,  double  blind,  cross-over,  placebo  controlled  trial  of  3,4-DAP  in  12  patients 
with LEMS.  
METHODS 
Study participants 
Twelve  (12)  patients  were  randomized  and  had  a  diagnosis  of  LEMS  based  on  accepted  criteria. 
Eligible  patients  had  electrophysiologic  confirmed  LEMS  with  stable  or  progressive  weakness.  One 
patient  was  screened  but  not  included  due  to  failure  to  meet  those  criteria.  The  electrophysiologic 
criteria used for the diagnosis were a decrement of more than 10 % during repetitive stimulation of 2 
Hz and a facilitation of more than 200% after 10 seconds of exercise, in two different nerve-muscle 
combinations, without evidence of other nerve or muscle disease. Seven patients had cancer, and five 
patients  had  autoimmune  disorders,  reflecting  the  LEMS  population.  All  12  randomised  patients 
completed both periods of the study. 
Treatments 
For  the  first  8  days  of  treatment  (Days  2  –  9),  patients  were  administered  DAP  in  an  open  label 
fashion. The oral dose was titrated up to the individual’s maximum tolerable dose or a maximum of 25 
mg  four  times  daily.  Thereafter,  patients  entered  a  double  blind  phase  of  crossover  design.  Patients 
were randomised to receive their maximum tolerated dose, as per the open label phase, or placebo for 
three days before crossover and repeat. Ten patients tolerated the full dosage of 25 mg four times  a 
day. One patient was maintained on 15 mg and another on 10 mg due to side effects.  
Objectives 
The objectives were not clearly stated in the publication. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary or secondary efficacy outcome measures are not clearly defined in the publication. The 
efficacy variables used were the neurological disability score (NDS) (see Table below), the isometric 
strength  and  electrophysiological  measurements.  The  NDS  score  reflects  a  number  of  symptoms 
relevant to patients with LEMS. 
Baseline  electrophysiological  measurements  were  taken  of  standard  electromyography  and  nerve 
conduction  studies  of  the  upper  and  lower  extremities,  with  2Hz  repetitive  stimulation  of  the  ulnar, 
median,  musculocutaneous,  peroneal  and  tibial  nerves  both  at  rest  and  after  exercise.  The  nerve-
muscle  combination  (CMAP)  showing  the  greatest  facilitation  after  exercise  in  one  upper  and  one 
lower  extremity  were  used  for  subsequent  repetitive-stimulation  testing  on  days  3,  5,  12  and  15. 
Isometric strength testing was performed in Days 1, 3, 5, 9, 12 and 15. This included measurement of 
the  force  generated  by  bilateral  elbow  and  wrist  flexion,  knee  extension  and  ankle  dorsiflexion. 
Neurologic disability scores were determined at the same intervals. This comprised of a strength score 
for a unilateral set of muscles and reflexes as follows: 
1 McEvoy K, Windembank A, Daube J, Low P. 3,4 Diaminopyridine in the Treatment of Lambert-Eaton 
Myasthenic Syndrome. The New England Journal of Medicine. 1989; 321: 1567-71. 
31/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Reflex score++ 
Reflex 
Biceps 
Triceps 
Brachioradialis 
Knee 
Ankle 
Subtotal 
Total score 
Table. The Neurologic Disability Score Sheet.* 
Strength score+ 
Muscle 
Extraocular 
Facial 
Jaw 
Palate 
Tongue 
Respiratory 
Shoulder abduction 
Shoulder external rotation 
Biceps 
Triceps 
Brachioradialis 
Wrist extensioin 
Wrist flexion 
Finger extension 
Finger flexion 
Interossei 
Hip flexion 
Hip adduction 
Hip abduction 
Quadriceps 
Hamstrings 
Ankle dorsiflexors 
Ankle plantar flexors 
Toe dorsiflexors 
Toe plantar flexors 
Subtotal 
*Each index is scored on both the right and left sides. A strength subtotal of at least 20 was required for entry into the study.  
+A score of 0 denotes no deficit, 1 mild weakness, 2 moderate weakness, 3 severe weakness, and 4 no movement. ++A score 
of 0 denotes normal activity, 1 reduce activity, and 2 no activity. 
Measures of autonomic function were also made. These included sweat production (sudomotor axon 
reflex  test),  salivation,  tilt  table  orthostatic  blood  pressure  measurement,  and  heart  rate  responses  to 
deep  breathing  and  the  Valsalva  manoeuvre,  corrected  for  age.  Electroencephalography  and 
electrocardiography were performed at baseline and at Days 3, 5, 8 and 15. 
The  CHMP  considered  these  outcome  variables  as  adequate,  although  a  clinically  meaningful  effect 
was not predefined. 
Randomisation 
It is stated in the publication that a random number table was used, which would be appropriate. 
Blinding 
It is only stated in the publication that the cross-over phase was double blind. There is no description 
of the appearance of the placebo compared to the active drug. 
Statistical methods 
The  quantative  measures  of  severity  before  therapy  and  during  maximal  doses  of  3,4-DAP  were 
compared by paired t-test. 
RESULTS 
Recruitment 
There is no detailed description of how the patients were recruited. 
Conduct of the study 
There is no discussion about deviations from the protocol. 
32/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data: 
The 12 patients consisted of 8 women and 4 men aged between 34 and 75 years. Seven of the patients 
had  cancers  and  five  auto-immune  disorders.  Ten  of  the  patients  had  been  previously  treated  with 
anticholinesterase inhibitors. Four had been treated with prednisolone, four with guanidine, three with 
plasmapharesis  and  two  with  azathioprine.  None  had  received  any  previous  aminopyridines.  Any 
anticholinesterases were stopped 4 days before the trial drugs were commenced and patients receiving 
immunosuppressive agents were held constant for at least 5 months before entry into the study. 
Numbers analysed 
12 patients were included and all 12 patients completed the cross-over period.  
Outcomes and estimation 
The neurologic disability scores decreased from a base-line mean of 40 to 22 on active treatment, and 
35 on placebo (p<0.05).  
Isometric  strength  also  showed  significant  improvement  with  treatment.  Upper  extremity  strength  at 
baseline  averaged  70%  of  normal  (sex  matched  for  healthy  subjects)  and  improved  to  81%  on 
treatment. Lower extremity strength improved from 45% to 65%. Both results were significantly better 
than that for placebo (p<0.005 and p<0.001, respectively). 
Electrophysiological improvement occurred as well, with increase in the resting areas and amplitudes 
of CMAPs nearly doubling on treatment. An increase in sweating of the foot was seen in ten out of the 
twelve  patients  (p<0.05)  although  this  was  not  significant  in  the  case  of  the  forearm.  Even  though 
slight  increases  in  heart  rate  were  seen  for  both  deep  breathing  and  Valsalva  manoeuvres,  neither 
result was significant, nor were any changes for orthostatic blood pressure. 
After the trial period, patients had the option of continuing on open label DAP treatment if they chose. 
All twelve did and three month data were available for all. Nine month data were available for 11 as 
one patient died from their pre-existing cancer during the intermittent period. Nine of the remaining 11 
returned at 15 months.  
No significant decline in the efficacy of the treatment was noted; the average resting amplitude of the 
CMAP at nine months were 5.1±1.0 mV in the arm, and 3.1±0.7 mV in the leg, and at 15 months they 
were 5.5±1.2 mV in the arm, and 3.2±0.8 mV in the leg. It has however to be noted that after the three 
month  period,  four  patients  had  pyridostigmine  added  to  their  treatment  regimes  which  may  have 
contributed to the overall effect. 
Study by Sanders D, et al, 2000.2 
This was a prospective, double blind, placebo controlled efficacy trial of 3,4-DAP in 26 patients with 
LEMS.  
METHODS 
Study participants 
Patients  older  than  18  years  of  age  with  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of  LEMS  were  candidates  for 
screening.  The  diagnosis  of  LEMS  was  made  if  there  was  weakness  that  predominated  in  proximal 
limb muscles and electromyographic findings characteristic of LEMS. Patients who met the screening 
criteria were admitted to the General Clinical Research Center, Duke University Medical Center. 
The 26 patients consisted of 15 women and 11 men aged between 41 and 68 years. Ten of the patients 
had cancers. 
Treatments 
Patients took one capsule containing lactose alone or 20 mg of DAP in lactose three times a day for 6 
days. 
2 Sanders D, Massey J, Sanders L, Edwards L. A Randomised trial of 3,4-diaminopyridine in Lambert-Eaton 
Myasthenic Syndrome. Neurology 2000;54:603-607. 
33/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Objectives 
To assess the effectiveness of 3,4-diaminopyridine (DAP) in patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic 
syndrome (LEMS) and to determine the acute and long-term side effects of DAP. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
A standardized, quantitative assessment of function of muscle groups typically involved in myasthenia 
gravis  (MG)  and  LEMS,  the  quantitative  myasthenia  gravis  (QMG)  score,  was  used  as  the  primary 
measure of efficacy.  
In  each  patient,  the  average  of  the  baseline  QMG  scores  obtained  on  2  consecutive  days  before 
beginning the study drug was compared with the average of postbaseline QMG scores obtained on the 
fifth  and  sixth  days  of  the  study  drug  administration.  QMG  scoring  was  performed  by  the  same 
observer and at the same time interval after the most recent dose of study medication. 
Changes in the amplitude of CMAPs elicited by nerve stimulation were used as a secondary measure 
of efficacy. The average of the summated CMAPs  obtained on 2 consecutive days before beginning 
the study drug was used as the baseline CMAP amplitude, and the average of the summated CMAPs 
obtained  on  the  fifth  and  sixth  days  of  the  study  drug  administration  was  used  as  the  postbaseline 
CMAP  amplitude.  The  change  in  summated  CMAP  amplitude  between  baseline  and  postbaseline 
values was calculated for each patient. 
These  were  considered  an  appropriate  clinical  scale  and  an  objective  electrophysiological 
measurement. 
Randomization and blinding 
Patients  were  randomized  to  receive  either  DAP  or  placebo  using  a  random  allocation  table,  which 
was  maintained by the Duke University Medical  Center Hospital Pharmacy. Identical capsules were 
prepared by the pharmacy. 
14  patients  received  placebo  and  12  DAP.  Patients  took  one  20  mg  capsule  of  the  study  drug  (or 
matching placebo) three times a day for 6 days.  
Statistical methods 
Results  of  preliminary  studies  had  indicated  that  LEMS  patients  improve  an  average  of  two  QMG 
points while taking DAP, compared with an average improvement of 0.7 points in patients receiving 
placebo. There was a power of 80% that a placebo-controlled parallel treatment study with 26 patients 
would demonstrate a clinically meaningful difference of two QMG points between patients randomly 
assigned  to  DAP  and  those  randomly  assigned  to  placebo  that  is  significant  at  the  5%  type  I  error 
level. The few patients with this rare disease that could be studied did not provide sufficient statistical 
power to perform any meaningful subgroup analysis. 
The  original  study  design  specified  that  a  t-test  would  be  used  for  data  analysis,  assuming  that  the 
underlying distribution of data would be normal. However, subsequent analysis demonstrated that the 
distribution  of  most  of  the  continuous  variables  was  sufficiently  skewed  to  warrant  using  a 
nonparametric  statistical  method.  Thus,  descriptive  statistics  for  continuous  variables  were 
summarized in terms of medians and interquartile ranges, and the Wilcoxon's rank sum test was used 
to evaluate group differences. This included the evaluation of differences between placebo- and DAP-
treated  groups  for  baseline  and  postbaseline  values  for  QMG,  CMAP,  as  well  as  differences  in  the 
change of these variables from baseline. Categorical variables were reported in terms of the number 
and percentage of patients affected. Because of small sample sizes, Fisher's exact tests were used to 
evaluate group differences for gender and incidence of small cell lung cancer at baseline, as well as for 
symptomatic response to treatment. All analyses were completed on an intention-to-treat basis. 
34/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
RESULTS 
Participant flow  
All randomized patients completed the study. 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=37)  
Excluded (n=11) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
Randomised (n=26) 
Received placebo (n=14) 
Received DAP (n=12) 
Analysed (n=14)  
Analysed (n=12) 
Recruitment 
Patients  with  LEMS  were  identified  and  recruited  from  the  Myasthenia  Gravis  Clinic  at  Duke 
University  Medical  Center,  both  by  personal  contact  with  physicians  throughout  the  country  and  by 
notices on the Internet. This is appropriate. 
Conduct of the study 
There is no detailed description in the publication of the conduct of the study.  
Baseline data 
QMG score testing and nerve stimulation studies were performed at baseline and repeated on the fifth 
and  sixth  days  of  drug  administration.  On  the  sixth  day  ECG,  EEG  and  screening  blood  tests  were 
repeated.  No  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  groups  even  though  some  smaller 
differences in number of patients with SCLC and the baseline values of QMG could be noted. 
Numbers analysed 
All randomized patients were analysed. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  QMG  score  improved  by  at  least  2  points  in  seven  of  the  twelve  patients  taking  DAP,  the 
maximum  change  being  an  improvement  of  3.0  points.  No  patient  who  received  placebo  improved 
more than 1.5 points. The change from baseline reached statistical significance. 
QMG (points) 
Placebo n=14 
DAP n=12 
p value 
Baseline 
12.3 (9.0-13.5) 
8.5 (7.3-17.0) 
Post baseline 
13.0 (9.0-13.5) 
6.5 (5.0-14.3) 
Change  
0.25 (-1.0-1.0) 
-2.0 (-3.0-0.0) 
0.62 
0.14 
0.01 
35/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median summated CMAP amplitude increased 1.30mV among patients who took DAP, compared 
with a median decrease of 0.1mV in those taking placebo, this change being a highly significant 
difference from placebo. 
CMAP (mV) 
Placebo n=14 
DAP n=12 
p value 
Baseline 
1.3 (0.8-2.2) 
1.5 (0.6-2.6) 
Post baseline 
1.3 (1.1-2.9) 
3.4 (1.5-5.1) 
0.79 
0.05 
Change  
-0.1 (-0.1-0.1) 
1.3 (0.5-2.5) 
<0.001 
As a further stage, patients could continue with open label DAP after the trial period. All but three of 
the  25  patients  continuing  with  open  label  treatment  improved  at  least  two  QMG  points  during  this 
extended treatment. Patients had pyridostigmine added to their treatment regimes at this time, which 
might have contributed to the overall effect. Only one patient had no symptomatic improvement while 
taking open-label DAP. Two of the three patients who did not improve symptomatically while taking 
blinded DAP subsequently had symptomatic improvement while taking open-label DAP. Conversely, 
four  patients  believed  that  their  strength  improved  while  they  were  taking  placebo,  but  this  was  not 
corroborated by a significant change in their QMG score. All four of these patients had more marked 
symptomatic  improvement  while  subsequently  taking  open-label  DAP,  and  all  of  this  was 
corroborated  by  an  improved  QMG  score.  In  more  than  half  of  the  patients,  the  optimum  clinical 
response was obtained with 30 or 40 mg of DAP per day. The results of this open label phase seem to 
corroborate the results of the blinded phase. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
• 
Maddison  P,  Newsom-Davis  J  .  Treatment  for  Lambert  Eaton  Myasthenic  Syndrome.  2005 
Cochrane Review. 
The above two studies were included in a Cochrane review for the treatment of LEMS in 2005. The 
authors did not perform a meta-analysis on the primary (clinical) end-points due to marked differences 
in primary outcome measures used in the studies. Instead, the authors carried out a meta-analysis using 
CMAP  as  an  end-point,  which  was  a  secondary  end-point  in  both  studies.  They  stated  that 
improvements  in  CMAP  were  an  ideal,  objective,  and  reproducible  secondary  end-point  for  trials 
investigating treatments of LEMS. 
The overall weighted mean difference was 1.80 mV (95% confidence interval 0.82 to 2.78), favouring 
treatment (see below). 
36/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cochrane review concluded that these trials showed that 3,4-DAP improved muscle strength 
scores and CMAP amplitudes in patients with LEMS. The results were considered in line with other 
reports showing that 3,4-DAP is beneficial in the treatment of LEMS and mirror the current practice of 
using 3,4-DAP as symptomatic first-line treatment in LEMS patients. 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No  studies  in  special  populations  have  been  conducted.  Appropriate  information  is  included  in  the 
SmPC. 
• 
Supportive study(ies) 
The applicant refers to other controlled trials that have been published in abstract form or as a short 
book article: these are  considered as supportive studies. In addition, there is a plethora of reports of 
uncontrolled investigations and case reports. Although many of them may be classified as anecdotal, 
they provide some supportive information on efficacy, in view of the rarity of the condition. 
Sanders et al., 1993 
This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. After an uptitration period 
to identify the optimal dose, 10 patients with LEMS received 3,4-DAP 5-15 mg three times a day or 
matching placebo for 1 week. In addition, 8 patients with MG were enrolled. 
Seven  of  10  patients  with  LEMS  improved  more  than  3  QMG  points  on  3,4-DAP  (p<0.1)  A 
therapeutic response was seen with doses of 3,4-DAP 5 to 15 mg three times a day. After the blinded, 
crossover  trial,  pyridostigmine  was  added  and  was  reported  to  produce  greater  symptomatic 
improvement than 3,4-DAP alone and permitted reduction of 3,4-DAP dose in most patients.  
Sixteen  patients  took  3,4-DAP  (15  to  50  mg/day)  in  divided  doses  for  4  to  45  months  (average  22 
months). The authors concluded that 3,4-DAP was an effective symptomatic treatment in patients with 
LEMS, and in some patients with acquired MG. 
Wirtz et al., 2002 
This  was  a  double-blind  placebo-controlled,  randomised,  four-period  crossover  study,  which 
compared the effects of single doses of 3,4-DAP, pyridostigmine, their combination, and placebo in 
nine  patients  with  LEMS.  3,4-DAP  10  mg  was  given  as  an  intravenous  infusion  over  1  hour. 
Pyridostigmine was given as an intravenous bolus of 1 mg at 0 and 40 minutes. 
Mean  baseline  muscle  strength  was  108  ±  61.2  N  in  the  nine  patients  included  in  the  trial.  Mean 
baseline CMAP amplitude was 3.49 ± 2.41 mV. 
Strength and CMAP amplitude increased significantly during treatment with 3,4-DAP compared with 
placebo (mean differences 23.0 N; 95% CI = 12.2-33.7 and 0.89 mV; 95% CI = 0.39-1.39). A similar 
significant  improvement  versus  placebo  was  also  seen  with  combination  therapy  (mean  differences 
26.2 N; 95% CI = 14.6-37.9 and 1.09 mV; 95% CI = 0.53-1.65 respectively). However, treatment with 
pyridostigmine alone did not result in significant improvement. Treatment with combination therapy 
did  not  significantly  differ  from  treatment  with  3,4-DAP  alone  (mean  differences  -1.9  N; 95%  CI  = 
17.7-13.9 and -0.12 mV; 95% CI = -0.83-0.58) 
Murray et al., 1984  
This was a double-blind, active-controlled study which compared single doses of 3,4-DAP 20 mg and 
pyridostigmine  120  mg  in  patients  with  LEMS.  Six  patients  were  enrolled.  Improvements  after  3,4-
DAP  were  more  marked  than  after  pyridostigmine  in  five  patients,  as  shown  by  clinical  and 
electrophysiological criteria. The peak effect occurred 1-2 hours after administration. 
Named Patient Basis Experience 
3,4-DAP base as ad-hoc hospital preparations was distributed by AGEPS in France between 1995 and 
mid-2006.  During  this  period  approximately  90  patients  with  LEMS  were  treated.  No  efficacy  data 
were collected. Since December 2006, the distribution of 3,4-DAP phosphate has been authorised on a 
Named  Patient  Basis  under  the  French  ATU  programme.  Of  the  82  patients  treated  in  France  from 
December  2006  until  March  2008,  31  were  de-novo  patients.  No  formal  efficacy  data  have  been 
37/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recorded.  However,  it  is  reported  that  very  few  patients  have  described  a  lack  of  efficacy  with  3,4-
DAP phosphate. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  any  pivotal  efficacy  study  by  themselves,  and  the  efficacy  is 
supported by published studies. 
The CHMP discussed the following shortcomings of this application:  
1)  Most  of  the  experience  with  3,4-DAP  in  LEMS  has  been  gained  with  the  base  formulation, 
however,  majority  of  the  clinical  publications,  with  a  few  exceptions,  do  not  explicitly  specify  3-4-
DAP as a free base. Zenas contains the drug substance 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP) formulated as 
phosphate. This was discussed by the CHMP and the results of the DAPSEL study (see the section on 
Pharmacokinetics) addressed the CHMP questions on this aspect. As a consequence of the differences 
in Cmax and Tmax between the phosphate and the base, the maximum daily dose was adjusted from 80 to 
60 mg. 
2)  The  two  published  studies  that  the  applicant  refers  to  as  pivotal  are  small.  The  small  number  of 
patients reflects the rarity of LEMS.  
The published studies present methodological problems and the publications generally contain sparse 
data.  The  clinical  efficacy  is  also  supported  by  numerous  publications  of  supportive  studies/case 
reports, however these offer an even lower level of evidence due to methodology, detail of data and 
potential for bias. In particular, the study by Mc Evoy et al. presented the following weaknesses: there 
was  no  description  of  how  the  patients  were  recruited,  the  blinding  was  questionable  due  to  pre-
treatment  of active  drug  and  the drug/placebo  appearance  was  unclear,  the  statistic  analysis  was  not 
well defined in advance and there was no discussion around the multiple analyses. In the Sanders et al. 
study the statistical analyses were changed from the originally planned. Most importantly, there was 
no clear analysis of how to relate the measured effect to a clinical meaningful effect. 
The  applicant  discussed  in  their  responses  the  concerns  of  the  CHMP  regarding  the  methodological 
shortcomings of these publications, and the clinical relevance of the results. It was concluded that both 
studies  show  a  clear  and  significant  positive  effect  on  all  variables  used,  and  additionally  on  an 
objective  parameters  such  as  electrophysiological  measures  (CMAP).  The  concordant  effects  shown 
on the neurological disability score, the myasthenia  gravis score  (QMG) and on the muscle strength 
(as also mirrored by the electrophysiology results) were considered by the CHMP as sufficient, albeit 
weak, demonstration of efficacy. The effects seem to be sustained over time as showed by CMAP data 
at long-term follow-up. 
3)  The  applicant  did  not  explain  convincingly  why  a  pivotal  efficacy  study  with  3,4-DAP  as  a 
phosphate  has  not  been  conducted  by  themselves.  The  study  would  have  been  possible  to  conduct 
according to GCP and guidelines for confirmatory studies, and then more convincing data would have 
been available. In their responses, the applicant argued that the PK results showed that the available 
body of data, including the case reports, was applicable to the submitted formulation, therefore further 
placebo-controlled studies would not be warranted. The CHMP concluded that the point was resolved 
due to the concurrence of the available results, although a study even in a limited number of patients 
would have been preferable. To further substantiate this conclusion, the CHMP has requested that the 
patient registry established as a specific obligation should incorporate measures of efficacy, and that 
the marketing authorisation should therefore be granted under exceptional circumstances. 
Clinical safety 
The majority of the safety information relates to published documented exposure to DAP base. There 
are some data from the named patient database in France (French ATU programme), as well as that 
recorded during the DAPSEL bioequivalence study. 
38/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patient exposure 
The clinical data in the application for Zenas are primarily taken from published clinical trials. In total, 
approximately 2300 patients have been exposed to 3,4-DAP. Of these, approximately 282-324 patients 
suffered from LEMS. Most of the patients were exposed to the 3,4-DAP base (please refer to the Risk 
Management Plan for clarification on total patient exposure). 
The patient exposure is as follows: 
-  Approximately  150  patients  with  LEMS  were  exposed  to  treatment  in  the  controlled,  uncontrolled 
studies and the case reports according to the literature data included in the application. 
-  Approximately  90  patients  with  LEMS  have  been  treated  in  France  with  3,4-DAP  provided  by 
Agence Générale des Equipments et Produits de Santé (AGEPS) since 1996 and approximately 1,170 
patients  were  treated  with  3-4  DAP  provided  by  AGEPS  for  other  indications.  In  addition,  since 
December 2006 till March 2007, 82 patients have been treated  with 3,4-DAP under the Therapeutic 
Use Protocol in France (French ATU programme). Of these patients 28 suffered from LEMS, 19 from 
Congenital  Myashenic  Syndrome  (CMS)  and  35  patients  from  either  LEMS  or  CMS  (no  definitive 
information available).  
- Moreover, at a later stage during the procedure additional safety data became available from 32 new 
patients  treated  with  3,4-DAP  under  the  ATU  programme  between  1  April  2008  and  31  December 
2008.  Of  these  11  suffered  from  LEMS,  10  from  CMS,  4  from  nystagmus  and  for  7  patients  the 
indication was not available. 
• 
Adverse events  
The  seven  placebo-controlled  studies  with  3,4-DAP  (two  in  LEMS  and  five  in  other  indications) 
reported  adverse  events.  All  the  other  reports  on  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  3,4-DAP  report 
suspected “side-effects” or adverse reactions. Paraesthesias were the most commonly seen side-effect. 
They occurred most frequently as peri-oral or digital (peripheral) paraesthesias with daily doses of 3,4-
DAP  of  between  10  and  40  mg,  usually  about  1  hour  after  ingestion.  Paraesthesias  did  not  always 
occur  after  every  single  dose  and  may  be  more  marked  when  3,4-DAP  is  taken  together  with 
pyridostigmine. They did not lead to treatment cessation. In some patients, transient dizziness, a sense 
of  light-headedness,  heavy-headedness  or  fatigue  developed  after  3-4  DAP  intake.  Subjective 
symptoms resolved with dose reduction. Some patients developed a subjective sense of weakness and 
malaise  3  or  4  days  after  dose  escalation.  This  resolved  with  dose  reduction  and  therapeutic  benefit 
was maintained. Abdominal pain, epigastric distress or abdominal cramps are other frequent adverse 
reactions seen with 3,4-DAP.  
In  the  DAPSEL  study,  which  consisted  of  26  healthy  volunteers,  there  were  40  adverse  events 
reported. Of the 40 reported events, 25 were paraesthesias, mainly peri-oral paraesthesias, which are 
documented AE’s in patients treated with 3,4-DAP. All were minor and were considered as possibly 
related to the administered treatment by the investigator. Other events were non-serious events usually 
occurring in trials with healthy subjects. No deaths were reported during this study. One adverse event, 
increase  in  liver  enzymes,  was  classified  as  serious  leading  to  premature  withdrawal  (please  see 
below).  
Over the period from 1995 to mid-2006 3 safety reports were collected from the compassionate use 
programme  in  France:  paraesthesias,  anxiety  and  visual  disturbance;  myoclonia;  epigastric  distress, 
nausea, diarrhoea, headache and dizziness. Most of the adverse events resolved after discontinuation 
of the treatment. 
As  mentioned  earlier,  since  December  2006,  the  distribution  of  3,4-DAP  phosphate  (10  mg  scored 
tablets) has been authorised on a Named Patient basis (French ATU programme) by the AFSSAPS as 
part  of  a  Therapeutic  Use  Protocol  (TUP).  During  the  period  from  1  December  2006  to  17  March 
2008, 13 case reports have been received which were observed in 11 patients and included 25 different 
AEs.  Of  the  13  reports,  two  were  serious  and  11  were  non-serious.  The  most  common  treatment-
39/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
related  AEs  were  those  classified  as  gastro-intestinal  disorders  (n=12;  14.7%).  The  most  common 
individual AEs were paraesthesia (n=4; 4.9%), nausea and vomiting (n=3; 3.6%).  
Survey of the Hospital Centre of Rennes 2005  
This study was a retrospective observational cohort safety study performed by the Centre Hospitalier 
Régional de Rennes (France). The main objectives of the study were to determine the reasons for early 
discontinuation  of  treatment  with  3,4-DAP  and  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  use  profile  of  3,4-DAP.  A 
total of 669 patients were included, the vast majority with multiple sclerosis (n=665). Three patients 
had LEMS and 1 patient myotonic dystrophy. 3,4 DAP was administered in multiple oral doses. The 
daily dose was 20 or 30 mg administered in two or three daily divided doses in 77,6 % of patients. The 
three patients with LEMS received higher doses, 30, 50 and 80 mg, respectively. The mean duration of 
treatment  was  6.2  months,  median  2  months,  and  range  0-51  months.  53.8  %  of  patients  received 
treatment  for  1  or  2  months.  There  were  124  reports  of  adverse  reactions  over  the  survey  period, 
corresponding  to  122  patients  (18.2%  of  669  patients  exposed).  Of  these,  four  cases  were  serious. 
There were 59 reported cases of paraesthesias occurring in 14 men and 45 women. Several types were 
distinguished,  particularly  peri-oral  paraesthesias,  which  appears  to  be  the  most  common  form  of 
paraesthesias related to 3,4-DAP. Seven cases of positive re-exposure were reported. Three cases of 
convulsions or exacerbation of epilepsy were reported following the administration of 3,4-DAP. 3,4-
DAP was not considered to be a contributor in two cases, but could not be excluded in the third case. 
Five cases of worsening of Raynaud-like syndrome and peripheral coldness have been also reported. 
The information on AEs has been included in the Section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
From the information available through the French ATU programme, there would appear to have been 
one death in a patient exposed to DAP salt, although this was not found to be related to the drug as the 
patient  died  of  their  pre-existing  small  cell  lung cancer.  A  further  3  patients  have  died  whilst  under 
treatment with the base formulation, although none of these have been attributed to the drug. 
The  most  frequent  serious  adverse  event  is  seizure.  Based  on  safety  data  from  controlled  trials  six 
patients  have  experienced  single  seizures:  five  after  3,4-DAP  treatment  at  high  doses  (100  mg/day). 
Sanders et al. (2000) described one patient who continued to take 3,4-DAP at a lower dose for more 
than  10  years  and  has  had  no  further  seizures.  The  second  patient  who  was  taking  3,4-DAP  100 
mg/day experienced seizures while receiving toxic doses of theophylline; seizures did not recur on the 
same  dose  of  3,4-DAP  after  theophylline  was  discontinued.  In  the  same  study  a  third  patient  with 
metastatic cancer in the brain had seizures while taking 3,4-DAP 60 mg/day. In a study by McEvoy et 
al. (1989) one patient had a seizure after 10 months of treatment. This occurred shortly after the total 
daily dose of 3,4-DAP was increased from 90 mg to 100 mg and the daily dose of pyridostigmine was 
doubled (from 120mg to 240 mg). Seizures did not recur with the patient taking a daily dose of 40 mg 
of  3,4-DAP.  One  case  of  grand  mal  seizure  occurred  in  a  double-blind  study.  Three  other  cases  of 
seizures  were  reported  from  the  Rennes  study,  two  of  them  with  unlikely  causality.  The  risk  of 
seizures appears to increase with the dose of 3,4-DAP; seizures appear to be rare below doses of 80 
mg/day.  As  discussed  earlier,  the  potential  of  3,4-DAP  to  affect  the  seizure  threshold  has  been 
addressed by including relevant contraindications, warnings and precautions in the SmPC and by the 
risk management plan. 
Serious adverse events other than seizures included one episode each of chorea, and myoclonia. In the 
DAPSEL  study  an  episode  of  elevated  liver  enzymes  was  seen.  The  increase  in  liver  enzymes  was 
reversible and laboratory variables returned to normal ranges 1 month later. The case was considered 
as “related” to study medication. In the French ATU programme a serious case of gastro-oesophageal 
reflux  in  a  patient  with  CMS  was  reported.  The  causal  relationship  between  the  AE  and  3,4-DAP 
administration was considered doubtful. 
40/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are two reports of serious cardiovascular events. One non-fatal cardiac arrest was possibly due 
to  iatrogenic  intoxication  and  occurred  in  a  65-year-old  woman  who  received  3,4-DAP  60  mg  six 
times  a  day  instead  of  10  mg  six  times  a  day.  The  second  case  was  a  myocardial  infarction  that 
occurred a few weeks after starting 3,4-DAP. The authors considered this event as a possible “result of 
sudden increase of physical activity”. 
Effects on QTc 
In the DAPSEL study, QTc levels were analysed at the subjects’ individual Cmax. No increase in QTc 
was  observed  at  any  time-point  after  administration  of  the  study  medication.  However,  single  low 
doses of 10 mg or 20 mg of 3,4-DAP were administered in this study. 
A case report from Japan which concerned a 57-year-old man with LEMS associated with euthyroid 
Hashimoto’s  disease  revealed  a  slight  prolongation  of  QT  interval  corrected  by  heart  rate  (0.46  ms; 
normal 0.36- 0.44 ms). The patient was treated with 3,4-DAP 90 mg/day and azathioprine 100 mg/day 
and remained well 2 years after the diagnosis. 
The Rennes report included one case of ventricular arrhythmia confirmed on Holter.  
Additional  safety  data  from  a  multicentre  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study 
(MINOSEP) of 3,4- DAP in the treatment of fatigue in multiple sclerosis will be submitted when the 
clinical study report is available. From available raw data one case of prolonged QTc interval has been 
reported,  which  led  to  premature  withdrawal  of  the  patient  from  the  study.  This  adverse  event  was 
considered to be of ‘moderate severity’ and ‘probably related’ to the 3,4-DAP treatment.  
As mentioned before, the CHMP has requested a thorough QT/QTc study in healthy volunteers in line 
with ICH E14 guidelines to address this issue. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Evidence  from  the  literature  shows  that  renal,  haematological  or  endocrine  function  tests  have  not 
revealed changes during 3,4-DAP therapy.  
There was one serious adverse event with elevations in ASAT and ALAT in the bioequivalence trial 
DAPSEL. For the subject in question, the last blood samples used for clinical laboratory testing were 
drawn approximately 2 weeks prior to exposure, and not immediately prior to drug exposure, as for all 
other subjects enrolled. Therefore, it is possible that the elevations in liver enzymes were present prior 
to  drug  exposure.  Liver  enzymes  decreased  after  treatment  cessation;  however  this  cannot  be 
interpreted  as  only  related  to  the  study  drug,  since  a  possible  prior  exposure  to  a  liver  affecting 
substance cannot be excluded. Insufficient documentation prevented complete assessment of this case. 
Additionally, literature data report an asymptomatic rise of liver enzyme levels in 1 patient at a daily 
dose of 60 mg 3,4-DAP. Moreover, an isolated gamma GT increase was reported in a patient treated 
with 30 mg/day 3,4-DAP who already presented with a high level of gamma GT (3xULN) before 3,4-
DAP treatment initiation. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
No  studies  have  been  conducted  in  patients  with  hepatic  or  renal  impairment.  The  appropriate 
information is included in the SmPC. 
Clinical  data  on  exposure  during  pregnancy  with  3,4-DAP  are  limited.  Only  two  literature  reports 
concern  fetal  exposure  to  3,4-DAP.  In  both  cases,  the  pregnancies  were  uneventful  and  the  babies 
were  healthy  (Lecky  2006;  Pelufo-Pellicer  et  al.,  2006).  Neither  of  these  reports  mention  lactation 
when  using  3,4-DAP.  As  discussed  earlier  the  applicant  has  therefore  committed  to  conduct 
reprotoxicity  studies,  according  to  current  guidelines,  as  a  follow-up  measure  to  determine  the 
potential for teratogenic effects of 3,4-DAP phosphate. Moreover, as mentioned previously, the lack of 
reproductive toxicity data is dealt with by an inclusion of strict wording in the 4.6 section of the SmPC 
to warn against exposure during pregnancy and / or lactation in W(o)CBP.  
Limited data are available on paediatric patients. There are two studies where 3,4-DAP has been used 
to  treat  congenital  myasthenia  gravis  and  juvenile  myasthenia  gravis.  In  one  double-blind  placebo-
controlled crossover study, 11 patients with congenital and five with juvenile MG, aged 5 to 24 years, 
were treated with 3,4-DAP. The daily dose varied between 10 and 80 mg. Maximum dose was 30 mg 
41/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in patients aged 5 to 8 years, 60 mg in patients 8 to 14 years and 80 mg in patients over 15 years. Side-
effects were observed in six patients during treatment with 3,4-DAP, and consisted of headache (n=2), 
numbness  around  the  mouth  and  fingers  (n=6),  nausea  (n=4)  and  photophobia  (n=1)  (Anlar  et  al., 
1996). 
In an open label prospective trial, 17 patients with congenital myasthenia (aged 7 to 47 years) received 
3,4-DAP at doses between 5 to 20 mg three or four times daily. Most of the patients experienced peri-
oral or distal paraesthesia and some exhibited mild hyper-excitability during the initial period of dose 
adjustment.  The  publication  also  reported  on  a  girl aged  5 years  with  severe  congenital  myasthenia, 
who was not included in the study. After receiving the drug without incident for several weeks, she 
developed  a  fatal  pneumonia.  The  authors  reported  that  the  fatal  pneumonia  was  not  thought  to  be 
causally  related  to  the  treatment  with  3,4-DAP  (Palace  et  al.  1991).  The  limited  clinical  experience 
with 3,4-DAP in paediatric population is adequately reflected in the SmPC. Furthermore, the clinical 
indication for 3,4-DAP recommends its use in adults.  
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Intrinsic Factors 
Patients  with  LEMS  have  an  extreme  sensitivity  to  depolarizing  and  non-depolarizing  muscle 
relaxants  (succcinylcholine,  turbocurarine,  etc.).  Prolongation  of  neuromuscular  blockade  requires 
reduced doses of such drugs for anaesthesia. Indeed, drugs with neuromuscular blocking action should 
be  avoided  if  possible.  If  their  use  is  necessary,  neuromuscular  transmission  should  be  closely 
monitored. 3,4-DAP should be continued until time of surgery and recommenced as soon as possible. 
Extrinsic Factors 
3,4-DAP and anaesthesia 
Relief  of  neuromuscular  blockade  (in  particular  with  vecuronium)  using  neostigmine  or  atropine  is 
usually  ineffective  in  patients  with  LEMS.  3,4-DAP  provides  rapid  relief  in  such  cases.  3,4-DAP 
should be continued until time of surgery and recommenced as soon as possible. 
Drugs compromising neuromuscular transmission 
The following drugs compromise neuromuscular transmission and frequently exacerbate weakness in 
LEMS: 
- d-tubocurarine and pancuronium 
Competitive  neuromuscular  blocking  agents  such  as  d-turbocurarine  and  pancuronium  have  an 
exaggerated and prolonged effect in patients with LEMS. 
- Antibiotics 
Aminoglycosides, especially gentamycin, kanamycin, neomycin or streptomycin and fluoroquinolone 
have a significant neuromuscular effect. 
- Cardiovascular drugs 
Some  anti-arrhythmics  as  quinine,  quinidine  and  procainamide  worsen  myasthenic  weakness,  as  do 
beta-adrenergic blocking agent and calcium channel blockers. 
- Others 
Magnesium  and  intravenous  iodinated  radiographic  contrast  media  could  worsen  LEMS.  In  general 
patients with LEMS should be observed for clinical worsening after any new medication is begun. 
Temperature 
The weakness associated with LEMS may be worsened when the ambient temperature is elevated or 
when the patient is febrile. Patients should avoid hot showers or baths. 
42/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
One participant was withdrawn from DAPSEL study due to elevation in liver enzymes. 
Between December 2006 and 17 March 2008, five patients have discontinued the treatment under the 
French ATU program: two patients withdrew due to  gastrointestinal disturbances and three – due to 
non-safety reasons. According to available raw data from the MINOSEP study one case of prolonged 
QTc interval led to premature withdrawal of one patient from the study. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
There is no post-marketing data for 3,4-DAP phosphate. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Based  on  the  available  data  approximately  2300  patients  have  been  exposed  to  3,4-DAP  and 
approximately 282-324 patients suffered from LEMS. Most of the patients were exposed to the 3,4-
DAP base.  
The extent of patient exposure to the proposed salt formulation is limited to the 26 healthy subjects 
involved in the DAPSEL study and the 82 patients treated under the therapeutic use protocol in 
France. The exposure to the base formulation is documented in the published literature rather than in 
sponsored clinical trials therefore these safety data could not be fully examined. However, the patient 
numbers, dosage and treatment duration have been provided both for the total number of patients who 
have been exposed to 3,4-DAP, and for all patients with the diagnosis of LEMS. Overall, the CHMP 
has considered that sufficient data on patient exposure has been presented. To provide additional data 
and to further monitor the exposure to 3,4-DAP, the patient registry will be established by the 
applicant as a specific obligation of the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
Paraesthesia is the most commonly seen side-effect with DAP. In some patients, transient dizziness, a 
sense  of  light-headedness,  heavy-headedness  or  fatigue  developed  after  3-4  DAP  intake.  Abdominal 
pain,  epigastric  distress  or  abdominal  cramps  were  other  frequent  adverse  reactions  seen  with  3,4-
DAP. Seizures are the most frequent serious adverse event, with a suggestion that this risk increases 
with increasing dose. This is reflected in the SmPC as a contraindication to use of 3,4-DAP in patients 
with epilepsy. Other serious adverse events observed included movement disorders. There were also 
reports on liver enzymes elevation after 3,4-DAP, including a patient in the DAPSEL study who was 
withdrawn from the treatment. Other treatment discontinuations were observed under the French ATU 
programme,  where  two  patients  were  withdrawn  due  to  gastrointestinal  disturbances  and  the 
MINOSEP study – withdrawal due to a QTc prolongation. Information regarding adverse reactions is 
reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
There is a potential for the 3,4- DAP to affect repolarisation, however the extent to which 3,4-DAP is 
associated  with  QT  prolongation  remains  unclear.  The  QTc  prolongation  has  been  identified  as  an 
important  potential  risk  in  the  RMP  and  3,4-DAP  cardiac  effects  will  be  monitored  in  the  patient 
registry  and  through yearly  ECG  (SmPC  Section  4.4).  Furthermore,  as  discussed  earlier,  a  thorough 
QT/QTc study according to ICH E14 guidelines will be conducted as a specific obligation to which 
this marketing authorisation is subject. 
Due  to  limited  information  available  warnings  have  been  inserted  in  the  SmPC  concerning  the 
unknown  risks  for  pregnant  and  lactating  women.  As  mentioned  earlier,  the  applicant  has  also 
committed to performing a reprotoxicity study as a follow-up measure. The limited clinical experience 
with  3,4-DAP  in  the  paediatric  population  is  adequately  reflected  in  the  SmPC.  Furthermore,  the 
clinical indication for 3,4-DAP recommends its use in adults only.  
As a final point, the LEMS population is at increased risk of cancer, and the carcinogenic potential of 
amifampridine is not yet elucidated. The RMP will include active monitoring of the treated population 
concerning the development of malignancies, and a carcinogenicity study will be performed as one of 
the specific obligations to which this marketing authorisation is subject. 
43/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
Important identified risks  
(cid:131) Seizures 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
(cid:131) Contraindication for patients with 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131) Zenas® Registry  
epilepsy 
(cid:131) Warning/precaution statement on 
seizure, including risk minimisation 
recommendations: 
(cid:131)  Description of risk groups and 
dose dependency 
(cid:131)  Recommendations for 
treatment discontinuation  
(cid:131) Interactions section includes 
statement on seizure threshold 
lowering drugs 
(cid:131) Listed as undesirable effect 
Important potential risks 
(cid:131) Movement disorders 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Chorea and myoclonia listed as 
(cid:131) Cardiac toxicity 
including QTc 
prolongation 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
undesirable effects 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
(cid:131) Contraindication for patients taking 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry 
(cid:131)  Review of ECG data from 
MINOSEP study 
44/49 
sultopride 
(cid:131) Contraindication in patients with 
congenital QT syndromes of 
concomitant use of drugs with a 
known potential to cause QTc 
prolongation  
(cid:131) Warning/precaution statement on:  
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
concurrent use with drugs 
with QTc prolonging potential 
clinical and ECG monitoring 
at initiation of the treatment, 
yearly thereafter, and 
immediately in case of signs 
and symptoms indicative of 
cardiac arrhythmias  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131) Interactions section includes 
statement on drugs with QTc 
prolonging potential 
(cid:131) Cardiac rhythm disorders listed as 
undesirable effect 
(cid:131) Peripheral vascular 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
disorders / Raynaud’s 
phenomenon 
(cid:131) Respiratory disorders 
incl. bronchospasm 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
(cid:131) Listed undesirable effect 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
(cid:131) Contraindication for patients with 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry 
uncontrolled asthma 
(cid:131) Warning/precaution that asthma 
patients should be closely 
monitored  
(cid:131) Listed undesirable effect 
(cid:131) Hepatotoxicity 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131) Serious gastrointestinal 
conditions 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
(cid:131) Elevated liver function tests listed as 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131) Zenas® Registry 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of topic 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry 
undesirable effect   
Labelling: 
(cid:131) Epigastralgia, diarrhoea, nausea and 
abdominal pain listed as undesirable 
effects  
(cid:131) No labelling regarding serious 
gastrointestinal conditions 
Important missing information 
(cid:131) Lack of non-clinical 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
data on carcinogenicity, 
pharmacokinetics, and 
long-term toxicity 
(cid:131)  Cumulative analysis of 
(cid:131) Pharmacological properties section 
emphasises lack of information with 
regard to these topics 
ADR reports after long-term 
use of Zenas® to be included 
in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Cumulative analysis of all 
neoplasms reported from 
patients with non-
paraneoplastic LEMS to be 
included in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry will yield 
additional clinical 
information on long term 
use which will capture any 
potential adverse events 
indicating any carcinogenic 
events 
(cid:131) Lack of information on 
use in patients with 
hepatic disease or renal 
impairment 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of ADR 
(cid:131) Warnings/precautions section:  
reports and other 
information on use in these 
populations in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry may yield 
45/49 
(cid:131) 
communicates lack of 
information regarding patients 
with renal or hepatic disease,  
(cid:131) Lack of clinical 
information on 
paediatric use 
(cid:131) Lack of non-clinical 
data on reproductive 
toxicity and information 
on use during 
pregnancy and lactation 
additional information 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
recommends close monitoring 
of patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment, and 
advises that dose adjustment 
may be needed in these patient 
groups 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of ADR 
reports and other 
information on paediatric 
use in each PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry may yield 
additional information (see 
Section 2.3) 
(cid:131) SmPC states that use in this patient 
group is not recommended due to 
lack of data on safety and efficacy 
(section 4.2) 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review in each 
(cid:131) Warning/precaution recommending 
PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry may yield 
additional information (see 
Section 2.3) 
effective contraception 
(cid:131) Pregnancy/lactation section 
communicates lack of information 
discourages use during pregnancy or 
breast feeding, and recommends 
effective contraception 
(cid:131) Pharmacological properties section 
emphasises lack of information with 
regard to reproductive toxicity 
(cid:131) Lack of information on 
potential drug-drug 
interactions (incl. 
torsades de pointes 
and/or  QTc prolonging 
drugs, seizure threshold 
reducing drugs, 
atropinic and 
cholinergic drugs, 
depolarising and non-
depolarising muscle 
relaxants, CYP-
dependently 
metabolised drugs) 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of 
reports of suspected drug-
drug interactions in each 
PSUR 
(cid:131)  Review of ADRs reported 
from patients concomitantly 
receiving CYP-dependently 
metabolised drugs, QTc 
prolonging drugs, and heart 
rate reducing drugs in each 
PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry may yield 
additional information 
(cid:131) Interaction section communicates 
these potential interactions and the 
assumed clinical consequences 
(cid:131) Warning/precaution to carefully 
monitor when amifampridine is used 
concomitantly with other medicinal 
products  
(cid:131) Warning/precaution in addition 
regarding drugs with torsades de 
pointes and/or QTc prolonging 
potential and seizure threshold 
lowering drugs 
(cid:131) Lack of photosafety 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: 
data  
(cid:131)  Cumulative review of 
(cid:131) Currently none  
reports of suspected drug-
drug interactions in each 
PSUR 
(cid:131)  Zenas® Registry may yield 
additional information 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
46/49 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Limited  information  is  currently  available  on  the  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and 
toxicology of 3,4-DAP.  
The mechanism of action of amifapridine (increase in calcium influx into the nerve and prolongation 
of the action potential duration leading to the acetylcholine release) supports its use in the proposed 
clinical  indication.  The  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  3,4-DAP  contribute  also  to  some  of  the 
findings observed in the safety studies or reported in the literature including convulsions and possible 
QTc  prolongation.  Therefore,  as  a  precautionary  measure,  Zenas  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with 
epilepsy. The risk of convulsions is dose-dependent and is increased for patients with risk factors that 
are capable of lowering the epileptic threshold, including concomitant use of other medicinal products 
liable  to  lower  the  epileptic  threshold.  Relevant  guidance  has  been  included  in  the  SmPC. 
Furthermore, due to a theoretical potential for QTc prolongation a thorough QT/QTc study according 
to  ICH  E14  guideline  will  be  performed  as  a  specific  obligation,  and  relevant  contraindications, 
warnings and guidance have been included in the SmPC.  
The  available  pharmacokinetic  data  deriving  from  the  bioequivalence  study  indicate  similar 
bioavailability of the base form of 3,4-DAP and the phosphate salt thus allowing to cross-refer to the 
non-clinical profile for 3,4-DAP base. A number of ADME investigations are scheduled to complete 
the information relating to the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the toxicology species and results from 
these studies will be submitted as a follow-up measure.  
The  4-week  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  revealed  3,4-DAP  effects  on  the  central 
nervous  system,  increased  liver  and  kidney  weight,  muscle  necrosis  and  second  degree  atrio-
ventricular  block.  As  the  duration  of  the  available  toxicology  studies  was  limited  to  1  month  the 
applicant has committed to performing a three-month repeat dose toxicology study in rats as a follow-
up measure in order to provide chronic toxicology data to support long-term use of the product.  
Amifampridine was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests.  
As no specific reproductive toxicity or carcinogenicity studies have been performed the applicant has 
committed to conducting a carcinogenicity study in the rat as a specific obligation and a reprotoxicity 
study  as  a  follow-up  measure.  The  CHMP  considered  these  commitments  together  with  appropriate 
labelling and other risk minimisation measures including the patient registry as an adequate approach.  
Efficacy 
The  two  pivotal  studies  supported  efficacy  of  DAP  base  in  the  treatment  of  LEMS.  The  study  by 
McEvoy  et  al.  was  a  small  study,  however,  it  was  placebo  controlled,  blinded  and  showed  highly 
significant  results  in  most  measured  parameters.  As  a  published  article  and  not  a  full  study  report, 
there are aspects of the study which could not be examined closely, such as the nature of the blinding, 
randomisation,  or  placebo  control.  However,  a  significant  change  in  the  electrophysiological 
component  to  the  efficacy  measurements  (CMAP)  was  observed  and  this  is  considered  an  objective 
parameter  for  which  blinding  was  irrelevant.  This  provided  reassurance  on  the  strength  of  the 
evidence. This study showed efficacy superior to placebo for 3,4-DAP base in the treatment of LEMS 
in  measured  parameters.  Similarly,  in  Sanders  et  al.  the  improvement  seen  in  CMAP  amplitude 
reached high significance, again providing reassurance as CMAP amplitude is unlikely to be affected 
by bias and blinding.  
Nevertheless, a number of concerns regarding methodology, endpoints and statistical analyses in the 
published studies were raised. Consequently, the CHMP had asked the applicant to address concerns 
over the magnitude of the effect observed by McEvoy et al., the methodology used to analyse data in 
Sanders  et  al.  and  how  the  measured  effects  translated  into  clinically  meaningful  outcomes.  The 
applicant has discussed the clinical relevance of the treatment effect magnitude in their answers to the 
CHMP questions. Furthermore, the initial concerns over the trial design have been addressed. The link 
47/49 
 
 
 
 
between clinical effects and plasma concentrations has also been demonstrated. Therefore, it has been 
accepted that the statistical evidence to bridge the gap between PK, trial design and efficacy has been 
demonstrated  and  the  shortcomings  of  the  data  used  in  support  of  the  application  were  sufficiently 
well addressed to conclude on the efficacy of the treatment. 
Safety 
Based  on  the  available  data  approximately  2300  patients  have  been  exposed  to  3,4-DAP  and 
approximately 282-324 patients suffered from LEMS. Most of the patients were exposed to the 3,4-
DAP base. The extent of patient exposure to the proposed salt formulation is limited to the 26 healthy 
subjects involved in the DAPSEL study and the 82 patients treated under the therapeutic use protocol 
in France. The extent of exposure was considered sufficient. It also allowed delineating identified and 
potential  risks  and  missing  information  which  will  be  addressed  by  the  post-approval  commitments 
including the patient registry. 
Paraesthesia,  dizziness,  light-headedness,  heavy-headedness  or  fatigue  are  the  most  commonly  seen 
side-effect with DAP. Seizures are the most frequent serious adverse event, with a suggestion that this 
risk increases with increasing dose. Other serious adverse events include movement disorders.  
3,4-DAP is associated with QT prolongation however, it remains unclear to what extent it may affect 
cardiac conduction. Consequently, QTc prolongation has been delineated as an important potential risk 
in the RMP and the cardiac effects of 3,4-DAP will be monitored in the patients registry and through 
yearly  ECG.  Furthermore,  a  thorough  QT/QTc  study  according  to  ICH  E14  guidelines  will  be 
conducted as a specific obligation. 
Due  to  limited  information  available  warnings  have  been  inserted  in  the  SmPC  concerning  the 
unknown risks for pregnant and lactating women. The applicant has also committed to performing a 
reprotoxicity  study  as  a  follow-up  measure.  The  limited  clinical  experience  with  3,4-DAP  in  the 
paediatric  population  is  reflected  in  the  SmPC.  Furthermore,  the  clinical  indication  for  3,4-DAP 
recommends its use in adults only.  
As a final note, the LEMS population is at increased risk of cancer, and the carcinogenic potential of 
amifampridine is not yet elucidated. The RMP will include active monitoring of the treated population 
concerning  the  development  of  malignancies,  and  a  carcinogenicity  study  will  be  performed  as  a 
specific obligation. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The  applicant  submitted  results  of  user  testing  of  the  package  leaflet.  The  results  show  that  the 
package leaflet  meets the criteria  for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of the 
label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. Subsequent amendments to the leaflet 
made at Day 180 of the procedure were considered to further simplify the leaflet and, hence, do not 
required further bridging studies. Overall the user testing was found acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
This application has been made with data principally derived from literature and case report studies. In 
spite  of  the  methodological  shortcomings,  the  CHMP  was  convinced,  by  the  concordance  of  the 
limited results, that amifampridine is effective in the treatment of LEMS. 
Some  aspects  need  to  be  further  clarified  from  the  safety  point  of  view,  in  particular  concerning 
reproductive and cardiovascular safety, and the carcinogenic potential. These points are addressed in 
the SmPC, post-approval commitments, and are part of the Risk Management Plan for this application. 
A registry will also be established to monitor patients undergoing treatment. 
48/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although  further  randomized  controlled  efficacy  and  safety  data  would  have  been  preferable,  The 
CHMP  considers  that  there  is  a  sufficient  body  of  data  to  allow  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorization under exceptional circumstances. 
The  CHMP  recommends  granting  this  marketing  authorisation  for  Zenas  under  exceptional 
circumstances, because the indication for which this product is intended is encountered so rarely that 
the  applicant  cannot  reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  evidence.  Therefore  the 
applicant  has  agreed  to  provide  further  evidence  as  specific  obligations  relating  in  particular  to  the 
safety and efficacy of Zenas. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Zenas  in  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  Lambert-
Eaton  myasthenic  syndrome  (LEMS)  in  adults  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
49/49 
 
 
 
 
