ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
FIRDAPSE 10 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains amifampridine phosphate equivalent to 10 mg of amifampridine. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet. 
White, round tablet, flat-faced on one side and scored on the other side. 
The tablets can be divided into equal halves. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Symptomatic treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of the 
disease. 
Posology 
FIRDAPSE should be given in divided doses, three or four times a day. The recommended starting 
dose is 15 mg amifampridine a day, which can be increased in 5 mg increments every 4 to 5 days, to a 
maximum of 60 mg per day. No single dose should exceed 20 mg. 
Tablets are to be taken with food. Please see section 5.2 for further information about bioavailability 
of amifampridine in the fed and fasted state. 
If treatment is discontinued, patients may experience some of the symptoms of LEMS.  
Renal or hepatic impairment 
FIRDAPSE should be used with caution in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. A starting dose 
of 5 mg amifampridine (half tablet) once per day is recommended in patients with moderate or severe 
impairment of renal or hepatic function. For patients with mild impairment of renal or hepatic 
function, a starting dose of 10 mg amifampridine (5 mg twice a day) per day is recommended. Patients 
should be titrated more slowly than those without renal or hepatic impairment with doses increased 
in 5 mg increments every 7 days. If any adverse reaction occurs, upward dose titration should be 
discontinued (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of FIRDAPSE in children aged 0 to 17 years has not been established. No data 
are available.  
Method of administration 
For oral use only. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Epilepsy 
Uncontrolled asthma 
Concomitant use with sultopride (see sections 4.5 and 5.1) 
Concomitant use with medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic window (see section 4.5) 
Concomitant use with medicinal products with a known potential to cause QTc prolongation  
In patients with congenital QT syndromes (see section 4.4) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of amifampridine has been assessed in a single dose Phase I study in patients 
with renal impairment (see section 5.2).  
No studies have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. In view of the risk of markedly 
increased exposure to medicinal product, patients with renal or hepatic impairment must be carefully 
monitored. The dose of amifampridine should be titrated more slowly in patients with renal and 
hepatic impairment than those with normal renal and hepatic function. Upward dose titration should be 
discontinued if any adverse reaction occurs (see section 4.2). 
Seizures 
Exposure to amifampridine is associated with an increased risk for epileptic seizures. The risk of 
seizures is dose-dependent and is increased in patients with risk factors which lower the epileptic 
threshold; including use in combination with other medicinal products known to lower the epileptic 
threshold (see section 4.5). In the event of a seizure, treatment should be discontinued.  
Carcinogenicity risk 
In a 2-year dietary carcinogenicity study, benign and malignant Schwannomas have been observed in 
rats treated with amifampridine (see section 5.3). Amifampridine was not genotoxic in a standard 
battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. The correlation between the use of amifampridine and the 
development of tumours in humans is unknown at this time. 
Most Schwannomas are benign and asymptomatic. They can present in many locations, therefore the 
clinical presentation can be varied. A diagnosis of Schwannoma should be considered for patients who 
present with symptoms such as a mass that is painful on palpation or symptoms similar to a 
compressive neuropathy. Schwannomas are generally slow-growing and can exist for months to years 
without producing symptoms. The benefit of continuing treatment with amifampridine should be 
reviewed for any patient who develops a Schwannoma. 
Amifampridine should be used with caution in patients with an increased risk of Schwannomas, such 
as patients with past medical history of such tumours, neurofibromatosis Type 2 or schwannomatosis.  
Cardiac effects 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical and electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring are indicated at the initiation of the treatment and 
yearly thereafter. In case of signs and symptoms indicative of cardiac arrhythmias, ECG should be 
performed immediately. 
Concomitant diseases 
Patients must be told to inform any physician they consult that they are taking this medicinal product, 
since close monitoring of a concomitant disease, particularly asthma, may be necessary. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Medicinal products eliminated through metabolism or active secretion 
There are no data on the effects of amifampridine on the metabolism or active secretion of other 
medicinal products. Thus, special care should be taken in patients undergoing concomitant treatment 
with medicinal products eliminated through metabolism or active secretion. Monitoring is advised 
when possible. The dose of the concomitantly given medicinal product should be adjusted if 
necessary. Concomitant use of medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic window is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Substances which are potent inhibitors of enzymes that metabolise medicinal products (see 
section 5.2) 
Potent cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme inhibitors e.g. cimetidine, ketoconazole are not likely to 
inhibit the metabolism of amifampridine by human N-acetyl-transferase enzymes (NATs) giving rise 
to increased amifampridine exposure. The results from the in vitro CYP450 inhibition study indicate 
amifampridine is unlikely to play a role in metabolic-based clinical drug-drug interactions related to 
inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and 
CYP3A4 metabolism of co-administered medicinal products. Regardless, patients should be closely 
monitored for adverse reactions when initiating treatment with a potent enzyme or renal transporter 
inhibitor. If treatment with a potent inhibitor is discontinued, patients should be monitored for efficacy 
as an increase of amifampridine dose may be necessary. 
Substances which are potent inducers of enzymes that metabolise medicinal products (see section 5.2) 
The results from in vitro studies suggest there is low potential for drug-drug interactions due to 
enzyme induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 enzymes by amifampridine.  
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Based on the pharmacodynamic properties of amifampridine, the concomitant use with sultopride or 
other medicinal products known to cause QT prolongation (e.g., disopyramide, cisapride, 
domperidone, rifampicin and ketoconazole) is contraindicated as this combination may lead to an 
enhanced risk of ventricular tachycardia, notably torsade de pointes (see sections 4.3 and 5.1). 
Combinations requiring precautions for use 
Medicinal products known to lower the epileptic threshold 
The concomitant use of amifampridine and substances known to lower the epileptic threshold may 
lead to an increased risk of seizures. The decision to administer proconvulsant or epileptic-threshold 
lowering substances concomitantly should be carefully considered in the light of the severity of the 
associated risks. These substances include most anti-depressants (tricyclic antidepressants, selective 
serotonin uptake inhibitors), neuroleptics (phenothiazines and butyrophenones), mefloquine, 
bupropion and tramadol (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Combinations to be taken into consideration 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products with atropinic effects 
The concomitant use of amifampridine and medicinal products with atropinic effects may reduce the 
effect of both active substances and should be taken into consideration. Medicinal products with 
atropinic effects include tricyclic anti-depressants, most H1 atropinic anti-histamines, anticholinergic, 
anti-Parkinson medicinal products, atropinic antispasmodics, disopyramide, phenothiazine 
neuroleptics and clozapine. 
Medicinal products with cholinergic effects 
The concomitant use of amifampridine and medicinal products with cholinergic effects (e.g. direct or 
indirect cholinesterase inhibitors) may lead to an increased effect of both products and should be taken 
into consideration. 
Non depolarising muscle relaxant acting medicinal products 
The concomitant use of amifampridine and medicinal products with non-depolarising muscle relaxant 
effects (e.g. mivacurium, pipercurium) may lead to a decreased effect of both products and should be 
taken into consideration. 
Depolarising muscle relaxant acting medicinal products 
The concomitant use of amifampridine and medicinal products with depolarising muscle relaxant 
effects (e.g. suxamethonium) may lead to a decreased effect of both products and should be taken into 
consideration. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
FIRDAPSE should not be used during pregnancy. Women of childbearing potential must use effective 
contraception during FIRDAPSE treatment. No adequate clinical data on exposed pregnancies are 
available for amifampridine. Amifampridine has shown no effect on embryo-foetal viability and 
development in rabbits; however, in rats, an increase in the number of mothers delivering still-born 
offspring was observed (see section 5.3).  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether amifampridine is excreted in human breast milk. Available reproductive data in 
animals have shown presence of amifampridine in milk of breast-feeding mothers. Assessment of 
breast-feeding neo-natal animals showed no indication of adverse reactions when exposed to 
amifampridine through breast-milk. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or 
to discontinue/abstain from FIRDAPSE therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for 
the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.  
Fertility 
Non-clinical safety data are available regarding the effects of amifampridine on reproductive function. 
No impairment of fertility has been observed in non-clinical studies with amifampridine (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Due to adverse reactions such as drowsiness, dizziness, seizures and blurred vision, amifampridine 
may have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive or use machines (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are paraesthesias (such as peripheral and peribucal 
paraesthesias) and gastro-intestinal disorders (such as epigastralgia, diarrhoea, nausea and abdominal 
pain). The intensity and incidence of most adverse reactions is dose-dependent. 
Table 1 below lists the adverse reactions reported with amifampridine.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined as: Very common (≥ 1/10), Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1000 to < 1/100), Rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), Very rare (< 1/10,000) and Unknown (cannot 
be estimated from available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
Frequencies were estimated based on a clinical study to evaluate the effects of amifampridine on 
cardiac repolarization at a single dose of 30 mg or 60 mg in healthy volunteers.  
Table 1:   Adverse Reactions Reported with FIRDAPSE 
MedDRA 
Preferred term 
MedDRA 
System organ class 
Psychiatric disorders  Sleep disorders, anxiety 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Convulsions, chorea, myoclonia drowsiness, 
weakness, fatigue, headache  
Dizziness1, hypoaesthesia1, paraesthesia1 
Blurred vision 
Cardiac rhythm disorders, palpitations 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders  Raynaud's syndrome 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Cold extremities1 
Bronchial hypersecretion, asthma attack in asthmatic 
patients or patients with a history of asthma, cough 
Hypoaesthasia oral1, paraesthesia oral1, peripheral and 
peribucal paraesthesias, nausea1 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea, epigastralgia  
Frequency 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Very common 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Common 
Unknown 
Very common 
Common 
Unknown 
Elevated liver enzyme levels (transaminases) 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
disorders 
1 Adverse reactions reported in a clinical study to evaluate the effects of amifampridine on cardiac 
repolarization at a single dose of 30 mg or 60 mg in healthy volunteers. 
Hyperhidrosis1, cold sweat1 
Very common 
Unknown 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is little experience with overdose. The manifestations of acute overdose include vomiting and 
abdominal pain. Patient should discontinue the treatment in the event of overdose. No specific antidote 
is known. Supportive care should be given as clinically indicated, including close monitoring of vital 
signs. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: other nervous system drugs, ATC code: N07XX05. 
Mechanism of action 
Amifampridine blocks voltage-dependent potassium channels, thereby prolonging pre-synaptic cell 
membrane depolarisation. Prolonging the action potential enhances the transport of calcium into the 
nerve ending. The resulting increase in intra-cellular calcium concentrations facilitates exocytosis of 
acetylcholine-containing vesicles, which in turn enhances neuromuscular transmission. 
It improves muscle strength and resting compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitudes with 
an overall weighted mean difference of 1.69 mV (95% CI 0.60 to 2.77). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The pharmacodynamic profile of amifampridine has been studied for a range of doses. A prospective, 
placebo-controlled, randomised study in 26 patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome 
(LEMS) reported clinical efficacy for amifampridine at the standard recommended maximum dose 
of 60 mg/day (Sanders et al 2000). Two further studies in a total of 57 patients with LEMS have 
reported data from higher doses of amifampridine. McEvoy et al 1989 reported data from a short-term 
study in 12 patients with LEMS, which demonstrated that administration of amifampridine at doses up 
to 100 mg/day for a period of 3 days was effective in treating the autonomic and motor symptoms of 
LEMS. Sanders et al 1998 presented data on efficacy and safety of amifampridine treatment at doses 
up to 100 mg/day in 45 patients with LEMS who were treated for an average of 31 months. Therefore, 
in exceptional circumstances higher doses up to a maximum of 80 mg/day may be of benefit when 
given with the appropriate safety monitoring. It is recommended that dose titration from 60 mg/day 
to 80 mg/day is performed in 5 mg increments every 7 days. Upward dose titration should be 
discontinued if any adverse reaction or ECG abnormality is observed. 
The effect of a single dose of 30 mg or 60 mg of amifampridine phosphate was used to evaluate the 
pharmacokinetic-QTc relationship of amifampridine concentration on cardiac repolarization exposure 
in healthy volunteers. This evaluation was conducted in a Phase 1, double-blind, randomized, 
crossover study to define the ECG effects of amifampridine phosphate at these doses compared to 
placebo and moxifloxacin (a positive control) in healthy men and women who are slow acetylators 
(n=52). There was no effect of amifampridine phosphate on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction or 
cardiac depolarization as measured by the heart rate, PR and QRS interval durations. No subjects 
developed new clinically relevant ECG morphological changes following administration of 
amifampridine phosphate. No effect was observed of amifampridine phosphate on cardiac 
repolarization as assessed using the QTc interval. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized withdrawal Study to evaluate the efficacy and safety 
of amifampridine phosphate in Patients with LEMS was conduct in adult patients 18 years of age or 
older (n=26). The patients were maintained on a stable dose and frequency of amifampridine 
phosphate for at least 7 days prior to randomization. In this four-day study, patients were randomized 
(1:1) to amifampridine phosphate (at patient’s optimal dose) or placebo on Day 0. Baseline 
assessments were obtained on day 0. The primary endpoints were change from baseline (CFB) in 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient Global Impression (SGI) and Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score at Day 4. A 
secondary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline at Day 4 in CGI-I score, which was 
determined by treating physicians. Patients were allowed to use stable doses of peripherally acting 
cholinesterase inhibitors or corticosteroids. Patients with recent use of immunomodulatory therapies 
(e.g., azathioprine, mycophenolate, cyclosporine), rituximab, intravenous immunoglobulin G, and 
plasmapheresis were excluded from the study. Patients had a median age of 55.5 years 
(range: 31 to 75 years) and 62% were female and 38% were male. 
Following the 4 day double-blind discontinuation period, patients treated with amifampridine 
phosphate maintained muscle strength compared to patients treated with placebo who showed 
worsening of muscle strength. Observed mean difference in QMG Total and SGI change from baseline 
score between treatments were -6.54 (95% CI: -9.78, -3.29; p=0.0004) and 2.95 (95% CI: 1.53, 4.38; 
p=0.0003) respectively, both statistically significant in favour of amifampridine phosphate. In 
addition, CGI-I scores at day 4 as determined by physicians showed significant improvement in 
patients remaining on amifampridine phosphate compared to placebo (p=0.0020). 
Summary of Changes in Primary and Secondary Efficacy Endpoints from Baseline 
Placebo (n=13) 
6.54 
-3.59 
5.5 (1.27) 
Amifampridine (n=13) 
0.00 
-6.54 (-9.78, -3.29) 
0.0004 
-0.64 
2.95 (1.53, 4.38) 
0.0003 
Assessment 
QMG Scoresa 
LS Meand  
LS Mean Diff (95% CI) 
p-valued 
SGI Scoresb 
LS Meand  
LS Mean Diff (95% CI) 
p-valued 
CGI-I Scoresc 
Mean (SD)  
p-valuee 
a 
symptoms. 
b 
(1=terrible to 7=delighted). 
c 
(1=very much improved to 7=very much worse). 
d 
and QMG at Baseline. 
e 
3.8 (0.80) 
0.0020 
Total QMG score range 0 – 39, 13 items, 0-3 points on each test. The more points = worse 
SGI is a 7-point scale which rates the global impression of the effects of study treatment 
CGI-I is a 7-point scale based on changes in symptoms, behaviour, and functional abilities 
CFB for QMG total score was modelled as the response, with fixed effects terms for treatment 
p-value based on the Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test for treatment differences. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. 
This means that due to the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information 
on this medicinal product. 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) will review any new information which may become 
available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Orally administered amifampridine is rapidly absorbed in humans, reaching peak plasma 
concentrations by 0.6 to 1.3 hours (mean values).  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In humans, the rate and extent of absorption of amifampridine is influenced by food (see Table 2). 
There was a decrease in Cmax and AUC, and an increase in the time to reach maximum plasma 
concentrations when amifampridine phosphate was administered with food as compared to without 
food. A 2-fold increase in the time to reach Cmax (Tmax) was observed in the presence of food. Similarly 
Cmax and AUC0-∞ were greater in the fasted state than in the fed state. Overall, food slowed and 
decreased the absorption of amifampridine with a lowering of exposure by Cmax on average by ~44% 
and lowered exposure by AUC ~20%. based on geometric mean ratios (fed-to-fasted).  
Apparent plasma terminal elimination half-life differences were 3-4 fold between subjects in the food 
effect study. Bioavailability is approximately 93-100% based on recoveries of unmetabolised 
amifampridine and a major 3-N-acetylated amifampridine metabolite in urine.  
Table 2:   PK Parameters for Amifampridine in Fed and Fasted Subjects Following 
Administration of a Single Oral Dose of Amifampridine Phosphate 
Amifampridi
ne 
20 mg  
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
mean (S.D.), 
range 
AUC0-∞ 
(ng∙hr/ml)  
Mean (S.D.), 
range 
Tmax 
(hr) 
mean(S.D.), range 
t1/2 
(hr) 
mean (S.D.), range 
Fasted (N=45)  59.1 (34.4), 16-13
7 
117 (76.6), 22.1-2
71 
0.637 (0.247), 0.25-
1.5 
2.5 (0.73), 1.23-4.31 
Fed* (N=46) 
40.6 (31.3), 2.81-1
32 
109 (76.4), 9.66-2
92 
1.31 (0.88), 0.5-4.0  2.28 (0.704), 0.822-3
.78 
*  Eating a standardised high-fat meal 
In a study of healthy volunteers, systemic exposure of amifampridine was notably influenced by the 
overall metabolic acetylation activity of NAT enzymes and NAT2 genotype. The NAT genes are 
highly polymorphic and result in phenotypes with variable acetylation activity rates ranging from slow 
to fast. In the healthy volunteer study, fast acetylators were defined by having a caffeine metabolite 
ratio >0.3 and slow acetylators with a caffeine metabolite ratio <0.2 . There was significantly higher 
exposure to amifampridine in slow acetylators compared to fast acetylators. Statistically significant 
differences in amifampridine PK parameters Cmax, AUC0-∞, t1/2 and apparent clearance was observed 
between fast and slow acetylators at all dose levels. In this study, slow acetylators experienced more 
adverse reactions than the fast acetylators. The safety profile in this study is consistent with adverse 
reactions observed with patients on amifampridine. 
Table 3:   Mean PK Parameters of Amifampridine in Healthy Subjects after Single Oral Doses 
(5-30mg) in Slow and Fast Acetylator Phenotypes 
10 
6 
Fast 
5 
6 
Fast 
6 
Slow 
Amifampridi
ne Dose (mg) 
Subjects (N) 
Acetylator 
Phenotype 
Mean Amifampridine PK Parameters 
2.89 
AUC0-t 
(ng∙hr/ml ) 
AUC0-∞ 
(ng∙hr/ml) 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Tmax (hr) 
17.9 
0.830 
3.98 
0.750 
32.1 
30.1 
3.57 
9.55 
11.1 
9.91 
0.805 
20 
6 
Fast 
24.7 
26.2 
16.2 
1.04 
30 
6 
Fast 
43.5 
45.2 
25.5 
0.810 
6 
Slow 
230 
234 
89.6 
1.29 
6 
Slow 
142 
146 
56.7 
1.07 
6 
Slow 
66.3 
68.9 
34.4 
1.14 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.603 
t 1/2 (hr) 
The mean caffeine acetylator ratio for these 12 subjects receiving four escalating doses 
were 0.408 and 0.172 for fast and slow acetylators types respectively.  
2.22 
1.21 
1.23 
2.60 
2.93 
1.65 
3.11 
Distribution 
Distribution of amifampridine was studied in the rat. Following oral administration of radiolabelled 
[14C] amifampridine, radioactive material is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and 
widely distributed throughout the body. Concentrations in tissues are generally similar to or greater 
than concentrations in plasma, with the greatest concentration in organs of excretion (liver, kidney and 
the gastrointestinal tract) and some tissues of glandular function (lacrimal, salivary, mucous, pituitary 
and thyroid glands). 
Biotransformation 
In vitro and in vivo studies in humans indicate that amifampridine is metabolised to a single 
major 3-N-acetylated amifampridine metabolite.  
Elimination 
In humans, 93.2% to 100% of amifampridine is excreted into the urine within 24 hours after dosing as 
amifampridine (19%) and its 3-N-acetylated amifampridine metabolite (74.0% to 81.7%). The plasma 
elimination half-life is approximately 2.5 hours for the amifampridine and 4 hours for 
the 3-N-acetylated amifampridine metabolite.  
The overall clearance of amifampridine is predominantly due to metabolism by N-acetylation and 
acetylator phenotype has a greater effect on an individual’s metabolism and elimination of 
amifampridine than does elimination by renal function (See Table 4). 
Renal impairment 
Exposure of amifampridine was generally higher in subjects with renal impairment than in subjects 
with normal renal function; however, NAT2 phenotype had a greater effect on an individual’s 
exposure to amifampridine than renal function status (See Table 4). Amifampridine exposure by 
AUC0–∞ was up to 2-fold higher in slow acetylators and up to 3-fold higher in fast acetylators with 
severe renal impairment compared to subjects with normal renal function. Exposure by Cmax was 
marginally affected by renal impairment regardless of acetylation status.  
In contrast, the 3-N-acetyl metabolite exposure levels were affected to a greater extent by renal 
impairment than those for amifampridine. The 3-N-acetyl metabolite exposure by AUC0–∞ was up 
to 6.8-fold higher in slow acetylators and up to 4-fold higher in fast acetylators with severe renal 
impairment compared to subjects with normal renal function. Exposure by Cmax was only marginally 
affected by renal impairment regardless of acetylation status. Although the metabolite is inactive at 
potassium channels, potential off target effects due to accumulation are unknown. 
Table 4:   Mean PK Parameters of Amifampridine in Normal and Renal Impaired Subjects 
after Single Oral Dose Administration (10mg) in Slow and Fast Acetylator Phenotypes 
Mild 
4 
Normal 
Renal 
Status 
Subjects 
(N) 
NAT2 
Phenotype 
Mean Amifampridine PK Parameters 
Slow 
Fast 
4 
4 
Fast 
Moderate 
Severe 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
Slow 
Fast 
Slow 
Fast 
Slow 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUC 0-∞ 
(ng·h/ml) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
 10.7
59.1 
16.1  
81.3 
14.3  
126  
32.8  
119  
7.65  
38.6  
11.1  
33.5  
8.33  
52.5  
9.48  
44.1  
Tmax (hr) 
 0.44
0.43  
0.88  
0.88  
0.51  
0.55  
0.56  
 0.63  
t1/2 (hr) 
2.71  
Mean 3-N-acetyl Amifampridine PK Parameters 
1.63  
1.86  
2.95  
1.72  
3.89  
1.64  
 3.17  
AUC 0 -∞ 
(ng·h/ml) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
872 
594 
1264 
1307 
2724 
1451 
3525 
4014 
170 
115 
208 
118 
180 
144 
164 
178 
Tmax (hr) 
1.13 
0.75 
t 1/2 (hr) 
4.32 
4.08 
1.44 
5.35 
1.38 
2.00 
1.13 
1.63 
2.81 
7.71 
13.61 
6.99 
18.22 
15.7 
Hepatic impairment  
There are no data on the pharmacokinetics of amifampridine in patients with hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
There are no data on the pharmacokinetics of amifampridine in paediatric patients (see sections 4.2). 
The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of amifampridine has not been studied.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In safety pharmacology studies in rats, no respiratory system related effects were seen up to 10 mg/kg 
or on the central nervous system up to 40 mg/kg. 
In a repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, effects on the central and autonomic nervous system, 
increased liver and kidney weights and cardiac effects (second degree atrioventricular block) were 
seen. No safety margins to human exposure were achieved in the animal studies due to the sensitivity 
of the animal models used. 
In a 2-year rat dietary carcinogenicity study, amifampridine caused small but statistically significant 
dose-related increases in the incidence of Schwannomas in both genders and of endometrial 
carcinomas in females. The clinical relevance of these results is unknown. 
Amifampridine was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
Animal studies evaluating the reproductive and developmental toxicity of amifampridine were 
conducted in rats and rabbits at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day. Amifampridine had no adverse reaction on 
male or female fertility in rats at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day, and no effect on post-natal development or 
fertility was observed in the offspring of the treated animals. In a perinatal/postnatal reproduction 
study in pregnant rats treated with amifampridine, a dose-related increase in the percentage of mothers 
with stillborn offspring (16.7%-20%) was observed at 22.5 mg/kg/day and 75 mg/kg/day 
11 
       
  
        
        
        
        
      
        
      
 
          
        
        
        
          
        
          
        
 
         
  
          
          
          
          
          
          
         
 
         
          
          
          
          
         
          
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.1 and 2.7 times the 80 mg per day dose in humans based on Cmax). However, in a similar study in 
pregnant rabbits, there was no effect on embryo-foetal viability when evaluated just prior to birth at 
doses up to 57 mg/kg/day. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Anhydrous colloidal silica 
Calcium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Perforated unit dose thermoformed blisters (Thermoformed aluminium-PVC/PVDC laminate sheets) 
containing 10 tablets. 
One box contains 100 tablets comprising 10 strips with 10 tablets each. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
SERB S.A.  
Avenue Louise 480   
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/601/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 December 2009 
Date of latest renewal: 23 August 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
13 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
E.  
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
EXCELLA GmbH & Co KG 
Nürnberger Strasse 12 
90537 Feucht  
Germany 
SERB S.A.  
Avenue Louise 480   
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
The MAH shall provide yearly updates on any new information 
concerning efficacy and safety of the product in patients with 
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). 
Due date 
Yearly, simultaneously with 
submission of Periodic Safety 
Update reports. 
16 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
FIRDAPSE 10 mg tablets 
amifampridine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains amifampridine phosphate equivalent to 10 mg of amifampridine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Store in the original blister in order to protect from light and moisture. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
SERB S.A.  
Avenue Louise 480   
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/601/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
FIRDAPSE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Perforated unit dose thermoformed blisters  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
FIRDAPSE 10 mg tablets 
amifampridine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
SERB S.A.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
FIRDAPSE 10 mg tablets 
amifampridine 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of 
section 4 for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What FIRDAPSE is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take FIRDAPSE 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take FIRDAPSE 
Possible side effects 
How to store FIRDAPSE 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What FIRDAPSE is and what is it used for 
FIRDAPSE is used to treat symptoms of a disease of the nerves and the muscles called Lambert-Eaton 
myasthenic syndrome or LEMS in adults. This disease is a disorder affecting the transmission of nerve 
impulses to muscles, resulting in muscle weakness. It can be associated with certain tumour types 
(paraneoplastic form of LEMS) or in the absence of these tumours (non-paraneoplastic form of 
LEMS). 
In patients suffering from this disease, a chemical substance called acetylcholine, which communicates 
nerve impulses to muscles is not released normally and the muscle doesn't receive some or all of the 
nerve's signals.  
FIRDAPSE works by increasing the release of acetylcholine and helps the muscle to receive the nerve 
signals. 
2.  What you need to know before you take FIRDAPSE 
Do not take FIRDAPSE 
If you are allergic to amifampridine, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
If you have uncontrolled asthma 
If you are epileptic 
Together with medicines that may change the electrical activity of your heart (QT-interval 
prolongation - detectable in the electrocardiogram), such as: 
Sultropride (a medicine prescribed to treat certain behavioural disorders in adults),  
Antiarrhythmic medicine (e.g., disopyramide)  
Medicines to treat digestive problems (e.g., cisapride, domperidone) 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicines to treat infections - antibiotics (e.g., rifampicin) and antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole) 
Together with medicines with a therapeutic dose close to the maximum safe dose 
If you were born with heart problems (congenital QT syndromes) 
If you have any doubts, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking FIRDAPSE. 
Tell your doctor if you have  
Asthma 
A history of fits (convulsions) 
Kidney problems 
Liver problems 
Your doctor will monitor carefully how FIRDAPSE works for you and may need to change the dose 
of the medicines you take. Your doctor will also monitor your heart at the start of your treatment and 
also every year thereafter. 
If you have LEMS but do not have cancer, your doctor will make a thorough assessment of the 
potential risk of cancer with FIRDAPSE before commencing treatment. 
Tell any physician you consult that you are using FIRDAPSE. 
Stop the treatment and immediately consult your doctor in the event of: 
Fits (convulsions) 
Asthma 
Other medicines and FIRDAPSE 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Some medicines may interact with FIRDAPSE when taken together. The following medicines must 
not be combined with FIRDAPSE:  
Medicines that may change the electrical activity of your heart (QT-interval prolongation - detectable 
in the electrocardiogram) e.g., sultopride, disopyramide, cisapride, domperidone, rifampicin, and 
ketoconazole (see “Do not take FIRDAPSE”) 
It is especially important to talk to your doctor if you are taking one of the following medicines or plan 
to start taking the following medicines: 
Medicines for malaria (e.g. halofantrine and mefloquine) 
Tramadol (a painkiller) 
Antidepressants - tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. clomipramine, amoxapine), selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors (e.g. citalopram, dapoxetine) and atypical antidepressants (e.g. buproprion) 
Medicines for mental problems (e.g. haloperidol, carbamazapine, chlorpromazine, clozapine) 
Medicines to treat Parkinson's disease - anticholinergics (e.g. trihexylphenidyl, mesylate), MAO-B 
inhibitors (e.g. selegiline, deprenyl), COMT inhibitors (e.g. entacapone) 
Medicines to treat allergies - antihistamines (e.g. terfenadine, astemizole, cimetidine) 
Medicines to relax your muscles - (e.g. mivacurium, pipercurium, suxamethonium) 
Sedatives (e.g. barbiturates) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRDAPSE should not be used if you are pregnant. You must use effective contraception throughout 
the treatment. If you discover that you are pregnant during the treatment, inform your doctor 
immediately.  
It is not known whether FIRDAPSE is excreted in human breast milk. You and your doctor should 
discuss the risks and benefits of continuing to take FIRDAPSE while breastfeeding. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine may cause drowsiness, dizziness, fits (convulsions) and blurred vision, which may 
affect your ability to drive or use machines. Do not drive or operate machines if you experience these 
side effects. 
3. 
How to take FIRDAPSE 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The dose you should take is established by your doctor based on the intensity of your symptoms and 
certain genetic factors. This dose suits you only. 
The starting dose is 5 mg amifampridine (half a tablet) three times daily (i.e. 15 mg per day). Your 
doctor may increase this dose slowly first to 5 mg (half a tablet) four times daily (i.e. 20 mg per day). 
Then your doctor may continue to increase your total daily dose adding 5 mg (half a tablet) per day, 
every 4 or 5 days.  
The maximum recommended dose is 60 mg per day (i.e. a total of six tablets to be taken at intervals 
during the day). Total daily doses above 20 mg should be divided into two to four separate doses. No 
single dose should exceed 20 mg (two tablets). 
The tablets have a score-line to allow them to be broken in half. The tablets should be swallowed with 
some water and are to be taken with food. 
Patients with liver/kidney problems: 
FIRDAPSE should be used with caution in patients with liver or kidney problems. A starting dose 
of 5 mg (half tablet) FIRDAPSE daily is recommended in patients with moderate or severe liver or 
kidney problems. For patients with mild liver or kidney problems a starting dose of 10 mg (5 mg twice 
a day) FIRDAPSE daily is recommended. For these patients the dose of FIRDAPSE should be 
increased more slowly than in those without liver or kidney problems with doses increased in 5 mg 
increments every 7 days. If any side effects occur, please consult your doctor as you may need to stop 
increasing the dose. 
If you take more FIRDAPSE than you should 
If you take more FIRDAPSE than you should have, you may suffer from vomiting or a stomach ache. 
If you experience any of these symptoms, you should contact your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
If you forget to take FIRDAPSE 
If you forget to take FIRDAPSE, do not take a double dose to make up for the dose you have forgotten 
but continue to take your treatment as prescribed by your doctor. 
If you stop taking FIRDAPSE 
If the treatment is stopped, you may experience symptoms such as tiredness, slow reflexes and 
constipation. Do not stop treatment without consulting your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Stop the treatment and immediately consult your doctor in the event of: 
Fits (convulsions) 
Asthma 
Very common side effects which may affect more than 1 in 10 people are: 
Tingling and numbness around the mouth and extremities (such as feet and hands) 
Reduced sense of touch or sensation 
Nausea 
Dizziness 
Increase sweating, cold sweat 
Common side effects which may affect up to 1 in 10 people are: 
Stomach ache  
Cold hands and feet 
Other side effects are: 
The intensity and incidence of most side effects depends on the dose you are taking. The following 
side effects have also been reported (frequencies cannot be estimated from the available data): 
Raynaud's syndrome (circulation disorder affecting the fingers and toes) 
Diarrhoea 
Fits (convulsions) 
Cough, excessive or viscous mucus in the breathing passage, asthma attack in asthmatic patients or 
patients with a history of asthma 
Blurred vision 
Heart rhythm disorders, fast or irregular heartbeats (palpitations) 
Weakness, tiredness, headache  
Anxiety, sleep disorders, drowsiness 
Chorea (movement disorder), myoclonia (muscle spasm or twitching) 
Increase in certain liver enzymes (transaminases) seen on blood tests 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store FIRDAPSE 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the packaging after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. Store in the original package, in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What FIRDAPSE contains 
The active substance is amifampridine. Each tablet contains amifampridine phosphate equivalent 
to 10 mg of amifampridine. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, anhydrous colloidal silica and calcium stearate. 
What FIRDAPSE looks like and contents of the pack 
White, round tablet, flat-faced on one side and scored on the other side. 
The tablets can be divided into equal halves. 
Perforated unit dose thermoformed blisters (Thermoformed aluminium-PVC/PVDC laminate sheets) 
containing 10 tablets. 
One box contains 100 tablets comprising 10 strips with 10 tablets each. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
SERB S.A.  
Avenue Louise 480   
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturers 
EXCELLA GmbH & Co KG 
Nürnberger Strasse 12 
90537 Feucht  
Germany 
SERB S.A.  
Avenue Louise 480   
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium  
This leaflet was last revised in  
This medicine has been authorised under “Exceptional Circumstances”. This means that because of the 
rarity of this disease it has been impossible to get complete information on this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information on the medicine every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
