European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2007 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/422280/2007 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
FLEBOGAMMADIF 
International Nonproprietary Name:  
human normal immunoglobulin  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000781 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Problem statement ................................................................................................................................ 4 
About the product ................................................................................................................................. 4 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific Advice ......................... 6 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 14 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 19 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 22 
Page 2 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
1  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Instituto  Grifols  S.A.  submitted  on  05  September  2006  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Flebogammadif,  through  the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 29 March 2006. The eligibility to the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on 
demonstration of significant technical innovation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
Licensing status: 
Flebogammadif (Flebogamma 5% DIF) has been given a Marketing Authorisation in US on 21 
December 2006. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Manfred Haase  Co-Rapporteur: Concepción Prieto Yerro 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 05 September 2006. 
The procedure started on 27 September 2006.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 December 
2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 
December  2007.  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004,  the 
Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in less 
than 80 days.  
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  January  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 January 2007. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 12 April 
2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 25 May 2007. 
During the meeting on 18-21 June 2007, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Flebogammadif on 21 June 2007. The applicant provided the letter 
of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 19 June 2007. 
Page 3 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Problem statement 
The  first  use  of  purified  human  immunoglobulin  G  (IgG)  for  treatment  of  PID  was  described  by 
Bruton,  and  involved  the  administration  of  intermediate  purity  IgG  by  subcutaneous  injection. 
Subsequent investigators reported treatment primarily administered by intramuscular injection. In the 
early  1980s,  highly  purified,  lyophilized  preparations  of  IgG  for  intravenous  administration  (IVIg) 
were  developed  by  a  number  of  manufacturers.  These  highly  purified  IVIg  products  are  now  the 
standard  of  care  for  treatment  of  primary  immuno  deficiencies  (PID),  offering  the  possibilities  of 
higher and more effective dosing than intramuscular administration. 
reported 
PID  disorders  result  in  increased  susceptibility  to  recurrent  infections,  secondary  to  the  underlying 
defects in humoral and/or cell-mediated immunity. To date, more than 100 different PID syndromes 
include  X-linked 
have  been 
agammaglobulinemia, common variable immune deficiency disease, selective IgA deficiency, severe 
combined  immune  deficiency,  chronic  granulomatous  disease,  Wiskott  Aldrich  syndrome,  X-linked 
hyper  IgM  syndrome,  DiGeorge  syndrome,  IgG  subclass  deficiency,  ataxia  telangiectasia,  leukocyte 
adhesion deficiency, and complement deficiencies. 
literature.  The  best  described  of 
these 
the 
in 
Therapeutic  options  for  the  treatment  of  infections  in  PID  include  standard  antibiotic  treatment  and 
intravenous  administration  of  IgG.  Therapeutic  options  for  treatment  of  PID  are  transplantation  of 
bone marrow-derived stem cells, and recently, gene therapy. 
IVIg also has been used in the treatment of secondary immunodeficiencies such as those occurring in 
patients with multiple myeloma and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) or in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation. 
IVIg also has been used in the treatment of Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Therapeutic 
options  for  the  treatment  of  ITP  mainly  include  intravenous  immunoglobulins,  oral  corticosteroids, 
anti  D-immunoglobulins  and  splenectomy.  In  addition  to  its  use  in  therapy  for  PID  and  ITP  IVIg 
products  are  also  effective  in  the  management  of  immune  mediated  disorders  such  as  Kawasaki 
syndrome, and Guillain Barré syndrome. 
The main mechanism of action of immunoglobulin in the case of immunodeficiency is replacement of 
functionally  deficient  immunoglobulins.  In  the  case  of  immune-mediated  diseases  like  ITP,  the 
mechanism  of  action  is  less  well  understood.  Several  mechanisms  have  been  postulated,  such  as 
reticuloendothelial blockade, an increase in T suppressor cells or natural killer cells, and a decrease in 
antibody synthesis. 
Since the early 1980s, highly purified preparations of IgG for intravenous administration (IVIg) were 
developed  by  a  number  of  manufacturers  whereas  the  first  products  consisted  of  so-called  modified 
products (modification of the Fc-part of the IgG to allow intravenous administration). Nowadays non-
modified, so-called native IVIgs are the standard of care for the replacement therapy of patients with 
primary immunodeficiency and they are part of the therapy regimen of the other indications mentioned 
before.  
About the product 
Flebogammadif is a plasma-derived product consisting of a highly purified preparation of human IgG 
manufactured by Instituto Grifols, S.A., which shares formulation characteristics, as well as identical 
biochemical and stability profiles, with Flebogamma®, the forerunner product. The main differences 
between the  processes are the addition of a solvent-detergent treatment and sequential nanofiltration 
through  filters  with  pore  sizes  of  35  nm  and  20  nm  as  extra  viral  elimination  steps  in  addition  to 
pasteurization, already performed in Flebogamma. 
Page 4 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flebogamadif  is  a  sterile  5%  solution  (referred  to  in  the  assessment  as  IVIg  Grifols).  97%  of  the 
protein is gamma globulin with a normal subclass distribution. The new manufacturing process results 
in an intact IgG molecule with complete functional activity. The final product contains trace amounts 
of IgA. D-sorbitol is used as a stabiliser.  
For  further  details  see  the  assessment  of  the  Quality  Part  related  to  the  characterisation  studies 
encompassing  the  biological  characteristics  of  the  product  such  as  molecular  size  distribution, 
distribution of subclasses and antibody specificity and potency, as well as the biological activities 
Pharmacological classification 
Human Normal Immunoglobulin G 
ATC code: J06B A02 
Indications and posology 
Therapeutic indications 
Indications applied for: 
1.  Replacement therapy in 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
•  Congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
•  Common variable immunodeficiency 
•  Severe combined immunodeficiency 
•  Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections  
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections 
2.  Immunomodulation 
• 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of bleeding 
or prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
•  Guillain Barré syndrome 
•  Kawasaki disease 
3.  Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
Posology and method of administration 
Indication 
Replacement therapy in primary 
immunodeficiency 
Replacement therapy in secondary 
immunodeficiency 
Children with AIDS 
Immunomodulation: 
Dose 
- starting dose: 
0.4 - 0.8 g/kg 
- thereafter: 
0.2 - 0.8 g/kg 
0.2 - 0.4 g/kg 
Frequency  
every 2 - 4 weeks to obtain IgG trough 
level of at least 4 - 6 g/l 
every 3 - 4 weeks to obtain IgG trough 
level of at least 4 - 6 g/l 
0.2 - 0.4 g/kg 
every 3 - 4 weeks 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
0.8 - 1 g/kg 
or 
on day 1, possibly repeated once 
within 3 days 
Guillain Barré syndrome 
0.4 g/kg/d 
for 3 - 7 days 
0.4 g/kg/d 
for 2 - 5 days 
Kawasaki disease 
1.6 - 2 g/kg 
or 
in several doses for 2 - 5 days in 
association with acetylsalicylic acid 
Page 5 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 g/kg 
in one dose in association with 
acetylsalicylic acid 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: 
- treatment of infections and prophylaxis 
0.5 g/kg 
of graft versus host disease 
every week from day -7 up to 3 
months after transplantation 
- persistent lack of antibody production 
0.5 g/kg 
every month until antibody levels 
return to normal 
Flebogammadif should be infused intravenously at an initial rate of 0.01-0.02 ml/kg/min for the first 
thirty minutes. If well tolerated, the rate of administration may gradually be increased to a maximum 
of 0.1 ml/kg/min. 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific Advice 
This is a new centralised application for marketing authorisation of a Human Normal Immunoglobulin 
for  Intravenous  Administration.  It  is  a  complete  and  independent  application  under  article  8.3(i)  of 
Directive  2001/83/EC  as  amended,  with  a  known  active  substance.  The  forerunner  product 
Flebogamma/Alphaglobin,  is  currently  authorised  in  Argentina,  Chile,  Hong  Kong,  Japan,  Mexico, 
Peru, CZ, ES, DE, GB, IE, IT.  
The submission is in CTD format. 
The  global  clinical  program  for  the  evaluation  of  Flebogammadif  comprises  2  studies.  The  study 
design, choice of endpoints and statistical evaluation in the two clinical trials (Study IG 201 in primary 
immunodeficiency  patients  (PID)  and  Study  IG  202  in  Immune  Thrombocytopenic  Purpura  patients 
(ITP)) are considered adequate and fulfil the requirements stipulated in the relevant Note for Guidance 
on  the  Clinical  Investigation  of  Human  Normal  Immunoglobulin  for  Intravenous  Administration 
(CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev.2). According to this Note for Guidance, marketing authorisation for IVIg 
will  be  granted  for  the  indications  in  the  core  SPC  based  on  efficacy  data  from  studies  in  primary 
immunodeficiency  syndromes  and  idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  without  the  requirement  for 
separate  studies  in  all  other  established  indications.  The  indications  follow  the  wording  of  the 
indications listed in the core SPC (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev. 1). 
No  paediatric  development  is  planned.  Adolescents  were  included  in  the  clinical  trials.  IVIgs  are 
routinely used in children and adolescents and separate trials are not specifically required according to 
the relevant CHMP Guidance. 
No formal scientific advice was obtained from CHMP. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
• 
Flebogammadif is a sterile 5% solution, intended for intravenous administration, which has as active 
ingredient  human  normal  immunoglobulin  obtained  from  human  plasma  following  a  fractionation 
process based on the Cohn method. 
•  Drug Substance  
Flebogammadif  is  a  sterile  solution,  which  has  as  active  ingredient  human  normal  immunoglobulin 
obtained from human plasma following a fractionation process based on the Cohn method. From this 
purification  process,  the  isolated  active  ingredient  is  not  obtained  but  the  final  product  is  obtained 
directly.  Due  to  the  continuous  manufacturing  process  of  Human  normal  immunoglobulin,  Grifols 
prior to the final formulation steps, no distinct intermediate Drug Substance stage can be defined. 
Instituto Grifols, S.A. (Barcelona, Spain) is responsible for the entire manufacturing process, starting. 
from  plasma  through  labeling,  packaging,  quality  control  testing  and  batch  release  of  the  finished 
product. 
Page 6 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Control of Materials 
The human plasma used for the manufacture of Flebogammadif originates from the USA. It complies 
with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph Human Plasma for Fractionation, and with the Note 
for  Guidance  on  Plasma-Derived  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP/BWP/269/95  rev.  3).  It  is  described  in 
the Plasma Master File of Instituto Grifols S.A. This PMF is certified by EMEA. 
In the manufacturing process of Flebogammadif no other material of human origin is used.  
Controls  of  the  other  incoming  raw  materials  are  performed.  For  the  specific  viral  removal  step  the 
Planova 35N and Planova 20N filter units were presented in detail.  
•  Drug Product  
Flebogammadif is a sterile 5% solution, intended for intravenous administration, which has as active 
ingredient  human  normal  immunoglobulin  obtained  from  human  plasma  following  a  fractionation 
process based on the Cohn method. 
(97% 
The  only  active 
gammaglobulin;  pH  5  -  6)  and  the  excipient  used  is  D-sorbitol  which  acts  as  stabiliser.  Water  for 
injection is used as solvent. 
The  vials  consists  of  type  II  glass  vials/bottles  and  chloro-butyl-rubber  stoppers  which  meet  the 
requirements of the Ph. Eur. These containers have filling capacities of 10 ml, 50 ml, 100 ml, 200 ml 
and 400 ml. Overfilling of each size ensures that the nominal amount of product can be drawn from 
the vial. 
ingredient  of  Flebogammadif 
is  human  normal 
immunoglobulin 
•  Formulation Development 
Several saccharides were studied as stabilising substances in order to establish the optimum conditions 
during  heat  treatment  of  IVIg  solutions  at  60  ºC  for  10  hours.  The  results  showed  that  sorbitol  and 
sucrose were the most appropriate stabilisers. 
•  Physicochemical and Biological properties: Characterisation studies 
A  complete  characterisation  study  of  the  final  product  identity  indicates  that  the  immunoglobulin 
purity of this product is higher than 99% and IgG subclasses are distributed in a physiological pattern. 
A broad spectrum of functional antibodies against various infectious agents is detectable. Finally, the 
Fc  fragment  integrity  is  demonstrated,  expressed  as  functionality  after  antigen  binding.  The  IgA 
content and anti-complementary activity are very low as well as other contaminants studied. 
Instituto Grifols, S.A. has performed characterisation studies of different process intermediates as well 
as of the final product.  
•  Manufacturing Process Development (Process Validation and Product Characterisation) 
Instituto Grifols, S.A. has developed a production process to extract IgG from Fraction II+III of the 
Cohn  fractionation  considering  the  purification  process  previously  used  for  Flebogamma.  The 
purification  process  includes  the  use  of  PEG  as  precipitation  agent  in  several  steps  and  the  use  of 
DEAE resins for the reduction of potential impurities. Additionally to the pasteurisation step already 
included in Flebogamma, the process includes other specific viral inactivation steps: solvent-detergent 
treatment and sequential nanofiltration.  
For the production consistency and the reproducibility 11 lots have been studied (IVIg3I Grifols 5%: 
Consistency of the production process. 3 processes include Planova 35N nanofiltration and 3 processes 
include  Planova  35N  followed  by  Planova  20N  nanofiltration.  The  product  yield  and  purification 
degree in the adjusted bulk solution as well as in the different steps of the process can be considered 
acceptable  and  reproducible.  The  combined  action  of  4%  PEG  precipitation  and  of  ion-exchange 
chromatography  allows  obtaining  a  product  with  an  appropriate  degree  of  purity.  According  to  the 
composition  of  the  filtered  product,  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  nanofiltered  batches  (through 
Planova 35N and through Planova 35N + Planova 20N) and non-nanofiltered batches present the same 
behaviour.  
In  order  to  validate  the  changes  in  the  facility,  a  consistency  study  has  also  been  performed  with 
conformance  industrial  lots  of  Flebogammadif  obtained  in  the  new  manufacturing  plant  of  the  P1 
building.  The  results  obtained  show  that  the  product  yield  and  its  purification  degree  in  the  5% 
adjusted  final  bulk,  as  well  as  in  the  different  steps  of  the  process,  can  be  considered  optimum  and 
reproducible.  
Page 7 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
In the study report submitted by the applicant, three production scales: preparative, industrial (lots at 
clinical scale) and industrial (conformance lots) were compared, with regard to materials, equipment, 
specific  process  conditions  and  final  product.  Data  submitted  demonstrated  that  different  working 
scales  (preparative,  clinical  and  conformance  production  scale)  have  equivalence  in  the  most 
significant parameters of the process and in the composition of the product in the different steps. The 
preparative  scale  shows  higher  values  on  impurities  e.g.  PEG,  Tween-80,  ACA,  polymers  than  the 
other scales. 
•  Development of Container Closure System and Microbiological Attributes 
The  containers/closure  system  used  as  packaging  material  for  Flebogammadif  product  is  a  Type  II 
glass  material  with  butyl-rubber  stopper  in  accordance  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  stability 
studies  support  the  compatibility  of  the  final  IVIg  formulation  and  dosage  form  with  the 
container/closure system. 
•  Microbiological Attributes 
Flebogammadif is a sterile-filtered preparation to prevent degradation in its final formulation intended 
for intravenous use. The final liquid formulation at 5% of protein content is filtered through a sterile 
filter of nominal pore size of 0.22 µm as a microorganism-retaining filter. The sterile bulk solution is 
stored at 5 ± 3 ºC in a closed system to prevent microbiological contamination. The sterile final bulk 
solution undergoes a second final sterile filtration prior to aseptic filling process into sterile glass type 
II containers and stoppers. This further sterile filtration is performed as close as possible to the filling 
point.  All  the  operations  are  validated  and  performed  in  accordance  with  the  current  Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) for sterile medicinal products. 
•  Batch Formula 
The ranges of batch size are indicated. A batch can be produced from either 3850±250l of plasma or 
from 7700±500 l of plasma.  
•  Manufacture 
Flebogammadif is obtained from Fraction II+III of fresh plasma fractionation with ethanol (obtained 
in Instituto Grifols, Parets del Vallès, Barcelona, Spain). The fraction II+III can be stored at ≤-20°C 
for ≤3 years.  
The extraction of the immunoglobulin from the above mentioned Fraction II+III till the final product 
is well described in the dossier 
Immunoglobulin is extracted from Fraction II+III and the other part of globulins is precipitated with 
polyethylene  glycol  (PEG)  in  the  presence  of  an  inorganic  adsorbent  (bentonite).  The  resulting 
material  is  purified  by  an  ion  exchange  resin  column,  which  essentially  adsorbs  those  proteins 
accompanying immunoglobulin G, the column effluent is diafiltered and concentrated and brought to 
appropriate  conditions  to  perform  the  virus  inactivation  steps.  The  product  bulk  is  filtered  and 
prepared  for  the  specific  steps  of  virus  inactivation  by  incubation  at  acid  pH,  performing  the 
pasteurisation  in  the  presence  of  sorbitol  and,  finally,  chemical  treatment  with  tri-n-butyl  phosphate 
and  polysorbate-80  (organic  solvent  and  detergent).  The  product  is  precipitated  with  PEG-4000  and 
the precipitate is retained on a tangential flow filtration membrane (TFF) and washed to eliminate the 
organic  solvent  and  detergent  (OSD).  This  precipitate  is  then  dissolved  in  order  to  precipitate 
subsequently the high molecular weight aggregates, which are also retained on a TFF membrane. The 
filtrate  obtained  is  concentrated  and  diafiltered  against  sorbitol  solution  for  protein  concentration 
adjustment  before  the  nanofiltration.  It  is  nanofiltered  and  then  concentrated  by  ultrafiltration  to  the 
required protein concentration of 5%. The adjusted product is clarified by depth and sterile filtrations 
and  aseptically  filled  into  appropriate  glass  vials  or  flasks.  After  incubation,  the  final  product  is 
subjected to visual inspection. 
•  Control of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Critical steps of the manufacturing process are identified. Tests and acceptance criteria are established 
to ensure that the process is controlled.  
Microorganism count and viral markers are analysed in the cryoprecipitate supernatant and in Fraction 
II+III.  The  determination  of  immunoglobulin  purity  allows  concluding  that  the  precipitation  of 
Fraction  II+III  has  been  performed  correctly.  Microbial  load  is  also  controlled  in  the  clarified  4% 
Page 8 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
PEG-4000 filtrate, the intermediate bulk solution, the TFF IVIg filtrate (before and after adjustments 
and  concentration)  and  in  the  nanofiltered  bulk  solution  (after  concentration  and  adjustment).  The 
correct addition of TnBP and polysorbate 80 in the viral inactivation treatment by OSD is evaluated by 
analysis of the two components of this step. The determination of optical density at 280 nm before and 
after  the  pasteurisation  step  is  performed  in  order  to  confirm  that  the  addition  of  sorbitol  solution 
(stabiliser) before pasteurisation has been performed correctly. In order to control the post-washing of 
the nanofiltration step by Planova 35N and Planova 20N, an O.D.280 nm determination before and after 
this step is included. 
The  sterility  test  in  adjusted  bulk  solution  controls  that  the  sterile  filtration  has  been  correctly 
performed. 
•  Process Validation and Evaluation 
The critical operations like DEAE sepharose column, heat treatment, solvent detergent treatment and 
aseptic  filling  were  validated.  Process  consistency  and  data  supporting  the  consistency  have  been 
satisfactorily submitted. 
•  Control of Excipients 
The excipient used is D-sorbitol which acts as stabiliser, which complies with Ph Eur. 
•  Control of Drug Product 
The  applicant  states  that  Flebogammadif  complies  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  “Human  Normal 
Immunoglobulin for Intravenous Administration” and will always be adapted to the edition in force. 
The analytical procedures and validation studies are acceptable.  
The  results  of  the  analysis  of  6  batches  analysis  certificates  were  provided,  they  passed  the  final 
release  specification  for  Flebogammadif.  The  used  standards  were  listed.  The  working  reference 
standards were calibrated against the primary reference standard. 
•  Container Closure System 
The packaging material in contact with the product consists of type II glass vials/bottles and chloro-
butyl-rubber stoppers which comply with the specifications of the Ph. Eur. In order to support that the 
packaging  components  of  Flebogammadif  are  compatible  with  the  product,  a  stability  report  is 
provided. The samples used in the stability study are stored in inverted position in order to keep the 
solution in contact with the stoppers as “worst case” storage conditions. 
•  Stability 
The  presented  stability  program  is  acceptable.  Selected  test-parameters  and  acceptance  criteria  are 
suitable to demonstrate product stability. The results of the stability study with IVIg3I GRIFOLS 5% 
10  ml,  50  ml,  100  ml,  200  ml  and  400  ml  support  a  shelf-life  of  24  months  at  5ºC  or  at  30  ºC  of 
Flebogammadif,  all  selected  parameters  are  still  in  the  specified  ranges.  During  the  storage  and 
transport temperature shifts should be avoided and the product should be transported and stored under 
a defined constant temperature in order to avoid quality loss in the product. In their responses to the 
LoQ,  the  applicant  has  submitted  a  proposal  for  a  stability  study  protocol  including  repeated 
temperature  shifts  within  the  range  5-30  ºC,  which  is  reasonable.  Furthermore,  the  applicant  has 
agreed to commit to submit the results of the repeated temperature shifts proposed on an ongoing basis 
after the authorisation of the product. If the results of this study reveal that repeated temperature shifts 
lead to quality loss in the product, the SPC should be adapted according to the data obtained with the 
submission of a variation application.  
•  Stability of in-process intermediates 
The intermediate storage studied were Fraction II+III stored between -20 ºC and -30 ºC for 36 months 
and UF-I / UF-II stored at 5 ± 3 ºC for 30 days. The presented stability studies for the intermediates 
fraction II+III and Ultrafiltrate I / II are acceptable. 
•  Facilities and Equipment 
Acceptable  description  of  the  facility,  the  product  flow,  material  flow  and  personnel  flow  was 
provided. The preparation, cleaning and sterilisation of the equipments are described. The prevention 
of cross contamination is outlined. Floor plans for all facilities are provided.  
Page 9 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation 
Flebogammadif is produced from human plasma. The overall viral safety strategy includes selection of 
qualified donors and testing of plasma donations. Plasma is collected in USA and single donations are 
screened by an adequate testing program for viral infections (Anti HIV, HBs-Ag, Anti-HCV, ALT). 
Further  manufacturing  pools  are  tested  by  NAT  for  HIV-RNA,  HCV-RNA,  HBV-DNA,  and  B19-
DNA  (limit:  less  than  104  IU  per  ml).  Donors  with  an  increased  risk  for  sporadic  or  variant 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob-Disease are excluded. The donor selection and plasma donation testing strategy for 
viral  markers  is  considered  adequate.  Testing  of  source  materials  has  been  assessed  at  PMF 
certification.  
The  immunoglobulins  are  purified  by  Cold-Ethanol  Fractionation  and  PEG  precipitation  steps  and 
chromatographic steps. Effective reduction of a broad variety of enveloped and non-enveloped viruses 
and animal TSE agents at one PEG-precipitation/depth filtration step has been demonstrated.  
Additionally  three  dedicated  steps  for  virus  inactivation/removal  have  been  introduced  into  the 
manufacturing  steps.  (1)  Pasteurisation  is  performed  at  60°C  for  10h.  Effective  inactivation  of 
enveloped viruses as well as of non-enveloped viruses has been shown. Effective inactivation included 
porcine parvovirus (PPV) which is known as a rather heat-resistant model virus. (2) Enveloped viruses 
are  efficiently  inactivated  during  a  conventional  solvent  detergent  treatment.  (3)  The  product  is 
processed  through  two  serially-coupled  nanofilters  with  average  pore  sizes  of  35nm  and  20nm.  The 
20nm-filter has been demonstrated to remove effectively the small non-enveloped model virus PPV. It 
is,  therefore,  reasonable  to  postulate  a  similar  or  higher  reduction  capacity  for  the  larger  enveloped 
viruses  such  as  HIV,  HCV,  HBV  and  most  non-enveloped  viruses  including  Hepatitis  A  virus.  The 
combination  of  4  production  steps  with  complementary  mechanisms  for  virus  inactivation  or  virus 
removal (precipitation, heating, SD-treatment, nanofiltration), results in a very high overall reduction 
capacity for both enveloped and non-enveloped viruses.  
Seven production steps (Precipitation of Fraction I, Fraction II+III suspension, 4% PEG precipitation, 
Low  pH  incubation,  pasteurization,  SD-treatment,  nanofiltration)  have  been  validated  for  their 
capacity  to  inactivate/remove  viruses.  .  The  selection  of  process  steps  is  considered  sufficient.  The 
virus studies are of good quality and comply with the requirements of Guideline CPMP/BWP/268/95. 
Adequate  controls  (cytotoxicity,  interference)  have  been  performed  and  complete  study  reports 
including raw data have been submitted.  The virus reducing capacity of the studied process steps has 
been submitted in the dossier and discussed in detail.  
The reduction factors from the investigated production steps are summarised in Tab. SV.1.  
Tab. SV1. Virus reduction factors from production steps 
Step/Virus 
Fraction I precipitation 
HIV 
(1.32)a 
HBV 
Fraction II+II precipitation 
(1.48)a 
4% PEG Precipitation 
≥6.10 
≥5.92 PRV 
pH 4 treatment (4h 37°C) 
2.47 
Pasteurisation 
SD-Treatment 
≥5.64 
≥4.61 
HCV 
2.78 
WNV 
≥5.78 
(BVDV) 
(0.46)c 
BVDV 
≥6.49 
BVDV 
≥6.14 
BVDV 
4.61d 
PPV 
≥25.80 
WNV 
2.78 
WNV 
(<1)c 
WNV 
≥5.78 
BVDV 
(0.46)c 
BVDV 
5.41  
WNV 
≥5.59 
WNV 
4.61d 
PPV 
≥24.17 
(≥5.32)b 
PRV 
≥6.33 
IBR 
≥6.95 
PRV 
4.61d 
PPV 
≥23.81 
Planova 20N Nanofiltration. 
4.61d 
PPV 
≥23.43  
4.61d 
PPV 
Global reduction factor 
15.04 
a Log reduction factors are not summarised because a similar mechanism (low pH) may be underlying HIV inactivation at 
these steps and pH4 treatment. 
b: The reduction factor from PRV is not considered for HBV because it in unknown whether PRV would reflect HBV 
c: Log reduction factors below 1 are not summarised 
d: Reduction factors from PPV-experiments are considered applicable to larger viruses 
e  Reduction factor from EMCV at low pH treatment is not considered representative for reduction of HAV 
4.61d 
PPV 
≥16.58 
HAV 
B19V 
≥6.41 
EMCV 
(1.36)e 
EMCV 
≥5.56 
EMCV 
6.35  
PPV 
4.08 
PPV 
Page 10 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  risk  assessment  according  to  new  chapter  6  of  Guideline  CPMP/BWP/269/95  concerning  HIV, 
HBV, and HCV has been provided.   
The  capacity  of  the  production  process  to  inactivate/remove  enveloped  viruses  widely  exceeds  the 
potential  maximum  input  of  virus  genomes  in  the  plasma  pool.  Non-enveloped  model  viruses 
reflecting  HAV  and  Parvovirus  B19  are  efficiently  reduced  at  least  by  3  production  steps  (4%  PEG 
precipitation,  pasteurisation,  nanofiltration).  Therefore,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  product  is  safe 
with respect to HIV, HBV, and HCV, HAV and Parvovirus B19. Further safety with respect to West 
Nile  Virus  has  been  demonstrated  according  to  CPMP-position  statement  on  WNV  and  Plasma-
derived medicinal products (CPMP/BWP/3752/03).  
In  summary,  a  high  safety  margin  with  respect  to  HIV,  HBV,  HCV,  HAV,  and  parvovirus  B19  has 
been convincingly demonstrated.  
This information has been included in the SPC, section 4.4. with the following recommended text: 
“The  measures  taken  are  considered  effective  for  enveloped  viruses  such  as  HIV,  HBV,  HCV,  HAV 
and Parvovirus B19.”  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The issues primarily identified during the evaluation of the dossier had been resolved by the applicant 
with the responses to the List of questions. 
As follow up measure, the applicant will submit the results of the stability study (protocol including 
repeated temperature shifts within the range 5-30 ºC) on an ongoing basis. If the results of this study 
reveal that repeated temperature shifts lead to quality loss in the product, the SPC should be adapted 
according to the data obtained with the submission of a variation application.  
The  marketing  authorisation  application  for  Flebogammadif  is  recommended  for  approval  based  on 
quality grounds.  
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Flebogammadif  is  a  highly  purified  human  immunoglobulin  G  (IgG)  solution,  intended  for 
intravenous administration (IVIg 5%). The active ingredient is obtained from human plasma following 
a fractionation process based on the Cohn method. Flebogammadif retains the biological functions of 
endogenous  immunoglobulin,  contains  a  broad  spectrum  of  antibodies  against  various  infectious 
agents and has low anti-complementary activity. 
The product can be defined as belonging to a well known and characterized biological product family. 
Flebogammadif  complies  with  all  the  pharmacopoeial  requirements  (European  Pharmacopoeia 
monograph 01/2006:0918). 
The pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of the product are supported by specific studies conducted 
by  the  former  Grifols’  associate  Green  Cross  Corporation  (now  Benesis)  with  Venoglobulin-IH  (an 
IVIg obtained with the same production process as Flebogamma) in rats and rabbits, comparing some 
of  the  results  to  Venoglobulin-I  (lyophilized  human  normal  immunoglobulin,  not  submitted  to  heat 
treatment). Since Flebogamma is a human normal immunoglobulin having characteristics  equivalent 
to  those  of  Venoglobulin-IH  and  is  obtained  by  the  same  manufacturing  process,  the  results  of  the 
toxicological  and  pharmacological  studies  carried  out  on  Venoglobulin-IH  are  applicable  to 
Flebogamma.  The  main  differences  between  the  manufacturing  processes  for  Flebogamma  and 
Flebogammadif are the addition of a solvent-detergent treatment and sequential nanofiltration through 
pore sizes of 35 nm and 20 nm as additional viral elimination steps for Flebogammadif. 
Page 11 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Preclinical  studies  were  conducted  by  the  former  Green  Cross  Corporation.  These  studies  were 
performed  on  Venoglobulin-IH  (liquid  heated  intravenous  human  immunoglobulin)  as  compared  to 
Venoglobulin-I (non-heated lyophilized intravenous human immunoglobulin).  
-  Both  immunoglobulins  administered  at  the  doses  tested  protected  significantly  against 
experimental thrombocytopenia 
-  The  survival  rate  of  mice  infected  with  St.  pneumoniae  proved  to  be  significantly  dose-
dependent.  
-  The efficacy of Venoglobulin-IH in mice infected with Ps. aeruginosa increased with the dose 
tested. 
-  The efficacy of Venoglobulin-IH is significantly dose-dependent for Ps. aeruginosa infections 
in granulocytopenic mice. 
-  Antibody titres of Venoglobulin-IH to bacteria, protozoa and viruses are equivalent to those of 
Venoglobulin-I,  indicating  once  again  no  reduction  of  the  aforementioned  antibody  titre  by 
heat treatment of the liquid immunoglobulin 
-  Venoglobulin-IH  and  Venoglobulin-I  present  equivalent  effects  on  the  bactericidal  and 
phagocytosis activities of the PMNs. 
•  Safety pharmacology  
The core battery of safety studies was included in the toxicological studies: 
Study  CD01/7955T:  “Acute  intravenous  toxicity  study  in  mice,  by  infusion.  Determination  of 
maximum non-lethal dose and minimum lethal dose”. 
Study CIFA 001/02: “Study of the acute toxicity of the product new gammaglobulin intravenous 5% 
Grifols for intravenous route in the mouse”. 
Study  CD01/7624T:  “Acute  intravenous  toxicity  study  in  rats,  by  infusion.  Determination  of 
maximum non-lethal dose and minimum lethal dose”. 
Study CIFA 002/02: “Study of the acute toxicity of the product new gammaglobulin intravenous 5% 
Grifols for intravenous route in rat”. 
The absence of mortality in the toxicological preclinical studies and the lack of any confirmed relevant 
adverse  sign  affecting  respiratory,  circulatory,  renal,  autonomic  and  central  nervous  systems, 
somatomotor  activity  and  behaviour  of  the  treated  mice  and  rats,  supports  the  safety  of 
Flebogammadif for clinical trials in humans. 
Functional index of potential toxicity on the cardiovascular, respiratory, and central nervous systems 
were incorporated in the design of the toxicity studies CIFA 001/02 and CIFA 002/02 and the results 
have  not  raised  any  concern.  However,  comparative  anaphylactoid  and  thrombogenic  potential  have 
not  been  assessed.  Data  obtained  during  preclinical  and  clinical  testing  do  not  indicate  increased 
anaphylactoid  or  thrombogenic  potential  of  this  product  when  compared  to  other  IVIgs  currently  in 
clinical use. 
In order to avoid potential complications, the product should be injected slowly, carefully monitoring 
for any symptoms, as described in the SPC (section 4.4). 
Pharmacokinetics 
A pharmacokinetic study has been carried out by the former “The Green Cross Corporation (Benesis)” 
to study the pharmacokinetics of Venoglobulin-IH in rats and rabbits, comparing some of the results to 
Venoglobulin-I. 
Following the administration of radiolabelled Venoglobulin-IH, plasma levels of radioactivity in  male  
rats  and  male  rabbits  decreased  biphasically, showing a rapid phase with  half-life values  of  T1/2α 
= 12.4 h in rats and T1/2α = 6.0 h in rabbits, and a slow phase with half-life values of T1/2β = 10.3 days 
in  rats  and  T1/2β  =  3.5  days  in  rabbits.  The  administration  of  repeated  doses  for  5  days  in  male  rats 
Page 12 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased the values of T1/2α to 20.4 hours and T1/2β to 10.7 days. 
Approximately 12% of the dose administered to pregnant rats on the 19th day of gestation was found 
in the foetus on the following day. 
The maximum level of radioactivity in the mothers' milk was found 6 hours following administration. 
In general, there was no accumulation of radioactivity in the tissues of the rats examined. Most of the 
radioactivity was excreted into the urine (approximately 70% in both rats and rabbits). 2.5% and 3.6% 
in rats and rabbits, respectively, was excreted into the faeces. 
Due to the fact that some differences are observed between the two animal species studied, the patient 
should be monitored and carefully observed for a certain period of time after administration, as stated 
in the SPC, section 4.4. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Four studies were provided. 
Study  CD01/7955T:  “Acute  intravenous  toxicity  study  in  mice,  by  infusion.  Determination  of 
maximum non-lethal dose and minimum lethal dose”. 
Results:  The  LD50  of  Flebogammadif,  when  administered  intravenously  to  CD-1  mice  proved  to  be 
greater than 2500 mg/kg.  
Clinical  signs,  like  piloerection  or  palpebral  ptosis  and  ataxia  were  detected.  No  relevant  adverse 
effects were detected affecting respiratory, circulatory, renal, autonomic and central nervous systems, 
somatomotor activity and behaviour. 
Study CIFA 001/02: “Study of the acute toxicity of the product new gammaglobulin intravenous 5% 
Grifols for intravenous route in the mouse”. 
Results:  The  LD50  of  Flebogammadif,  when  administered  intravenously  to  Swiss  mice  proved  to  be 
greater than 2500 mg/kg. Only minor signs were observed, like piloerection and a slight increase of 
the respiratory rate in a treated female (which normalized in 30 minutes). No relevant adverse effects 
were  detected  affecting  respiratory,  circulatory,  renal,  autonomic  and  central  nervous  systems, 
somatomotor activity and behaviour. 
Study  CD01/7624T:  “Acute  intravenous  toxicity  study  in  rats,  by  infusion.  Determination  of 
maximum non-lethal dose and minimum lethal dose”. 
Results:    The  LD50  of  Flebogammadif,  when  administered  intravenously  to  Sprague  Dawley  rats 
proved to be greater than 2500 mg/kg. During the first phase of the study, ataxia was observed for 5 
minutes after administration in all the animals from the control group and in all but one animal from 
the treated group. No further clinical signs were detected in any animal during the first phase of the 
study.  
Following  the infusion of the highest dose, a short term ataxia was also detected in all animals, both 
from the treated and from the control group. The maximum duration of this sign was 90  minutes in 
both groups. Therefore the differences between the two groups are hardly evaluable, especially taking 
into account that the animals had to be placed in an immobilisation device during infusion. 
Four (1 male and 3 females) out of 14 animals treated with the highest dose (combining both phases of 
the study) showed “reddish urine” up to 90 minutes to 3 hours immediately after treatment.  
No  macroscopic  alterations  were  recorded  in  the  necropsies  carried  out  on  the  animals  belonging  to 
the highest dose, second phase of the study, with the exception of calicilar dilatation in both kidneys in 
one male from the control group and slight calicilar dilatation in the right hand side kidney of one of 
the treated females. Furthermore, no differences were detected in kidney weights between the treated 
and control group. No histopathological renal alteration was detected related to the treatment. 
Study CIFA 002/02: “Study of the acute toxicity of the product new gammaglobulin intravenous 5% 
Grifols for intravenous route in rat”. 
Page 13 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results: 10 treated animals (5 male, 5 female) received a continuous infusion of 2500 mg in a volume 
of 50 ml/kg with an infusion rate of 0.1 ml/min and were followed for 14 days. 
The  administration  of  a  volume  of  50  ml/kg  bw  in  rats,  with  an  administration  rate  of  0.1  ml/min 
implies  an  increase  of  between  70  to  80%  of  the  blood  volume  in  a  time  ranging  between  1  and  2 
hours. This increase in blood volume can produce arterial hypertension, which could be the cause of 
renal alterations – hematuria, proteinuria and slight pathomorphologic changes – as observed in both 
treated and control animals. The results obtained are considered to be equivalent to that obtained for 
other intravenous immunoglobulins. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  not  performed  since  administration  of  Flebogammadif  to  animals 
can  be  expected  to  initiate  the  immunological  response,  which  would  interfere  with  the  toxicity 
evaluation. (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Reproductive,  developmental,  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity,  or  local  tolerance  studies  were  not 
performed  due  to  the  nature  of  Flebogammadif,  which  is  a  naturally  expressed  human  protein 
(CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
in 
result 
Flebogammadif is a product made of naturally expressed  human proteins and therefore it is unlikely 
to 
the  Guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human 
use, the lack of an ERA is acceptable for this product. This product is not considered to be a risk to the 
environment. 
environment.  According 
significant 
risk 
the 
for 
to 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The studies were performed to support the following indications: 
4. 
Replacement therapy in 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
•  Congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
•  Common variable immunodeficiency 
•  Severe combined immunodeficiency 
•  Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections  
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections 
5. 
Immunomodulation 
• 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of bleeding 
or prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
•  Guillain Barré syndrome 
•  Kawasaki disease 
Page 14 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
The  indications  are  in  line  with  the  requirements  laid  down  in  the  note  for  guidance  on  the  clinical 
investigation of human normal immunoglobulin for intravenous administration (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 
rev. 1).  
Two studies were performed to evaluate PK, efficacy and safety of the product: Study IG 201 (PK, 
Efficacy and Safety) and Study IG 202 (Efficacy and Safety)  
GCP 
The studies were conducted according to the Guidelines on GCP (CHMP/ICH/135/95) and the ethical 
principles conveyed by the Declaration of Helsinki. 
The trials conducted outside the community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards 
of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  study,  performed  in  the  USA,  was  prospective,  open-label,  uncontrolled,  multi-centre  in  46 
primary immunodeficiency patients (PID) patients enrolled between Nov-2002 and May-2004.  
Forty six (46) patients were enrolled and 41 patients finished the study. The duration of the treatment 
was  12  months.  Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  according  to  the  NfG  for  intravenous 
immunoglobulins (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev 1). Patients were treated following either a 21-day or a 
28-day infusion schedule. 
Trough IgG levels were determined in all patients included in this trial. Other standard PK parameters 
(Cmax, Tmax, t1/2 and AUC for total IgG, subclass IgG, and antibodies to selected specific antigens) 
were measured in a subgroup of 20 patients with PID. Mean trough IgG level ranged from 822.2 to 
895.2 mg/dl for 21-day infusion schedule patients and from 779.3 to 1180.0 mg/dl for 28-day infusion 
schedule patients. These levels are above those required in the Note for Guidance on normal human 
immunoglobulin (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev 1).  
Half-life, AUC, Cmax and Tmax were performed in a subset of 20 patients, most of them on a 28-day 
infusion  schedule.  Samples  were  taken  at  Infusion 5  in  patients  previously  treated  and  documenting 
trough levels for the previous two infusions.  
The median serum half-life for total IgG was 28 and 33 days for the 21 and 28 day dosing schedule, 
respectively. For IgG subclasses the median serum half-life ranged from 24 to 33 days. The median 
AUC levels for the total IgG were 30423.4 and 32484.5, the median Cmax levels were 1965 mg/dl and 
2010 mg/dl, respectively for both dosing schedules.  
The  results  obtained  in  the  study  are  in  keeping  with  those  reported  in  the  literature  and  with  other 
studies using similar products, also complying with the current standards requested by the Guideline 
CPMP/BPWG/388/95-rev. 1 for PID patients. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Not applicable. PD studies are not requested by the relevant Guideline. The text of the core SPC under 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties has been adopted: 
Pharmacotherapeutic  group:  immune  sera  and  immunoglobulins:  immunoglobulins,  normal  human, 
for intravascular administration, ATC code: J06BA02 
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a broad spectrum of 
antibodies against infectious agents. 
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  contains  the  IgG  antibodies  present  in  the  normal  population.  It  is 
usually  prepared  from  pooled  plasma  from  not  fewer  than  1000  donations.  It  has  a  distribution  of 
immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma.  
Page 15 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adequate doses of this medicinal product may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin G levels to the 
normal range. 
The mechanism of action in indications other than replacement therapy is not fully elucidated, but 
includes immunomodulatory effects. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Main Studies 
Study IG 201 – Primary Immunodeficiency (PID) 
Study  IG201  was  a  multicentre,  non-controlled 
pharmacokinetics and safety of Flebogammadif and was performed in the USA.  
IgG trough levels were examined in all patients. In a subset of Study IG 201 in 20 PID patients the 
following PK parameters were analysed: Cmax, Tmax, elimination rate constant (λz), AUC from time 
0 to the time of the last post-dose quantifiable serum concentration (AUC(0-last)), AUC from time 0 
to infinity (AUC(0-inf)), t1/2, CL, and Vd.  
the  clinical  efficacy, 
to  determine 
trial 
METHODS 
Study participants and treatments 
Forty-six  patients  (children  and  adults  with  primary  immunodeficiency  -  PID)  were  enrolled  and 
treated  with  Flebogammadif  at  a  dose  of  300-600  mg/kg  every  21-28  days  (mean  total  dose:  451 
mg/kg  for  21-day  patients  and  448  mg/kg  for  28-day  patients).  They  were  followed  for  1  year  and 
received a total of 709 infusions. 
Outcomes/Endpoints and Results 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the number of serious bacterial infections, based on the criterion 
for  efficacy  of  ≤1  serious  bacterial  infection/patient/year  for  bacterial  pneumonia,  bacteraemia  or 
sepsis, osteomyelitis/septic arthritis, visceral abscesses and bacterial or meningitis. 
The  estimated  infection  rate  is  0.021  serious  bacterial  infections/PID  patient/year,  with  a  98% 
confidence interval of 0.001-0.112. This rate  satisfies the predefined efficacy criterion of ≤1 serious 
bacterial infection/patient/year for the primary endpoint. There were no other infections documented 
by positive radiograph or fever.  
The secondary efficacy endpoints were: 
-Days off school/work 
Approximately  half  the  patients  missed  at  least  one  day  of  work/school.  There  is  a  large  difference 
between mean and median values of number of days missed due to outlying values of some patients 
(mean 12.95 and median 0.4 [0.0-226.6]).  
-Infectious episodes 
Seventy  two  percent  (72%)  of  patients  had  at  least  1  infectious  episode,  with  a  mean  number  of 
infectious episodes of 2.1, (median: 2.0 with a range 0-8). The median annual infection rate was 1.7 
infections/patient/year (0.00-8.32).  
-Stay in hospital and visits to physician or emergency room 
Four patients had a mean of nearly one day of stay in hospital and 63% paid a mean of 4.4 visits to the 
physician or emergency room. 
-Antibiotic use  
Seventy  six  (76)  %  and  4%  of  patients  received  oral  or  parenteral  antibiotic  use  at  least  1  day, 
respectively.  Twenty  one  patients  (46%)  received  fluoroquinolones,  16  patients  (35%)  received 
combinations  of  penicillins,  including  beta-lactamase  inhibitors  and  13  patients  (28%)  received 
imidazole  and  triazole  derivatives.  “Other”  antibiotics,  including  topical  use,  were  administered  to 
35%  of  the  patients.  The  data  on  use  and  duration  of  oral  antibiotics  (both  prophylactic  and 
therapeutic)  showed  a  large  divergence  between  the  mean  and  the  median  due  to  outlying  values  of 
some  patients  being  treated  for  longer  times.  Approx.  40%  of  the  patients  were  treated  with 
prophylactic oral antibiotics and two-thirds received therapeutic oral antibiotics.  
Page 16 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  general  the  data  for  the  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  collected  from  the  46  PID  patients  in 
Study  IG  201  are  in  keeping  with  data  from  similar  products  and  with  those  reported  in  the  recent 
literature. 
Study IG 202 – Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) 
Study IG202, performed in Spain, UK and Russia, was a prospective, open-label, uncontrolled, multi-
centre trial to determine the clinical efficacy and safety of IVIg Grifols in 20 adult patients with acute 
phase, chronic ITP.  
METHODS 
Study participants and treatments 
The  patients  received  IVIg  treatment  for  5  consecutive  days  at  a  dose  of  0.4  g/kg/day.  The  patients 
received  a  total  of  97  infusions  and  were  followed  for  3  months  after  the  first  infusion.  The  study 
design complies with the current standards requested by the Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1).  
Most patients were adults with a long history of chronic ITP so can be considered representative of the 
target population. The platelet count  was collected on D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, D10, D14, D21, 1m, 3m. 
The  administration  of  booster  doses  or  changes  in  treatment  (including  corticoids  and  platelet 
concentrates) were not allowed in the protocol  
Outcomes/Endpoints and Results 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  response  to  therapy,  defined  as  a  platelet  count  to  >  50  x 
109/l  at  any  time  during  the  study  period.  This  endpoint  is  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  the 
current CPMP Guideline on IVIg (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1).  
The primary endpoint of Study IG 202 (a platelet increase to ≥50 x 109/L within the study period and 
not receiving alternative treatment) was reached in either 12/19 PP patients (63%) or in 14/19 (73%) 
depending  on  the  rigidity  of  methodology.  The  latter  value  is  approximately  in  accordance  with 
response rates in the literature of 75- 79%, the former value would be at the decidedly lower end of 
response rates in the literature.  
The secondary efficacy endpoints were: 
-time to a platelet count of >50x109/l and duration of response.  
The mean platelet count was >50 x 109/l by day 3 and was maintained over 50 x 109/l until Day 14. 
The highest mean platelet count (Day 5) was 129 x 109/L (range from 21.00 x 109/l to 914.00 x 109/l). 
However, due to some unusually high outlying values in particular of patient 0101 (Day 5: 798 x109/l, 
Day 10 914x109/l) the median values which describe the central tendency of the data are considered 
more  robust.  The  median  platelet  count  in  responders  was  raised  to  64  x  109/l  at  Day  5;  this  is  low 
(also  compared  to  other  products)  and  does  not  reach  normal  platelet  levels.  This  platelet  level 
corresponds  more  to  values  obtained  in  modified  IVIg  products.  The  lower  platelet  count  is 
commented on in the SPC, section 5.1.   
The  duration  of  response  (mean  >  14.3  days,  median  >  7  days)  was  estimated  from  the  first 
measurement  that  the  subject  had  a  platelet  count  greater  than  or  equal  to  50,000  /µl  to  the  last 
measurement  that  the  subject  had  still  a  platelet  count  over  that  level.  Performing  new  calculations 
with less stringent criteria, slightly better results were obtained, namely 12.5 days median duration in 
12 responders or 11.5 days in 14 responders. 
This  less  stringent  criteria  is  acceptable  and  has  been  adopted  for  other  products.  In  the  recent 
literature  (Bierling,  P.  &  Godeau,  B.  Intravenous  immunoglobulin  and  ITP:  22 years  on.  Vox 
Sanguinis 86 (1), 8-14. 2004) mean duration of response has been described as lasting 18 days after 
2g/kg of IVIg.  
Page 17 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-regression of haemorrhages during the first 10 or 14 days of observation. 
A total of 18 patients (95% PP and 90% ITT) had a regression of bleedings on Day 10 and 89% and 
85%  (PP  and  ITT  respectively  on  day  14.).  Overall  the  mean  time  to  regression  was  7.4  days,  the 
median being 5 days, that is considered acceptable.  
A comparison with the literature was made. The study most comparable to the current one (by Varga 
(2006))  showed  better  values  especially  for  the  parameters  median  platelet  count  (163  x  109/L)  and 
response duration (25 days). Other studies showed better response rates particularly due to a different 
choice of patient population.  
In this current study the overall response rate and median platelet count remain low. In order to alert 
the treating physician, the SPC, section 5.1, reflects these results.  
According  to  the  current  NfG  (CPMP/BPWG/859/95  rev.1),  indications  for  use  in  Guillain  Barré 
syndrome,  Kawasaki  disease  and  allogeneic  bone  marrow  transplantation  can  be  accepted  without 
specific  clinical  trial  data  provided  that  efficacy  in  patients  with  primary  immunodeficiency 
syndromes and in patients with ITP is established. 
Clinical safety 
In both clinical trials the majority of patients reported AEs, that in nearly all cases were classified as 
mild or moderate. Most of these adverse events are well-known and are covered in section 4.8 of the 
SPC (e.g., pyrexia, headache, hypotension or allergic reactions.) 
Safety Results of PID Study IG 201 
• 
Patients exposure 
IVIg31 GRIFOLS 5% was given by intravenous infusion at a dose of 300- 600 mg/kg. A total of 706 
infusion were administered to 46 patients. 
•  Adverse events 
Forty three (43) patients (94%) experienced 595 AEs. Of the 706 infusions administered, 10% were 
associated with an AE related to Flebogammadif that occurred during the infusion or within 72 hours 
after  infusion  completion.  Thirty-one  patients  (67%)  experienced  107  potentially  related  AEs.  Most 
AEs were mild to moderate in intensity.  
Seven (7) patients (15%) experienced 8 AEs that were severe in intensity. No patient died, 1 patient 
withdrew from the study because of an AE (hyperkeratosis) that was considered not to be related to 
study drug, and 3 patients experienced 6 SAEs that were also considered not related to study drug. 
The most common AEs were sinusitis, pyrexia, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, wheezing 
or asthma aggravated, diarrhoea, pharyngitis, injection site reaction, arthralgia, and nasal congestion. 
Numerous  infections  (i.e  sinusitis  NOS,  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  NOS,  asthma,  combined 
bronchitis,  diarrhoea  NOS,  pharyngitis)  were  reported  as  AEs  with  an  overall  frequency  of  43% 
(20/46).  In  some  other  studies  these  kinds  of  infections  were  more  rigidly  defined  as  a  secondary 
endpoint, however, the frequency rate in the current study seems to be acceptable. The most common 
treatment-related AEs were headache, pyrexia, injection site reaction, diarrhoea, rigors, and urticaria. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
The laboratory measures obtained in this study were within normal ranges for the majority of patients. 
Five  patients  (11%)  experienced  11  clinically  significant  abnormalities  of  AST,  3  patients  (7%) 
experienced  6  clinically  significant  abnormalities  of  ALT,  and  2  patients  each  (4%)  experienced 
2 clinically  significant  LDH  and  serum  creatinine  abnormalities.  No  patients  experienced  clinically 
significant abnormalities of bilirubin. 
Seven patients had positive Coombs’ test results after baseline.  
Page 18 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Results of ITP Study IG 202 
• 
Patients exposure 
Twenty  patients  were  treated  with  Flebogammadif  as  an  intravenous  infusion  at  doses  of  400 
mg/kg/day over 5 days.  
•  Adverse events 
Sixteen  patients  (80%)  experienced  a  total  of  85  AEs,  whereby  39/85  AEs  were  bleeding  adverse 
events related to the patient disease. Six of these bleeding AEs occurred during or after infusions and 
33  bleeding  episodes  were  reported  during  the  follow  up.  No  patient  required  a  platelet  or  red  cell 
transfusion. 
The  most  frequent  AEs  were  petechiae,  headache,  pyrexia  and  epistaxis.  Two  serious  AEs  were 
reported  for  one  patient  (ganglionar  tuberculosis  and  fever)  but  were  not  related  to  the  study  drug. 
There is no obvious temporal relationship with the study medication (approximately 12 weeks after the 
last  infusion  and  the  patient  was  likely  immunocompromised  at  the  time  of  the  infection).    For  one 
patient the 3rd infusion had to be stopped because of high fever. 
Of 21 AEs potentially related to study drug (headache, fever, hypertension, decreased systolic blood 
pressure,  hypotension,  bradycardia,  thrombocythaemia,  blood  pressure  fluctuation  and  weakness)  16 
events were of mild intensity and 5 events were of moderate intensity, only one AEs was classified as 
severe (tuberculosis) and was not related. 
Of the 97 infusions administered, 18% (17 infusions) were associated with at least one AE suspected 
to be related to IVIg3I Grifols. Thirty-two percent of the infusions (31 infusions) were associated with 
at least one AE, 6% with at least one bleeding AE and 29% with at least one non-bleeding AE. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Although  Coomb’s  testing  was  only  included  in  the  lab  panel  performed  at  recruitment  and  not 
performed during the study, there were only some minor deviations for the parameters haemoglobin, 
bilirubin and LDH, and thus no clinically relevant signs for haemolysis. 
No  relevant  abnormalities  for  vital  signs  and  physical  examinations  were  observed  in  both  clinical 
trials. 
With respect to viral safety, viral and prion clearance studies have been satisfactorily validated in line 
with the current guidelines. No seroconversion was observed in clinical studies IG201 and IG202. This 
has  been  properly  described  in  sections  4.4.  and  4.8.  according  to  the  guideline  on  Warning  on 
transmissible  agents 
leaflet  for  plasma-derived  medicinal  products 
(CPMP/BPWG/BWP/561/03). 
in  SPC  and  Package 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The Pharmacovigilance system described mainly fulfils the legislative requirements and provides 
adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any adverse reaction suspected 
of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Page 19 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the risk management plan for Flebogammadif 
Safety concern 
Reactions related to the 
rate of infusion such as 
headache, chills, fever, 
vomiting, allergic 
reactions, nausea, 
arthralgia, low blood 
pressure, moderate low 
back pain and cutaneous 
reaction 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
• 
Infusion rate recommendations 
given under section 4.2 of the 
SPC  
•  Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
• 
SPC informing that  certain 
adverse drug reactions may be 
related to the rate of infusion 
and that the recommended rate 
of infusion must be closely 
followed 
Close monitoring of the 
patients is recommended 
throughout the infusion period 
and in case of adverse reaction, 
either the rate of administration 
must be reduced or the infusion 
stopped. 
Contraindication in cases of 
IgA deficiency, when the 
patient has antibodies against 
IgA (section 4.3 of the SPC) 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
SPC with recommendation to  
first inject the product slowly 
at an initial rate of 0.01 - 
0.02 ml/kg/min; and to 
carefully monitored the 
patients throughout the 
infusion period, at least 
20 minutes after and for the 
first hour after the first infusion  
in patients naive to human 
normal immunoglobulin, 
patients switched from an 
alternative IVIg product or 
when there has been a long 
interval since the previous 
infusion  
In case of shock standard 
medical treatment for shock 
should be implemented , 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
True hypersensitivity 
reactions, anaphylactic or 
anaphylactoid reaction  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Aseptic meningitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Haemolytic 
anaemia/haemolysis 
Thromboembolic events 
such as myocardial 
infarction, stroke, 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Page 20 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pulmonary embolism and 
deep vein thromboses 
Acute renal failure or 
increase in serum 
creatinine 
SPC informing that caution 
should be exercised in 
prescribing and infusing IVIg 
in obese patients and in 
patients with pre-existing risk 
factors for thrombotic events. 
In patients at risk the product 
should be administered at the 
minimum rate of infusion and 
dose practicable 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
• 
Reactions due to fructose 
hereditary intolerance   
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Transmission of infective 
agents such as viruses, 
emerging viruses, other not 
identified infective agents 
or pathogens  
Impairment in the efficacy 
of the live attenuated virus 
vaccines 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Interference with 
serological testing 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
SPC informing about the risk 
factors identified and 
recommending in patients at 
risk, the minimum rate of 
infusion and dose practicable , 
the monitoring of urine output 
and  serum creatinine levels 
and avoidance of concomitant 
use of loop diuretics. In case of 
renal impairment, IVIg 
discontinuation should be 
considered. 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
SPC: In case of fructose 
hereditary intolerance this 
product should not be used 
Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
• 
• 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
SPC recommending that the 
name and batch number of the 
product used are always 
recorded   
Information is included in 
section 4.5 of the SPC 
recommending an interval of 3 
months before vaccination with 
live attenuated virus vaccines 
and that patients receiving 
measles vaccine should have 
their antibody status checked 
Information is included in 
section 4.5 of the SPC. It is 
stated that passively transferred 
antibodies may result in 
misleading positive results in 
serological testing including 
the antiglobulin test (Coomb’s 
test).  
• 
Lack of experience in 
children under 10 year old  
• 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
As it is expected that the product 
is used in paediatric populations 
with congenital AIDS, Kawasaki 
Page 21 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disease or other diseases, the 
periodic safety update reports 
will include data of adverse drug 
reactions reported in this newly 
exposed population. That data 
will be specifically monitored 
and discussed in the PSURs. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information.  
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Based  on  the  submitted  data,  the  marketing  authorisation  application  for  Flebogammadif  is 
recommended for approval based on quality grounds.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  non-clinical  studies  show  that  the  non  clinical  pharmacology  and  toxicology  profile  of 
Flebogammadif does not raise any particular concern. 
The product can be defined as belonging to a well known and characterized biological product family 
and  therefore,  according  to  the  general  principles  outlined  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  ICH  S6  on 
preclinical  safety  evaluation  of  biotechnology-derived  pharmaceuticals,  “biopharmaceuticals  that  are 
structurally  and  pharmacologically  comparable  to  a  product  for  which  there  is  wide  experience  in 
clinical  practice  may  need  less  extensive  toxicity  testing”.  Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  not 
performed  since  administration  of  Flebogammadif  to  animals  can  be  expected  to  initiate  the 
immunological  response,  which  would  interfere  with  the  toxicity  evaluation.  Reproductive, 
developmental, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, or local tolerance studies were not performed due to the 
nature  of  Flebogammadif,  which  is  a  naturally  expressed  human  protein.  Moreover,  at  this  stage  of 
development the preclinical findings are superseded by the clinical data.  
Regarding this aspect,  the SPC, section 5.3, states: "Repeated dose toxicity testing and embryo-foetal 
toxicity studies are impracticable due to induction of, and interference with antibodies. Effects of the 
product on the immune system of the newborn have not been studied." 
Efficacy 
The  correct  patient  population  (primary  immunodeficiency  syndromes  (PID),  and  patients  with 
idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP),)  was  included  in  the  studies.  The  doses  administered  to 
the  PID  patients  were  adequate  to  maintain  protective  IgG  trough  levels.  In  the  PID  population 
relevant,  serious  bacterial  infections  matched  the  predefined  efficacy  criteria  of  ≤1  serious  bacterial 
infection/patient/year. Data on use of antibiotics shows that most patients received antibiotics, mainly 
by oral route. This appears consistent with data from other studies.  
For the ITP population doses as laid down in the core SPC were administered. For approx. 60% of the 
study population platelet levels were raised > 50 x 109/L and were maintained at this level for 14 days.  
In general the values obtained in the ITP study for the number of responders, the platelet levels and 
response duration were slightly below those cited in the recent literature. Nevertheless, the CHMP can 
accept these results on the basis that ITP response to IVIg can vary considerably and that any given 
selection of 20 patients could be at the lower end of the expected range.  
The median platelet count did not reach normal values. This is stated in the SPC, section 5.1. 
Page 22 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The safety profile is in accordance with that expected from non-clinical studies and known class 
effects. The adverse events reported in the clinical trials are described in the section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.   
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefit  
Flebogammadif is a sterile 5% solution, intended for intravenous administration, which has as active 
ingredient  human  normal  immunoglobulin  obtained  from  human  plasma  following  a  fractionation 
process based on the Cohn method. 
infections,  and  children  with  congenital  AIDS  and  recurrent 
The  claimed  indications  are:  a)  Replacement  therapy  in  primary  immunodeficiency  syndromes, 
myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  with  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinaemia  and 
recurrent 
infections;  and  b) 
Immunomodulation in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of 
bleeding or prior to surgery to correct the platelet count, Guillain Barré syndrome, Kawasaki disease 
and c) Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. These indications are listed in the core SPC for IVIg 
(CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1). 
The  quality  part  of  the  dossier  is  well  documented  regarding  the  biological  and  pharmaceutical 
aspects  of  the  product.  Flebogammadif  complies  with  the  Eur.  Ph.  Monograph  “Human  Normal 
Immunoglobulin  for  Intravenous  Administration”.  Stability  studies  support  the  applied  shelf  life  of 
the product.  
With  respect  to  clinical  efficacy,  two  clinical  trials  were  performed,  one  (Study  IG201)  for 
replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  Primary  Immunodeficiency  Disease  (PID)  and  another  (Study 
IG202) for immuomodulation in patients with Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP). According 
to  the  NfG  for  the  clinical  investigation  of  IVIg  (CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.1),  demonstration  of 
efficacy  in  PID  would  apply  to  all  types  of  primary  immunodeficiencies  due  to  deficiency  of 
functional IgG.  
Furthermore, according to the current NfG (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1): 
o 
indications  for  replacement  therapy  in  myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  with  severe 
secondary  hypogammaglobulinaemia  and  recurrent  infections,  and  replacement  therapy  in 
children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections can be accepted without specific clinical 
trial data provided that efficacy in patients with primary immunodeficiency syndromes has been 
established. 
indications  for  use  in  Guillain  Barré  syndrome,  Kawasaki  disease  and  allogeneic  bone  marrow 
transplantation can be accepted without specific clinical trial data provided that efficacy in patients 
with primary immunodeficiency syndromes and in patients with ITP is established. 
o 
In general, the results for the clinical pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety obtained from both clinical 
studies are in line with those reported in the literature and in other studies with similar products. They 
also  fully  comply  with  the  current  standards  requested  by  the  European  Note  for  Guidance  for  the 
clinical investigation of IVIg (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1).  
Risks  
The evaluation of the non-clinical studies shows that the toxicity profile of Flebogammadif does not 
raise  any  particular  concern  and  therefore  is  not  seen  as  an  issue  precluding  a  positive  benefit/risk 
assessment, especially considering that the product can be defined as belonging to a well known and 
characterized biological product family and therefore, according to the general principles outlined in 
the  Note  for  Guidance  ICH  S6  on  preclinical  safety  evaluation  of  biotechnology-derived 
Page 23 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmaceuticals, this product, that is “… structurally and pharmacologically comparable to a product 
for which there is wide experience in clinical practice may need less extensive toxicity testing” 
No  new  clinical  safety  issues  could  be  discerned  from  the  submitted  data;  the  adverse  reactions  to 
IVIgs are well known and have been described as a tabulated overview in in the SPC, section 4.8. 
With respect to viral safety, viral and prion clearance studies have been satisfactorily validated in line 
with the current guidelines. No seroconversion was observed in clinical studies IG201 and IG202. This 
has been properly described in sections 4.4. and 4.8 of the SPC, according to the guideline “Warning 
on  transmissible  agents  in  SPC  and  Package  leaflet  for  plasma-derived  medicinal  products” 
(CPMP/BPWG/BWP/561/03). 
Benfit/Risk balance 
The overall B/R of Flebogammadif is positive.   
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Flebogammadif in the treatment of:  
Replacement Therapy in 
Primary Immunodeficiency Syndromes such as: 
− congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
− common variable immunodeficiency 
− severe combined immunodeficiency 
− Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections. 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections. 
Immunomodulation 
− Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of bleeding or 
prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
− Guillain Barré syndrome 
− Kawasaki disease 
Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorization. 
Page 24 of 24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
