1 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Flixabi 
International non-proprietary name: INFLIXIMAB 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004020/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Flixabi 
Applicant: 
Samsung Bioepis UK Limited (SBUK) 
Regus Building  
3000 Hillswood Drive 
Surrey 
Chertsey 
KT16 0RS 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Active substance: 
INFLIXIMAB 
International Non-proprietary Name: 
INFLIXIMAB 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors 
(ATC Code): 
(L04AB02) 
immunosuppressants, tumor necrosis factor 
Therapeutic indications: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Flixabi, in combination with methotrexate, is 
indicated for the reduction of signs and 
symptoms as well as the improvement in physical 
function in: 
 
adult patients with active disease when the 
response to disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), including 
methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
adult patients with severe, active and 
progressive disease not previously treated 
with methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the 
rate of the progression of joint damage, as 
measured by X-ray, has been demonstrated (see 
section 5.1). 
 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for: 
 
treatment of moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have 
not responded despite a full and adequate 
course of therapy with a corticosteroid 
and/or an immunosuppressant; or who are 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 2/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s 
disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate 
course of therapy with conventional 
treatment (including antibiotics, drainage 
and immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severe, active 
Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 
6 to 17 years, who have not responded to 
conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, 
an immunomodulator and primary nutrition 
therapy; or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. Infliximab 
has been studied only in combination with 
conventional immunosuppressive therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderately to 
severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy including corticosteroids 
and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine 
(AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severely 
active ulcerative colitis in children and 
adolescents aged 6 to 17 years, who have had an 
inadequate response to conventional therapy 
including corticosteroids and 6-MP or AZA, or who 
are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Flixabiis indicated for treatment of severe, active 
ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of active and 
progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients 
when the response to previous DMARD therapy 
has been inadequate. 
Flixabi should be administered 
-  in combination with methotrexate 
-  or alone in patients who show intolerance 
to methotrexate or for whom 
methotrexate is contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical 
function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 3/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease 
(see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderate to 
severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who 
failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other 
systemic therapy including cyclosporine, 
methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) 
(see section 5.1). 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Strength: 
100 mg 
Route of administration: 
Intravenous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size: 
1 vial 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 4/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 9 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 9 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ...................................................... 10 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 11 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 11 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 13 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 13 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 13 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 16 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 20 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 21 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 21 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 21 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 21 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 22 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 24 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 28 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 28 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 28 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 29 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 30 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 30 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 31 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 39 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 39 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 40 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 40 
2.5.1. Dose response studies ..................................................................................... 40 
2.5.2. Main study ..................................................................................................... 40 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 58 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 60 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 60 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 66 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 67 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 68 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 78 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 78 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 78 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 5/86 
  
  
 
2.9.2. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 78 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 79 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 82 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 6/86 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70  
ACR-N  
ADA  
ADCC  
ADR  
AE  
AESI  
ALP  
ALT  
ANCOVA  
ANOVA  
AS  
AST  
ATC  
AUC  
AUCinf  
AUClast  
AZA  
BLQ 
BMI  
BPD  
BSE  
C1q  
CCP  
CD  
CDC  
CI  
CIPC  
CIPT  
CL  
CLB  
Cmax  
CQA  
CRP  
CSR 
Ctrough  
CV  
DAS28  
DHFR  
DMARD  
DoE  
ELISA  
ET  
EULAR 
Fab  
FACS 
FAS  
FRET  
HCP  
HM  
IBD  
IPC  
American College of Rheumatology 20% Response Criteria 
American College of Rheumatology 50% Response Criteria 
American College of Rheumatology 70% Response Criteria 
Numeric Index of the ACR Response 
Anti-drug Antibody 
Antibody-dependent Cell-mediated Cytotoxicity 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Adverse Event 
Adverse Events of Special Interest 
Aspartate Aminotransferase 
Alanine Aminotransferase 
Analysis of Covariance 
Analysis of Variance 
Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Aspartate Aminotransferase 
Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical 
Area Under the Concentration-time Curve 
Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from Time Zero to Infinity 
Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from Time Zero to the Last Quantifiable 
Concentration 
Azathioprine 
 Below the Lower Limit of Quantitation 
Body Mass Index 
Biological Product Development 
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Complement Component 1, q Subcomponent, A Chain 
Critical Controlled Parameter 
Crohn’s Disease 
Complement-dependent Cytotoxicity 
Confidence Interval 
Critical In-process Controls 
Critical In-process Tests 
Clearance 
Competitive Ligand Binding 
Maximum Observed Concentration at Tmax 
Critical Quality Attribute 
C-reactive Protein 
Clinical Study Report 
Serum Concentration Immediately prior to Next Infusion 
Coefficient of Variation 
Disease Activity Score Based On A 28 Joint Count 
Dihydrofolate Reductase 
Disease-modifying Antirheumatic Drug 
Design of Experiments 
Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay 
Early Termination 
European League Against Rheumatism 
Fragment Antigen-Binding 
Fluorescence-activated Cell Sorting 
Full Analysis Set 
Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer 
Host Cell Protein 
High Mannose 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
In-process Control 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 7/86 
  
  
IPS  
IPT  
ITT  
KCP 
Kel  
LMW  
mAb  
MoA  
MSD  
mTSS  
Nab  
NF-κB  
NK  
N-KCP  
PBMC  
PD  
PK  
PPD  
PPS  
PsA  
PVR  
RA  
RSD  
SAE  
SD  
sTNF-α  
t½  
TB  
Tg  
Tmax  
tmTNF-α  
TNFR  
TNF-α  
UC  
In-process Specifications 
In-process Test 
Intention-to-Treat 
Key Controlled Parameter 
Terminal Rate Constant 
Low Molecular Weight 
Monoclonal Antibody 
Mechanism of Action 
Meso Scale Discovery 
Modified Total Sharp Score 
Neutralising Antibody 
Nuclear Factor Kappa-light-chain-enhancer of Activated B Cells 
Natural Killer 
Non-key Controlled Parameter 
Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell 
Pharmacodynamic 
Pharmacokinetic 
Pharmaceutical Product Development 
Per-Protocol Set 
Psoriatic Arthritis 
Process Validation Run 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Relative Standard Deviation 
Serious Adverse Event SOC 
Sprague Dawley 
Soluble Tumour Necrosis Factor Alpha 
Elimination Half Life 
Tuberculosis 
Transgenic 
Time to Reach Maximum (Peak) Plasma Concentration (Cmax) 
Transmembrane Tumour Necrosis Factor Alpha 
Tumour Necrosis Factor Receptor 
Tumour Necrosis Factor Alpha 
Ulcerative Colitis 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 8/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Samsung Bioepis UK Limited (SBUK) submitted on 3 March 2015 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Flixabi through the centralised procedure falling 
within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 22 May 2014.  
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Flixabi in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as well as the 
improvement in physical function in: 
 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), 
including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with methotrexate or 
other DMARDs. 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by X-ray, 
has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for: 
 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant; or who 
are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded despite a full 
and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, drainage and 
immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 
years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, an immunomodulator and 
primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies. Infliximab has 
been studied only in combination with conventional immunosuppressive therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who have 
had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or 
azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 
years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-MP or AZA, 
or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have responded 
inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response 
to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Flixabi should be administered 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 9/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  in combination with methotrexate 
-  or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate 
of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical 
subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to respond 
to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including cyclosporine, 
methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications for a biosimilar medicinal products. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, appropriate 
non-clinical and clinical data for a similar biological medicinal product. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 30 March 2012, 19 July 2012 and 16 December 2012. 
The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
Flixabi has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Republic of Korea on 4 December 2015. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Co-Rapporteur:  Jens Heisterberg 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 3 March 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 25 March 2015.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 10/86 
  
  
 
 
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 June 2015. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 June 2015. PRAC 
Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 22 June 2015. 
• 
During the meeting on 6-9 July 2015, the PRAC adopted the PRAC assessment Overview and Advice.  
•  During the meeting on 23 July 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 July 2015. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 14 October 2015. 
• 
The following GCP inspections were requested by the CHMP and their outcome taken into consideration as 
part of the Quality/Safety/Efficacy assessment of the product: 
-  A GCP inspection at two clinical investigational sites in Bosnia and Herzegovina and one sponsor site 
in  Korea  between  21-24  July  2015,  27-30  July  2015  and  31  August-4  September  2015, 
respectively.  The report of the inspection carried out was issued on 8 October 2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report /PRAC Rapporteur assessment report on the 
applicant’s responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 24 November 2015.  
•  During the meeting on 30 November-3 December 2015, the PRAC adopted the PRAC assessment Overview 
and Advice.  
•  During the CHMP meeting on 17 December 2015, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 4 February 2016.  
•  During the CHMP meeting on 24 February 2016, outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during 
an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 25 February 2016, the CHMP agreed on a second list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 2 March 2016. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 16 March 2016.  
•  During the meeting on 29 March - 1 April 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation 
to Flixabi.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 11/86 
  
  
This centralised marketing authorisation application concerns the Biotech medicinal product Flixabi 100 mg 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The reference medicinal product is Remicade, 100 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, which 
was first authorised in the community on 13th August 1999. The active substance is the tumour necrosis 
factor-α (TNF-α) inhibitor infliximab. 
About the product 
Flixabi is a medicinal product containing infliximab, a chimeric human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal 
antibody that binds with high affinity to human tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). Flixabi is produced by 
recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. 
Flixabi is presented as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg of infliximab as active 
substance. 
Mechanism of Action 
TNFα is a multipotent cytokine that occurs in monomeric and trimeric soluble and transmembrane forms.  It is 
mainly produced by macrophages, as well as by a broad variety of other cell types including lymphoid cells, mast 
cells, endothelial cells, cardiac myocytes, adipose tissue, fibroblasts and neural tissue.  TNFα exhibits a wide 
spectrum of activity, including coordinating host immune and inflammatory response to infectious, malignant 
and autoimmune conditions.  Indeed, large amounts of TNFα have been shown to be released in response to 
liposaccharide,  other  bacterial  components,  and  interleukin-1  (IL-1).    Whereas  initial  TNFα  expression  in 
response to infection or injury is beneficial, sustained or excessive expression has been identified in several 
chronic  inflammatory  autoimmune  disorders  such  as  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA),  ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS), 
psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis (PsA), Crohn’s disease (CD), and ulcerative colitis (UC). 
TNFα causes its biological effects by binding to the TNF receptor, of which two types have been identified: a 55 
kDa protein (p55, TNF-R1) and a 75 kDa protein (p75, TNF-R2).  TNF-R1 is expressed in most tissues and can 
be fully activated by both the membrane-bound and soluble trimeric forms of TNF, whereas TNF-R2 is found only 
in cells of the immune system. 
Infliximab, is a chimeric human-murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both soluble and 
transmembrane  forms  of  TNFα.    Infliximab  prevents  TNFα  receptor  activation  by  binding  to  TNFα,  thereby 
neutralizing the biological activity of TNFα. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This Marketing Authorisation Application is an abridged application for a similar biological medicinal product 
under Article 10 (4) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended by Directive 2004/27/EC. 
The clinical development programme of SB2 has specifically considered the EU guidelines for similar biological 
medicinal products and also indication-specific guidelines (see list below).  
1.  “Guideline on similar biological medicinal products” (CHMP/437/04 , CHMP/437/04 Rev 1) [including 
interim draft version];  
2. 
 “Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active 
substance – quality issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BWP/49348/2005);  
3.  “Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal antibodies - non-clinical and 
clinical issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 , EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev. 1);  
4.  “Guideline on the clinical investigation of the pharmacokinetics of therapeutic proteins” 
(CHMP/EWP/89249/2004);  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 12/86 
  
  
 
 
5.  “Guideline on immunogenicity assessment of biotechnology-derived therapeutic proteins” 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/14327/2006).  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Flixabi has been developed as a biosimilar medicinal product to the reference product Remicade (infliximab). 
The finished product is presented as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg of 
infliximab as active substance. 
Other ingredients are: sucrose, polysorbate 80, monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate, dibasic sodium 
phosphate heptahydrate as described in Section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The product is available in Type 1 glass vial with a rubber stopper and aluminium crimp protected by a plastic 
cap, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. Each vial contains 100 mg of infliximab and after reconstitution 
each ml contains 10 mg of infliximab. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
Flixabi (infliximab) is a chimeric human/mouse monoclonal IgG1 antibody, consisting of four polypeptide chains, 
connected by disulphide bonds and with one N-linked glycosylation site located at asparagine (Asn) 300 on each 
heavy chain. There are no O-linked glycosylation sites.  
Structural characterization was performed to confirm the primary structure of infliximab with respect to its 
amino acid sequence and post-translational modification by a combination of different analysis including: 
molecular weight determination, amino acid sequencing, peptide mapping, N-glycan profile elucidation. 
Infliximab neutralises the biological activities of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) by binding with high 
affinity to the soluble and transmembrane forms of TNF-α, which are located on the outer membranes of T cells 
and similar immune cells. This inhibits or prevents effective binding of TNF-α with its receptors. In addition, 
infliximab has the capability of lysing cells involved in the inflammatory process. In detail, the antigen-binding 
fragment (Fab) domain of infliximab specifically binds to TNF-α. Direct binding of the Fab domain to cells results 
in signal cascades inducing apoptosis. Binding of the crystallisable fragment (Fc) domain to the complement 
component C1q complex and Fc receptors leads to cell lysis by complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and 
antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC).  Therefore investigation of potential differences across 
the relevant structural elements of infliximab will be important in the determination of biosimilarity. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 13/86 
  
  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Flixabi active substance (AS) is manufactured, packaged, stability and quality-control tested in accordance with 
good manufacturing practice (GMP). 
Description of the manufacturing process and process controls 
Flixabi AS manufacturing process has been adequately described and is considered acceptable. The host cell line 
used in Flixabi manufacturing is the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line instead of SP2/0 cells, which are used 
by the reference product. This is acceptable because the CHO cell line is widely used for the manufacture of 
biotherapeutics. Overall the manufacturing process represents a standard process for the manufacture of 
monoclonal antibodies consisting of inoculation, cell culture expansion, production in bioreactor, harvest of the 
cell culture fluid (CCF), purification and dispensing. 
The upstream process is described in sufficient detail. Performance Parameters (In-process Controls or 
In-process Tests) as provided in the documentation are considered acceptable. For the control of the Flixabi AS 
manufacturing process, the process controls are divided into controlled parameters (process inputs) and 
performance parameters (process outputs). For the outputs, in-process controls and in-process tests have been 
defined. In the narrative process description detailed information about the input parameters are provided.  
The downstream purification process is described in sufficient detail. Performance Parameters (In-process 
Controls or In-process Tests) and control (or input) parameters as provided in the documentation are 
considered acceptable.  
The container closure system has been adequately described. Extractable studies were performed to 
demonstrate compatibility of Flixabi AS with the container closure system.  
Control of Materials 
Sufficient information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been submitted. 
Lists of compendial and non-compendial raw and starting materials are provided. For all these materials, identity 
tests are performed and certificates of analysis (CoA) from the suppliers are verified in the context of 
monograph or supplier specifications.  The expression system is described in sufficient detail presenting the full 
coverage amino acid and DNA sequences. A two tiered cell banking system is used and sufficient information is 
provided regarding testing of MCB and WCB and release of future WCB. Cell bank testing was performed 
according to ICH Q5A(R1), ICH Q5B and ICH Q5D. When the generation of a new WCB is required, the 
replacement WCB is manufactured under good manufacturing practice according to the same process as for the 
original WCB. The limit of in-vitro cell age of the Flixabi cell substrate was determined based on the data from the 
genetic and phenotypic stability tests The data further confirmed that the defined Quality Attributes (QA) were 
met in the AS produced from the cells at the proposed end of production. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The design and control of the AS manufacturing process follows a combined traditional and enhanced 
development approach. Acceptable information has been provided on the control strategy which was considered 
acceptable. The controlled parameters (process inputs) and performance parameters (process outputs) applied 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 14/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
are listed together with their associated action limits and, where applicable, the in-process specifications. Risk 
assessments have been carried out throughout the product development life cycle in order to ensure 
manufacturing consistency and hence clinical performance. The methodology employed for product risk 
assessment and determination of Flixabi CQAs was a modified risk ranking and filtering, in which the potential 
impact on potency, efficacy, and/or safety of the product, and certainty were factored into determining the 
degrees of risk. The data indicate that the chosen operating ranges guarantee the quality target product profile 
of Flixabi. 
Process validation 
Process consistency validation of Flixabi AS manufacturing process encompassing the full scale commercial 
batches has been successfully completed. All KCPs, CCPs, IPCs, and CIPTs were maintained within the action 
limits. There were no manufacturing deviations or major protocol exceptions, however minor exceptions were 
observed.  These minor exceptions do not impact the overall conclusion of the studies. In addition, in-process 
measurements were also collected during the process consistency validation studies to assess process 
performance and procedural consistency. The results were consistent among batches. Overall batches fulfilled 
the validation acceptance criteria demonstrating that the final manufacturing process was performed 
consistently and effectively for commercial manufacturing of Flixabi AS. Impurity clearance was validated both 
by using direct measurements of process impurities in the manufacturing-scale intermediates for the PVR 
batches, and supported by using laboratory scale-down models. The clearance studies demonstrate that the 
manufacturing process consistently and effectively clears the following impurities including host cell DNA, host 
cell protein (HCP), etc to below detectable levels or otherwise acceptable levels . 
Manufacturing process development 
Flixabi AS manufacturing process has undergone some optimisation during development. The changes 
introduced are adequately described. Although only minor impact on the quality attributes was anticipated, the 
Applicant completed comprehensive comparability exercises. The results submitted provide convincing evidence 
for comparability between the pilot and the clinical, as well as the clinical and the PVR material. 
Characterisation 
Flixabi has been developed as a similar biological medicinal product to Remicade. The characterisation of Flixabi 
included a comprehensive battery of physicochemical and biological tests using sensitive and orthogonal 
state-of-the-art qualified analytical methods in order to elucidate the primary, secondary, and higher-order 
structure, post-translational modifications, glycosylation, charge variants, purity/impurities, and quantity and 
biological properties. 
As for the process related impurities (including HCP and host cell DNA), clearance validation studies have been 
performed to demonstrate that the Flixabi manufacturing process provides adequate clearance of such 
impurities.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 15/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
Specifications were set for quantity, identity, biological activity, purity and impurities, and safety taking the 
principles of the ICH Q6B guideline into account. Other general tests (appearance, pH, osmolality) are also 
included in the specification. 
Although the CHMP considers the specification adequate to control AS/FP recommendations are made to revisit 
the ranges based on additional manufacturing experience. 
Analytical methods 
Analytical validation has been conducted in accordance with guideline ICH Q2(R1). The validation reports are 
provided. The overall summary shows that the analytical methods are considered appropriately validated.  
Batch analysis 
The batch results of Flixabi AS batches manufactured at the proposed commercial scale in the GMP 
manufacturing facility of Biogen, Hillerød, Denmark and small scale pilot batches of Flixabi AS indicate that the 
manufacturing process is robust. All acceptance criteria were met. 
Reference materials 
The primary reference standard (PRS) was prepared from Flixabi AS batch. Qualification of PRS was performed 
against the interim reference standard (IRS) and involved QC tests as well as characterisation tests on the 
primary structure, quantity, identity, purity, biological activity, purity and impurities primary structure, 
carbohydrate and process-related impurities. A working reference standard (WRS) will be prepared for QC and 
stability testing of commercial batches, for physicochemical and/or biological assays, as well as for use in the 
transfer/validation of analytical methods. It will be qualified against the PRS according to an approved protocol. 
Stability 
The Applicant restricted the shelf-life for Flixabi AS based on the long-term stability results from batches. The 
results from all these studies demonstrate that there are no significant changes in the quality of Flixabi active 
substance under the long-term, intermediate and accelerated storage conditions. The parameters tested for 
stability / shelf life are the same as for release. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, 
should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Flixabi is developed as biosimilar product to Remicade. The formulation was chosen in order to maintain the 
quality of Flixabi AS (infliximab), as well as the similarity of Flixabi finished product (FP) with the reference 
product. The only difference in the excipients used is the hydration form of dibasic sodium phosphate, which is 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 16/86 
  
  
 
 
                                                
not expected to impact product quality.  
Flixabi FP is a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, which does not contain preservatives. 
The product is available in Type 1 glass vial with a rubber stopper and aluminium crimp protected by a plastic 
cap, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. Each vial contains 100 mg of infliximab and after reconstitution 
each ml contains 10 mg of infliximab. 
The excipients used in the manufacture of Flixabi FP are of compendial quality and controlled in compliance with 
the tests and acceptance criteria of compendial monographs.  
The suitability of the formulation has been assessed by in-use stability studies as well as in formulation 
robustness studies. Therefore, no dedicated compatibility studies have been conducted.  
The manufacturing process for the proposed commercial formulation was developed and optimized based on the 
experience from pilot, clinical and proposed commercial scales. The comparability between the clinical batches 
and the process validation run batches has been provided.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturing and Packaging, QC release testing (sterility), and stability testing take place at Patheon Italia 
S.p.A. The Flixabi FP manufacturing process involves thawing of the AS, pooling, homogenisation, lyophilisation, 
sterile filtration, aseptic filling, capping and visual inspection. A narrative description of the manufacturing 
process is provided including conditions applied and ranges for manufacturing parameters of the respective 
process steps. Process validation of Flixabi FP manufacturing process has been completed through successful 
manufacturing of PVR batches. The process validation results demonstrate that the manufacturing process 
consistently provides product that meets its pre-defined acceptance criteria and product quality attributes. No 
deviations occurred that would have impacted the validation status of the manufacturing process.  
The primary packaging material for Flixabi FP consists of a sterilised and de-pyrogenated Type I glass vial, 
stoppered with a sterilised bromobutyl rubber stopper and sealed with an aluminium crimping cap. The glass vial 
is Ph. Eur. grade Type I borosoilicate. The bromobutyl rubber is in accordance with Ph. Eur. Extractables and 
leachable studies were performed to demonstrate compatibility of Flixabi FP with the container closure system.  
Product specification 
Specifications are set for quantity, identity, biological activity, purity and impurities, and safety taking the 
principles of the ICH Q6B guideline into account. in accordance with ICH Q6B.  Other general tests (appearance, 
pH, osmolality) are also included in the specification. 
Although the CHMP considers the specification adequate to control AS/FP recommendations are made to revisit 
the ranges based on additional manufacturing experience. 
Analytical methods 
Analytical methods specific for the FP are briefly described. For compendial methods the applicant refers to the 
corresponding Ph. Eur. monographs. The suitability of compendial methods was verified for their use. This is 
considered sufficient.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 17/86 
  
  
 
 
 
Batch analysis 
All results from clinical to PVR batches are within the proposed commercial specification. 
Reference materials 
The Reference Standards used in the release and stability testing of Flixabi FP are the same as those used for the 
release and stability testing of Flixabi AS. 
Stability of the product 
The proposed 24 months shelf-life of Flixabi FP based on the 24 months long-term stability data of the three 
clinical batches is acceptable. 
In use stability studies indicate that the Flixabi is stable during reconstitution and storage at 5ºC and 25ºC for 
24 h. Supply chain simulation supports allowances for time out of refrigeration, as required for manufacturing, 
handling, inspection, labelling, packaging activities, distribution, and non-routine excursions. Photostability 
studies indicate that no impact on Flixabi FP is expected if Flixabi FP is exposed to ambient light during the 
manufacturing, labelling, packaging and distribution process. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, 
should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA.  
Adventitious agents 
The CHO cells used for production have been screened sufficiently for adventitious gents. The tests performed 
failed to demonstrate the presence of any viral contaminant in the MCB with the exception of retroviral particles 
which are well known to be present. However, this is acceptable and in line with ICH Q5A since the virus 
reduction capacity for this type of viral particles has been demonstrated to exceed widely the particle load in cell 
culture fluid which is required to produce a dose for treatment.  
The virus reduction capacity of the down-stream purification process has been adequately investigated using 
appropriate model viruses. The process includes several steps for inactivation/removal of enveloped and 
non-enveloped viruses. Robust inactivation/removal of enveloped viruses has been indicated. 
Compliance with the TSE Guideline (EMEA/410/01 – rev. 3) has been sufficiently demonstrated. The 
fermentation process is in a serum-free medium. No other animal-derived risk materials are used. 
Biosimilarity 
The biosimilarity of Flixabi clinical and PVR batches to Remicade from the European Union (EU), United States of 
America (US) and Korea (KR) markets was assessed using a range of state-of-the-art orthogonal analytical 
tests. Prior to side-by-side characterisation studies, characterisation was performed on batches representative 
of EU Remicade. The analytical data from the characterisation studies of EU Remicade was used to establish the 
similarity ranges. The similarity ranges were used for the determination of similarity between Flixabi and 
Remicade for the critical quality attributes (CQAs). For the non-CQAs, analytical data between Flixabi and 
Remicade were compared in a side-by-side manner. The similarity ranges for the CQAs were established upon 
statistical analysis of up to multiple batches of EU Remicade. The statistical analysis was based on the tolerance 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 18/86 
  
  
                                                
interval . As the use of tolerance interval-based similarity range in certain cases may result in broad biosimilarity 
ranges allowing differences between Flixabi and Remicade, upon request the applicant additionally reassessed 
all quality attributes using a Min/Max approach (see below). Overall the data indicate that Flixabi can be 
considered similar to EU Remicade in terms of MW, AA sequence, N-terminal sequence, C-terminal sequence 
after digestion with Lys-C, peptide map, disulphide bond pattern, free thiol group content, methionine oxidation, 
and Asn deamidation. Analysis of C-terminal sequence was performed because heterogeneity is common for 
C-terminal lysine in IgG. The relative content of C-terminus with Lys for Flixabi was much lower than that of EU 
Remicade. The difference in relative contents of C-terminal Lys was explained by the use of CHO cells as host 
cells instead of SP2/0 cells, which are used for the reference product. It is agreed that the heterogeneity of 
C-terminal residues is a characteristic of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and that C-terminal Lys 
variation does not impact PK profiles. Literature is available indicating that there is no relationship between the 
presence of C-terminal Lys and the biological activity of the Fc part of the molecule. TNF-α binding results 
showed that C-terminal Lys of the heavy chain did not impact TNF-α binding activity. Finally the C-terminal Lys 
is cleaved by the carboxypeptidase enzyme as it enters the blood stream. It is therefore concluded that although 
differences exist between Flixabi and EU Remicade this has no clinical impact.  
With respect to biophysical properties determined by far and near-UV circular dichroism (CD), intrinsic and 
extrinsic fluorescence, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry 
(HDX/MS), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), size exclusion chromatography coupled to multi angle laser 
light scattering (SEC/MALLS), sedimentation velocity-analytical ultracentrifugation (SV-AUC), dynamic light 
scattering (DLS), extinction coefficient, and micro-flow imaging (MFI) Flixabi was considered similar to EU 
Remicade. Sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation (SV-AUC) was used as an orthogonal method to 
SEC/MALLS to investigate the monomer content, the presence of aggregates and fragments, and the MW of the 
main molecular species in a protein solution.  
N-glycan profiles of Flixabi and EU Remicade are categorised into several groups according to structural 
compositions. %Afucose level of Flixabi was slightly higher than that of the upper limit of the similarity range. 
However, in the subsequent assessment via Min/Max approach, the results for %Afucose glycans were found 
between the Min/Max of EU Remicade (see below). %Charged glycan level in Flixabi was lower than that in EU 
Remicade. Justification was provided supporting that the difference in %Charged level between Flixabi and EU 
Remicade is not considered to have any impact in relation to safety/efficacy or immunogenicity. The other 
N-glycan species where within the similarity range. 
Similarity between Flixabi and EU Remicade has been demonstrated regarding the FcγRIa, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIIb 
and FcRn binding activity. FcγRIIb and FcγRIIIa binding is slightly higher in Flixabi compared to Remicade and 
the Min/Max value. The slightly higher FcγRIIb and FcγRIIIa binding did, however, not translate into any 
difference in the relevant biological activity and is therefore concluded to be without impact on safety/efficacy. 
The ADCC assay was performed using a stable mouse cell line that overexpresses human membrane TNF-α on 
the cell surface as target cells, and a human natural killer cell line expressing CD16 as effector cells. This assay 
system is considered sensitive in order to detect potential differences between Flixabi and EU Remicade. ADCC 
activity of Flixabi was within the similarity range and the Min/Max. Additional biological assays were performed 
to further justify the observed binding difference of FcγRIIIa using various conditions, and to evaluate the in 
vitro inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) model in order to support extrapolation of indication. These additional 
biological assays include: TNF-β binding, transmembrane TNF-α binding, ADCC using peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMC), FcγRIIIa binding assay (158 F/F type), FcγRIIIa binding using NK cells from PBMC, 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 19/86 
  
  
FcγRIIIb binding using neutrophils, evaluation of regulatory macrophage function, cytokine release activity, and 
inhibitory activity of apoptosis in vitro IBD model. Results of the Transmembrane TNF-α Binding Assay showed 
no statistically significant difference in transmembrane TNF-α binding activity between Flixabi and EU Remicade. 
The additional assays performed under more physiological conditions were conducted in order to demonstrate 
that the differences observed in glycosylation pattern, FcγR binding and ADCC activity using engineered cell line 
as effector cells are not relevant for the clinical outcome. The data indeed indicate that under these conditions 
the differences are diminished.  
As mentioned above, all quality attributes were additionally assessed using a Min/Max approach. The 
assessment results for only 6 quality attributes were different compared to the results from the tolerant 
interval-based similarity range. The results for %Afucose glycans and FcRn binding were found between the 
Min/Max of EU Remicade, and thus additional discussion was not required. Four attributes (%HM and %Charged 
glycans, C1q binding, and %IgG in CE-SDS (Non-reducing)) were outside the Min/Max of EU Remicade. 
Additional justifications were presented for these attributes supporting that although outside the Min/Max level 
of EU Remicade, these quality attributes will not have negative impact neither on the safety/efficacy nor on the 
immunogenicity. 
Although the relative percentage of HMW is low (< 1.0%) in both SB2 and EU Remicade, the %HMW level of SB2 
was out of the established similarity range. The applicant provided data from other approved biosimilars in order 
to provide assurance that the difference observed in the HMW analysed by SEC is considered unlikely to have an 
impact on immunogenicity.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and this leads to the conclusion that the product will have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
Although the CHMP considers the specification adequate to control AS/FP recommendations are made for 
submission of further batch data to revisit the ranges based on additional manufacturing experience. 
With regard to the biosimilarity on quality grounds of Flixabi vs. Remicade, comprehensive and state-of-the-art 
characterisation has taken place covering all relevant structural, physicochemical and biological features of 
infliximab. Minor differences were observed in glycosylation pattern (%Afucose, %High Mannose, %charged 
variants). This is not unexpected given that different cell lines are used for Remicade and Flixabi. For %HMW 
level and binding to various Fcγ Receptors and subsequent biological function such as ADCC minor differences 
were observed as well. The Applicant has carried out a thorough investigation to support that these changes do 
not have any clinical relevant impact, primarily with Fc-effector function assays including: TNF-β binding, 
transmembrane TNF-α binding, ADCC using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), FcγRIIIa binding assay 
(158 F/F type), FcγRIIIa binding using NK cells from PBMC, FcγRIIIb binding using neutrophils, evaluation of 
regulatory macrophage function, cytokine release activity, and inhibitory activity of apoptosis in vitro IBD 
model. In light of a higher incidence of anti-drug antibody (ADA) in Flixabi compared to Remicade, a major 
objection was raised to request the applicant to provide further reassurance that the observed minor differences 
in quality attributes did not affect clinical safety and efficacy, as well as to provide data from additional batches 
of Flixabi. In addition, as the use of tolerance interval-based similarity range might result in broad biosimilarity 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 20/86 
  
  
ranges allowing certain differences between Flixabi and Remicade, the applicant was requested to additionally 
reassess all quality attributes using a Min/Max approach. 
The impact of the differences on the immunogenicity of Flixabi was discussed in depth by the applicant. A 
comprehensive reassessment of quality attributes with a similarity range and by the Min/Max approach, in the 
context of higher ADA incidence in Flixabi, was presented. From the results of the assessment, it was concluded 
that the differences in quality attributes discussed above (including differences observed in %Afucose level of 
Flixabi, FcγRIIb Binding, FcγRIIIa Binding, and %Charged glycan), are unlikely to induce higher ADA incidence 
in Flixabi treatment group. In addition, results from HMW analysis on other infliximab biosimilars and correlation 
with ADA incidence collected from literature showed that there is no evidence to support the association 
between the slight difference in HMW level and a higher ADA incidence in Flixabi. Results from an antibody array, 
performed to determine the combined effect of multiple quality attributes on the structural changes, showed 
that there were no differences in epitopes or antibody recognition sites between Flixabi and Remicade. Lastly, 
results from extractables and leachables studies showed that the impurities detected were not considered to be 
associated with immunogenicity.  
Overall the data presented support biosimilarity on quality grounds. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Overall the current dataset is sufficient to conclude that Flixabi can be considered biosimilar to EU Remicade at 
the quality level. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP 
recommended points for investigation (see specification sections). 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical programme for Flixabi (also referred to as SB2 throughout this Report), included a series of in 
vitro studies and an in vivo efficacy study to demonstrate pharmacodynamic (PD) similarity between Flixabi and 
Remicade. Single and repeat dose pharmacokinetic (PK) studies in Sprague Dawley (SD) rats and the Tg197 
mouse model of arthritis, and the evaluation of potential anti-drug antibody (ADA) formation were also 
performed to demonstrate PK and immunogenic similarities between Flixabi and Remicade. 
All the non-clinical studies submitted in support of the similarity between SB2 and Remicade were conducted 
under non-GLP conditions. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 21/86 
  
  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In vitro pharmacodynamics 
The in vitro studies submitted to demonstrate similarity between Flixabi and Remicade are detailed in Table 1.  
Table 1. Summary of the Flixabi in vitro pharmacodynamic studies  
Type of Study 
Results 
TNF-α binding assay 
TNF-α (soluble) binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
TNF-β binding assay 
SB2 and Remicade® showed a significant lack of TNF-β (LTα3) binding 
activity. 
tmTNF-α binding assay 
tmTNF-α binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
Fab-related 
biological 
activities 
TNF-α neutralisation assay 
Inhibitory activity of SB2 on the signal pathway was similar to that of 
Remicade®. 
Apoptosis assay 
Apoptosis activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
Inhibitory activity on apoptosis in 
an in vitro IBD model 
Inhibitory activity of SB2 on apoptosis was similar to that of Remicade®, 
which may support the extrapolation of indications to inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD). 
Cytokine release activity in an in 
vitro IBD model 
Cytokine IL-8 release suppression activity of SB2 was similar to that of 
Remicade®, which may support the extrapolation of indications to IBD. 
FcγRIa binding assay 
FcγRIa binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
FcγRIIa binding assay 
FcγRIIa binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
Fc-related 
biological 
activities 
FcγRIIIa binding assay 
(V/V type) 
FcγRIIIa binding assay 
(F/F type) 
FcγRIIIa binding assay using NK 
cells from PBMCs 
FcγRIIb binding assay 
FcγRIIIa binding activity of SB2 was slightly higher than that of 
Remicade®, but not biologically significant as these differences did not 
affect ADCC activity. ADCC activity of SB2 was within the similarity 
range. 
FcγRIIIa (F158 allotype) binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of 
Remicade®. 
Binding activity of SB2 to FcγRIIIa on natural killer (NK) cells of 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was similar to that of 
Remicade®. 
FcγRIIb binding activity of SB2 was slightly higher than that of 
Remicade®, but not significant as these differences were within assay 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 22/86 
  
  
 
 
Type of Study 
FcγRIIIb binding assay 
Results 
variability and did not affect ADCC activity. ADCC activity of SB2 was 
within the similarity range. 
FcγRIIIb binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
FcγRIIIb binding assay using 
neutrophils 
FcγRIIIb binding activity of SB2 using neutrophils was similar to that of 
Remicade®. 
ADCC assay using engineered NK 
cell line 
ADCC assay 
using healthy donor PBMCs 
C1q binding assay 
CDC assay 
FcRn binding assay 
Evaluation of regulatory 
macrophage induction function 
ADCC activity (effector cell: engineered NK cell line) of SB2 was similar 
to that of Remicade®. 
ADCC activity (effector cell: healthy donor PBMCs) of SB2 was similar to 
that of Remicade®, which may support similarity in more representative 
condition of in vivo situation. 
C1q binding activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
CDC activity of SB2 was similar to that of Remicade®. 
FcRn binding activity of SB2 was slightly higher than that of Remicade®, 
but not significant as these differences were within assay variability and 
were not translated into PK difference according to the PK results from the 
Phase I clinical study.  
Regulatory macrophage induction function of SB2 was similar to that of 
Remicade®, which may support the extrapolation of indications to IBD. 
Biosimilarity range was established by the mean values obtained in each assay for EU Remicade± κSD. The 
results of the in vitro studies were within the similarity range (data not shown), with the exception of FcγRIIIa 
(V/V type), FcγRIIb, and FcRn binding assays.  
In these assays the binding activities of some batches of SB2 were found to be slightly higher than the upper 
limit of the similarity range. More specifically, the binding activity for FcγRIIIa of SB2 relative to the bioassay 
standard ranged from 114 to 141%, and that of EU Remicade ranged from 77 to 108% (biosimilarity range 
70-126%). for FcγRIIb the binding activity for SB2 ranged between 105-120%, compared to 99-104% for EU 
Remicade. For FcRn, the values for SB2 and EU Remicade ranged between 105-120% and 88-105% respectively 
(similarity range: 82-117%).  
Tg197 transgenic mouse model of arthritis 
In  vivo  efficacy  of  SB2  and  EU  Remicade  was  assessed  in  a  study  using  Tg197  transgenic  mouse  model  of 
arthritis (Study no BMC319). US Remicade was also used throughout the global development plan for SB2 but 
comparisons  between  US  Remicade  and  SB2  were  not  considered  by  the  CHMP  for  the  establishment  of 
biosimilarity. 
The Tg197 model is a transgenic mouse overexpressing human TNF-α resulting in spontaneous development of 
arthritis closely resembling human RA pathology.  In this model, mice develop chronic polyarthritis, dependent 
on the ectopic overexpression of bio-active human TNF-α, with 100% incidence at 4 - 7 weeks of age.  
Nine groups of Tg197 mice, each consisting of 7 males and 4 females, received either SB2, EU Remicade, or US 
Remicade twice weekly for 7 weeks which was administered intraperitoneally at dose levels of 1, 3, and 10 
mg/kg.  One additional group of transgenic mice was sacrificed just prior to the first dose administration and was 
used as control for the histopathological status of the disease upon the initiation of treatment. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 23/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The  efficacy  of  SB2  and  Remicade was  assessed  by  changes  in  arthritic  scores  and  histopathological  scores 
(Table  2).  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  in  the  body  weights  of  treated  animals 
throughout the study (data not shown). 
Table 2. Percentage of inhibition of Arthritic Pathology and histopathological scores in Study no BMC319 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies have been submitted in line with relevant guidelines including the 
CHMP guidance on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal antibodies 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No safety pharmacology studies were submitted in line with CHMP guidance on similar biological medicinal 
products containing monoclonal antibodies (EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No comparative studies assessing PD drug interactions were submitted in line with relevant guidelines including 
the CHMP guidance on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal antibodies 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Two single-dose PK studies and a repeated-dose PK study were submitted in order to demonstrate similarity 
between SB2 and Remicade. 
A single dose PK study was performed in SD rats. Although the rat is not a relevant species for infliximab, it was 
reported from the literatures (Wallace and Rees 1980, McCarthy, Yoong et al. 2000) that the clearance 
mechanism of infliximab in rat is relevant. Another PK study involving infliximab in rats (Yang, Shenoy et al. 
2003) has also supported the utility of rat model. A single dose and a repeated dose PK studies were performed 
in Tg197 mice. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 24/86 
  
  
 
 
 
Methods of analysis 
The serum and plasma samples from all PK studies were analysed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) to quantify the levels of infliximab. ADA was also assessed in the repeated dose study using ELISA. 
In order to evaluate the PK in SD rats following a single administration, concentrations of infliximab in rat serum 
were determined by ELISA. The range of quantitation was 25-500 ng/mL in undiluted serum.  
In  order  to  evaluate  the  PK  in  Tg197  mice  following  single  or  repeated  administration,  concentrations  of 
infliximab in mouse plasma were determined by ELISA. The range of quantitation was 5-250 ng/m. 
In order to evaluate immunogenicity in Tg197 mice following repeated administration, anti-infliximab antibodies 
in mouse serum were detected using ELISA. The determination of ADA was possible in the presence of infliximab 
in range of 97.7-390.6 ng/mL. 
Single dose PK study in SD rats (Study No 13-RK-349N) 
A single dose PK study was performed in SD rats. Each group of 6 male rats was treated with 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg 
of either SB2, EU Remicade or US Remicade. Blood samples were collected at 0, 0.08, 0.5, 2, 6, 24, 48, 72, 120, 
168, 336, 504 hours after single dose administration. The results of the study are presented in Figure 1 and 
Table 3.  
Figure 1. Mean serum concentration of SB2, EU and US Remicade after single dose intravenous administration 
in rats in Study No 13-RK-349N 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 25/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic parameters for SB2, EU and US Remicade after single dose intravenous 
administration in rats in Study No 13-RK-349N 
Single Dose PK Study in Tg197 Transgenic Mouse Model of Arthritis (Study No BMC320A) 
Pharmacokinetic parameters following single dose of SB2 was studied in part A of Study No BMC320. Each group 
of 3 male Tg197 mice was treated with 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg of SB2, EU Remicade or US Remicade. Blood samples 
were collected after single dose administration. Pharmacokinetic parameters and mean plasma concentrations 
from this study are summarised in Figure 2 and Table 4.  
Figure 2. Mean serum concentration of SB2, EU and US Remicade after single dose intraperitoneal 
administration in Tg197 transgenic mice in Study BMC320 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 26/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Mean pharmacokinetic parameters following administration of SB2, EU and US Remicade in Study 
BMC320 
Repeated Dose PK Study in Tg197 Transgenic Mouse Model of Arthritis (Study No BCM320B)  
Pharmacokinetic parameters following repeated dosing was studied in part B of Study No BMC320. Each group 
of 3 male Tg197 mice was treated with 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg of SB2, EU Remicade, or US Remicade twice weekly 
for 7 weeks. Blood samples were collected at 2, 6, 24, and 72 hours after the last administration. Results from 
this study are presented in Figure 3 and Table 5. The data from 1 mg/kg treated group were not included in PK 
parameter analysis due to ADA formation in all animals. For 3 mg/kg treated group, some animals showed ADA 
formation and data from one mouse in the SB2 group at 72 hr was lost due to an unscheduled death.  
Figure 3. Mean plasma concentration of SB2, EU and US Remicade in repeat dose PK Study BMC320 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 27/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Mean pharmacokinetic parameters repeat dose PK Study BMC320 after administration of 10 mg/kg of 
infliximab 
Immunogenicity Assessment in Repeated Dose PK Study in Tg197 Transgenic Mouse Model of Arthritis (Study no 
BMC320) 
Immunogenicity of SB2 was evaluated as part of the repeated dose PK study in the Tg197 transgenic mouse 
model (Study No BMC320B). In the study, the levels of anti-infliximab antibodies in the serum of Tg197 mice 
that received repeated administrations twice a week for 7 weeks were analysed at the end of the dosing period 
using ELISA.  
Anti-infliximab antibodies were detected in all animals treated with 1 mg/kg, whereas in the 3 mg/kg group, 2 
of 3 animals treated with SB2 and 1 of 3 animals treated with Remicade developed ADA. In the 10 mg/kg group, 
ADA was not detected in any animal. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
In accordance with Scientific Advice received for this Application toxicology studies were not submitted as there 
are no relevant animal models available to evaluate the toxicity of infliximab. In addition in accordance with EMA 
guidelines (EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010, EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005), studies regarding genotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity, reproductive & developmental toxicity, and local tolerance were not submitted. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Applicant provided a justification for not submitting any environmental risk assessment studies based on 
the fact that Flixabi is a protein and therefore unlikely to pose a significant risk to the environment which is in 
accordance with the CHMP Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr 2). 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
None of the nonclinical studies submitted were performed according to GLP. This was considered acceptable, as 
only PD and PK studies were conducted, and no pivotal safety or toxicity studies were performed. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 28/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In line with the EMA “Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived 
proteins as active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev. 1) and 
“Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal antibodies: non-clinical and clinical 
issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010) further studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, 
genotoxicity, reproduction toxicology and carcinogenicity were not submitted. 
Infliximab plasma levels were determined by ELISA assays. The range of quantitation was 25-500 ng/mL and 
5-250 ng/mL for the rat and mouse assay respectively and the sensitivity of the methods was considered 
sufficient. 
The in vitro studies submitted with this application supported biosimilarity between SB2 and Remicade as all 
results were within the similarity range, with the exception of FcγRIIIa (V/V type), FcγRIIb, and FcRn binding 
assays. However, the difference was within assay variability for FcγRIIb and FcRn binding assays, and binding 
activity differences in FcγRIIIa (V/V type) and FcγRIIb were not translated into ADCC activity since the ADCC 
activity of SB2 was within the similarity range. FcRn is known to internalise antibodies into cellular endosomes 
to protect antibodies from proteolysis and thus plays a role in prolonging half-life of serum IgG. Nevertheless, 
despite the small deviations outside the similarity margin in FcRn binding activity, these were not translated into 
PK differences (See Section 2.4.2).  
The results of the murine Tg197 model of Rheumatoid Arthritis study showed that SB2 is highly similar to 
Remicade in its ability to inhibit, in a dose dependent manner, the arthritic pathology and histopathology of 
these mice. The effects of the 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg dose regimens of SB2 were similar to the same dose regimens 
of Remicade. 
The results of the single dose study in SD rats showed that SB2 and EU Remicade have a similar PK behaviour. 
There were no significant differences in the maximum observed concentration at Tmax (Cmax) and area under 
the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last quantifiable concentration (AUC last) among SB2 and EU 
Remicade.  
The PK profiles of SB2 and EU Remicade
10  mg/kg.  The  similarity  of  PK  profiles  between  SB2  and  Remicade
adequately evaluated due to ADA development and missing values. 
were similar in Tg197 transgenic mice after repeated administration of 
in  1  and  3  mg/kg  group  could  not  be 
Formation of ADA was similar in the 1 mg/kg treatment groups following repeated dosing. In the 3 mg/kg 2 
animals in the SB2 treated group showed ADA, whereas only 1 animal each in the EU and US Remicade treated 
groups  was  positive  for  ADA.  However,  as  only  3  animals  were  included  in  each  group,  it  is  not  possible  to 
ascertain if there is any differences in antigenicity of SB2 and Remicade, due to the low number of animals 
included.  
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The provided non-clinical comparability exercise testing strategy was considered as appropriate. Relevant 
regulatory guidelines and scientific advice were taken into consideration. 
The overall results of the in vitro Fab and Fc related binding assays demonstrated similarity between Flixabi and 
Remicade. Similar pharmacokinetic parameters were also observed in the single dose rat study, as well as in the 
single and repeat dose Tg197 mice study.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 29/86 
  
  
 
 
 
Comparative pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetic data demonstrated biosimilarity between Flixabi and the 
reference product Remicade.  
Overall, the non-clinical data provided by the Applicant was considered acceptable by the CHMP to support the 
application for SB2. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Study 
Study Objectives 
Design 
SB2-G11- 
NHV 
Phase I 
(Germany) 
Healthy 
subjects 
Comparative PK, 
safety, 
tolerability, 
immunogenicity 
Randomised, single- 
blind, three-arm, 
parallel group, 
single-dose study; 
To investigate and 
compare the PK 
profiles of SB2 and 
EU-Remicade in 
healthy subjects. 
Total duration: 10 
weeks  
Single dose i.v. 
infusion of 5 mg/kg 
either SB2, EU-  or 
US-Remicade 
Primary Endpoints 
AUCinf 
Study 
Population 
159 
healthy 
subjects 
(53/arm) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 30/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
584 RA 
subjects 
Efficacy: ACR20 
at Week 30 
(291 for SB2, 
293 for 
EU-Remic
ade) 
PK: Ctrough 
SB2-G31-RA 
Phase III 
Safety, efficacy, 
immunogenicity, 
and PK 
To demonstrate the 
equivalence of SB2 
to EU-Remicade at 
Week 30, in terms of 
the ACR20 response 
rate in subjects with 
moderate to severe 
RA despite 
methotrexate (MTX) 
therapy 
(UK,Czech 
Republic, 
Bulgaria, 
Lithuania, 
Latvia, 
Poland, 
Romania, 
Bosnia, 
Ukraine, 
Korea, India, 
Mexico, 
Philippines) 
RA subjects 
Randomised, double- 
blind, parallel 
group, 
multicentre 
study; 
Total duration: 78 
weeks 
Randomised,  
Double- Blind 
period: 54 weeks 
i.v. infusions of 3 
mg/kg SB2 or 
EU-Remicade at 
Weeks 0, 2, 6 and 
then every 8 weeks 
until Week 
46. After Week 30 
dose increments by 
1.5 mg/kg per visit 
up to 7.5 mg/kg 
allowed if the 
subject`s RA 
symptoms are not 
well controlled by the 
existing dose. 
Transition-Extension 
period: 24 weeks  
i.v. infusions of  3 to 
7.5 mg/kg SB2 or EU 
Remicade® every 8 
weeks at Weeks 54, 
62 and 70. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study SB2-G11-NHV 
This was a randomised, single-blind, three-arm, parallel group, single-dose study to compare the  
pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of three formulations of infliximab (SB2, EU sourced 
Remicade and US sourced Remicade) in healthy subjects. 
The primary objective was to investigate and compare the PK profiles between SB2 and EU Remicade in healthy 
subjects;  
The secondary objective was to investigate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of SB2 and EU Remicade 
in healthy subjects.  
The primary PK endpoint was the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) from time zero to infinity 
(AUCinf).  
Secondary PK endpoints were AUClast, Cmax, time to Cmax (Tmax), terminal rate constant (kel), volume of 
distribution during the terminal phase (Vz), terminal half-life (t½), total body clearance (CL) and AUC 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 31/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
extrapolated from last time having a measurable concentration to infinity as a percentage of total AUC 
(%AUCextrap) were also included as secondary PK endpoints. 
The design of the study is illustrated in Figure 4. 
Figure 4.  Design of Study SB2-G11-NHV 
Sample size was calculated to reject the null hypothesis that the AUC-ratio of test vs. reference was below 0.8 
or above 1.25. 
A total of 319 subjects were screened, of which 159 subjects were randomised, 53 per arm, all of whom were 
included in the safety set. The demographic characteristics were balanced between the sequences in each part 
(data not shown). 
Results 
Table 6. Disposition of subjects (SB2-G11-NHV) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 32/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7.  Summary of protocol deviations by treatment in Study SB2-G11-NHV  
The PK parameters of the investigated products in this study are shown in Table 8. 
Table 8. Summary of PK parameters in Study SB2-G11-NHV 
N = number of subjects in the PK population; n = number of subjects who contributed to summary 
statistics. Two subjects were excluded from the PK population due to major protocol deviations 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 33/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean serum concentration-time profiles reached maximum exposure between 2 and 6 hours post start of 
infusion with a median Tmax of approximately 3 hours for SB2 and US sourced Remicade and of approximately 
2 hours for EU sourced Remicade.  
Mean serum concentrations versus nominal times on linear scale (bottom graph) of SB2 and EU sourced 
Remicade are shown in Figure 5. 
Figure 5. The mean serum concentration versus nominal time curves on linear scale for in SB2-G11-NHV 
The ANOVA results (using the loge-transformed values of each PK parameters as dependent variables) of 
AUCinf, AUClast and Cmax for the comparison of SB2 and EU sourced Remicade in the PK population are 
reported in Table 9. 
Table 9. ANOVA for PK parameters AUCinf, AUClast and Cmax comparing SB2 to EU sourced Remicade (PK 
population) in SB2-G11-NHV 
A: SB2, B: EU sourced Remicade; LSMean = least squares mean; CI = confidence interval; N = number of 
subjects in PK population; n = number of subjects who contributed to analysis 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 34/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity Evaluation 
Post-dose Anti-drug Antibody (ADA) positive subjects were defined as those having positive ADA results either 
on Day 29 or Day 71 (Table 10). 
Table 10. Incidence of anti-drug antibodies and neutralising antibodies to infliximab at each time point (safety 
set) 
N = number of subjects in the safety set; n' = number of subjects with available assessment results at each time 
point. Percentages for ADA result were based on the number of subjects with available ADA results at each time 
point (except post-dose). 
The effects of ADA status on PK parameters are summarized in Table 11.  
Table 11. ANOVA for PK parameters AUCinf, AUClast and Cmax comparing SB2 to EU sourced Remicade (PK 
population) in subjects with and without Anti-drug Antibodies in SB2-G11-NHV 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 35/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SB2-G31-RA 
This was a randomised, double-blind, parallel group, multicentre clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, 
PK and immunogenicity of SB2 compared with Remicade in subjects with moderate to severe RA despite MTX 
therapy. See Section 2.5 for full details. 
The PK evaluation of SB2 compared to Remicade was one of the secondary objectives of the study. Of the 583 
subjects that comprised the Full Analysis Set, 325 were analysed for PK parameters. Insufficient samples were 
available for assessment of 54 week data, but analysis up to week 30 was possible.   
Concentration of infliximab at baseline and prior to dosing at Weeks 2, 6, 14, 22 and 30 (Ctrough) are 
summarised in Table 12. 
Table 12. Summary of Serum Trough Concentration (μg/mL) SB2-G31-RA (PK population) 
The serum trough concentration results from this study were compared to those observed in other infliximab 
trials, e.g. the ATTRACT and PLANETRA studies (Maini, St Clair et al. 1999; Yoo, Hrycaj et al. 2013, Figure 6). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 36/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Mean and standard deviation of infliximab serum trough concentrations from different clinical studies 
Immunogenicity evaluation 
Blood samples were taken at each visit to determine the incidence of ADA.  
ADA were detected in serum samples using a bridging, double antigen format assay specific for the antibodies 
to infliximab. Serum samples in which ADA were detected would be reflexed to a NAb assay to evaluate the 
effect of the ADA on the biological activity of infliximab. Specifically, the effects of ADA on the ability of infliximab 
to provide competitive inhibition of TNF-α were measured.  
The overall ADA result was defined as positive if the subject had at least 1 positive ADA result up to that 
time-point regardless of the ADA test result at Baseline. 
Table 13. Incidence of Anti-drug antibodies and neutralising antibodies to infliximab, in Study SB2-G31-RA 
(safety set) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 37/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As some patients tested positive for ADA at baseline, the Applicant submitted a re-analysis to exclude these 
patients.  
When excluding the patients with ADA-positive result at baseline, the patients with overall seroconverted 
ADA-result are 54.4% in the SB2 treatment group vs. 48.4% in the EU Remicade group. 
Summary statistics of trough concentration at each time point by treatment and overall ADA up to Week 30 are 
provided in Figure 7. 
Figure 7. Mean and SD of trough concentrations of SB2 and EU Remicade by overall ADA up to Week 30 in 
Study SB2-G31-RA 
The clearance and half-life, in Study SB2-G11-NHV are presented in Table 14. 
Table 14. Clearance and half-life of SB2 and EU Remicade by overall ADA status in Study SB2-G11-NHV 
Absorption  
No bioavailability studies were submitted for SB2. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 38/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Volume of distribution during the terminal phase was estimated in healthy volunteers (SB2-G11-NHV) to be 
4.59 litres (SB2) and 4.85 litres (EU Remicade). 
Elimination 
The mean terminal t1/2 in healthy male volunteers was estimated to be about 324h for SB2 compared to 339 h 
for EU Remicade (SB2-G11-NHV). 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose-proportionality was not evaluated. In the clinical studies, the study products were administered at the 
recommended therapeutic dose of Remicade. 
Special populations 
No studies were performed in patients with hepatic impairment and in patients with renal impairment as these 
are not required for a similar biological medicinal product.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No PK interaction studies were performed as these are not required for a similar biological medicinal product.    
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Infliximab binds to and inhibits the functional activity of TNF-α which may exist as a soluble or a transmembrane 
form (sTNF-α and tmTNF-α, respectively). The primary mechanism of action of infliximab appears to be a 
complex formation with TNF-α, decreasing its availability and consequently reducing its ability to induce 
inflammatory effects.  
The clinical development programme aimed to demonstrate the similarity between SB2 and the reference 
product Remicade and therefore in accordance with the EMA guideline (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev. 1) 
further clinical studies on the pharmacodynamics of SB2 were not conducted.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetic properties of SB2 were investigated in two clinical studies, one in healthy volunteers 
(Study SB2-G11-NHV) and in patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA, Study SB2-G31-RA). 
In study SB2-G11-NHV, the primary objective was to show the similarity in the PK profiles in healthy volunteers 
(male and female) between SB2 and EU Remicade and the equivalence in exposure.  Biosimilarity was 
demonstrated with ratios between SB2 and EU Remicade for AUCinf, AUClast, and Cmax close to one and 90% 
CI within the pre-specified margins of 0.8-1.25.  
There was a difference of 9.5% more ADA positive patients at day 71 and post dose assessment in the SB2 group 
compared to the EU sourced Remicade group. However, more ADA positive patients treated with EU sourced 
Remicade developed neutralising antibodies compared to SB2 treated patients (70% versus 56%). Nevertheless 
the absolute difference in number of patients developing antibodies between the treatment arms is quite small. 
Importantly the significance of these differences appears to be limited as they did not have a marked impact on 
the PK comparability between studied treatments.   
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 39/86 
  
  
In study SB2-G31-RA, the PK characteristics of the SB2 group was compared to EU sourced Remicade by 
determining the trough (pre-dose) concentrations from week 0 to week 30.  
The overall trough concentrations were similar at each time-point between the 2 treatment groups.  The serum 
trough concentrations showed high inter-subject variability especially post-week 6, with coefficient of variation 
(CV) above 50%. However, high variability of serum trough concentrations is an expected pharmacokinetic 
characteristic in infliximab-treated patients. For example, in the ATTRACT and PLANETRA studies which were 
conducted using the same dosing regimen with RA patients as the SB2-G31-RA study, the high inter-subject 
variability of serum trough concentrations was also observed with CV higher than 50% at most of the time points 
in those trials. 
The higher incidence of ADA was also observed in SB2-G31-RA for subjects treated with SB2 compared to the 
Remicade treated subjects. The impact of this on the PK properties was evaluated based on comparison of 
results in ADA positive and ADA negative patients between the two treatment groups. 
For subjects with overall post-dose positive ADA results up to Week 30, mean trough concentration between the 
2 treatment groups were comparable up to Week 14. However, the mean SB2 trough concentration levels were 
highly variable after Week 14 groups. For subjects with overall post-dose negative ADA results up to Week 30, 
the mean SB2 trough concentrations were higher compared to the EU Remicade treatment group at all time 
points. The differences in the mean values were most likely due to the considerable inter-subject variability in 
both studied groups. Importantly, the clearance and half-life data were comparable between SB2 and EU 
Remicade subjects for all, ADA positive and ADA negative groups.  
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Results from Study SB2-G11-NHV and supportive evidence from Study SB2-G31-RA demonstrated similarity 
between Flixabi (SB2) and Remicade. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
No dose-response studies were submitted. As this application relates to a biosimilar product, there is no 
requirement for dose-response studies. The proposed dosing regimens for SB2 are identical to those approved 
for Remicade. 
2.5.2.  Main study 
Study SB2-G31-RA 
A randomised, double-blind, parallel group, multicentre clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, 
pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of SB2 compared to Remicade in subjects with moderate to severe 
rheumatoid arthritis despite methotrexate therapy.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 40/86 
  
  
 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion Criteria 
•  Male or female aged 18-75 years old.  
•  Had been diagnosed as having RA according to the revised 1987 ACR criteria for at least 6 months prior 
to Screening.  
•  Had moderate to severe active disease despite MTX therapy defined as:  
o  More than or equal to 6 swollen joints and more than or equal to 6 tender joints (from the 66/68 
joint count system) at Screening and Randomisation.  
o  Either erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR; Westergren) ≥ 28 mm/h or serum C-reactive 
protein (CRP) ≥ 1.0 mg/dL at Screening.  
•  Had been treated with MTX for at least 6 months prior to randomisation and be on a stable dose of MTX 
10-25 mg/week given orally or parenterally for at least 4 weeks prior to Screening.  
• 
Female subjects who were not pregnant or nursing at Screening and who were not planning to become 
pregnant from Screening until 6 months after the last dose of investigational product (IP).  
Main exclusion Criteria 
•  Had been treated previously with any biological agents including any tumour necrosis factor inhibitor.  
•  Had a known hypersensitivity to human immunoglobulin proteins or other components of SB2 or 
Remicade.  
•  Had abnormal renal or hepatic function  
•  Had a positive serological test for hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) or had a known 
history of infection with human immunodeficiency virus. 
•  Had a current diagnosis of active tuberculosis (TB).  
•  Had had a serious infection or had been treated with i.v. antibiotics for an infection within 8 weeks or oral 
antibiotics within 2 weeks prior to Randomisation.  
•  Had a history of an infected joint prosthesis which had not been removed or replaced.  
•  Other inflammatory or rheumatic diseases.  
Treatments 
The study design is presented in Figure 8. 
At Week 0, eligible subjects were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either SB2 or EU Remicade. Each subject 
was administered infliximab via a 2 hour i.v. infusion, at Weeks 0, 2 and 6 and then every 8 weeks up to Week 
46. The dose level of Investigational Product (IP) was maintained at 3 mg/kg up to Week 22.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 41/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Graphical design of Study SB2-G31-RA 
From Week 30, the dose level could be increased step-wise by 1.5 mg/kg, up to a maximum of 7.5 mg/kg, every 
8 weeks if the subject’s RA symptoms were not well controlled by the existing dose.  
In addition, each subject also took a stable dose of oral or parenteral MTX (10-25 mg weekly) and was required 
to take folic acid 5-10 mg weekly while taking MTX.  
Transition-Extension Period Weeks 54 to 78  
This period of the study was a randomised, double-blind, Transition-Extension period to investigate safety, 
tolerability, immunogenicity and efficacy of SB2 in subjects with RA who transitioned from the EU Remicade 
treatment group compared with subjects who maintained EU Remicade treatment (data currently not available). 
Objectives 
Primary objectives: 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the equivalence of SB2 to Remicade at Week 30, in 
terms of American College of Rheumatology 20% response criteria (ACR20) response rate in subjects with 
moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) despite methotrexate (MTX) therapy. 
Secondary objectives: 
Secondary objectives related to the PK and immunogenicity of SB2 and EU Remicade were as follows:  
• 
• 
To evaluate the PK of SB2 compared to EU Remicade in subjects with moderate to severe RA despite 
methotrexate (MTX) therapy.  
 To evaluate the immunogenicity of SB2 compared to EU Remicade in subjects with moderate to severe 
RA despite MTX therapy. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was the ACR20 response rate at Week 30.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 42/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The ACR20 response at Week 54 
The ACR 50% response criteria (ACR50) and ACR 70% response criteria (ACR70) response at Week 30 
and Week 54 
The numeric index of the ACR response (ACR-N) at Week 30 and Week 54 
The disease activity score based on a 28 joint count (DAS28 score) at Week 30 and Week 54 
The ACR20 response indicated: 
• At least a 20% improvement from Baseline in swollen joint count (66 joint count) 
• At least a 20% improvement from Baseline in tender joint count (68 joint count) 
• At least a 20% improvement from Baseline in at least 3 of the following 5 criteria: 
o  Subject pain assessment using a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS) 
o  Subject global assessment using a 100 mm VAS 
o  Physician global assessment using a 100 mm VAS 
The ACR50 and ACR70 indicated a 50% and 70% improvement, respectively, in the criteria. 
The DAS28 score was calculated using the following equation (four-variable equation): 
DAS28 = 0.56 × √(tender 28 joint count) + 0.28 × √(swollen 28 joint count) + 0.70 × ln(ESR) + 0.014 × 
general health. 
Sample size 
The ACR20 responses from selected studies with regards to the study population and treatment regimen were 
used for the equivalence margin and sample size calculation and are summarised in Table 18. 
Table 15. ACR20 Responses in Pivotal Studies with Remicade 
A random-effects meta-analysis of the selected studies estimated a risk difference of 0.3293 with a 90% CI 
[0.2801, 0.3785]. To preserve at least 50% of the effect of Remicade over and above placebo, an equivalence 
limit of 15% was used for the primary analysis.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 43/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assuming a 20% dropout rate, a sample size of 292 per treatment group (overall sample size of 584) would 
allow 233 completed subjects in each group, and the observed two-sided 95.0% CI would be expected to lie 
within the equivalence margin with 82% power.  
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomised using an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) or the Interactive Voice 
Response System (IVRS) to either SB2 or Remicade in a 1:1 ratio.  
Blinding (masking) 
This was a double-blind trial and subjects, investigators, joint assessors and other study personnel were to 
remain blinded throughout the entire treatment period. 
Statistical methods 
The following analysis data sets were defined: 
• 
• 
Full Analysis Set [FAS]:  all randomised subjects;  
Per-protocol Set 1 [PPS1]:  all FAS subjects who completed the week 30 visit and adhered (from 
baseline to week 30) within the range of 80–120% for both the expected number of IP administrations 
and the expected sum of MTX doses without any pre-defined major protocol deviations (PDs) that 
affected the efficacy assessment; 
•  Safety Set [SAF]:  all subjects who received at least 1 dose of double-blind study treatment; subjects 
• 
• 
were analysed as treated; 
Pharmacokinetic Population [PK population]: all subjects in the SAF who had at least 1 post-dose PK 
sample collected 
Per-protocol Set 2[PPS2]: all FAS subjects who completed the Week 54 visit and had an adherence 
(from Baseline to Week 54) within the range of 80-120% for both the expected number of IP 
administrations and the expected sum of MTX doses without any major protocol deviations that affected 
the efficacy assessment. 
The primary efficacy analysis was done on the PPS1 without any missing data imputation. 
A non-parametric randomised based analysis of covariance approach [Koch, 1998] was used to estimate the 
95% CIs of the treatment difference of ACR20 response rate, controlling for ‘region’ as a factor and baseline CRP 
value as a covariate. 
The primary efficacy analysis was repeated for the FAS imputing week 30 ACR20 responses for subjects who 
discontinued before week 30 to explore the robustness of the results. The following missing data imputation 
methods were applied: 
•  Complete case analysis: exclusion of subjects with missing data at week 30. 
•  Non-responder analysis: subjects with missing ACR20 response at week 30 imputed as ACR20 
non-responders 
• 
Pattern mixture analysis using multiple imputations except for subjects who withdrew from the study 
with the primary reason of lack of efficacy or AE (who were considered as non-responder).  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 44/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
As a sensitivity analysis to the non-parametric method for the primary analysis, an analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA) with treatment group and region as a factors and Baseline CRP value as covariate was performed for 
the PPS1. 
The same approach as for the primary endpoint (ACR20) was used to analyse ACR50/ACR70 at week 30 using 
PPS1. For analyses with FAS, subjects with missing values were treated as non-responders. 
An analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment group and region as factors was applied to test the 
treatment difference of SB2 versus Remicade for continuous secondary efficacy variables (e.g. ACR-N at week 
30, change from baseline in DAS28 at week 30, change from baseline in mTSS). The least square mean 
difference (LSMean), standard error (SE) and two-sided 95% CI for the treatment difference were reported for 
FAS. To assess equivalence in the change from Baseline of DAS28, the two-sided 95% CI of the difference in 
DAS28 score between SB2 and Remicade was compared to the equivalence margin of [−0.6, 0.6].  
Results 
Participant flow 
Of the 584 patients randomised to treatment, up to Week 54, 124 (21.2%) subjects had withdrawn from the 
study: 60 subjects (20.6%) from the SB2 treatment group and 64 subjects (21.8%) from the Remicade 
treatment group. In both treatment groups, the most common reasons for withdrawal were withdrawal of 
consent for 49 subjects (8.4%) and AEs in 48 subjects (8.2%). Patient disposition is shown in Table 19. 
Table 16. Disposition of subjects in Study SB2-G31-RA. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 45/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The study was initiated in August 2013 and the week 54 cut-off date was in March 2015. The study is ongoing. 
A total of 73 study centres across 11 countries worldwide enrolled patients. 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol was amended 4 times mainly to better align the study with the SmPCs of Remicade and 
methotrexate.  
A total of 41 (7.0%) subjects were excluded from PPS1 due to major protocol deviations (Table 20). The most 
common major protocol deviation that led to exclusion from PPS1 were concomitant medication criteria (10 
[3.4%] subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 8 [2.7%) subjects in the Remicade treatment group) and 
eligibility and entry criteria (6 [2.1%] subjects and 9 [3.1%] subjects, respectively). 
Table 17.Summary of major protocol deviations in Study SB2-G31-RA by treatment group (Randomised set) 
a Subjects may have more than one protocol deviation, therefore the sum of the individual protocol deviation 
subgroups may be greater than the total number of patients excluded from PPS1 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic, disease and rheumatoid disease activity characteristics are summarised in Tables 21, 
22 and 23 respectively. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 46/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18. Demographic Characteristics in Study SB2-G31-RA (Randomised set) 
Table 19. Baseline Disease Characteristics in Study SB2-G31-RA (Randomised set) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 47/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 20. Baseline Rheumatoid Disease Characteristics in Study SB2-G31-RA 
a n = 292; b n = 582; c Randomised set 
Prior and Concomitant Medication 
A similar proportion of subjects in the SB2 and Remicade treatment groups (37.6% and 44.4% of subjects, 
respectively) had taken medications which started and stopped prior to the study (i.e., prior medication), and 
the majority of subjects received concomitant medications during the study (95.9% and 94.9% of subjects,  
respectively). 
The most frequently reported prior medications by ATC class were glucocorticoids, which were used by 43 
(14.8%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 53 (18.1%) subjects in the Remicade treatment group. 
Glucocorticoids were also taken as a concomitant medication by more than half of the subjects during the study 
(201(69.3%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 205 (70.0%) subjects in the Remicade treatment group). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 48/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table 21. Data sets analysed in Study SB2-G31-RA 
One Subject, from the SB2 group, was excluded from the FAS and SAF because the subject withdrew before the 
first infusion was administered (due to not meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
The primary analysis of ACR20 response with the number of subjects who achieved ACR20 response at Week 30 
for the PPS1 is presented in Table 25.  
Table 22. Primary Analysis of ACR20 Response Rate at Week 30 in Study SB2-G31-RA, PPS1  
Supportive Analysis of Primary Efficacy Analysis 
The time-response curves of SB2 and Remicade up to Week 30 showing the ACR20 response over time were 
estimated to be equivalent and supported the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis. The time-response 
graphs for the ACR20 response for the PPS1 are presented in Figure 9. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 49/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. The time-response graph for ACR20 response for the PPS1 in Study SB2-G31-RA, PPS1 
Sensitivity Analysis of Primary Efficacy Variable 
To explore the robustness of the ACR20 responses for the PPS1, the same analysis was performed for the FAS 
(Table 26). 
Table 23. Analysis of ACR20 Response Rate at Week 30 in Study SB2-G31-RA; Non-responder Analysis (Full 
Analysis Set) 
The sensitivity analysis using ANCOVA (adjusting for baseline CRP and region) is shown in Table 27. 
Table 24. Analysis of Covariance for ACR20 response at week 30 in Study SB2-G31-RA, PPS1 
Secondary endpoints 
ACR20 Response at Week 54 
The analysis of ACR20 response rate at Week 54 for the FAS is presented in Table 28. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 50/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25. Analysis of ACR 20 Response rate at week 54 in in Study SB2-G31-RA Non-responder analysis (FAS) 
ACR50 and ACR70 Response at Week 30 and Week 54 
Table 26. Analysis of ACR50 and ACR70 Response Rates at Week 30 and Week 54 in Study SB2-G31-RA; 
Non-responder Analysis (FAS) 
ACR-N at Week 30 and Week 54 
The mean ACR-N at Week 30 was similar in both treatments with 36.63% in the SB2 treatment group and 
37.81% in the Remicade treatment group. The mean ACR-N at Week 54 was 38.82% for the SB2 treatment 
group and 39.77% for the Remicade treatment group. 
DAS28 Score at Week 30 and Week 54 
The mean change in DAS28 score from Baseline to Week 30 was 2.3275 in the SB2 treatment group and 2.3309 
in the Remicade treatment group. The mean change in DAS28 score from Baseline to Week 54 was 2.4219 in the 
SB2 treatment group and 2.4735 in the Remicade treatment group. 
An ANCOVA (adjusted for Baseline DAS28 and region) for the change from Baseline in DAS28 score at Week 30 
and Week 54 for the FAS is shown in Table 30. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 51/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27. Analysis of Covariance for change in DAS28 Score at week 30 and week 54 in Study SB2-G31-RA, 
FAS 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses for the primary endpoint were performed by ADA status, baseline CRP (≥10 mg/L vs. < 10 
mg/L) and patient demographics (i.e. EU vs. non-EU, < 65 years vs. ≥ 65 years and gender interactions, all in 
PPS1): 
ADAs 
The ANCOVA (adjusted for Baseline CRP and region) for ACR20 response rates at Week 30 by 30-week overall 
ADA status for the PPS1 are presented in Table 31. 
Table 28.Analysis of Covariance for ACR20 response rates at Week 30 by 30-week overall ADA status in Study 
SB2-G31-RA, PPS1 
The ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates by 30-week (PPS1) and 54-week (PPS2) overall ADA status in are 
summarised in Tables 32 and 33 respectively.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 52/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 29. ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates at Week 30 by up to 30-week overall ADA status in Study 
SB2-G31-RA, PPS1 
Table 30. ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates at Week 54 by up to 54-week overall ADA status in Study 
SB2-G31-RA, PPS2 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 53/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ACR20 response curves for the per-protocol set 2 (PPS2) up to Week 54 by ADA status are shown in Figure 
10. Similar response curves were observed for ACR50 and 70 (data not shown). 
Figure 10. ACR 20 response curves by ADA status at each time-point in Study SB2-G31-RA, PPS2 
Dose increase 
The number patients who had their dose increased during the study were numerically lower in the SB2 
treatment group compared to the EU Remicade treatment group (57 vs. 67 at Week 30, 77 vs. 83 at Week 38, 
81 vs. 84 at Week 46, SB2 vs. EU Remicade respectively). 
An analysis of patients which increased their dose by up to Week 30 ADA status is presented in Table 34. 
Table 31. Dose increase pattern by up to Week 30 ADA status in each visit (safety set) in Study SB2-G31-RA 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 54/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy parameters were analysed by ever or never dose increase.  The ACR20 response rates in PPS2 by visit 
are presented in Table 35. 
Similar trends were observed for the ACR50 and ACR70 response rates in PPS2 (data not shown). 
Table 32. ACR20 response rates by dose increment in PPS2 in Study SB2-G31-RA 
Similar trends were observed for the ACR50 and ACR70 response rates in PPS2 (data not shown). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 55/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRP levels 
Of the 83 subjects whose baseline CRP level was ≥ 10 mg/L in the SB2 treatment group, 57 subjects (68.7%) 
achieved an ACR20 response at Week 30. Of the 90 subjects whose baseline CRP level was ≥ 10 mg/L in the 
Remicade treatment group, 62 subjects (68.9%) achieved an ACR20 response at Week 30. The adjusted 
treatment difference and its 95% CI in ACR20 response rate at Week 30 within subjects whose baseline CRP 
level was ≥ 10 mg/L was 1.09 (– 13.02%, 15.19%). 
Of the 148 subjects in the SB2 treatment group whose baseline CRP level was < 10 mg/L, 91 subjects (61.5%) 
achieved an ACR20 response at Week 30. Of the 157 subjects in the Remicade treatment group whose baseline 
CRP level was < 10 mg/L, 101 subjects (64.3%) achieved an ACR20 response at Week 30. The adjusted 
treatment difference and its 95% CI in ACR20 response rate at Week 30 within subjects whose baseline CRP 
level was < 10 mg/L was -2.91% (– 13.65%, 7.82%). 
Demographics 
There was no statistically significant interaction in ACR20 response rate at Week 30 between treatment and 
region, age group or gender. 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarise the efficacy results from the main study supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk 
assessment (see later sections). 
Table 33.Summary of Efficacy for trial SB2-G31-RA 
Title:  
A Randomised, Double-blind, Parallel Group, Multicentre Clinical Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, 
Pharmacokinetics and Immunogenicity of SB2 Compared to Remicade in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis despite Methotrexate Therapy 
Study identifier 
SB2-G31-RA 
Design 
Randomised, double-blind, active-controlled multicenter study 
Duration of main phase: 
54 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  24 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Equivalence; equivalence margin for the difference in ACR20 responder at 
week 30: [-15%, 15%] 
SB2 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Remicade 
Primary 
endpoint 
ACR20 
SB2 iv 3mg/kg, weeks 0,2,6 and then q8w 
until week 46, randomized: n = 291 
Remicade iv 3mg/kg, weeks 0,2,6 and then 
q8w until week 46, randomized: n = 293 
ACR20 response at week 30 
Secondary 
ACR50 
ACR50 response at week 30 
Secondary 
ACR70 
ACR70 response at week 30 
Secondary 
DAS28 
Change in DAS28 score at week 30 
Database lock 
Date not reported 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 56/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Per Protocol Set  week 30  
Treatment group 
SB2  
Remicade  
Number of subject 
231 
ACR20 at week 30 
(Response rate)  
64.1%  
247 
66.0% 
ACR50 at week 30 
(Response rate) 
ACR70 at week 30 
(Response rate) 
35.5% 
38.1% 
18.2%  
19.0%  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
ACR20 at week 30 
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade  
Secondary 
endpoint  
ACR50 at week 30 
Secondary 
endpoint 
ACR70 at week 30 
Difference in response 
-1.88% 
95%-CI 
P-value 
(-10.26%, 6.51%) 
N/A 
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade 
Difference in response 
-2.13%  
95%-CI 
P-value 
(-10.69%, 6.43%) 
N/A 
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade 
Difference in response 
95%-CI 
P-value 
-0.25% 
(-7.26%, 6.75%) 
N/A 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Full Analysis Set  week 30  
Treatment group 
SB2  
Remicade  
Number of subject 
290 
ACR20 at week 30 
(Response rate)  
55.5%  
293 
59.0% 
ACR50 at week 30 
(Response rate) 
ACR70 at week 30 
(Response rate) 
Primary endpoint 
ACR20* at week 
30 
30.7% 
33.8% 
15.5%  
17.1%  
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade  
Difference in response 
-2.95% 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 57/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint  
ACR50* at week 
30 
Secondary 
endpoint 
ACR70* at week 
30 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Change in DAS28 
at week 30 
95%-CI 
P-value 
(-10.88%, 4.97%) 
N/A 
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade 
Difference in response 
-2.53%  
95%-CI 
P-value 
(-10.07%, 5.00%) 
N/A 
Comparison groups 
SB2 - Remicade 
Difference in response 
95%-CI 
P-value 
-1.08% 
(-7.06%, 4.91%) 
N/A 
Comparison groups 
SB2 – Remicade 
Adjusted mean difference   0.044  
95%-CI 
P-value 
(-0.186, 0.274) 
N/A 
Notes 
*subjects with missing values imputed as non-responder 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable. 
Supportive studies 
No supportive efficacy trials were performed.  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The main study SB2-G31-RA, was a randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, multicentre study in 584 patients 
with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis despite methotrexate therapy. Study SB2-G31-RA evaluated the 
equivalence of the biosimilar SB2 and the reference product EU-Remicade, in terms of ACR20 response after 30 
weeks treatment. The randomised, double-blind study period was 54 weeks with an extension period up to 78 
weeks, where patients on EU-Remicade were randomised to receive either SB2 or EU-Remicade. Data up to 54 
weeks has been presented with this application. The study design and the choice of patient population were 
overall in compliance with scientific advice given and fulfil the criteria for the evaluation of the biosimilarity.  
The primary endpoint, the ACR20 (American College of Rheumatology) response at week 30 is an appropriate 
endpoint for detecting potential differences between the investigational product and the reference product and 
is therefore considered acceptable. A number of appropriate secondary endpoints were evaluated, including: 
ACR20 at week 54, ACR50 and ACR70 at week 30 and 54, numeric index of the ACR response (ACR-N) at week 
30 and 54. Overall the endpoints used were appropriate and acceptable in order to detect potential differences 
between SB2 and EU-Remicade. The equivalence margin was based on a meta-analysis of three studies in RA 
patients using the endpoint ACR20. An equivalence margin of 15% had been discussed as acceptable in a prior 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 58/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
scientific advice and can be justified statistically as it ensures superiority to historical placebo. 
No substantial amendments were made to the study protocol after study start. 84.5% SB2 patients and 88.4% 
EU-Remicade patients completed 30 weeks treatment. Baseline characteristics including RA disease activity in 
SB2 and EU-Remicade patients were comparable. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Primary efficacy results in the per protocol group indicate that the ACR20 response rate at Week 30 was 
equivalent in the SB2 and Remicade treatment groups. The proportion of subjects achieving ACR20 response at 
Week 30 was 64.1% (148/231) and 66.0% (163/247) in the SB2 and Remicade treatment groups, respectively.  
Furthermore, the ACR20 response rate at Week 30 in the full analysis set was 55.5% (161/290) for SB2 and 
59.0 % (173/293) for Remicade with an adjusted difference rate of -2.95% and CI (-10.88%, 4.97%). 
Sensitivity analyses involving several methods of imputation for the full analysis set and an analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) adjusting for baseline CRP and region, support the primary efficacy analysis.   
The adjusted difference rate in ACR 50 and 70 response rate at Week 30 in the full analysis set were -2.53% and 
-1.08%, respectively..  AUC of ACR-N up to Week 30, and DAS28 Score at Week 30 also confirmed similarity. Of 
particular importance is the comparison of efficacy as measured by change in DAS28 score at Week 30, which 
may provide greater sensitivity as it is a continuous variable. The difference between SB2 and EU Remicade was 
0.044 (−0.186, 0.274) and was also entirely contained within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [−0.6. 
0.6]. 
The ACR20 response rate at Week 54 for the FAS was 50.7% (147/290) in the SB2 treatment group and52.6% 
(154/293) in the Remicade treatment group. The adjusted treatment difference and its 95% CI in ACR20 
response rate at Week 54 in FAS was -1.15% (−9.16%, 6.86%), which therefore also showed that the ACR20 
response rate of SB2 was similar to Remicade at Week 54. 
Similar differences in the results between SB2 and EU Remicade patients were observed with the more stringent 
ACR50 and ACR70. 
Efficacy by ADA status 
When analysing efficacy parameters by ADA status, the efficacy endpoints results were still similar between the 
two treatment groups in both ADA sub-groups at Week 30 and Week 54 in PPS and FAS. 
The ACR response rates at Week 30 by up to W30 ADA status were similar between the SB2 and the EU 
Remicade treatment groups. (ACR20 in PPS with positive ADA up to W30: 56.7% in SB2, 58.7% in EU Remicade) 
The same result was shown in patients with up to W30 ADA negative. Therefore, despite the numerically higher 
rate of ADA in the SB2 group these do not appear to have a clinically relevant effect. 
Among the patients who had up to Week 54 ADA positive, the results of ACR20/50/70 response rates at Week 
54 were similar between the SB2 and the EU Remicade treatment groups. The same result was shown in patients 
who had up to Week 54 ADA negative. When analysing the time-response graphs for the ACR20, ACR50 and 
ACR70 response by up to Week 54 ADA status, the results still showed similarity between the two treatment 
groups in both ADA subgroups. The CHMP noted that the interpretation of the results of the subgroup analysis 
by ADA status, can only be considered supportive of the primary analysis as it is inherently limited by the 
decreased power of the analysis due to the smaller number of subjects in each subgroup. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 59/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Dose increase and impact of ADA 
Dose increased patients were comparable in the SB2 treatment group compared to the EU Remicade treatment 
group. Among ADA positive patients (up to W30 ADA), the proportion of ever dose increased patients was also 
comparable; 55/158 (34.8%) vs. 56/145 (38.6%) in the SB2 and the EU Remicade treatment groups. 
For PPS2, the ACR20 response rates for those who had a dose increase were 38.0% vs. 35.4% at Week 30 and 
52.0% vs. 51.9% at Week 54. From these findings, the baseline efficacy at Week 30 as well as the overall 
improvement of efficacy after dose increase was considered to be comparable between the two treatment 
groups. 
The similar trend was observed for the ACR50 and ACR70 response rates in PPS2. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The main efficacy study SB2-G31-RA conducted in RA patients provided robust evidence of equivalence between 
Flixabi and Remicade based on ACR20 response at Week 30, the primary endpoint, and this was supported by 
secondary efficacy parameters and sensitivity analyses. 
The numerically higher rate of ADA that was observed in subjects treated with SB2 compared to EU-Remicade 
did not result in any meaningful differences in efficacy. Significantly, the number of subjects which required a 
dose increase was similar between the two treatment arms, and was not impacted by ADA status which provides 
further evidence of similarity in terms of efficacy.  
In addition, PK was similar in the most sensitive model (PK study in healthy volunteers).  
Therefore these results demonstrate equivalence in efficacy between the proposed biosimilar Flixabi and the 
reference product Remicade. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety data base consisted of two studies, the phase III study in patients with RA and the phase I PK study 
in healthy volunteers. The safety results from the phase I PK study have been described in Section 2.4.2 of this 
report, and are considered supportive in characterising the short term safety profile of SB2. 
Patient exposure 
SB2-G31-RA 
A total of 584 patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either SB2 or EU Remicade both at 3 mg/kg via 
IV infusion at weeks 0, 2, 6 and then every 8 weeks until week 46. From week 30 the dose could be increased 
by 1.5 mg/kg up to a maximum 7.5 mg/kg.  Of the 584 randomised patients, 583 received at least 1 injection 
of SB2 (n=290) or EU Remicade (n=293); the mean duration of exposure was 282.2 days in the SB2 and 287.8 
days in the EU Remicade treatment groups respectively (Table 37). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 60/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 34. Duration of exposure to study drug (Safety Set), in Study SB2-G31-RA 
Adverse events 
A total of 370 (63.5%) subjects reported 1177 Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs): 179 (61.7%) 
subjects reported 565 TEAEs in the SB2 treatment group and 191 (65.2%) subjects reported 612 TEAEs in the 
Remicade treatment group. The most frequently reported of these are summarised in Table 38. 
Table 35. Number (%) of Patients with TEAEs and Number of Events by Preferred Term That Occurred in ≥ 2% 
of Patients in any Treatment Group (Safety Set) (Study SB2-G31-RA) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 61/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In terms of severity, the majority of the TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity, with only 8.6% of subjects in 
the SB2 treatment group and 6.8% of subjects in the Remicade treatment group to be reported as severe. The 
majority of TEAEs were considered to be unrelated to the IP. A total of 121 TEAEs were reported to be related to 
the IP in 70 (24.1%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group, and 129 TEAEs were related to the IP in 69 (23.5%) 
subjects in the Remicade treatment group (Table 39). 
Table 36. Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by Severity and causality (Safety Set) (Study 
SB2-G31-RA) 
At the PT level, the most frequently reported TEAE related to the IP were ALT increased (13 [4.5%] subjects in 
the SB2 treatment group and 2 [0.7%] subjects in the Remicade treatment group), AST increased (9 [3.1%] 
and 2 [0.7%] subjects, respectively) and latent TB (4 [1.4%] subjects and 7 [2.4%] subjects, respectively). 
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation 
A total of 62 TEAEs leading to IP discontinuation were reported in 54 (9.3%) subjects: 36 events were reported 
in 30 (10.3%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 26 events were reported in 24 (8.2%) subjects in the 
Remicade treatment group. The most common AEs leading to discontinuation in the respective groups were 
latent TB (0.7% vs 1.4%), pneumonia (1% vs 0.3%), rheumatoid arthritis (1.4% vs 0%) and hypersensitivity 
(1% vs 0%). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
During the study, 1 death was reported in the Remicade treatment group. The patient died on Day 68 following 
a TEAE of worsening of her left ventricular heart failure. The event occurred following a preceding serious 
adverse event of pneumonia and was not considered to be related to the IP. 
Serious adverse events 
The proportion of subjects who experienced any SAEs was comparable between the 2 treatment groups. A total 
of 68 SAEs were reported in 60 (10.3%) of the subjects: 29 (10.0%) subjects reported 33 SAEs in the SB2 
treatment group and 31 (10.6%) subjects reported 35 SAEs in the Remicade treatment group. Of these events, 
10 events in the SB2 were considered related to the treatment: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 62/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Two cases of hypersensitivity  
• Three cases of pneumonia 
• One case each for: anaphylactic reaction, tuberculous pleurisy, brain neoplasm, pseudo-membranous colitis 
and Clostridium difficile colitis while 7 treatment related were reported in the Remicade Group: 
• One case each for: urticaria, major depression and psychotic disorder, fistula on foot, anaphylactic shock, 
pericarditis, pneumonia and ovarian cyst torsion. 
Other significant events 
Malignancies were reported for 2 subjects in the SB2 treatment group (1 with breast cancer, 1 with prostate 
cancer). No malignant neoplasms were reported in the EU Remicade treatment group. 
A total of 31 cases of RA aggravation were observed up to week 54, 20 cases in patients treated with SB2 
compared to 11 cases of patients treated with EU Remicade. There was a numerically higher incidence of 
moderate events in the EU Remicade treatment group and a higher incidence of mild and severe events in the 
SB2 treatment group.  The incidence of serious adverse event RA aggravations was 3 subjects in the SB2 
treatment group and 3 subjects in the EU Remicade treatment group. 
Adverse events of special interest (AESI) 
There were 16 TEAEs of special interest (serious infections and tuberculosis) reported in 16 (2.7%) subjects 
overall: 9 events in 9 (3.1%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 7 events in 7 (2.4%) subjects in the 
Remicade treatment group (Table 40). 
Table 37.  TEAEs of Special Interest by System Organ Class and Preferred Term (safety set) (SB2-G31-RA) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 63/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact of Anti-Drug Antibodies on clinical safety  
To analyse the impact of ADA on the safety profile of SB2 the Applicant provided an analysis by ADA status. The 
incidence by ADA status is presented in Table 41.  
Table 38. Incidence of TEAEs by ADA status up to week 54 in Study SB2-G31-RA 
N: number of subjects; E: number of events 
Further analysis of the incidence of TEAE categorised by SOC groups by up to Week 54 ADA status confirmed 
comparable incidence of TEAE between the two treatment groups (data not shown).  
The incidence of serious TEAE up to Week 54 by up to W54 ADA status was comparable between the SB2 and the 
EU Remicade treatment groups, as shown in Table 42.  
Table 39. Serious TEAEs in by ADA status up to week 54 in Study SB2-G31-RA 
SB2 
%  
8.4 
N 
15 
EU Remicade 
E 
17 
N 
% 
16 
9.5 
E 
18 
12 
11.1 
14 
15 
12.1 
17 
54-Week ADA result 
Positive 
Any SAE 
Negative 
Any SAE 
N: number of subjects; E: number of events 
RA aggravation and hypersensitivity and/or infusion related reactions by ADA status were also analysed (Tables 
43 and 44). 
Table 40. RA aggravation by treatment group and ADA status up to week 54 in Study SB2-G31-RA 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 64/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 41. Hypersensitivity and/or infusion related reactions by treatment group and ADA status up to week 54 
in Study SB2-G31-RA 
N: number of subjects 
Laboratory findings 
The only marked difference between SB2 and Remicade treated patients, were the reports of increased alanine 
transaminase (27 events from 23 patients and 10 events from 9 patients for SB2 and the EU Remicade 
treatment groups, respectively). A small increase was also noted for reports of aspartate transaminase (AST) 
increased (14 events from 12 patients and 10 events from 10 patients were reported from SB2 and EU Remicade 
treatment groups, respectively). Two patients from each treatment group showed a prolonged ALT elevation, 
and one patient in the EU Remicade treatment group showed a prolonged AST elevation. 
In order to review any effects on liver function relative to hepatobiliary dysfunctions, the adverse events in 
hepatobiliary system organ class were compared between the SB2 and the EU Remicade treatment groups. No 
numerical imbalance was observed as six AEs from five patients were reported in each treatment group. 
Safety results in study SB2-G11-NHV 
A total of 124 TEAEs was reported in 71 (44.7%) subjects. 50 TEAEs were reported from 27 (50.9%) subjects 
following SB2 administration, 36 TEAEs were reported from 21 (39.6%) subjects after EU sourced Remicade 
administration, and 38 TEAEs were reported from 23 (43.4%) subjects after US sourced Remicade 
administration. All reported TEAEs were of mild or moderate severity, with the majority of reported TEAEs being 
of mild severity. 
The most frequent TEAEs across the 3 treatment groups were nasopharyngitis and headache. There were no 
marked differences between SB2 and reference IPs.  
There were no deaths or discontinuation due to AEs during the study. 
The overall incidence of IP-related TEAEs in was 47.2% (25/53) and 26.4% (14/53) in subjects treated with SB2 
and EU Remicade, respectively. The number of IP-related TEAEs reported by more than one subject in either the 
SB2 or the EU Remicade treatment group is presented in Table 45. 
Table 42. IP-related TEAEs experienced by more than 1 subject in study SB2-G11-NHV 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 65/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
No studies in special populations were submitted. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In accordance with the EMA biosimilar guideline (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005), no further specific studies 
on the potential impact of drug interactions were submitted with SB2. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data were submitted. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Most available comparative safety data of Flixabi (SB2) are derived from the trial in RA (SB2-G31-RA) involving 
290 patients exposed to Flixabi, out of whom 246 (84.5%) completed 30 weeks (time of primary endpoint). A 
comparable number of patients were exposed to EU Remicade.  
Additionally 53 patients received one dose of Flixabi in a PK trial in healthy volunteers (SB2-G11-NHV) which can 
however contribute in the evaluation of short term safety. A higher number of IP-related TEAEs was observed in 
subjects treated with SB2 compared to EU Remicade. However, this imbalance could not be attributed to a 
specific safety concern and was due to single case reports of some events. There was no severe case of TEAE 
occurrence and the majority of the IP-related TEAEs were transient and self-limiting. Overall, results from this 
study demonstrated that the safety profile of a single dose of infliximab in healthy subjects was comparable 
between SB2 and EU sourced Remicade. 
In the trial in the RA patients, the type and incidence of ADRs to the test and reference products appeared 
overall similar and in line with those expected on the basis of the Remicade SmPC. 
Furthermore, the incidences of TEAEs and SAEs were comparable between SB2 and EU Remicade. 
Most of the TEAEs reported were mild to moderate in intensity and the number of TEAEs that was considered to 
be related to IP was comparable between the SB2 and the EU Remicade treatment group. 
There was a slight increased trend in the less mild (26.2% vs 31.4%) and more severe (8.6% vs 6.8%) TEAEs 
in the SB2 group compared to EU Remicade. However, the TEAEs that led to IP discontinuation, were balanced 
between the SB2 and EU Remicade Groups (30 (10.3%) vs 24 (8.2%), respectively). 
When analysing the reasons for discontinuation no clear pattern or differences between the two groups could be 
detected. Importantly, the cases of infections, one of the most frequently reported serious risks associated with 
infliximab use, were evenly distributed between the two treatment groups.  
With lab values, the only marked difference remaining was an increase in alanine amino transferase and to a 
lesser extent aspartate aminotransferase in the SB2 arm (7.9% and 3.1%) compared to the Remicade arm 
4.1% and 3.4%). However, most of the liver enzyme elevations were transient, and there was no difference in 
prolonged enzyme elevation between the SB2 and the EU Remicade treatment groups. 
Serious infections occurred in 12 (4.1%) subjects in the SB2 treatment group and 7 (2.4%) subjects in the 
Remicade treatment group. However the difference was considered most likely to be a chance finding given the 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 66/86 
  
  
 
small overall number of cases. This was further supported by the fact that a similar number of patients 
developed latent tuberculosis (SB2 19 patients (6.6%) and Remicade 21 patients (7.2%) during follow up which 
would suggest that the level of risk between the two treatments is similar. 
Malignancies were reported for 2 subjects in the SB2 treatment group (1 with breast cancer, 1 with prostate 
cancer). No cases of malignant neoplasms were reported in the EU Remicade treatment group. The small 
number of reported cases did not suggest a difference with regards to the risk of malignancy between the two 
treatments.  
There was one death reported from the EU Remicade treatment group, which was considered not related to the 
IP. 
A slightly (numerically) higher number of patients in the SB2 arm developed ADAs compared to those treated 
with EU Remicade. A sub-group analysis in ADA positive patients was performed to evaluate the impact of the 
observed increased immunogenicity. The incidence of TEAE was slightly lower in the SB2 treatment group than 
the EU Remicade treatment group (60.2% vs. 72.6%, respectively) in ADA-negative subgroup, while the 
incidence of TEAE was comparable (62.6% vs. 60.1%, respectively) in ADA-positive subgroup. 
The incidence of serious TEAE up to Week 54 ADA status was also comparable between the SB2 and the EU 
Remicade treatment groups.  
Hypersensitivity and infusion related reactions which are considered to be influenced by immunogenicity were 
specifically analysed by ADA status. ADA-positive subgroup had a higher incidence of hypersensitivity and/or 
infusion related reactions compared with the ADA-negative subgroup, which is consistent with the information in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics of Remicade. The incidence within each ADA subgroup was considered 
to be comparable between the two treatment groups. 
The incidence of RA aggravation was more prevalent in ADA negative subgroup than ADA positive subgroup in 
both treatment groups (7.4 vs. 6.7%) in SB2 group; 4.8 vs. 3.0% in EU Remicade group. The incidence of RA as 
an TEAE was slightly higher in the SB2 treatment group than the EU Remicade treatment group in both 
ADA-negative and ADA-positive subgroups. This could be explained by the overall higher incidence of RA as a 
TEAE in the SB2 treatment group. No difference was observed between the two treatment groups in distribution 
of severity of RA aggravation and ADA status. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The size of the safety database and duration of exposure is considered appropriate for the evaluation of the 
general safety profile of SB2. The safety profile was consistent with previous studies in these types of study 
populations of RA patients and healthy volunteers and this class of drugs.  
The incidence, severity and nature of reported TEAEs did not suggest any major safety concerns. The TEAEs 
were generally comparable between SB2 and Remicade treatment groups; the higher incidence of anti-drug 
antibodies in the SB2 treated patients compared to those treated with EU Remicade and its potential impact on 
the safety profile of SB2 was extensively analysed but did not reveal any differences compared to Remicade. 
In conclusion, the CHMP concluded that the safety profile for SB2 is acceptable and not different to that of 
Remicade.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 67/86 
  
  
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 2.2 is acceptable. The PRAC endorsed PRAC 
Rapporteur assessment report is attached. 
The CHMP requested the addition of immunogenicity as a potential risk in the risk management plan and a 
category 3 study to address this concern in AS and CD patients. As a consequence, the CHMP endorsed the Risk 
Management Plan version 3.0 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
HBV reactivation 
CHF 
Opportunistic infections 
Serious infections including sepsis (excluding opportunistic infections and TB) 
TB 
Serum sickness (delayed hypersensitivity reactions) 
Haematologic reactions 
SLE/lupus like syndrome 
Demyelinating disorders 
Lymphoma (excluding HSTCL) 
Hepatobiliary events 
HSTCL 
Intestinal or perianal abscess (in CD) 
Serious infusion reactions during a re-induction regimen following disease flare 
Sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like reactions 
Paediatric malignancy 
Leukaemia 
Acute hypersensitivity reaction (including anaphylactic shock) 
Melanoma 
Merkel cell carcinoma 
BCG breakthrough infection and agranulocytosis in infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi 
Cervical cancer 
Important potential risks 
Malignancy (excluding lymphoma, HSTCL, paediatric malignancy, leukaemia, 
melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, cervical cancer) 
Colon carcinoma/dysplasia (in UC) 
Skin cancer (excluding melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma) 
Exposure during pregnancy 
Infusion reaction associated with shortened infusion duration  
Immunogenicity 
Missing information 
Long-term safety in adult patients with UC, PsA, or psoriasis 
Long-term safety in children with CD and UC 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 68/86 
  
  
Long-term safety in children 
Safety in very young children (< 6 years) 
Use of infliximab during lactation 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Week 30 CSR: Feb 
2015 (completed) 
Week 54 CSR: Jul 
2015 (completed) 
Week 78 CSR: 
2016 3Q (planned) 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
SB2-G31-RA 
A randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group, 
multicentre clinical 
study to evaluate 
the efficacy, safety, 
PK and 
immunogenicity of 
Flixabi compared to 
Remicade® in 
subjects with 
moderate to severe 
RA despite MTX 
therapy 
addressed 
started)  
Started 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
and TB), TB, serum 
sickness (delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, leukaemia, 
acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, malignancy 
(excluding lymphoma, 
HSTCL, paediatric 
malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma), 
skin cancer (excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma), 
exposure during 
pregnancy 
BSRBR-RA  
Category 3 
An established 
nationwide register 
for patients with 
rheumatological 
disorders treated 
with biologic 
agents. The 
register is designed 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
and TB), TB, serum 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Planned for 2017 
1Q 
Final report 
planned for 2027 
Annual interim 
reports will be 
submitted during 
Page 69/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
as a national 
prospective study 
whose primary 
purpose is to 
assess long-term 
toxicity from the 
use of these agents 
in routine practice. 
ARTIS 
Category 3 
A national 
prospective, 
observational, 
uncontrolled cohort 
study whose 
objectives are to 
evaluate the risk of 
selected AEs in RA, 
JIA, and other 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
sickness (delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, leukaemia, 
acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, BCG 
breakthrough infection 
and agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi, 
cervical cancer,  
malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer), skin 
cancer (excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma), 
exposure during 
pregnancy, infusion 
reaction associated 
with shortened infusion 
duration, 
immunogenicity, use of 
infliximab during 
lactation 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
and TB), TB, serum 
sickness (delayed 
Planned for 2017 
1Q 
Final report 
planned for 2027 
Annual interim 
reports will be 
submitted during 
Page 70/86 
  
  
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
rheumatic disease 
patients treated 
with infliximab. 
UK IBD 
Category 3 
1. Facilitate 
continuous 
improvement in 
IBD patient care 
and access to care 
across the UK 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, leukaemia, 
acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, BCG 
breakthrough infection 
and agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi, 
cervical cancer,  
malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer), skin 
cancer (excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma), 
exposure during 
pregnancy, infusion 
reaction associated 
with shortened infusion 
duration, 
immunogenicity, 
long-term safety in 
adult patients with UC, 
PsA, or psoriasis, use of 
infliximab during 
lactation 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
Planned for 2017 
1Q 
Final report 
planned for 2027  
Annual interim 
Page 71/86 
  
  
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
reports will be 
submitted during 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
2. Improve 
understanding of 
long term 
outcomes for IBD 
patients from care 
3. Support IBD 
research 
and TB), TB, serum 
sickness (delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, intestinal or 
perianal abscess (in 
CD), serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, paediatric 
malignancy,  
leukaemia, acute 
hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, BCG 
breakthrough infection 
and agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi, 
cervical cancer,  
malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer), colon 
carcinoma/dysplasia 
(in UC), skin 
cancer(excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma) , 
exposure during 
pregnancy, infusion 
reaction associated 
with shortened infusion 
duration, 
immunogenicity, 
long-term safety in 
adult patients with UC, 
PsA, or psoriasis, 
long-term safety in 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 72/86 
  
  
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Planned for 2017 
1Q 
Final report 
planned for 2027  
Annual interim 
reports will be 
submitted during 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
RABBIT 
Category 3 
A prospective, 
observational 
cohort study whose 
objectives are to 
evaluate the 
long-term 
effectiveness, 
safety, and costs 
associated with 
tumour necrosis 
factor-inhibitor 
therapies in the 
treatment of RA 
and to compare 
this to a cohort of 
RA patients who 
are treated with 
non-biologic 
DMARDs 
children with CD and 
UC, long-term safety in 
children, use of 
infliximab during 
lactation 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
and TB), TB, serum 
sickness (delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, leukaemia, 
acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, BCG 
breakthrough infection 
and agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi, 
cervical cancer,  
malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer), skin 
cancer (excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma), 
exposure during 
pregnancy, infusion 
reaction associated 
with shortened infusion 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 73/86 
  
  
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Planned for 2017 
1Q 
Final report 
planned for 2027  
Annual interim 
reports will be 
submitted during 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
Spanish Registry of 
Adverse Events of 
Biological 
Therapies 
(BIOBADASER) 
Category 3 
duration, 
immunogenicity, use of 
infliximab during 
lactation 
HBV reactivation, 
congestive heart 
failure, opportunistic 
infections, serious 
infections including 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic infections 
and TB), TB, serum 
sickness (delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions), 
haematologic 
reactions, SLE /lupus 
like syndrome, 
demyelinating 
disorders, lymphoma 
(excluding HSTCL), 
hepatobiliary events, 
HSTCL, serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like 
reactions, leukaemia, 
acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock), 
melanoma, Merkel cell 
carcinoma, BCG 
breakthrough infection 
and agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi, 
cervical cancer,  
malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric malignancy, 
leukaemia, melanoma, 
Merkel cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer), skin 
cancer (excluding 
melanoma and Merkel 
cell carcinoma), 
exposure during 
pregnancy, infusion 
reaction associated 
with shortened infusion 
duration, 
1. To identify 
relevant adverse 
events occurring 
during treatment of 
rheumatic diseases 
with biological 
therapies, and to 
estimate the 
frequency of their 
occurrence 
2. To identify 
unexpected 
adverse events 
3. To identify 
relevant adverse 
events that occur 
following the 
suspension of the 
treatment 
4. To estimate the 
relative risk of 
occurrence of 
adverse events 
with biological 
therapies in 
patients with RA 
compared to those 
not exposed to 
these treatments  
5. To identify risk 
factors for suffering 
adverse reactions 
with these 
treatments 
6. To evaluate, 
under 
non-experimental 
conditions, the 
treatment duration 
before the 
biological 
medications had 
been suspended in 
patients with 
rheumatic 
diseases, as well as 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 74/86 
  
  
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status (planned, 
Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
started)  
the reasons for the 
interruption of the 
treatment 
immunogenicity, 
long-term safety in 
adult patients with UC, 
PsA, or psoriasis, use of 
infliximab during 
lactation 
Prospective 
observational 
cohort study of 
Flixabi in AS and 
CD for 2 years 
(tentative title) 
To observe safety, 
efficacy and 
immunogenicity of 
Flixabi with active 
comparator 
(Remicade®) in AS 
and CD 
Immunogenicity 
Planned 
Serum sickness 
(delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions)  
Serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare 
Acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock) 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Final (to be 
determined) 
Annual interim 
reports will be 
submitted during 
the study period 
and until 
submission of the 
final report. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
HBV reactivation 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Patient Alert Card 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
CHF 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Patient Alert Card 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Opportunistic 
infections 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
Serious infections and 
sepsis (excluding 
opportunistic 
infections and TB) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Alert Card 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Patient Alert Card 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
TB 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Patient Alert Card 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 75/86 
  
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Serum sickness 
(delayed 
hypersensitivity 
reactions) 
Haematologic 
reactions 
SLE/lupus-like 
syndrome 
Demyelinating 
disorders 
Lymphoma (excluding 
HSTCL) 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Hepatobiliary events 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
HSTCL 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Intestinal or perianal 
abscess (in CD) 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Serious infusion 
reactions during a 
re-induction regimen 
following disease flare 
Sarcoidosis or 
sarcoid-like reactions 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 76/86 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Paediatric malignancy  Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Leukaemia 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Acute hypersensitivity 
reaction (including 
anaphylactic shock) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Melanoma 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Merkel cell carcinoma  Proposed text in SmPC: 
SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
BCG breakthrough 
infection and 
agranulocytosis in 
infants with in utero 
exposure to Flixabi 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Patient alert card 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Cervical cancer 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Educational materials for 
HCPs 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
Patient Alert Card 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for 
use 
Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Page 77/86 
Malignancy 
(excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, 
paediatric 
malignancy, 
leukaemia, 
melanoma, Merkel 
cell carcinoma, 
cervical cancer) 
Colon 
carcinoma/dysplasia 
(in UC) 
Skin cancer 
(excluding melanoma 
and Merkel cell 
carcinoma) 
Exposure during 
pregnancy 
Infusion reaction 
associated with 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
shortened infusion 
duration 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Immunogenicity 
None proposed 
Long-term safety in 
adult patients with 
UC, PsA, or psoriasis 
Long-term safety in 
children with CD and 
UC 
Long-term safety in 
children 
None proposed. 
The SmPC presents available data in paediatric CD and 
UC patients. As soon as additional information on 
long-term-safety in children with CD and UC is 
available, it will be analysed and included in the 
labelling. 
The SmPC describes that infliximab is not indicated in 
paediatric indications other than paediatric CD and UC 
because of insufficient information on safety and 
efficacy. As soon as additional information on long-term 
safety in children is available, it will be analysed and 
included in the labelling. 
None proposed 
None proposed 
None proposed  
None proposed 
Safety in very young 
children (< 6 years) 
Use of infliximab 
during lactation 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None proposed 
Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Flixabi (Infliximab) is included in the additional 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 78/86 
  
  
 
 
monitoring list as a new biological product.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
In the development of a biosimilar product, there is no requirement to demonstrate benefit to the patient per se 
as this has been shown for the reference product. The benefits and risks are inferred from the similarity of the 
test product to the reference product in terms of quality, efficacy and safety. 
The purpose of a biosimilar application is to demonstrate similarity to the reference product. 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
From a quality perspective the Applicant provided a comprehensive characterisation of Flixabi with respect to 
relevant structural, physicochemical and biological features of infliximab. Prior to side-by-side characterisation 
studies, characterisation was performed on multiple batches of EU Remicade to establish the similarity ranges. 
The  physicochemical  and  biological  properties  of  Flixabi  are  considered  similar  to  those  of  Remicade.  Minor 
differences were observed in glycosylation pattern (%Afucose, %High Mannose, %charged variants), %high 
molecular weight impurity level, however the applicant provided sufficient justification that these changes would 
have no impact on efficacy and safety when comparing Flixabi with Remicade. 
From a non-clinical perspective, similarity between Flixabi and EU Remicade was considered established with 
regards  to  the  FcγRIa  and  FcγRIIIb  binding  activity.  Some  small  differences  were  noted  in  the  FcγRIIa-, 
FcγRIIb-, and FcγRIIIa-binding activity, which was slightly higher for Flixabi compared to that of EU Remicade. 
Nevertheless,  these  differences  did  not  translate  into  differences  outside  the  similarity  range  in  functional 
assays such as those measuring ADCC activity.  
From a clinical perspective, available data support biosimilarity between Flixabi and Remicade based on: 
•  Comparable pharmacokinetic which was demonstrated in healthy volunteers, whereby the point 
estimate was close to unity and the 90%CI for the ratio of means of AUCinf being well within the 
prespecified and accepted margins. Additional supportive evidence was provided from the study in RA 
patients. 
• 
Primary efficacy analysis in RA which demonstrated that the ACR20 response rate at Week 30 was 
equivalent in the Flixabi and Remicade treatment groups. The proportion of subjects achieving ACR20 
response at Week 30 was 64.1% (148/231) and 66.0% (163/247) in the Flixabi and Remicade 
treatment groups, respectively. The adjusted rate difference was -1.88% (95%CI -10.26; 6.51). 
Furthermore, the performed sensitivity analyses, analysis of secondary endpoints such as ACR 50, ACR 
70, DAS28 Score at week 30 and the overall 54 week efficacy data support biosimilarity with Flixabi 
versus Remicade with all parameters within the pre-specified similarity margin. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 79/86 
  
  
 
Rates of ADA positivity were 5- to 6-fold higher in the RA trial under discussion for both Remicade and Flixabi 
compared to the historical Remicade data reflecting the much increased sensitivity of the current assay. ADA 
rates were higher in the Flixabi cohort by 5-12% at the individual time points of determination (with about 50% 
of patients in the Flixabi cohort determined ADA positive).  
Despite these numerical differences observed, there was no meaningful effect on any of the efficacy parameters 
analysed. Sub-group analyses did not reveal differences of clinical relevance in either ADA positive or ADA 
negative subjects when comparing Flixabi and Remicade cohorts.  The applicant has provided evidence that a 
similar percentage of subjects receiving Flixabi and Remicade required higher doses of study drug irrespective 
of ADA status, which provides further evidence that no clinically relevant impact on efficacy was noted by 
treating physicians.  
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
Safety data were provided from the clinical studies in healthy volunteers and patients with RA. The safety data 
set comprised all subjects who received at least one dose of the study drug and was considered sufficient to 
adequately compare the safety profiles of Flixabi and Remicade.   
The analysis up to week 54 conformed that the adverse event profile was comparable between Flixabi and 
EU-Remicade. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The numerically higher incidence of ADA in Flixabi treated patients was not associated with an unfavourable 
safety profile compared to Remicade.  In particular, adverse events which are known to be associated with ADAs 
such as hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions were not increased with Flixabi compared to Remicade.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The Applicant provided a thorough comparative exercise in terms of quality, efficacy and safety parameters in 
line with EU guidance to demonstrate biosimilarity between Flixabi and EU-Remicade.  
Benefit-risk balance 
For a biosimilar, the benefit-risk conclusion is based on the totality of evidence collected from the quality, 
non-clinical, and clinical comparability exercise. 
As expected for a biosimilar, small differences in quality attributes were detected but sufficient evidence was 
provided that these do not to translate in meaningful differences in the clinical use of Flixabi. Pharmacokinetic 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 80/86 
  
  
 
 
equivalence between Flixabi and EU-Remicade was demonstrated in healthy volunteers. Similar efficacy and 
safety was established in a clinical trial in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. All clinical efficacy measures, i.e. 
primary (ACR 20) and secondary (ACR 50, 70, DAS28) at week 30 and 54 were within the pre-specified limits. 
A numerical difference of ADA positivity did not translate into a relevant difference in efficacy. No differences 
were observed in the safety profile of Flixabi and Remicade. 
Therefore, biosimilarity between Flixabi and EU Remicade has been established and the benefit-risk of Flixabi is 
considered positive based on the submitted data. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
In accordance with the EU guidelines, the development of Flixabi comprised similarity exercises with comparison 
of  the  structural  characteristics,  physicochemical  properties  and  biological  activities  between  Flixabi  and 
Remicade, followed by in vivo similarity studies. 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  non-clinical  studies  confirmed  the  similarity  of  Flixabi  and  Remicade  in  PK  and  in 
TNF-α-related PD. Considering the mode of action of infliximab, the small differences observed in these studies 
were not considered to have any impact on the efficacy/safety profile of Flixabi. 
Furthermore, in a sensitive clinical model (RA), the efficacy and safety of Flixabi was also shown to be similar to 
that of Remicade. 
The historically reported rates of ADA formation for Remicade have been around 8% in patients with RA treated 
concomitantly with MTX, the rates observed in both Remicade and Flixabi treated patients in the submitted RA 
trial were considerably higher (5 to 6 fold). Thus, it can be concluded that the ADA assay used for this application 
has a profoundly increased sensitivity. It also follows that an increased sensitivity of the laboratory 
determination of ADA formation and therefore an increase in “immunogenicity” per se does not necessarily 
translate into a clinically relevant effect. Any observed difference in ADA formation rate therefore has to be 
judged in the context of clinical data observed in a trial and in this instance did not translate in any meaningful 
differences between Flixabi and Remicade. 
For  indications  for  which  pathogenesis  appears  to  be  dominated  by  soluble  TNF-α  (ankylosing  spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis) extrapolation is supported by the TNF-α binding assay and the cell-based 
assay (TNF-α neutralisation assay by NF-κB reporter gene).  
With respect to the membrane bound TNF-α, it has been reported that at least four distinct mechanisms are 
involved in the inhibition of TNF-α-bearing cells by anti-TNF agents: (i) inhibition of tmTNF-α-mediated effector 
functions, (ii) destruction of TNF-α-bearing cells by CDC, (iii) destruction of TNF-α-bearing cells by ADCC and 
(iv) destruction of TNF-α-bearing cells by outside-to-inside signal (reverse signalling). Transmembrane-TNF-α 
binding assays, but also Fc receptor binding assays, CDC, ADCC and apoptosis assays were performed. Overall, 
these results showed that Flixabi is similar to the reference product in terms of tmTNF-α related activities. 
It has been described that the rate of ADA positivity is amongst other factors dependent on the population, dose, 
dose interruptions and co-medication. However, there is no reason to believe that the ADA formation would be 
affected differentially by these factors for molecules that are considered highly similar such as Flixabi and 
Remicade. Although, it may be argued that methotrexate used in the clinical trial may have reduced the immune 
response, it should be noted that anti-drug antibody development is nevertheless reportedly highest in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis compared to other licensed indications of Remicade. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 81/86 
  
  
Therefore, with the totality of evidence, the CHMP considered that it was justifiable to extrapolate the equivalent 
clinical efficacy and the comparable safety profile from the Flixabi study in RA patients to all of the indications 
where Remicade has been approved. 
The applicant intends to claim the same therapeutic indications for the biosimilar Flixabi as those granted for 
Remicade in the EU. Even though available data demonstrate that the numerically higher rate of ADA in Flixabi 
treated patients compared to Remicade as measured by the assays employed do not have an effect on the safety 
and efficacy in patients with RA, additional long-term data will be provided through the observational study in 
patients with ankylosing spondylitis and Crohn’s disease.  
Divergent positions to the majority recommendation are appended to this report. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by majority decision that 
the risk-benefit balance of Flixabi in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, and plaque psoriasis in adult patients and Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis in adults and in 
children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 year is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 82/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to launch in each Member State, the MAH shall agree the final educational material with the competent 
authority in that Member State, consisting of information provided to all healthcare professionals expected to 
prescribe the product. 
The healthcare professional’s educational material should contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The risk of opportunistic infections and tuberculosis (TB) in patients treated with Flixabi. 
The need to assess the risk of TB in patients prior to treating with Flixabi.  
The risk of acute hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic shock) and delayed hypersensitivity 
reactions.  
 The risk of lymphoma, melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, and other malignancies.  
The risk of disseminated BCG infection after BCG vaccination of infants up to 6 months of age who were 
exposed in utero to infliximab.  
The patient alert card, which is to be given to patients using Flixabi. 
Prescribers of Flixabi for paediatric Crohn’s disease and paediatric ulcerative colitis shall additionally be made 
aware:  
• 
That children may be at increased risk of developing infections and that their immunisations need to be 
up-to-date.  
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
• 
None. 
Divergent positions to the majority recommendation are appended to this report. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 83/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
DIVERGENT POSITIONS dated 1 April 2016  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 84/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned members of the CHMP did not agree with the CHMP’s positive opinion recommending the 
granting of a marketing authorisation of Flixabi as a biosimilar to Remicade and in the indications licensed to 
Remicade. 
The reason for the divergent opinion was the following: 
• 
Flixabi  appears  to  be  associated  with  a  higher  incidence  of  ADA  than  the  originator,  Remicade.  It  is 
acknowledged that it cannot be excluded that the observed difference was a chance finding or a finding 
associated with limitations in the immunogenicity assays that were used. However, an increased incidence 
was  observed  both  in  the  Phase  1  and  the  Phase  3  studies,  and  it  has  not  been  substantiated  that  the 
difference was an artefact due to – for example – problems with the interpretation with the immunogenicity 
assays that were used. 
• 
In the Phase 3 trial, which was conducted in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, the efficacy of Flixabi, whilst 
meeting the pre-specified equivalence margins, was consistently, although not universally, estimated to be 
lower  than  that  of  Remicade.  It  is  not  possible  with  reasonable  certainty  to  exclude  that  the  estimated 
reduction in efficacy of Flixabi was the result of the higher incidence of ADA. In this regard, it is noteworthy 
that the Phase 3 study showed that the efficacy, regardless of treatment group, was significantly lower in 
ADA positive patients than in ADA negative patients. 
•  Since the patients with rheumatoid arthritis investigated in the Phase 3 trial are treated concomitantly with 
immunomodulator therapy, they may exhibit less immunogenicity than patients in other infliximab-licensed 
indications. The consequences of any difference on ADA incidence, and consequently the impact on efficacy 
in these indications are unclear. 
• 
• 
It is considered that the uncertainties outlined above should be resolved by the Applicant before licensing. 
The  proposal  by  the  Applicant  to  resolve  the  concerns  related  to  immunogenicity  in  the  post-marketing 
setting by initiating a prospective observational cohort study in the indications of ankylosing spondylitis and 
Crohn’s disease is considered inadequate. In addition, it is questionable to what extent a non-randomised, 
observational study can provide data that will effectively address the uncertainties. 
In conclusion, the undersigned CHMP members consider the benefit-risk balance of Flixabi to be negative since 
biosimilarity to Remicade has not been established. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 85/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIVERGENT POSITIONS dated 1 April 2016 
Flixabi EMEA/H/C/004020/0000 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
Agnes Gyurasics (HU) 
Daniel Brasseur (BE) 
Daniela Melchiorri (IT) 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
Greg Markey (UK) 
Jana Schweigertova (SK) 
Jens Heisterberg (DK) 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
Karsten Bruins Slot (NO) 
Koenraad Norga (COM) 
Kristina Dunder (SE) 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
Nevenka Trsinar (SI) 
Outi Maki-Ikola (FI) 
Pieter de Graeff (NL) 
………………………………………… 
………………………………………… 
Fatima Ventura (PT) 
Robert Hemmings (COM) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/272283/2016 
Page 86/86 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
