EMA/169326/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004993 
Fluad Tetra (influenza vaccine (surface antigen, 
inactivated, adjuvanted)) 
An overview of Fluad Tetra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fluad Tetra and what is it used for? 
Fluad Tetra is a vaccine used to protect people aged from 65 years against influenza (flu). 
Flu is caused mainly by two types of influenza virus, known as influenza A and B. Each of these 
circulate as different strains, which change over time. 
Fluad Tetra will contain proteins from four different inactivated influenza A and B virus strains (two 
strains of type A influenza virus of the subtypes H1N1 and H3N2 and two type B strains). They are 
chosen according to the official recommendation for the annual flu season. 
The vaccine also contains an adjuvant, which helps to improve the vaccine's effectiveness. The viruses 
used for producing Fluad Tetra are grown in fertilized hens’ eggs. 
How is Fluad Tetra used? 
Fluad Tetra is available as an injection in a pre-filled syringe. The recommended dose is a single 
injection (of 0.5 ml) into a muscle, preferably in the upper arm. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription and it should be used according to official 
recommendations. 
For more information about using Fluad Tetra, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Fluad Tetra work? 
Fluad Tetra is a vaccine. Vaccines work by preparing the immune system (the body’s natural defences) 
to defend the body against a specific disease. Fluad Tetra contains small amounts of proteins of 
influenza viruses. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the proteins in 
the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. If the person then comes into contact with 
the virus, these antibodies, together with other components of the immune system, will be able to 
fight off the virus more effectively and so help to protect the person against the flu. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Each year, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends which flu strains should be included in 
flu vaccines for the upcoming flu season in the northern hemisphere. The composition of Fluad Tetra 
will be updated annually according to WHO and EU recommendations. 
What benefits of Fluad Tetra have been shown in studies? 
Studies in people aged 65 years or more investigated the effectiveness of Fluad Tetra at triggering the 
production of protective antibodies against flu. 
A study, involving over 7,000 people, found that antibody levels were generally higher when an 
adjuvant was included in the vaccine. The study compared an influenza vaccine that did not contain an 
adjuvant with one that contained the same adjuvant as Fluad Tetra. Both vaccines contained three of 
the four virus strains covered by Fluad Tetra.  
Another study, involving 1,776 people, found that after 22 days the level of antibodies resulting from 
Fluad Tetra vaccination were similar to those resulting from two other vaccines, each containing both 
influenza A virus strains and either one of the influenza B virus strains. All vaccines contained the same 
adjuvant. 
The company also presented information on the use of Fluad Tetra in children aged between 6 months 
and 6 years, but it withdrew its application for this use. Results from these studies did not clearly show 
that Fluad Tetra was sufficiently effective for protecting children against influenza. 
What are the risks associated with Fluad Tetra? 
The most common side effects with Fluad Tetra (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people), which 
generally last up to 3 days, are pain at the injection site, tiredness and headache. 
Fluad Tetra must not be used in people allergic to the active substances or any of the other ingredients 
or to the following substances which may be present in the vaccine in trace amounts: ovalbumin (egg 
protein), the antibiotics kanamycin and neomycin, formaldehyde, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide or 
hydrocortisone.   
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Fluad Tetra, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fluad Tetra authorised in the EU? 
In patients aged 65 years and over, Fluad Tetra stimulates a higher level of antibody production than 
influenza vaccines that do not contain an adjuvant. Because Fluad Tetra includes two influenza B virus 
strains, it can give broader protection than previous vaccines that contained only one strain. Side 
effects of Fluad Tetra are mostly mild to moderate and last only a short time. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Fluad Tetra’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fluad Tetra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fluad Tetra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fluad Tetra are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Fluad Tetra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Fluad Tetra (influenza vaccine (surface antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted))  
EMA/169326/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Fluad Tetra 
Fluad Tetra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 May 2020. 
Further information on Fluad Tetra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fluad-tetra.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2020. 
Fluad Tetra (influenza vaccine (surface antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted))  
EMA/169326/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
