EMA/510023/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004814 
Flucelvax Tetra (influenza vaccine [surface antigen 
inactivated prepared in cell cultures]) 
An overview of Flucelvax Tetra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Flucelvax Tetra and what is it used for? 
Flucelvax Tetra is a vaccine used to protect adults and children from 2 years of age against influenza 
(flu).  
Influenza is mainly caused by two kinds of influenza virus, known as influenza A and B. Each of these 
circulate as different strains and subtypes, which change over time.  
Flucelvax Tetra contains proteins from four different inactivated influenza A and B virus strains (type 
A-H1N1, type A-H3N2 and two type B strains), chosen based on the official recommendation for the 
annual flu season.  
How is Flucelvax Tetra used?  
Flucelvax Tetra is available as an injection in a pre-filled syringe. The recommended dose is one single 
injection into a muscle (0.5 ml). A second dose should be given at least 4 weeks later to children less 
than 9 years of age who have not been previously vaccinated against flu. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used according to official 
recommendations. 
For more information about using Flucelvax Tetra, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Flucelvax Tetra work? 
Flucelvax Tetra is a vaccine. Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences) how to defend itself against a disease. Flucelvax Tetra contains proteins from the surface of 
four different strains of flu virus. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system will treat the virus proteins as ‘foreign’ and 
makes defences against them. If, later on, the vaccinated person comes into contact with the virus, 
the immune system will recognise the virus proteins and be prepared to attack it. This will help to 
protect against the disease caused by the virus. 
Each year, the World Health Organization (WHO) makes recommendations on which flu strains should 
be included in vaccines for the upcoming flu season in the northern hemisphere. The composition of 
Flucelvax Tetra will be updated annually according to WHO and EU recommendations. Historically, 
seasonal flu vaccines have contained three strains of flu: one influenza A-H1N1 virus, one influenza A-
H3N2 virus, and one influenza B virus. Flucelvax Tetra includes an additional B virus strain. 
What benefits of Flucelvax Tetra have been shown in studies? 
Flucelvax Tetra was effective in adults and children above 2 years of age.  
Two main studies in over 5,000 people from 4 years of age found that Flucelvax Tetra stimulated an 
immune response against influenza that was similar to that of two comparator vaccines, leading to 
similar levels of protective antibodies in people from 9 years of age. One of the comparator vaccines 
was Optaflu, a previously authorised vaccine which contains three of the four strains of influenza in 
Flucelvax Tetra and whose effectiveness in preventing flu was well established. The other vaccine is 
based on Optaflu but contains the other B strain of Flucelvax Tetra. Together the comparator vaccines 
contain the four strains of influenza in Flucelvax Tetra. 
In children aged from 2 to less than 18 years of age, Flucelvax Tetra was found to reduce the risk of 
getting flu. In a study in over 4,500 children, compared to a non-influenza vaccine, Flucelvax Tetra 
reduced the cases of flu: 7.8% of children vaccinated with Flucelvax Tetra got flu compared with 
16.2% of those given the non-influenza vaccine.  
What are the risks associated with Flucelvax Tetra? 
The most common side effects with Flucelvax Tetra in adults and children 2 years of age and above 
(which may affect more than 1 in 10 people, depending on age) are pain at the injection site, 
tenderness at the injection site, reddening of the skin, bruising and hardening at the injection site, 
headache, tiredness, irritability, change in eating habits or loss of appetite and muscle pain.   
Flucelvax Tetra must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the components 
of the vaccine, or to any substances found at trace (very low) levels in the vaccine. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Flucelvax Tetra, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Flucelvax Tetra authorised in the EU? 
Flucelvax Tetra is effective at stimulating immune responses against the strains included in the vaccine 
and preventing influenza illness in adults and children from 2 years of age. The inclusion of two 
influenza B strains in Flucelvax Tetra can provide a broader protection against influenza B. In terms of 
safety, side effects with Flucelvax Tetra are similar to those observed with vaccines containing three 
influenza strains and are mostly mild to moderate in severity. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Flucelvax Tetra’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Flucelvax Tetra (influenza vaccine [surface antigen inactivated prepared in cell 
cultures])  
EMA/510023/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Flucelvax Tetra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Flucelvax Tetra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Flucelvax Tetra are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Flucelvax Tetra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Flucelvax Tetra 
Flucelvax Tetra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 December 2018. 
Further information on Flucelvax Tetra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/flucelvax-tetra 
This overview was last updated in 10-2020.  
Flucelvax Tetra (influenza vaccine [surface antigen inactivated prepared in cell 
cultures])  
EMA/510023/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
