Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for QIVc. The RMP details important risks 
of QIVc, how those risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about 
QIVc’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
QIVc’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  insert  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how QIVc should be used.  
It  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment 
Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of QIVc’s RMP.  
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
QIVc is authorised for prophylaxis of influenza for adults and children of 2 years of age and older. 
It contains Quadrivalent Influenza vaccine (surface antigen, inactivated, prepared in cell cultures) 
as the active substance and it is a suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe. It is given by intra-
muscular injection. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  QIVc’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  QIVc’s  EPAR, 
including  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s. 
<https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/flucelvax-tetra>. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks 
Important risks of QIVc together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about QIVc's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of QIVc is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of QIVc are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified  or  potential. Identified risks are concerns for which  there  is  sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of QIVc. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks  
None 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
Safety 
patients 
in 
immunocompromised 
Safety in subjects with underlying 
diseases  
Use in pregnant/breastfeeding 
women 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: None 
Important potential risk: None 
Missing information  
Safety in immunocompromised patients 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
 
 
 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Safety in subjects with underlying diseases 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Use in pregnant/breastfeeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
A Pregnancy Registry (V130_110B) to evaluate 
pregnancy outcomes as well as events of interest 
of  major  congenital  malformations,  preterm 
birth  and  low  birth  weight  among  women 
immunized  as  part  of  routine  care  with  the 
seasonal  cell  culture  quadrivalent 
(QIVc) 
vaccine during pregnancy is ongoing. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
QIVc. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
 
 
