PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Fluenz Tetra. The RMP details 
important risks of Fluenz Tetra, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Fluenz Tetra's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Fluenz Tetra's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Fluenz Tetra should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Fluenz Tetra should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Fluenz Tetra's RMP. 
1  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
FLUENZ TETRA is authorised for Prophylaxis of influenza in children and adolescents from 
24 months to less than 18 years of age. It contains Influenza vaccine (live attenuated, nasal) as 
the active substance and it is given by nasal route of administration, one 0.2-mL dose 
(administered as 0.1 mL per nostril).  
Further information about the evaluation of Fluenz Tetra’s benefits can be found in Fluenz 
Tetra’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002617/hu
man_med_001713.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
2  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of Fluenz Tetra, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Fluenz Tetra's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
1 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
2.1  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Fluenz Tetra are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Fluenz Tetra. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  
There are no important risks or missing information for Fluenz Tetra. 
2.2  Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
2.3  Post-authorisation development plan 
2.3.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligations for Fluenz Tetra. 
2.3.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Fluenz Tetra. 
2 
