19 September 2013 
EMA/586629/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Fluenz Tetra  
Common name: influenza vaccine (live attenuated, nasal) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002617/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Note .......................................................................................................................... 1 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 20 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 23 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 56 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 60 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 60 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................... 65 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 65 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 68 
Assessment report  
EMA/586629/2013 
Page 2/69 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
Attenuated 
Cold-adapted  
Chicken Embryo Kidney cells 
Critical Process Parameter 
Drug Substance 
Drug Product 
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
Fluorescent Focus Assay 
Fluorescent Focus Unit 
Genetically Modified Organism 
Haemagglutinin 
Haemagglutination Inhibition assay 
In-process control 
Key Operating Parameter 
Live attenuated influenza vaccine 
Matrix protein 
Master Donor Virus 
Microneutralisation 
Master Virus Seed 
(att) 
(ca) 
CEK 
CPP 
DS 
DP 
EDTA 
ERA 
FFA 
FFU 
GMO 
HA 
HAI 
IPC 
KOP 
LAIV 
M 
MDV 
MN 
MVS 
NA                                                                Neuraminidase Inhibition assay 
NAI 
NP 
NS 
PA 
PB1 
PB2 
PCV 
PHF 
PhV 
Q/LAIV  
SPF 
TIV 
T/LAIV 
(ts) 
TSE 
(wt) 
Neuraminidase 
Nucleoprotein 
Non-structural protein 
Polymerase acidic protein 
Polymerase basic protein 1 
Polymerase basic protein 2 
Porcine circovirus 
Pooled harvest fluid 
Pharmacovigilance 
Quadrivalent live attenuated influenza vaccine 
Specific Pathogen Free 
Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine 
Trivalent live attenuated influenza virus vaccine 
Temperature-sensitive 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
Wild-type
Assessment report  
EMA/586629/2013 
Page 3/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  Applicant  MedImmune,  LLC  submitted  on  28  September  2012  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Fluenz  Tetra,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The Applicant applied for the following indication: Prophylaxis of influenza in individuals 24 months 
to less than 18 years of age. The use of Fluenz Tetra should be based on official recommendations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The Applicant indicated 
that the live B/Yamagata strain in Fluenz Tetra was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on Applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision on 
the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
The PIP (P/0234/2012) was completed and the PDCO issued a positive opinion on full compliance 
check (EMEA-C-001051-PIP01-10-M03) on 14 June 2013. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No 847/2000, the Applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The Applicant requested the live B/Yamagata strain contained in the above medicinal product to be 
considered as a new active substance in itself, as the Applicant claims that it is not a constituent of 
a product previously authorised within the Union 
Scientific Advice 
The Applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 16 December 2010 
(EMA/CHMP/SAWP/784772/2010). The Scientific Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 4/69 
 
  
  
Licensing status 
Fluenz Tetra has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 29 February 2012 (under the 
name FluMist Quadrivalent). 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturers of the biological active substance 
MedImmune, UK Limited 
Plot 6, Renaissance Way 
Boulevard Industry Park 
Speke 
Liverpool L24 9JW 
United Kingdom 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
MedImmune, UK Limited 
Plot 6, Renaissance Way 
Boulevard Industry Park 
Speke 
Liverpool L24 9JW 
United Kingdom 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Daniel Brasseur   
Co-Rapporteur:  Karsten Bruins Slot 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 28 September 2012. 
•  The procedure started on 24 October 2012.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 January 
2013. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 
January 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 21 February 2013, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the Applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
Applicant on 22 February 2013. 
•  The Applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 May 
2013. 
•  The final reports of the inspections carried out at MedImmune, LLC, 3055 Patrick Henry Drive, 
Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA on 26 April 2013 and at MedImmune, LLC, 297 North Bernardo 
Avenue, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA on 25 April 2013 were issued on 4 June 2013 and 5 
June 2013, respectively. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the Applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 25 June 2013. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 5/69 
 
  
  
 
 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 25 July 2013, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the Applicant. 
•  The Applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 15 August 
2013. 
•  During a meeting of the Vaccine Working Party on 4 September 2013, experts were convened to 
address questions raised by the CHMP. 
•  During the meeting on 19 September 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Fluenz Tetra.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Influenza disease 
Influenza is a highly contagious, acute febrile respiratory disease caused by one of two types of 
influenza viruses: influenza A and influenza B. As the circulating influenza strains may vary annually, 
epidemics occur on a yearly basis. The primary transmission of the disease is respiratory by means of 
large particle droplets. The incubation period generally ranges from 1-4 days, and viral shedding 
usually peaks around the second day of influenza symptoms. Children shed the greatest amount of 
virus and pose the greatest risk for further transmission of influenza into the community. Young 
children may shed virus for several days before the onset of symptoms and can be infectious for more 
than 10 additional days. Thus, infectivity is higher among preschool and school-aged children 
compared to other children and adults. 
Type A influenza strains have been responsible for large epidemics. Since 1977, influenza A/H1N1, 
A/H3N2 and B viruses have circulated globally and have been included in all licensed influenza 
vaccines, as recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). Influenza epidemics of variable 
severity occur annually worldwide in all age groups, typically during the winter months in temperate 
climates.  
These  annual  epidemics  are  thought  to  result  in  3  million  to  5  million  cases  of  severe  illness  and 
approximately 250,000 to 500,000 deaths every year around the world (WHO, 2005).  
Influenza  attack  rates  vary  from  year  to  year  as  do  the  circulating  virus  strains.  The  collaborative 
project  European  Influenza  Surveillance  Scheme  (EISS)  age-specific  incidence  rates  reported  have 
routinely  been  highest  among  those 0-4  and  5-14  years  of  age,  though  large variation  was  observed 
by countries (ECDC, 2007).  
Influenza causes disease in all age groups. The clinical presentation of influenza in school-age children 
and adolescents is similar to that in adults and includes fever, cough, myalgia, headache, sore throat, 
chills tiredness and general malaise.  
Uncomplicated  influenza  illness  in  healthy  individuals  is  generally  a  self-limited  febrile  respiratory 
disease  of  3-7  days’  duration,  sometimes  with  persistence  of  cough  and  malaise  for  several  weeks. 
Influenza  illness  is  characterized  by  the  abrupt  onset  of  signs  and  symptoms  such  as  fever,  myalgia, 
headache, malaise, chills, nonproductive cough, anorexia, sore throat, and rhinitis. Children may also 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 6/69 
 
  
  
 
have  otitis  media,  croup,  nausea  and  vomiting.  Severe  cases  can  occur  in  children  with  underlying 
chronic diseases. 
Severe morbidity and mortality occur mainly in the elderly (> 65 years of age) and the very young (< 
24 months of age) and in other populations with specific “high-risk” conditions, such as chronic lung, 
heart, renal diseases or metabolic diseases, persons with conditions or medical treatments resulting in 
suppressed  immune  function,  and  persons  living  in  institutional  settings  are  at  increased  risk  for 
influenza  illness,  development  of  serious  influenza-associated  complications  (such  as  pneumonia  and 
respiratory failure) and death.  
Although influenza-associated deaths are uncommon among children (usually less than 100 per year in 
the  United  States  but  can  be  higher  during  years  of  vaccine  mismatch),  they  represent  a  substantial 
proportion  of  vaccine-preventable  deaths  exceeding  the  annual  child  mortality  from  invasive 
pneumococcal  disease,  varicella,  pertussis,  or  measles;  47%  of  the  influenza-related  deaths  were  in 
previously healthy children with no known risk factors or underlying chronic diseases. 
The risk of influenza-associated hospitalization is greatest among the elderly (> 65 years old) and the 
very  young  (<  2  years  of  age).  Infected  children  also  appear  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  secondary 
transmission of influenza to household members and to other members of the community, leading to 
further increases in medical utilization and medication use. 
Influenza virus 
Two types are responsible for the disease: influenza A, which is categorized into subtypes on the basis 
of its haemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N) surface antigens, and influenza B, which is separated 
into two genetic lineages. 
Within  each  influenza  subtype,  the  viruses  undergo  frequent  changes  in  their  surface  antigens 
(antigenic drift), leading to the perpetuation of different viral strains (CDC, 2007). 
A/H3N2  and  A/H1N1  are  the  2  influenza  A  subtypes  that  have  circulated  and  caused  human  disease 
since  1977  (Kilbourne,  2006).  Seasonal  outbreaks  in  the  last  2  decades  have  most  commonly  been 
associated  with  A/H3N2  strains.  Influenza  A/H3N2  strains  have  been  associated  with  more  severe 
illness  and  with  higher  mortality  compared  to  seasons  when  A/H1N1  and  B  strains  predominated 
(Simonsen et al, 1997; Thompson et al, 2003; Meijer et al, 2007). 
Influenza seasonal vaccines 
Vaccination is the most effective method for prevention of influenza (CDC, 2007). All current vaccines 
include antigens that can provide protection against influenza A and influenza B. Annual vaccination (1 
or  2  doses  depending  on  age  and  prior  influenza  vaccination  history)  aims  at  providing  protection 
through an entire influenza season.  
Each year, one or more strains contained in influenza vaccines might be changed to reflect the strains 
expected  to  circulate  around  the  world.  Since  1972,  WHO  has  recommended  39  changes  in  the 
influenza  vaccine  formulation  (WHO,  2005).  Influenza  vaccines  must  be  administered  annually  to 
assure  that  populations  are  vaccinated  with  antigens  that  are  relevant  to  circulating  strains  and 
provide optimal protection.  
Trivalent seasonal influenza vaccines contain two A strains and one B strain. However, B strains from 
two  antigenically  distinct 
lineages,  B/Victoria/02/87  and  B/Yamagata/16/88,  with 
limited 
immunological  cross-reactivity,  have  been  co-circulating  annually,  and  the  B  strain  selected  annually 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 7/69 
 
  
  
 
 
by public health authorities for inclusion in the seasonal influenza vaccine does not always match the 
predominant circulating B strains. 
To  address  this  issue,  MedImmune  has  developed  a  quadrivalent  influenza  vaccine  containing  two  A 
strains and two B strains (one from each of the 2 lineages). 
Providing  protection  that  is  as  broad  as  possible  may  be  of  particular  importance  for  children  and 
adolescents. Although influenza B causes disease in all age groups, its incidence relative to influenza A 
appears  to be  highest  among  older  children  and  young  adults.  Furthermore, while  influenza  B  causes 
mortality in all age groups, it appears to be a disproportionate cause of pediatric influenza deaths. 
In  summary,  the  development  of  a  quadrivalent  influenza  vaccine  represents  in  principle  an  advance 
over  currently  available  trivalent  influenza  vaccines,  as  it  expands  the  number  of  protective  strains 
included in  the  vaccine,  thereby  increasing the likelihood of  protection  against  circulating  B strains of 
influenza. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Fluenz Tetra is a seasonal quadrivalent live attenuated influenza vaccine (Q/LAIV), developed as a 
successor to the currently authorised Fluenz seasonal trivalent live attenuated influenza vaccine 
(T/LAIV). The quadrivalent vaccine differs from the trivalent vaccine only in the number of influenza 
strains contained in the drug product. 
Fluenz Tetra is presented in a refrigerated liquid formulation. It is to be administered intranasally, at 
the posology of 0.2 ml dose (0.1 ml per nostril). The drug product is produced by MedImmune, LLC 
(Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA), and imported and released in the European Union by MedImmune 
UK Limited (Speke, Liverpool, UK). 
The drug substance consists in four different monovalent bulks of live attenuated influenza viruses 
(cold-adapted and heat sensitive), produced by MedImmune UK Limited (Speke, Liverpool UK).  
Monovalent bulks are prepared from purified harvests derived from the inoculation of the master virus 
seed (MVS) in embryonated Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) eggs.  The master virus seeds (MVS) are 
prepared by a plasmid rescue process and contain a specific constellation of viral gene segments from 
an attenuated Master Donor Virus (MDV) and a wild-type (wt) influenza virus.   
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Influenza viruses Type A and Type B belong to the family of Orthomyxoviruses, and are 
morphologically indistinguishable from each other. Influenza viruses are enveloped and do not have a 
rigid capsule structure. The internal core of influenza virus particles consists of a segmented RNA 
genome, which is associated with the nucleoprotein <NP> and polymerase proteins. The viral envelope 
surrounds the viral nucleocapsid. The internal layer of the viral envelope contains viral matrix protein 
<M>, and the external layer of the envelope consists of a lipid bilayer that is derived from the host cell 
membrane during release of newly formed virus particles from infected cells. <NP> and <M1> proteins 
contain epitopes that provide the basis for antigenic distinction between Type A and Type B influenza 
viruses. The external surface of the lipid bilayer of influenza viruses is decorated with two major viral 
transmembrane protein spikes. Approximately 80% of these transmembrane protein spikes are rod-
shaped haemagglutinin (HA) protein trimers, and 20% are mushroom-shaped neuraminidase (NA) 
tetramers.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 8/69 
 
  
  
The epidemiology of influenza viruses dictates incorporation of contemporary protective antigens (the 
haemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) antigens) into the vaccine on an annual basis. The HA 
protein is responsible for several of the biological properties of influenza viruses and the NA protein 
contributes to the antigenic characteristics and functional properties of influenza virus. Both the HA 
and NA protein epitopes contribute to the induction of a protective response in humans. Alterations in 
the primary structure of HA and NA proteins are directly related to antigenic variation of influenza 
viruses, which serves as the basis for antigenic and immunogenic characterization of influenza viruses 
using strain-specific antiserum. 
Figure 1: Structure of the influenza A virus particle (Lamb, 1996) 
Fluenz Tetra contains four active components: two attenuated influenza A strains, based on the 
influenza A master donor virus and two attenuated influenza B strains, based on the influenza B 
master donor virus. The cold-adapted reassortant vaccine strains in Fluenz Tetra are produced by 
genetic reassortment, using reverse genetics (plasmid rescue), between a wild-type influenza virus 
and cold-adapted master donor virus.  
Such reassortant viruses contain gene segments encoding haemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase 
(NA) antigens that have been contributed by the wild-type virus, and gene segments encoding other 
proteins that have been contributed by the cold-adapted master virus (polymerase basic protein 1 
<PB1>, polymerase basic protein 2 <PB2>, polymerase acidic protein <PA>, nucleoprotein <NP>, 
matrix protein <M>, and non-structural protein <NS>). These vaccine strains are called 6:2 
reassortants.  
Thus, cold-adapted reassortant vaccine strains derive their antigenic phenotypes from the wild-type 
strain and their cold-adapted (ca), temperature-sensitive (ts), and attenuated (att) phenotypes from 
the cold-adapted master donor virus.  
The two master donor virus strains used to make LAIV are A/Ann Arbor/6/60 and B/Ann Arbor/1/66 
that were developed by H.F. Massaab (Massaab, 1982). The Type A and Type B ca master strains 
contribute internal viral proteins to reassortant Type A and Type B vaccines strains, respectively. The 
cold-adapted master strains possess characteristic phenotypic (ca, ts, att) markers that are linked to a 
genetically stable ca, ts, att phenotype.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 9/69 
 
  
  
 
The ca phenotype refers to the ability of the Type A or Type B cold-adapted master strain viruses to 
replicate to similar infectious titre in cell culture at either 33°C or 25°C. The ts phenotype of the Type 
A master strain viruses refers to the 39°C shut-off temperature of replication and the 100-fold or 
greater reduction in the number of plaques when compared to the permissive replication temperature 
of 33°C. The ts phenotype of the Type B ca master strain virus refers to the 37°C shut-off temperature 
of replication and the 100-fold or greater reduction in the number of plaques when compared to the 
permissive replication temperature of 33°C. 
Manufacture of the Master Virus Seed (MVS) 
The  Master  Virus  Seeds  (MVS)  used  in  production  consists  in  6:2  reassortants  containing  a  specific 
combination  of  six  viral  gene  segments  from  an  attenuated  Master  Donor  Virus  (MDV)  and  two  gene 
segments  contributed  by  a  wild-type  (wt)  influenza  vaccine  virus  encoding  haemagglutinin  (HA)  and 
neuraminidase  (NA)  antigens.  A  new  MVS  is  manufactured  for  each  new  influenza  vaccine  strain 
recommended  by  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO).  MVS  are  prepared  by  a  plasmid  rescue 
process / reverse genetics in Vero cells (which may use CEK cells as feeder cells). 
Figure 2: MVS Manufacturing Process 
The plasmid rescue process is initiated by extracting viral RNA from the MDV and the wt strain, and 
converting six viral gene segments (<PB1>, <PB2>, <PA>, <NP>, <M>, <NS>) from the MDV, and 
the HA and NA gene segments from the wt strain, into cDNA by Reverse Transcription Polymerase 
Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). These amplified cDNAs are inserted into plasmids and transformed into E. 
coli cells. The transformed E.coli cells are grown and plasmid DNA is purified for testing and further 
processing.  
The cDNA containing plasmids corresponding to the MDV gene segment, as well as the cDNA 
containing plasmids corresponding to the wt HA and NA gene segments are combined by 
electroporation into serum-free Vero (African green monkey kidney) cells that are derived from an 
extensively tested and characterized cell bank produced in serum-free medium. The electroporated 
Vero cells are then either co-cultured with CEK cells, or alternatively, the electroporated Vero cells can 
be plated in the absence of CEK cells. Co-cultivation with CEK cells results in higher titres of virus. The 
6:2 reassortants are then passaged in SPF embryonated chicken eggs to produce sufficient amount of 
material, this material is referred to as accession seed. An accession seed is made for each vaccine 
strain in the Research and Development Departments at the MedImmune CA facility. The accession 
seed is then transported to the MedImmune UK facility for further production of the MVS. The 
accession seed is biologically purified and amplified in SPF eggs to produce the MVS batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 10/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Each MVS is tested for sterility (bacterial/fungal contamination), mycoplasma and viral adventitious 
agents before release for further manufacturing. 
Manufacture of the Monovalent Bulk Drug Substance 
The drug substance is produced by MedImmune UK Limited (Speke, Liverpool UK). Monovalent bulks 
are prepared by the inoculation and growth of the master virus seed (MVS) in embryonated Specific 
Pathogen Free (SPF) eggs. After incubation of the eggs, the allantoic fluid that contains the vaccine 
virus is harvested. The bottles containing harvested fluid are sampled and placed in a cold storage area 
(2-8°C) prior to further processing. The pooled harvest fluid is filtered and centrifuged to concentrate 
the virus particles and to reduce the quantity of egg-derived proteins, nucleic acids and other 
components. The concentrated virus is diluted prior to sterile filtration. The resulting monovalent bulk 
is mixed and then dispensed into bottles using a closed system and stored at ≤  -60°C. The drug 
substance manufacturing process flow is shown in the figure hereafter.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 11/69 
 
  
  
Figure 3: Overview of the Monovalent Bulk manufacturing process 
Receipt, preparation, incubation and inoculation of Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) Eggs 
Upon shipments SPF eggs are transferred to refrigerated storage and checked for compliance with 
predefined specifications and integrity. Eggs are washed, rinsed, dried and transferred into the Primary 
Incubation suite. 
Following the primary incubation period, the trolleys of eggs are removed from the primary incubators 
and transferred to the Primary Candling Area where they are candled for any cracks etc. The trays of 
acceptable candled eggs are transferred and held under controlled temperature conditions until 
inoculation. The eggs are inoculated with diluted Master Virus Seed (MVS) using a peristaltic pump and 
incubated. After incubation, allantoic fluid is removed. Clear allantoic fluid is dispensed into a sterile 
polycarbonate bottle and transferred to the Harvest Cold Room until released for further processing. 
Screening, Pooling and centrifugation of Virus Harvest 
Harvest bottles are screened for lack of bioburden using a rapid bioburden screening assay and pooled. 
The pooled and mixed fluid is then sampled to provide material for safety testing. The pooled material 
is filtered to obtain Clarified Harvest Fluid (CHF). The CHF is mixed and samples are removed for 
bioburden in-process testing. Pooled virus harvest is concentrated using continuous flow 
ultracentrifugation in a sucrose gradient in order to increase the density of virus particles present in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 12/69 
 
  
  
 
the CHF and to reduce the quantity of egg-derived proteins, nucleic acids and other components. 
Concentrated virus harvest is pooled and pooled fractions are then diluted using phosphate 
buffer/EDTA prior to sterile filtration. 
Sterile Filtration and Filling 
The diluted virus harvest pool is sterile filtered to obtain the monovalent bulk. Following flushing and 
equilibration, the sterilizing grade filter is subjected to a filter integrity test.  
In-Process Manufacturing Controls 
Critical Process Parameters (CPP) and Key Operating Parameters (KOP) were defined for the 
manufacturing of the monovalent bulk DS, based on their ability to impact on Critical Quality Attributes 
(CQAs) and process performance, respectively. 
In-process control (IPC) limits have been established for key process parameters that are used to 
monitor ongoing production of the monovalent bulk DS.  
Process validation 
Process validation studies were conducted in support of the initial monovalent bulk DS manufacturing 
process and changes introduced since then. 
The  study  results  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  to  consistently  yield 
monovalent bulk DS that is compliant with the specifications. 
Control of materials – materials of biological origin 
Animal-derived components used in the DS manufacturing process are: SPF Hen’s eggs, Vero cells and 
CEK cells, porcine trypsin, fetal bovine serum and the newborn calf serum. 
Manufacturing process development 
The DS material used in the pivotal Q/LAIV clinical trials were not DS lots produced by the final 
commercial process. Several changes have been implemented in the DS manufacturing process after 
production of the clinical DS material. However, these changes were properly validated and 
demonstrated to have no impact on the quality of the monovalent bulk DS. Characterization studies 
indicate that the quality of the materials used in the clinical studies and the quality of batches 
produced with the commercial process are comparable. 
Specification 
Characterisation 
The characterisation studies of the drug substance have been presented as a summary of the different 
comparability  exercises  and led to the  analysis of  attenuation  and  phenotype (ca/ts),  maintenance  of 
consensus  DNA  sequence  from  the  respective  MVS,  virus  particle  morphology,  percent  infectious 
particles,  HAI,  HA  and  Viral  RNA  content.    Replication  and  immunogenicity  studies  and  protection 
following wild type challenge were performed in ferrets.   
Impurities 
The impurities identified by the Applicant are egg related components in the allantoic fluid (ovalbumin, 
protein,  and  chicken  DNA)  and  other  process  related  impurities  (Disodium  EDTA  and  Gentamicin 
Sulfate). 
Upon  harvesting  of  the  allantoic  fluid  and  subsequent  pooling,  measurable  levels  of  ovalbumin,  total 
protein, and DNA can be found in the Pooled Harvest Fluid (PHF). During the downstream processing, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 13/69 
 
  
  
 
particularly  at  the  ultracentrifugation  step,  significant  removal  of  these  egg  related  impurities  takes 
place.  Most of  the  ovalbumin  is  consistently  removed  during  the  manufacturing  process.  Nearly  all  of 
the total proteins are removed during processing of monovalent bulk DS. Residual DNA is also reduced 
to  sufficiently  low  levels.  Ovalbumin,  total  protein,  and  DNA  are  routinely  monitored  by  in-process 
testing on the filtered monovalent bulk DS. 
During the manufacture of the monovalent bulk, the H3N2 serotype is diluted using phosphate buffer 
containing Disodium EDTA. The concentration of EDTA in the drug product is a release specification. 
Gentamicin  Sulfate  is  a  component  of  the  media  used  in  the  MVS  manufacturing  process.  The 
theoretical  concentration  of  Gentamicin  Sulfate  in  the  final  product  is  below  levels  of  detection  using 
current assay methods. 
Control of Drug Substance 
Drug substance release tests are performed on samples collected at the Pooled Harvest Fluid (PHF) and 
monovalent  bulk  DS  stages.  The  DS  lot  release  specifications  for  LAIV  are  identical  for  all  vaccine 
strains and are in accordance with the Ph.Eur. requirements where applicable. 
Bioburden, absence of selective organisms, in vivo and in vitro adventitious viral agents, mycoplasma, 
reverse transcriptase and avian leukosis virus tests are performed on the PHF, while sterility, 
endotoxin, appearance, potency (Fluorescent Focus Assay), genotype (6:2 reassortant), phenotype (ca 
& ts), attenuation, and identity by HAI tests are performed on the monovalent bulk DS.  
The different analytical procedures were described in detail and adequate validation reports and 
studies were provided. The proposed specifications are deemed acceptable.  
The Applicant has presented batch analysis data from bulks used to manufacture Fluenz Tetra process 
validation batches, batch analysis data for Fluenz batches manufactured for the 2012-2013 season as 
well and batch analysis data for Fluenz process validation supporting the current manufacturing 
process. All presented data is within the pre-set acceptance criteria.  
Container closure system 
The monovalent bulk drug substance is filled into a polycarbonate (PC) bottle, sealed with a 
polypropylene screw-on cap containing a silicon rubber liner. The container closure system, as well as 
the studies on extractables and leachables, was deemed appropriate. 
Stability 
The shelf life of the LAIV monovalent bulks is 24 months stored at ≤ -60°C.  
The shelf life is supported by stability studies performed throughout the product development for LAIV. 
This includes the trivalent formulation of live attenuated influenza vaccine (T/LAIV) batches that have 
been  distributed  commercially.  This  is  because  the  production  process  for  the  monovalent  bulk  drug 
substance  used  for  manufacture  of  Q/LAIV  is  the  same  as  for  that  used  for  production  of  the 
authorised trivalent vaccine T/LAIV.  
Test  methods  for  stability  are  test  for  potency  and  sterility.    Extensive  stability  data  available  from 
each season’s manufacturing campaign at production scale support the proposed shelf life. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
The finished product is a sterile colourless to pale yellow liquid composed of four serotypes (A/H3N2, 
A/H1N1,  B/Yamagata  and  B/Victoria),  and  formulated  with  monosodium  glutamate,  gelatin,  arginine, 
sucrose, and phosphate buffer.  The finished product is presented as a 0.2 ml nasal sprayer capable of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 14/69 
 
  
  
 
delivering  a  dose  of  7.0  ±  0.5  log10  FFU  of  each  strain  and  0.1  ml  is  sprayed  in  each  nostril.    The 
composition of Fluenz Tetra drug product is included in table 1. 
Table 1: Composition of Fluenz Tetra 
Components 
Active Components 
Influenza Virus, Type A, 
H1N1 
Influenza Virus, Type A, 
H3N2 
Influenza Virus, Type B 
(Yamagata lineage) 
Influenza Virus, Type B 
(Victoria lineage) 
Inactive Components 
Sucrose 
Dipotassium Phosphate 
(Dibasic potassium 
phosphate) b 
Potassium Dihydrogen 
Phosphate (Monobasic 
potassium phosphate) b 
Gelatin Hydrosylate, Porcine 
Type A b 
Arginine hydrochloride 
Monosodium Glutamate 
Monohydrate 
Water for Injection 
Quality Standard 
Function 
MedImmune 
Ph.Eur./NF 
Ph.Eur./USP 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Stabilizer 
Buffer 
Ph.Eur./NF 
Buffer 
Ph.Eur./NF 
Ph.Eur./USP 
Ph.Eur./NF 
Ph.Eur./USP 
Stabilizer 
Stabilizer 
Stabilizer 
Solvent 
The finished product is produced by MedImmune, LLC, Philadelphia, PA, USA, and is released in the EU 
by MedImmune UK Limited, Speke, Liverpool, UK. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development 
The quadrivalent live attenuated influenza vaccine (Q/LAIV) vaccine formulation was established based 
on the trivalent (T/LAIV) formulation and was chosen for suitability for intranasal administration. 
The T/LAIV drug product formulation has been shown to be safe and well tolerated based on extensive 
clinical studies and global marketing experience. A comparison of the T/LAIV and Q/LAIV formulations 
demonstrates  that  the  chosen  excipients  and  their  concentrations  are  identical  between  T/LAIV  and 
Q/LAIV. 
Altogether, 1 Q/LAIV clinical batch (used in the pivotal safety and immunogenicity clinical studies) and 
3  process  validation  batches  using  the  current  formulation  have  been  successfully  produced  for  the 
Q/LAIV MAA filing for demonstration of the consistency of the Q/LAIV manufacturing process. 
Manufacturing process development 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  Q/LAIV  clinical  batch  was  based  on  the  T/LAIV  commercial 
manufacturing process at the time. The Q/LAIV clinical lot was used in the controlled pivotal safety and 
immunogenicity clinical studies for Q/LAIV.  
No process development studies specific for Q/LAIV have been performed because the only differences 
between the Q/LAIV and T/LAIV process is the addition of the fourth strain at the blending step. This 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 15/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
change  did  not  require  any  additional in-process testing  or  modification  of the  process parameters  at 
the blending step.  
The  specification  used  for  release  of  the  Q/LAIV  drug  product  are  identical  to  those  that  release  the 
commercial T/LAIV, except that the Total Potency specification of ≤ 8.0 Log10FFU/dose was introduced 
as a new specification for Q/LAIV to ensure that the calculated total viral potency of vaccine strains for 
Q/LAIV does not exceed the total viral potency for the T/LAIV. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process mainly consists in the thawing of the monovalent bulks, followed by a 
blending of the 4 DS monovalent bulks to final volume with buffers.   
The blended quadrivalent formulated bulk is aseptically filled as a 0.2 ml deliverable dose into 0.5 ml 
Accuspray nasal sprayer barrels, without any additional sterilisation step. The product is frozen at ≤  -
20°C prior to or after final packaging (with secondary labelling). The product is then transported to a 
warehouse prior to shipment. In the EU, the product is batch released by MedImmune UK Ltd, Speke, 
UK. 
The quantities of each component blended together yield the final quadrivalent bulk formulation. The 
quadrivalent bulk formulation calculations are based upon the actual release titre results from the four 
monovalent virus strain lots to be used in the final quadrivalent bulk formulation. 
In-Process Manufacturing Controls 
Critical steps in the manufacture of the drug product are controlled at several steps in both the 
blending and filling processes to ensure that the process performs as intended.  
Process validation 
Validation of final drug product blending and filling process at the MedImmune Pennsylvania facility 
was performed on three batches of H1N1 vaccine. The results showed that the acceptance criteria for 
the thawing, blending and filling processes were met.  
Specific Q/LAIV process validation studies were designed to provide assurance that the specific 
manufacturing processes would consistently produce a product meeting its predetermined 
specifications and product quality attributes. Three process validation batches were analysed and all 
test results met the specifications.  
Adventitious agents 
The  master  virus  seeds  (MVS)  are  prepared  by  a  plasmid  rescue  process  and  contain  a  specific 
constellation  of  viral  gene  segments  from  an  attenuated  Master  Donor  Virus  (MDV)  and  a  wild-type 
(wt)  influenza  virus.  Vero  cells  are  electroporated  with  plasmids  containing  cDNA  clones  of  the  viral 
gene  segment  and  then  co-cultured  with  SPF  CEK  cells  to  produce  pre-MVS/MVS.  Raw  materials  of 
animal  origin  (FBS,  NCS,  porcine  trypsin)  were  used  for  Vero  cell  banks  establishment  and  during 
cultures of CEK cells.  
The  MVS  are  used  to  inoculate  Specific  Pathogen  Free  (SPF)  embryonated  eggs  to  produce  individual 
monovalent bulks for each of the four virus strains.  
The viral safety relies on i) quality/virological controls of raw materials of animal origin used during the 
process  and  ii)  virological  controls  performed  on  cell  substrates  (Vero  and  CEK  cells),  SPF  eggs  and 
during production process at MVS level and pooled harvest fluid level. 
TSE 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 16/69 
 
  
  
In  accordance  with  the  Note  for  guidance  on  minimizing  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform 
encephalopathy  agents  via  human  and  veterinary  medicinal  products  (EMEA/410/01),  Certificates  of 
suitability  for  TSE  safety  have  been  provided  for  all  raw  materials  derived  from  TSE  relevant  animal 
species used in the manufacturing process. 
Overall, sufficient data is provided to exclude a risk of TSE transmission through Fluenz Tetra. The risk 
of transmitting TSE by Fluenz Tetra is thus considered very remote. 
Product specification 
Control of Drug Product 
The drug product specification consists in identity, potency on each individual strain, total potency, pH, 
endotoxin, ovalbumin, total protein, colour, opalescence and appearance, sterility, EDTA and thermal 
stability. The identity and potency tests are based on the Fluorescent Focus Assay (FFA assay), while 
total potency is determined by calculation.  
Sterility is also performed on the bulk Q/LAIV blend. 
Descriptions of the analytical methods as well as the validation studies for non compendial methods 
were provided.  
Container closure system 
The container/closure system for the quadrivalent live, attenuated influenza vaccine (Q/LAIV) drug 
product is the Accuspray Nasal Spray System. The nasal spray system consists of a nasal sprayer 
barrel, Nasal Sprayer Nozzle, Plunger Stopper and Plunger Rod.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data for 3 batches of Fluenz Tetra have been presented. The presented data covered a period 
of 12 weeks at -25°C ± 5°C and up to 32 weeks subsequent storage at 2°C to 8°C. Additional data 
covering the whole shelf life will be submitted upon completion of the Q/LAIV stability study.  
The proposed shelf life for Fluenz Tetra (Q/LAIV) is identical to the shelf life approved for Fluenz 
(T/LAIV). As the addition of a fourth strain is not expected to significantly change the quality 
characteristics of the Q/LAIV, stability data of the T/LAIV were considered supportive for the Q/LAIV.  
The Drug Product stability data support the shelf-life at -25°C ± 5°C for up to 20 weeks prior to 
distribution and subsequent storage at 2°C to 8°C not to exceed 18 weeks. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the CHMP. 
GMO 
Like Fluenz (T/LAIV), Fluenz Tetra (Q/LAIV) is a live attenuated influenza vaccine containing virus 
strains generated through reverse genetic technology. For this reason, the vaccine is classified a 
genetically modified organism (GMO) as defined in Directive 2001/18/EC.  
Fluenz Tetra contains two types A (i.e. A/H1N1 and H3N2) and two type B (i.e. B/Victoria and 
B/Yamagata) attenuated (att), cold-adapted (ca) and temperature sensitive (ts) reassortant strains. 
Each dose is formulated to contain 107±0.5 fluorescent focus units (FFU) of each of the four reassortant 
influenza virus strains.  
The plasmid rescue process utilises recombinant DNA techniques to produce genetic reassortants. Each 
of the four vaccine strains are 6:2 genetic reassortants. These vaccine strains have 6 gene segments 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 17/69 
 
  
  
 
(<PB1>, <PB2>, <PA>, <NP>, <M> and <NS>) from one master donor viruses (MDV, type A or B) 
and 2 gene segments, haemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) from the WHO recommended 
contemporary wt influenza virus.  
The specific genotype of MVDs is designated 6:2 which indicates that 6 internal gene segments that 
confer the characteristics of the ca, ts and att phenotypes are derived from the MDV and that the 2 
gene segments encoding HA and NA surface antigens are derived from the wt influenza strains. 
The environmental risk was evaluated for Fluenz T/LAIV as part of the application for marketing 
authorisation.  
Fluenz does not replicate freely in the environment. It is specific to humans and a few mammalian 
species (hamsters, guinea pigs and ferrets are known to be capable of being experimentally infected 
with human influenza virus). The Fluenz vaccines do not carry a toxic transgene, do not integrate and 
therefore are very unlikely to transfer genes to any other species. The overall risk posed by this GMO 
to human health and the environment was considered low or negligible. 
The initial environmental risk assessment (ERA) was considered to remain relevant for future seasonal 
strains. Submission of an ERA at each seasonal strain update procedure was not required, with all 
reserves of new scientific information publication on the ERA for this kind of vaccine.  
The addition of a fourth strain does not change the risk to the environment. The manufacturing 
procedures are identical and the genetic stability is comparable. 
The CHMP concludes that the overall risk to the environment from Fluenz Tetra is low. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The Applicant has provided detailed information on the DS manufacturing process, including a 
description of all the starting materials and of the production of the Master Virus Seeds using the 
reassortment plasmid rescue technique. All steps involved in the manufacturing process were 
adequately validated. 
The genetic stability of each new MVS is evaluated by passaging the MVS for four passages beyond 
production level (i.e., MVS+5 passages), and then sequencing the final passage material to 
demonstrate genetic stability. If any amino acid changes are observed between the MVS and MVS+5 
isolates in any of the loci known to affect the (ca), (ts) or (att) phenotypes, phenotype and attenuation 
tests are performed to determine the stability of the (ca), (ts) and (att) phenotypes. The Applicant will 
document and justify any mutation between the MVS and MVS+5 isolates in the annual strain update 
variation. 
The Applicant has confirmed during the procedure that the gamma-irradiated porcine trypsine, used for 
the manufacture of Master Virus Seeds, is tested for porcine circovirus (PCV) and that the gelatin 
production process contains virus inactivation steps that are able to inactivate PCV.  
The DS material used in the pivotal Q/LAIV clinical trials were not DS lots produced by the final 
commercial process and several changes have been implemented in the process after production of the 
clinical material. However, these changes were demonstrated to have no impact on the quality of the 
monovalent bulk DS. The overall results of the analytical studies performed indicated that the quality 
of the materials used in the clinical studies and the quality of batches produced with the commercial 
process are comparable.  
The different analytical procedures were described in detail and adequate validation reports and 
studies were provided. The Haemagglutination - Inhibition assay (HAI assay), performed at release on 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 18/69 
 
  
  
monovalent bulks, was validated using two A strains (H1N1 and H3N2) but only one B strain. The 
Applicant has committed to re-qualify the assay using two B strains representing the two different B 
lineages, prior to distribution of the product. 
The proposed DS specifications were sufficiently justified and are deemed acceptable. The limits for 
bioburden and endotoxin, which seemed high, have been appropriately justified.  Likewise, the 
specification limits for ovalbumin have been satisfactorily justified, and the Applicant will establish an 
action/alert limit. 
The container closure system was deemed appropriate as well as the studies on extractables and 
leachables. The proposed DS storage time and conditions of 24 months stored at ≤ -60°C was 
sufficiently substantiated. 
The development of the manufacturing process (formulation) of the drug product has been described in 
detail and the different process changes were highlighted. Validation of the DP manufacturing process 
was appropriately performed.  
Descriptions  of  the  analytical  methods  as  well  as  the  validation  studies  were  provided.  The  proposed 
specifications for the DP were sufficiently justified and are deemed acceptable. 
As compared to Fluenz (T/LAIV), a new Fluorescent Focus Assay to determine potency had initially 
been proposed. A modified procedure is under development and will be submitted once validated. In 
addition, the Applicant will provide results from stability tests performed with the modified potency 
assay upon availability. 
The  proposed  container  closure  system  for  the  final  product  is  acceptable  and  sufficient  data 
supporting the suitability of the Accuspray Nasal Spray System were provided. 
Finally, the shelf life claim of the drug product at “-25°C ± 5°C for up to 20 weeks prior to distribution 
and  subsequent  storage  at  2°C  to  8°C  not  to  exceed  18  weeks”  is  deemed  acceptable  based  on  the 
supportive information that was provided.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Based on the review of the data on quality, the manufacture and control of the Fluenz Tetra drug 
substance and the drug product are considered acceptable.  
The Quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in satisfactory way.  
Safety concerning adventitious agents including TSE has been sufficiently assured. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
Description of post-authorisation measures 
1.  As regards the evaluation of the genetic stability of the MVS, the Applicant is recommended 
to document and justify any mutation case by case in the variations for annual strain update. 
2.  The Applicant is recommended to re-qualify the HAI assay using two B strains representing 
the two different lineages. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 19/69 
 
  
  
Description of post-authorisation measures 
3.  The Applicant is recommended to establish an action limit for ovalbumin (at the level of the 
Drug Product). 
4.  The Applicant is recommended to continue stability tests performed with the modified 
potency assay. For these stability studies it is not deemed necessary to include all time 
points as performed in the original MAA file. A reduced testing scheme (with less time points, 
but which allows calculation of degradation slope) is acceptable (the 18 weeks’ time point (at 
2-8°C), however, should be included).  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz are manufactured in an identical manner, the viral content per strain and the 
inactive components of Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz are identical. In addition, both vaccines are 
administered intranasally by the same delivery device. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Immunogenicity and challenge studies of different Fluenz and Fluenz Tetra formulations in ferrets 
Pharmacologic properties of frozen and refrigerated formulations of Fluenz were tested in ferrets. This 
study showed that the performance of the tested refrigerated and frozen formulations were similar 
with respect to vaccine take, replication, immune response induction, and protection of animals from a 
challenge infection with wild type virus.  
Immunogenicity and potential immune interference were tested in ferrets with 2 different vaccine 
viruses of type B in the formulation. Three different combinations of 2 vaccine viruses of 2 types B (1 
from B/Yamagata and 1 from B/Victoria lineages), either in bivalent or monovalent formulations, were 
evaluated. The addition of a second vaccine virus of different a type B lineage to the vaccine did not 
cause immune interference. 
Immunogenicity and protection following challenge with the wild-type (wt) influenza viruses after 
vaccination with Q/LAIV and Fluenz were evaluated in ferrets in 4 studies. Q/LAIV was immunogenic in 
ferrets. Both the Q/LAIV vaccine and the corresponding trivalent vaccine formulations reduce the 
amount of wild type viruses in the respiratory tract as compared to the amount of virus detected in 
placebo ferrets. 
Immunogenicity studies of Fluenz Tetra in rats 
A repeat-dose immunogenicity study was done in female rats. Q/LAIV was immunogenic in non-
pregnant female rats after the second dose.  
A repeat-dose immunogenicity study was done in pregnant females and their live-born offspring. In 
non-primed pregnant rats, a robust immune response to the Q/LAIV is only elicited after 3 
administrations and by gestation day 21, which is 1 day before birth. In the design of the rat 
reproductive toxicity study, a group where the rats were primed before mating has been included.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 20/69 
 
  
  
 
The immune response of the offspring is a bit lower than that in mothers. Little variation of HAI titre 
was observed between offspring siblings. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies are generally not performed with vaccines and were not 
performed with Fluenz Tetra. As the vaccine did not show any effects apart from the expected immune 
response, this was considered acceptable. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Neurovirulence testing of influenza strains in mice 
The results of the neurovirulence study in mice submitted for the Fluenz application can support the 
Fluenz Tetra Q/LAIV application and indicate that the Q/LAIV viruses do not exhibit any neurotropism 
or neurovirulence. 
For annual strain updates for Fluenz, the Applicant agreed to conduct a neurovirulence assay on the 
master virus strains of any novel strain subtype(s) introduced into the vaccine that have not been 
previously tested. In addition, a control strategy for monitoring neurovirulence of any novel strain 
subtypes was developed, to take advantage of several surveillance and reporting methods already in 
place including post-marketing safety data, periodic safety update report and risk management plan. 
The same commitments as for Fluenz with respect to neurovirulence assays and neurovirulence 
monitoring are agreed for Fluenz Tetra. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Fluenz Tetra in accordance 
with “Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines” 
(CPMP/SWP/465/95) and with “Guideline on Adjuvants in Vaccines for human use” 
(CHMP/VEG/134716/2004).  
Clinical studies were performed with Fluenz to evaluate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the 
vaccine administered concurrently with measles, mumps, rubella (MMR), varicella and oral polio 
vaccines in young children. The safety and immunogenicity profiles of the respective vaccines (Fluenz, 
MMR, VAR, and OPV) were not altered when administered concomitantly vs. separate administration. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
While many of the typical pharmacokinetic studies, including absorption, metabolism and excretion, do 
not pertain to live vaccines, local deposition and distribution studies have been performed in humans. 
The vaccine does not contain an adjuvant or new excipients which would require other 
pharmacokinetics studies. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz are manufactured in an identical manner, the viral content per strain and the 
inactive components are identical. In addition, both vaccines are administered IN by a delivery device. 
Pharmacodynamic studies with Q/LAIV in rats and ferrets revealed no different pharmacologic 
properties when compared to Fluenz. Thus, toxicology studies conducted with Fluenz can support 
Q/LAIV.  
In addition, two new GLP-compliant toxicology studies were conducted to support the safety of Q/LAIV 
(a repeat-dose toxicity study in ferrets and a reproductive and developmental toxicity study in rats). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 21/69 
 
  
  
Single dose toxicity 
A single dose toxicity study was incorporated into the repeat dose toxicity study.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
Two repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted in ferrets: 1 with Fluenz Tetra Q/LAIV (Study SVT08-
18) and 1 with Fluenz (Study SVT01-18). These studies also evaluated single-dose toxicity and local 
tolerance of the vaccine. Repeat-dose toxicity studies with Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz showed no 
significant systemic or local toxicity. 
Genotoxicity 
No genotoxicity study was submitted for Fluenz Tetra in accordance with the CHMP Note for Guidance 
on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95). 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity study was submitted for Fluenz Tetra as recommended by the CHMP Note for 
Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95). 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity of Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz in rats were investigated in Study 
20001854  and  Study  3113-001,  respectively.  In  addition,  developmental  toxicity  of  Fluenz  was 
investigated  in  ferrets  in  Study  SVT01-19.  Fluenz  Tetra  and  Fluenz  did  not  affect  reproduction  and 
development  in  rats;  F0  generation  females  and  F1  generation  offspring  were  unaffected  by  either 
vaccine. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Not applicable. 
Local Tolerance  
Evaluation of local tolerance at the administration site is included in the repeated dose toxicity studies 
in ferrets with the evaluation of the nasal mucosa.  
The potential for ocular toxicity resulting from the inadvertent instillation of Fluenz into the eye was 
evaluated in two ocular toxicity studies in rabbits. A standard Draize test was performed in two 
separate studies using the frozen and refrigerated formulations of Fluenz. Neither study elicited results 
consistent with ocular toxicity. 
Other toxicity studies 
No specific studies were performed.  
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Fluenz Tetra, like Fluenz/FluMist, contains live attenuated viruses which are prepared by reverse 
genetics techniques, therefore these are considered GMOs. Environmental safety studies with Fluenz 
designed to evaluate the tropism of the vaccine for non-human species were conducted in 21 animal 
species, as the vaccine virus does not replicate freely in the environment. Replication of vaccine 
viruses was measured in respiratory tissues of the animals. The vaccine viruses did not replicate in any 
bird species. In mammals, replication of the vaccine viruses was only noted in hamsters, guinea pigs, 
and ferrets. These species have been shown previously to be experimentally infected with human 
influenza virus. Thus, the vaccine viruses did not gain novel tropism for nonhuman species. In addition 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 22/69 
 
  
  
Fluenz T/Q does not carry a toxic transgene and does not integrate; therefore genes transfer to other 
species is very unlikely. The overall risk posed by this GMO to human health and the environment is 
considered low or negligible. 
The CHMP concluded that the ERA performed for the initial MAA of Fluenz remains relevant for Fluenz 
Tetra, since the addition of a fourth strain does not change the risk for the environment. The 
manufacturing procedures are identical and the genetic stability is comparable between the two 
vaccines. It also remains relevant for future seasonal strain updates. Submission of a new ERA at the 
time of subsequent seasonal strain updates is not required, with all due reserves in case of new 
scientific information published on this topic.  
2.3.6.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical data with Fluenz Tetra revealed no specific concerns for humans based on conventional 
non-clinical studies for repeated dose toxicity, reproduction and developmental toxicity, local tolerance 
and neurovirulence. The CHMP considers that no additional measures are necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the Applicant. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies: 
Study No. 
Country 
Study description 
Study 
Start/End 
Vaccination 
schedule 
Immunizations 
Number of 
subjects 
vaccinated 
Phase 2b/3 immunogenicity and safety study 
Double-blind, active control 
Randomization 4:1:1 
23 March 
2009/9 Oct 
2009 
1 dose (Day 0) 
BD Accuspray 
Q/LAIV 0.2 ml IN 
1197 
Evaluation of non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to 
Fluenz/B/Yamagata and Fluenz/B/Victoria 
Healthy 
subjects 
Fluenz-Y 0.2 ml IN 
298 
18-49 years 
Fluenz-V 0.2 ml IN 
299 
Phase 2b/3 immunogenicity and safety study 
Partial-blind, active control 
Randomization 4:1:1 
14 August 
2009/3 
March 2010 
1 dose (Day 0) 
Blow-fill-seal 
Q/LAIV 0.2 ml IN 
1198 
Evaluation of non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to 
Fluenz/B/Yamagata and Fluenz/B/Victoria 
Phase 2b/3 immunogenicity and safety study 
Partial-blind, active control 
Randomization 3:1:1 
29 March 
2010/27 
December 
2010 
Evaluation of non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to 
Fluenz/B/Yamagata and Fluenz/B/Victoria 
Healthy 
subjects 
Fluenz-Y 0.2 ml IN 
298 
18-49 years 
Fluenz-V 0.2 ml IN 
298 
2-8 years: 2 
doses (Day 
0/Day 28-35) 
9-17 years: 1 
dose (Day 0) 
BD Accuspray 
Healthy 
subjects 
2-17 years 
Q/LAIV 0.2 ml IN 
1382 
Fluenz-Y 0.2 ml IN 
463 
Fluenz-V 0.2 ml IN 
460 
MI-CP185 
United 
States 
MI-CP206 
United 
States 
MI-CP208 
United 
States 
IN: intranasal 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 23/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Tabular overview of analytical methods used in the paediatric studies of the Fluenz Tetra 
(Q/LAIV) and Fluenz clinical development programmes: 
Clinical studies 
Analytical method 
Q/LAIV and Fluenz 
Q/LAIV 
Serum hemagglutination inhibition assay 
Microneutralization assay 
Neuraminidase inhibition assay 
Median tissue culture infectious dose (TCID50) assay 
Assessment of viral shedding 
Serum IgG and nasal IgA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays  
Fluenz 
Phenotyping assay 
Genotyping/subtyping assay 
Hemagglutination inhibition assay for antigenic identification 
Sequencing 
2.4.2.  Clinical Pharmacology 
Fluenz Tetra is a live, attenuated virus vaccine composed of 4 reassortant influenza viruses that 
replicate locally in the mucosa of the upper respiratory tract and induce both localized and systemic 
immune responses. Since classical pharmacology studies do not pertain to this type of product, clinical 
pharmacokinetics studies have characterised the in vivo deposition and distribution of intranasally 
administered vaccine vehicle and clinical pharmacodynamics studies should investigate vaccine-
induced immune responses. 
Pharmacokinetics 
These studies aimed at characterizing the in vivo deposition and distribution of intranasally 
administered vaccine vehicle.  
The initial deposition and clearance of frozen and refrigerated vehicle (i.e. excipient only) formulations 
of Fluenz were evaluated in a randomized, open-label, 2-way crossover study in 21 adults 
(Scintigraphy Study PPL-1014). Vehicle formulations were mixed with the radio-labelled marker prior 
to intranasal administration via the Accuspray™ device, and in vivo distribution was determined using 
standard scintigraphy nuclear imaging. 
Intranasal delivery of 0.2 ml refrigerated vehicle resulted in the deposition of a larger percentage of 
the total dose delivered in the nasal cavity, 76% on average, relative to delivery of the 0.5 ml frozen 
vehicle (Table 2). The majority of the remaining portion of the 0.2 ml dose was deposited in the 
nasopharynx (8%). Small percentages (< 9%) were observed on nasal wipes and in regions that, on 
planar images, overlay the esophagus and stomach. As seen for the 0.5 ml frozen vehicle, very small 
percentages of the signal (< 3%) were observed in regions that, on planar images, overlay the lungs 
and cranium, in patterns consistent with gamma ray scatter artifact from the esophagus/stomach and 
nasopharynx, respectively. Compared to the frozen vehicle formulation, the higher percentage of 
delivered dose of refrigerated vehicle being deposited in the nasal cavity is likely due to its reduced 
dose volume (0.2 ml vs. 0.5 ml). 
Figure 4: Clearance of Frozen Vehicle and Refrigerated Vehicle from the Nasal Cavity (Study 
PPL-1014) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 24/69 
 
  
  
 
Table 2: Initial Deposition Pattern (Study PPL-1014) 
In summary, in vivo distribution studies in adults have shown that the majority of the dose of a radio-
labelled refrigerated vaccine vehicle delivered by the same device that is used to deliver live, 
attenuated virus-containing vaccine was deposited in the nasal cavity with little or no measurable 
deposition in the lower airways and lungs, which is consistent with the relatively large droplet size of 
the spray material. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic of a vaccine relates to its interaction with the immune system. 
Studies on immunogenicity include 2 clinical studies conducted by the Applicant to demonstrate the 
clinical comparability of the quadrivalent and trivalent formulations of live attenuated influenza vaccine 
in individuals 2 to 49 years of age. The comparable immune responses to Fluenz Tetra and FluMist 
demonstrated in these studies of Fluenz Tetra support the extrapolation to Fluenz Tetra of the 
extensive efficacy data for Fluenz/FluMist. 
These studies are discussed in detail in the Clinical Efficacy section of this assessment report. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Fluenz Tetra is formulated with a refrigerated vehicle and administered intranasally with the Becton 
Dickinson (BD) Accuspray™ delivery device. The same vehicle and the same delivery device have 
been tested in Study PPL-1014 which was previously submitted as part of the marketing 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 25/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
authorisation application for Fluenz. This study showed that the radio-labelled vehicle was mainly 
deposited in the nasal cavity of human adults with little or no measurable deposition in the lower 
airways and lungs. Hence, it is expected that Fluenz Tetra distribution pattern follows a similar 
fashion. 
2.4.5.  Clinical efficacy 
As mentioned above, this application consists of a bridging strategy, previously agreed with EMA 
Scientific Advice, which aims at demonstrating that the immune responses generated by the 
quadrivalent vaccine are statistically non-inferior to the immune responses generated by the trivalent 
Fluenz vaccine. Based on immunogenicity equivalence of the quadrivalent and trivalent vaccines, the 
Applicant proposes that the efficacy data generated during the clinical development of Fluenz/FluMist 
be extrapolated to the quadrivalent vaccine Fluenz Tetra. 
Also, in the dossier for Fluenz Tetra the Applicant included efficacy and related information from 43 
clinical studies previously reviewed in the Fluenz MAA; the narrative for one of these studies (Study 
FM026) has been updated to include nasal IgA responses. Narratives for 2 studies (MI-CP114 and MI-
CP128) were also provided as these studies were ongoing at the time of the Fluenz MAA submission. 
These data are considered overall supportive for the efficacy of Fluenz Tetra as well, however as they 
have been already assessed in the context of the Fluenz dossier, they are not described further in this 
report. 
2.4.6.  Dose response studies 
No dose-response studies have been performed with Fluenz Tetra. 
Each 0.2 ml dose of Fluenz Tetra contains 107.0 ± 0.5 FFU each of 4 ca, ts, att, 6:2 reassortant influenza 
strains (A/H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage, and B/Yamagata lineage). The proposed total potency 
specification for Fluenz Tetra is based on the maximum potential potency for the current trivalent 
vaccine. As in Fluenz/FluMist, each strain is present at 107.0 ± 0.5 FFU/0.2 ml dose; however, the 
maximum calculated total virus content of Fluenz Tetra is limited to 108 FFU per 0.2 ml dose, which is 
equivalent to the maximum calculated total virus content for Fluenz/FluMist (i.e., if each of the 3 
strains in FluMist were present at 107.5 FFU per dose). Vaccine manufactured according to these strain-
specific virus potency specifications has been extensively studied in children and adults during the 
development of Fluenz/FluMist.  
Two studies (D153-P513 and AV002/AV002-2) provide data regarding the dose-dependent 
immunogenicity of Fluenz/FluMist in paediatric and adult subjects. Study D153-P513 also showed that 
a 2-dose regimen of FluMist at a dosage level of 107 FFU per strain was statistically significantly more 
protective against culture-confirmed influenza illness in subjects 6 to < 36 months of age than a 2-
dose regimen at a dosage level of 106 FFU or 105 FFU per strain. 
Two additional studies (AV006 Year 1 and D153-P504) provide data regarding the efficacy of 1 dose 
vs. 2 doses of FluMist in paediatric subjects. In subjects 15 to 71 and 6 to 35 months of age, a single 
dose of FluMist was found to be efficacious against culture-confirmed influenza illness; estimates of 
efficacy were 88.8% and 57.7% respectively. However, the efficacy associated with a 2-dose primary 
series was numerically higher, and in most of the comparisons made within the studies, statistically 
higher than the efficacy of a single dose.  
The proposed dosing recommendations for Fluenz Tetra in children are the same as what are currently 
recommended for Fluenz, where the number of doses recommended depends on the child’s previous 
vaccination history.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 26/69 
 
  
  
2.4.7.  Main studies 
The clinical development programme for Q/LAIV consisted of three clinical immunogenicity studies: one 
pivotal study conducted in children (MI-CP208) and two supportive studies conducted in adults (MI-
CP185 and MI-CP206), one of which used a different delivery system (MI-CP206). The immunogenicity 
of the Q/LAIV was compared with two Fluenz vaccines, each containing one of the B lineages included 
in the Q/LAIV. The paediatric studies with Fluenz provide supportive efficacy data. Study design is in 
accordance with recommendations in the “Guideline on Clinical Evaluation of New vaccines” 
(EMEA/CHMP/VWP/164653/05).  
Pivotal Study MI-CP208 
Methods 
Study participants 
The subjects in this study were male and female individuals 2 to 17 years of age. Subjects were 
divided into two groups by age: 9 to 17 years of age (one-dose group) and 2 to 8 years of age (two-
dose group). The study population reflects the current pediatric age indication for FluMist marketed in 
the USA. 
This randomized, double-blind, active controlled, multicenter study was designed to enroll 
approximately 500 subjects 9 to 17 years of age (one-dose group) and approximately 1,800 subjects 2 
to 8 years of age (two-dose group) for a total sample size of approximately  2,300 subjects. Subjects 
were randomized in a 3:1:1 ratio to receive: 
• 
Fluenz Tetra (quadrivalent live, attenuated influenza vaccine containing two type B 
influenza strains) (N = 1,380), or 
•  Trivalent FluMist containing an influenza B strain from the Yamagata lineage (FluMist-Y) (N 
= 460), or 
•  Trivalent FluMist containing an influenza B strain from the Victoria lineage (FluMist-V) (N = 
460), with each of the FluMist influenza B strains matching one of the two B strains 
contained in Fluenz Tetra. 
Randomization was stratified by age (2 to 8 years, 9 to 17 years). For subjects 2 to 8 years of age 
only, randomization was also stratified by history of previous seasonal influenza vaccination. Subjects 
were screened for the study within 30 days prior to randomization 
Treatments 
Test Product Dose, Mode of Administration, and Batch Number: 
Investigational Product: Fluenz Tetra 
Dose and Form: Each dose contained 107.0 ± 0.5 fluorescent focus units (FFU) of each of 4 cold-adapted 
(ca), attenuated (att), temperature sensitive (ts), 6:2 reassortant influenza strains (A/H1N1 [A/South 
Dakota/6/2007], A/H3N2 [A/Uruguay/716/2007], B of Victoria lineage [B/Malaysia/2506/2004], and B 
of Yamagata lineage [B/Florida/4/2006]). 
Mode of Administration: Intranasal spray using the Becton Dickinson (BD) Accuspray™ device. 
Batch/Lot Number: 0141700024 
Reference Therapy, Dose, Mode of Administration, and Batch Number: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 27/69 
 
  
  
Investigational Product: FluMist containing a B strain of the Yamagata lineage (FluMist-Y) 
Dose and Form: Each dose contained 107.0 ± 0.5 FFU of each of 3 ca, ts, att, 6:2 reassortant influenza 
strains (A/H1N1 [A/South Dakota/6/2007], A/H3N2 [A/Uruguay/716/2007], and B of Yamagata 
lineage [B/Florida/4/2006]). 
Mode of Administration: Intranasal spray using the BD Accuspray device. 
Batch/Lot Number: 0141500588 
Investigational Product: FluMist containing a B strain of the Victoria lineage (FluMist-V) 
Dose and Form: Each dose contained 107.0 ± 0.5 FFU of each of 3 ca, att, ts, 6:2 reassortant influenza 
strains (A/H1N1 [A/South Dakota/6/2007], A/H3N2 [A/Uruguay/716/2007], and B of Victoria lineage 
[B/Malaysia/2506/2004]). 
Mode of Administration: Intranasal spray using the BD Accuspray device. 
Batch/Lot Number: 0141700025 
Duration of Treatment: 
Subjects received either a single dose (subjects 9 to 17 years of age) of investigational product on Day 
0 or two doses (subjects 2 to 8 years of age) of investigational product on Days 0 and 28. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra 
to FluMist in children 2 to 17 years of age by comparing the post dose strain-specific geometric mean 
titres (GMTs) of serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
1.  To estimate the proportion of subjects 2 to 17 years of age who experienced post dose strain-
specific HAI antibody seroresponse; 
2.  To estimate the proportion of subjects 2 to 17 years of age who achieved a post dose strain-
specific HAI antibody titre ≥ 32; 
3.  To assess the safety and tolerability of two doses of Fluenz Tetra in subjects 2 to 8 years of 
age and of a single dose of Fluenz Tetra in subjects 9 to 17 years of age. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was the post dose strain-specific serum HAI antibody GMT, regardless of 
baseline serostatus. Immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra to FluMist was demonstrated if the 
post dose strain-specific serum HAI antibody GMTs in the Fluenz Tetra arm were non-inferior to those 
in the FluMist arms for all 4 strains. 
The post dose serum HAI antibody GMTs for A/H1N1 and A/H3N2 strain in Fluenz Tetra were compared 
to those in the combined FluMist-Y and FluMist-V arms, and the post dose serum HAI antibody GMTs 
for the B strains of Yamagata and Victoria lineage in Fluenz Tetra were compared to those in the 
FluMist-Y arm and FluMist-V arm, respectively. The non-inferior immune response was assessed by 
evaluating the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the strain-specific HAI 
antibody GMT ratios (FluMist divided by Fluenz Tetra) to the non-inferiority margin of 1.5. If the upper 
bounds of 95% CIs were ≤ 1.5 for all 4 strains, the immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra 
compared to FluMist was declared.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 28/69 
 
  
  
 
No multiplicity adjustment was planned or implemented for the primary endpoint. Each of the 4 strain-
specific non-inferiority comparisons carried a one-sided 2.5% type one error rate; therefore the overall 
type one error rate associated with simultaneous coverage by all 4 CIs was necessarily no more than 
2.5%. 
The analyses of the primary endpoint were based on the Immunogenicity Population. For all analyses 
of immune responses, a value of 2 was imputed for titres reported as < 4. Geometric mean titres for 
the strain-specific influenza antibody measurements were defined as:  
GMT = antilogy (mean [logy x]) 
where x was the strain-specific HAI antibody titre and y was the natural logarithm. 
The statistical hypothesis testing for the primary endpoint for Fluenz Tetra was: 
H0: Rj > 1.5, for any j 
HA: Rj ≤ 1.5, for all j 
Where Rj was any of the 4 strain-specific post immunogenicity dose GMT ratios: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
(FluMist-Y) / (Fluenz Tetra) for B/Yamagata strain 
(FluMist-V) / (Fluenz Tetra) for B/Victoria strain 
(FluMist-Y + FluMist-V) / (Fluenz Tetra) for A/H1N1 strain 
(FluMist-Y + FluMist-V) / (Fluenz Tetra) for A/H3N2 strain 
Sample size 
For the primary immunogenicity endpoint, with a sample size of 1,380 subjects in the Fluenz Tetra arm 
and 460 subjects in each of the two FluMist arms and the non-inferiority margin of 1.5 for GMT ratios, 
this study provided at least 92% power to demonstrate the immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra 
compared to FluMist measured by the post immunogenicity dose serum HAI antibody GMT ratios 
(FluMist divided by Fluenz Tetra) for all of the 4 strains simultaneously if the true GMT ratio was ≤ 1.1 
for all 4 strains. 
Randomisation 
Eligible subjects were randomized in a 3:1:1 ratio to receive Fluenz Tetra, trivalent FluMist containing 
an influenza B strain from the Yamagata lineage (FluMist-Y), or trivalent FluMist containing an 
influenza B strain from the Victoria lineage (FluMist-V). An interactive voice response system (IVRS) 
system was used at screening (all subjects screened), at randomization/assignment of Dose 1 (all 
eligible subjects), and assignment of Dose 2 (for randomized subjects age 2 to 8 years of age). 
The IVRS that was used to assign the SID number to each subject at screening was used again for 
randomizing each eligible subject to a treatment arm and assigning investigational product kit 
number(s) and BD Accuspray device number(s). 
The randomization incorporated a block design and stratification by age (2 to 8 years, 9 to 17 years). 
For subjects 2 to 8 years of age only, randomization was also stratified by previous seasonal influenza 
vaccination history. 
Blinding (masking) 
This was a double-blind study; therefore, neither the subject/legal representative nor any of the 
investigator or sponsor staff who were involved in the treatment or clinical evaluation of the subjects 
was aware of the treatment received. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 29/69 
 
  
  
Two formal analyses were planned for the study. An interim analysis of the final immunogenicity and 
Day 28 post last dose safety assessments was submitted on 05 January 2011. Study investigators and 
other site staff, study subjects, and contract research organization (CRO) personnel (including site 
monitors) directly associated with the conduct of this study remained blinded to the treatment 
assignment for individual subjects until the completion of the study. The detailed plan was documented 
in a separate unblinding memo prior to the unblinding. This final clinical study report (CSR) includes 
the previously reported final immunogenicity data and updates the safety data to provide final safety 
data collected through 180 days post last dose. 
Statistical methods 
Intent-to-treat Population 
The Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population includes all randomized subjects. Treatment arm will be assigned 
according to the initial randomization regardless of whether subjects received any investigational 
product or received an investigational product different from that to which they were randomized. 
Safety Population 
The Safety Population includes all subjects who received any investigational product and had any 
safety follow-up. Treatment arm for safety analysis will be assigned according to the actual treatment 
received at Dose I. 
lmmunogenicity Population 
The Immunogenicity Population includes all subjects who received investigational product and had post 
dose HAI antibody measurement as defined below and had no protocol deviation judged to have the 
potential to interfere with the generation or interpretation of an immune response. Treatment arm for 
immunogenicity analysis will be assigned according to the actual treatment received at Dose 1. 
•  One-Dose group (9 to 17 years of age): received a dose of study vaccine and had post dose 
HAI antibody measurement; 
• 
• 
Two-Dose group (2 to 8 years of age) with history of prior seasonal influenza vaccination: 
received a dose of study vaccine at Dose 1 and had post dose 1 HAI antibody measurement; 
Two-Dose group (2 to 8 years of age) without history of prior seasonal influenza vaccination: 
received a dose of study vaccine at Doses 1 and 2 and had post Dose 2 HAI antibody 
measurement. 
Primary endpoint 
Strain-specific GMTs will be summarized by treatment group and by sample time (baseline or post 
dose strain-specific HAI). Corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) for the GMTs 
and the ratios of post dose GMTs for the specified comparisons will be constructed using a percentile-
based bootstrap method. In addition, for the calculation of 95% CIs for GMTs and GMT ratios in the 
overall population, the percentile-based bootstrap method will be stratified by baseline titre (titre≤ 4 
and titre > 4), Specifically, ten thousand bootstrap data sets will be constructed by drawing replicates 
with replacement from each of the 4 cells (two treatment groups and two baseline titre sets; it could 
be 5 or 6 cells if there are missing baseline titres) of observed data. The number of replicates drawn 
from each cell in this fashion will be equal to the observed sample size within each cell. For each of the 
10,000 bootstrap data sets, the overall GMT or GMT ratio will be calculated. The 95% CI will be 
constructed based upon the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles of the 10,000 GMTs or GMT ratios. 
The post dose serum HAI antibody GMTs for the A/H1N1 and A/H3N2 strains in Fluenz Tetra will be 
compared to those in the combined FluMist-Y and FluMist-V arms, and the post dose serum HAI 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 30/69 
 
  
  
antibody GMTs for the B strains of Yamagata and Victoria lineage in Fluenz Tetra will be compared to 
those in the FluMist-Y arm and FluMist-V arm, respectively. If the upper bound of the 2-sided 95% CIs 
for the strain-specific HAI antibody GMT ratios (FluMist divided by Q/LAIV) is ≤ 1.5 for all 4 strains, the 
immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra compared to FluMist will be declared. No multiplicity 
adjustment is planned for the primary endpoint. 
Results 
The study primary objective of demonstrating immunologic non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to two 
formulations of Fluenz in subjects 2 to 17 years of age by comparing the 4 strain-specific GMTs by post 
vaccination HAI assay was achieved. An analysis of GMFR in antibody titres measured by HAI supports 
the primary endpoint conclusion. In general, secondary endpoints supported the conclusion that the 
immune responses to Q/LAIV and Fluenz were similar, with two exceptions: 
•  vaccine immunogenicity was greater in the Fluenz group than in the Q/LAIV arm for the rate of 
seroconversion/seroresponse to A/H1N1 in the serosusceptible subgroup; 
• 
the proportion of subjects achieving an HAI antibody titre ≥ 32 to the B/Yamagata strain in all 
subjects and based on baseline serostatus was greater for Fluenz than for Q/LAIV. 
Based on the primary endpoint and supported by the secondary endpoint and by the post hoc 
analyses, the immune response to Q/LAIV can be considered as not inferior to the immune response to 
Fluenz. However, the relevance of the non-inferiority analysis is questioned in the case of A/H1N1 and 
A/H3N2 where a very low or zero response to vaccination was observed. 
In general the results from NAI and neutralisation show the same trend as HAI: a good response to the 
B-strains in seronegative subjects and low or negligible response to H1N1 and H3N2. The exception is 
the good response against H1N1 when measured by microneutralisation (rate of seroconversion = 44-
59%).   
Summary of the main study 
The following tables summarise the results from the main studies supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the 
benefit risk assessment. 
Table 3: Summary of Results for trial MI-CP208 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Active  Controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Immunogenicity  of 
Quadrivalent LAIV in Children 
Study identifier 
MI-CP208 
Design 
Randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, 3-arm, parallel-group 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
One-dose Group : 180 to 187 days post Dose 
1 (Day 0) 
Two-dose Group: 180 to 187 days post Dose 
2 (28 to 35 days after post Dose 1) 
Screening between Day-30 and Day 0 
Duration of Extension phase:  Not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Immunologic non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to Fluenz is considered to have been 
demonstrated if the post dose strain-specific serum Hemagglutination 
Inhibition (HAI) antibody geometric mean titres (GMTs) in the Q/LAIV arm 
were non-inferior to those in the Fluenz arms for all 4 strains. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 31/69 
 
  
  
 
 
Treatments groups 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Fluenz-V 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
GMT  
Secondary 
endpoints 
Seroresponse 
(%)  
HAI≥32 (%) 
Quadrivalent live attenuated influenza 
vaccine, 1385 patients randomized 
Trivalent Fluenz containing influenza B strain 
from the Yamagata lineage, 464 patients 
randomized 
Trivalent Fluenz containing influenza B strain 
from the Victoria lineage, 463 patients 
randomized 
The post dose strain-specific serum HAI 
antibody GMT, regardless of baseline 
serostatus. 
The proportion of subjects who experienced 
post dose strain-specific HAI antibody 
seroresponse by baseline serostatus. 
Seroresponse defined as a ≥ 4-fold rise in 
HAI titre from baseline. 
The proportion of subjects who achieved a 
post dose strain-specific HAI antibody titre ≥ 
32 by baseline serostatus 
Other 
endpoints 
GMFR 
Geometric mean fold rise from baseline in 
HAI titres 
Database lock 
Not reported in the CSR 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Immunogenicity Population: 
All  subjects  who  received  a  full  dose  of  investigational  product,  had  post 
dose HAI antibody measurements, and had no protocol deviation judged to 
have  the  potential  to  interfere  with  the  generation  or  interpretation  of  an 
immune response. 
Dose groups: 
• One-dose group (9 to 17 years of age): received a dose of investigational 
product and had post dose HAI antibody measurement; 
 •  Two-dose  group  (2  to  8  years  of  age)  with  history  of  prior  seasonal 
influenza  vaccination:  received  a  dose  of  investigational  product  at  Dose  1 
and had post Dose 1 HAI antibody measurement; 
 •  Two-dose  group  (2  to  8  years  of  age)  without  history  of  prior  seasonal 
influenza vaccination: received a dose of investigational product at Doses 1 
and 2 and had post Dose 2 HAI antibody measurement. 
Immunogenicity time point: 
  28 to 25 days after Dose 1 (for all subjects aged 9 to 17 years of 
age and subjects 2 to 8 years of age with a history of prior seasonal 
influenza vaccination) 
28 to 35 days after Dose 2 for subjects 2 to 8 years of age with no 
history of prior seasonal influenza vaccination. 
 
Primary endpoint 
Ratio of Post Immunogenicity Dose GMTs of HAI Antibody 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
1327 
16.7  
883 
17.9  
Page 32/69 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95% CI 
Strain 
(15.9, 17.6) 
(16.8, 19.1) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
95% CI 
Strain 
1327 
27.7  
883 
28.8  
(26.1, 29.4) 
(26.7, 31.1) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
95% CI 
Strain 
Treatment group 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
95% CI 
1327 
49.6  
445 
59.8  
(46.6, 52.8) 
(53.7, 66.7) 
B/Victoria 
Q/LAIV 
1327 
35.4  
Fluenz-V 
437  
37.0 
(33.3, 37.7) 
(33.4, 41.0) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Primary endpoint 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.07  
(0.98, 1.16) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.04  
(0.94, 1.14) 
Primary endpoint 
(B/Yamagata) 
Primary endpoint 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.21  
(1.07, 1.37) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.05  
(0.93, 1.18) 
Notes 
The All Fluenz group refers to data from both the Fluenz-Y arm and the 
Fluenz-V arm combined. 
The immune response of Q/LAIV was declared non-inferior to that of 
trivalent Fluenz if the upper bound for each of the four 95% CIs for post-
dose strain-specific GMT ratios was ≤ 1.5. 
Analysis description  Supportive Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Endpoint 
Descriptive statistics  
Immunogenicity Population 
Immunogenicity time point 
GMFR in HAI antibody titres  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 33/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
95% CI 
Strain 
1320 
1.13  
878 
1.21  
(1.10, 1.17) 
(1.16, 1.27) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
95% CI 
Strain 
1321  
1.06 
879  
1.05 
(1.03, 1.09) 
(1.00, 1.09) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
95% CI 
Strain 
1321  
3.57 
441  
4.05 
(3.37, 3.78) 
(3.65, 4.49) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
95% CI 
1321  
2.77 
437  
2.73 
(2.62, 2.93) 
(2.49, 3.00) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
GMFR 
(A/H1N1) 
GMFR  
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.07  
(1.01, 1.13) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.99  
(0.94, 1.04) 
GMFR 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
1.13  
(1.01, 1.27) 
GMFR (B/Victoria)  Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
0.99  
(0.88, 1.10) 
Notes 
A value of 2 was assigned for an HAI titre reported as < 4. 
Ratio = GMFR in comparator/GMFR in Q/LAIV. 
Confidence intervals based on bootstrapping method. 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 34/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Immunogenicity Population. Subjects must also have had a baseline HAI 
measurement to be included in the analysis set. 
Immunogenicity time point. 
Secondary Endpoint 
Proportion of subjects who experienced post dose strain-specific HAI 
antibody seroresponse by baseline serostatus. 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Baseline Serostatus 
Seronegative 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
460  
14.6 
321 
19.6 
95% CI 
Strain 
(11.5, 18.1) 
(15.4, 24.4) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
364 
9.9 
244  
11.1 
95% CI 
Strain 
(7.0, 13.4) 
(7.4, 15.7) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
483 
83.0 
165 
84.8 
95% CI 
Strain 
(79.4, 86.3) 
(78.5, 89.9) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
487  
68.8 
159 
73.6 
95% CI 
(64.5, 72.9) 
(66.0, 80.3) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-5.1  
95% CI 
(-10.6, 0.2) 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.2  
95% CI 
(-6.5, 3.7) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-1.8  
95% CI 
(-7.8, 5.1) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-4.8  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 35/69 
 
  
  
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
95% CI 
(-12.4, 3.6) 
Baseline Serostatus 
Serosusceptible 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
569 
12.7 
392 
17.6 
95% CI 
Strain 
(10.1, 15.7) 
(14.0, 21.7) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
435 
9.9 
298 
9.4 
95% CI 
Strain 
(7.2, 13.1) 
(6.3, 13.3) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
588 
79.1 
192 
81.3 
95% CI 
Strain 
(75.6, 82.3) 
(75.0, 86.5) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
620 
66.1 
191 
69.6 
95% CI 
(62.3, 69.9) 
(62.6, 76.1) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-4.9  
95% CI 
(-9.7, -0.4) 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.5  
95% CI 
(-4.1, 4.8) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-2.2  
95% CI 
(-8.2, 4.7) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-3.5  
95% CI 
(-10.7, 4.3) 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Baseline Serostatus 
Strain 
All 
A/H1N1 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 36/69 
 
  
  
 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
1320 
6.3 
878 
8.2 
95% CI 
Strain 
(5.0, 7.7)  
(6.5, 10.2) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
1321 
3.9 
879 
3.6 
95% CI 
Strain 
(3.0, 5.1)  
(2.5, 5.1) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
1321 
43.4 
441 
44.9 
95% CI 
Strain 
(40.7, 46.1) 
(40.2, 49.7) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%)  
1321  
39.1 
437 
38.4 
95% CI 
(36.4, 41.8) 
(33.9, 43.2) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.9  
95% CI 
(-4.2, 0.3) 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.3  
95% CI 
(-1.4, 1.9) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-1.5 
95% CI 
(-6.9, 3.8) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
0.6 
95% CI 
(-4.7, 5.8) 
Notes 
Strain-specific baseline serostatus was defined as follows:  
 
 
seronegative if baseline HAI antibody titres were ≤ 4 
serosusceptible if baseline HAI antibody titres were ≤ 8. 
Two-sided exact CI for percentage. 
Rate difference: Q/LAIV rate – comparator rate. 
Two-sided based on standardized (score) statistic. 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 37/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Secondary Endpoint 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Immunogenicity Population 
Immunogenicity time point 
Proportion of subjects who achieved a post dose strain-specific HAI antibody 
titre ≥ 32 by baseline serostatus. 
Baseline Serostatus 
Seronegative 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
Strain 
460  
5.2 
321  
5.6 
(3.4, 7.7) 
(3.4, 8.7) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
364  
3.8 
244  
4.9 
95% CI 
Strain 
(2.1, 6.4) 
(2.6, 8.4) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
483  
60.9 
165  
70.9 
95% CI 
Strain 
(56.4, 65.2) 
(63.3, 77.7) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
487  
37.0 
159  
42.8 
(32.7, 41.4) 
(35.0, 50.8) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32  
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.4  
95% CI 
(-3.9, 2.8) 
HAI≥32  
(A/H3N2) 
HAI≥32  
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.1 
(-4.9, 2.2) 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-10.0 
95% CI 
(-17.9, -1.6) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-5.8 
95% CI 
(-14.7, 2.8) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 38/69 
 
  
  
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Baseline Serostatus 
Serosusceptible 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
569  
5.1 
392  
6.1 
95% CI 
Strain 
(3.4, 7.2) 
(4.0, 9.0) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
435  
4.8 
298  
4.4 
95% CI 
Strain 
(3.0, 7.3) 
(2.3, 7.3) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
588  
60.9 
192 
69.3 
95% CI 
Strain 
(56.8, 64.9) 
(62.2, 75.7) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
620  
41.1 
209  
17.7 
(37.2, 45.1) 
(12.8, 23.6) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32  
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.0  
95% CI 
(-4.2, 1.9) 
HAI≥32  
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.5  
95% CI 
(-2.9, 3.5) 
HAI≥32  
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-8.4  
95% CI 
(-15.7, -0.5) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-2.9  
95% CI 
(-10.9, 5.1) 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Baseline Serostatus 
Strain 
All 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 39/69 
 
  
  
 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
1327 
43.1 
883 
43.8 
95% CI 
Strain 
(40.4, 45.8) 
(40.5, 47.2) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
1327 
55.7 
883 
55.4 
95% CI 
Strain 
(53.0, 58.4) 
(52.0, 58.7) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
1327 
76.5 
445 
81.6 
95% CI 
Strain 
(74.1, 78.7) 
(77.7, 85.1) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
1327 
65.6 
437 
66.6 
(63.0, 68.2) 
(62.0, 71.0) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32  
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.7 
95% CI 
(-4.9, 3.5) 
HAI≥32  
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.3 
95% CI 
(-3.9, 4.5) 
HAI≥32  
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-5.1 
95% CI 
(-9.2, -0.6) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-1.0  
95% CI 
(-6.0, 4.2) 
Notes 
Strain-specific baseline serostatus was defined as follows:  
 
 
seronegative if baseline HAI antibody titres were ≤ 4 
serosusceptible if baseline HAI antibody titres were ≤ 8. 
Two-sided exact CI for percentage.  
Rate difference: Q/LAIV rate – comparator rate. 
Two-sided CI for rate difference based on standardized (score) statistic. 
Analysis description  Post Hoc Analyses 
Analysis population  
Immunogenicity Subset for NAI antibody analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 40/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Number of subjects 
A/H1N1 
A/H3N2 
B/Yamagata 
B/Victoria 
Q/LAI
V 
555 
All 
Fluenz 
355 
Q/LAI
V 
561 
All 
Fluenz 
359 
Q/LAI
V 
539 
Fluenz
-Y 
178 
Q/LAI
V 
560 
Fluenz
-V 
177 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
GMT Ratio of NAI 
Antibody 
(A/H1N1) 
GMT Ratio of NAI 
Antibody  
(A/H3N2) 
GMT Ratio of NAI 
Antibody 
(B/Yamagata) 
GMT Ratio of NAI 
Antibody 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.16 
(1.01, 1.35) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.00 
(0.89, 1.12) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.03 
(0.86, 1.22) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
0.82 
(0.70, 0.96) 
Notes 
Ratio = GMT in comparator divided by GMT in Q/LAIV.  
A value of 5 was assigned for NAI antibody titres reported as < 10. 
Confidence intervals based on bootstrapping method. 
Analysis population  
Immunogenicity Subset for Microneutralization analysis 
Number of subjects 
A/H1N1 
A/H3N2 
B/Yamagata 
B/Victoria 
Q/LAI
V 
259 
All 
Fluenz 
173 
Q/LAI
V 
239 
All 
Fluenz 
156 
Q/LAI
V 
273 
Fluenz
-Y 
101 
Q/LAI
V 
267 
Fluenz
-V 
82 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
GMT Ratio of 
Microneutralizatio
n Antibody 
(A/H1N1) 
GMT Ratio of 
Microneutralizatio
n Antibody  
(A/H3N2) 
GMT Ratio of 
Microneutralizatio
n Antibody 
(B/Yamagata) 
GMT Ratio of 
Microneutralizatio
n Antibody 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.86  
(0.66, 1.11) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.93  
(0.69, 1.26) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.28  
(1.00, 1.62) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.16  
(0.89, 1.51) 
Notes 
Ratio = GMT in comparator divided by GMT in Q/LAIV.  
A value of 5 was assigned for MN microneutralization titres reported as < 
10.  
Confidence intervals based on bootstrapping method. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 41/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis description 
Post-hoc analyses 
Post Immunogenicity Dose Strain-specific Seroconversion/Seroresponse 
Rates (Greater Than or Equal to 4-fold Rise in NAI Antibody Titer From 
Baseline) by Baseline Serostatus, Immunogenicity Population for Analysis 
of NAI Antibody (Q/LAIV Pediatric Study MI-CP208) 
Baseline 
Serostatu
s 
Strain 
Q/LAIV 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
All FluMist 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
FluMist-Y 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
FluMist-V 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
A/H1N1 
43/544 (7.9) 
[5.8, 10.5] 
50/351 
(14.2) 
[10.8, 18.3] 
29/179 
(16.2) 
[11.1, 22.4] 
21/172 
(12.2) [7.7, 
18.1] 
Rate Difference 
Compara
tor  
Percenta
ge 
Points  
All FluMist 
-6.3 
A/H3N2 
9/556 (1.6) 
[0.7, 3.1] 
8/357 (2.2) 
[1.0, 4.4] 
6/181 (3.3) 
[1.2, 7.1] 
2/176 (1.1) 
[0.1, 4.0] 
All FluMist 
-0.6 
All  
B/Yamagata 
B/Victoria 
A/H1N1 
A/H3N2 
Seronegati
ve  
B/Yamagata 
B/Victoria 
A/H1N1 
A/H3N2 
Seropositiv
e  
279/532 
(52.4) [48.1, 
56.8] 
309/553 
(55.9) [51.6, 
60.1] 
33/312 
(10.6) [7.4, 
14.5] 
-- 
-- 
41/195 
(21.0) [15.5, 
27.4] 
92/177 
(52.0) [44.4, 
59.5] 
94/182 
(51.6) [44.1, 
59.1] 
64/171 
(37.4) [30.2, 
45.1] 
75/175 
(42.9) [35.4, 
50.5] 
23/97 (23.7) 
[15.7, 33.4] 
18/98 (18.4) 
[11.3, 27.5] 
FluMist-Y 
0.5 
FluMist-V 
13.0 
All FluMist 
-10.4 
6/319 (1.9) 
[0.7, 4.0] 
6/212 (2.8) 
[1.0, 6.1] 
4/112 (3.6) 
[1.0, 8.9] 
2/100 (2.0) 
[0.2, 7.0] 
All FluMist 
-0.9 
205/249 
(82.3) [77.0, 
86.9] 
205/217 
(94.5) [90.5, 
97.1] 
-- 
-- 
71/84 (84.5) 
[75.0, 91.5] 
43/70 (61.4) 
[49.0, 72.8] 
FluMist-Y 
-2.2 
65/76 (85.5) 
[75.6, 92.5] 
55/65 (84.6) 
[73.5, 92.4] 
FluMist-V 
9.9 
10/232 (4.3) 
[2.1, 7.8] 
9/156 (5.8) 
[2.7, 10.7] 
6/82 (7.3) 
[2.7, 15.2] 
3/74 (4.1) 
[0.8, 11.4] 
All FluMist 
-1.5 
3/237 (1.3) 
[0.3, 3.7] 
2/145 (1.4) 
[0.2, 4.9] 
2/69 (2.9) 
[0.4, 10.1] 
0/76 (0.0) 
[0.0, 4.7] 
All FluMist 
-0.1 
B/Yamagata  
B/Victoria  
74/283 
(26.1) [21.1, 
31.7]  
104/336 
(31.0) [26.0, 
36.2]  
-- 
-- 
21/93 (22.6) 
[14.6, 32.4]  
29/106 
(27.4) [19.1, 
36.9]  
21/101 
(20.8) [13.4, 
30.0]  
20/110 
(18.2) [11.5, 
26.7]  
FluMist-Y  
3.6  
FluMist-V  
12.8  
Analysis description 
Post-hoc analyses 
Post Immunogenicity Dose Strain-specific Seroconversion/Seroresponse 
Rates (Greater Than or Equal to 4-fold Rise in Microneutralization Antibody 
Titer From Baseline) by Baseline Serostatus, Immunogenicity Population 
for Analysis of Microneutralization Antibody (Q/LAIV Pediatric Study  MI-
CP208) 
Baseline 
Serostatu
s 
Strain 
Q/LAIV 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
All FluMist 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
FluMist-Y 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
FluMist-V 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
Rate Difference 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 42/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Compara
tor  
Percenta
ge 
Points  
A/H1N1  
32/240 
(13.3) [9.3, 
18.3] 
18/167 
(10.8)  
[6.5, 16.5] 
13/88 (14.8) 
[8.1, 23.9] 
5/79 (6.3) 
[2.1, 14.2] 
All FluMist  
2.6  
A/H3N2  
15/235 (6.4) 
[3.6, 10.3] 
8/154 ( 5.2) 
[2.3, 10.0] 
5/83 ( 6.0) 
[2.0, 13.5] 
3/71 ( 4.2) 
[0.9, 11.9] 
All FluMist  
1.2  
All  
B/Yamagata  
B/Victoria  
169/272 
(62.1)  
[56.1, 67.9] 
101/260 
(38.8) [32.9, 
45.1] 
-- 
-- 
63/101 
(62.4) [52.2, 
71.8] 
9/84 (10.7) 
[5.0, 19.4] 
22/98 (22.4) 
[14.6, 32.0] 
36/80 (45.0) 
[33.8, 56.5] 
FluMist-Y  
-0.2  
FluMist-V  
-6.2  
Seronegati
ve  
Seropositiv
e  
A/H1N1  
23/39 (59.0) 
[42.1, 74.4] 
12/27 (44.4) 
[25.5, 64.7] 
9/14 (64.3) 
[35.1, 87.2] 
3/13 (23.1) 
[5.0, 53.8] 
All FluMist  
14.5  
A/H3N2  
10/59 (16.9) 
[8.4, 29.0] 
7/34 (20.6) 
[8.7, 37.9] 
4/21 (19.0) 
[5.4, 41.9] 
3/13 (23.1) 
[5.0, 53.8] 
All FluMist  
-3.6  
B/Yamagata  
B/Victoria  
153/188 
(81.4) [75.1, 
86.7] 
83/155 
(53.5) [45.4, 
61.6] 
-- 
-- 
57/65 (87.7) 
[77.2, 94.5] 
8/51 (15.7) 
[7.0, 28.6] 
FluMist-Y  
-6.3  
18/69 (26.1) 
[16.3, 38.1] 
29/46 (63.0) 
[47.5, 76.8] 
FluMist-V  
-9.5  
A/H1N1  
9/201 (4.5) 
[2.1, 8.3] 
6/140 (4.3) 
[1.6, 9.1] 
4/74 (5.4) 
[1.5, 13.3] 
2/66 ( 3.0) 
[0.4, 10.5] 
All FluMist  
0.2  
A/H3N2  
5/176 ( 2.8) 
[0.9, 6.5] 
1/120 (0.8) 
[0.0, 4.6] 
1/62 (1.6) 
[0.0, 8.7] 
0/58 ( 0.0)  
[ 0.0, 6.2] 
All FluMist  
2.0  
B/Yamagata  
B/Victoria  
16/ 84 
(19.0) [11.3, 
29.1]  
18/105 
(17.1) [10.5, 
25.7]  
-- 
-- 
6/36 (16.7) 
[6.4, 32.8]  
1/33 (3.0) 
[0.1, 15.8]  
FluMist-Y  
2.4  
4/29 (13.8) 
[3.9, 31.7]  
7/34 (20.6) 
[8.7, 37.9]  
FluMist-V  
-3.4  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Despite the similarities in study design between the 2 Q/LAIV studies, the immunogenicity data from 
the studies were not pooled due to the different age of the subjects enrolled. It is known that younger 
children have higher immune responses to the vaccine, as measured by serum HAI responses, and 
that adults tend to have modest responses in comparison. On the other hand, differences between the 
two studies in terms of dosing regimen, prior vaccine exposure and baseline serostatus limit the 
validity of a direct comparison of results across studies. Therefore analyses across studies have not 
been performed and this was considered acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 43/69 
 
  
  
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No special paediatric populations have been investigated. 
Supportive studies 
Table 4: Summary of results for trial MI-CP185 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Active  Controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Immunogenicity  of 
MEDI3250 in Adults 18 to 49 Years of Age 
Study identifier 
MI-CP185 
Design 
Randomized, Double-Blind, Active-Controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
180 days post dose administration of vaccine 
(Day 0): 
  14 days for solicited symptoms 
  28 days for AEs 
 
180 days for SAEs and new onset 
chronic diseases (NOCDs). 
Duration of Screening 
period: 
Duration of Extension phase:  Not applicable 
A screening period of up to 30 days was 
permitted. 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority. 
Immunologic non-inferiority of Q/LAIV to Fluenz would be considered to have 
been demonstrated if the post dose strain-specific serum HAI antibody GMTs 
in the Q/LAIV arm were non-inferior to those in the Fluenz arms for all 4 
strains. 
Quadrivalent live attenuated influenza 
vaccine.  
N (randomized)=1200  
Trivalent Fluenz containing influenza B strain 
from the Yamagata lineage.  
N (randomized)=299 
Trivalent Fluenz containing influenza B strain 
from the Victoria lineage.  
N (randomized)=301 
The post dose strain-specific serum HAI 
antibody GMT in all 4 strains, regardless of 
baseline serostatus 
The proportion of subjects who experienced 
post dose strain-specific HAI antibody 
seroresponse by baseline serostatus. 
Seroresponse defined as a ≥ 4-fold rise in 
HAI titre from baseline. 
The proportion of subjects who achieved a 
post dose strain-specific HAI antibody titre ≥ 
32 by baseline serostatus 
Treatments groups 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Fluenz-V 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
GMT  
Secondary 
endpoints 
Seroresponse 
(%)  
HAI≥32 (%) 
Database lock 
Not reported in the CSR 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 44/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Number of subjects:  
  - randomized: 1800 subjects  
  - dosed: 1798 subjects  
  - Immunogenicity Population: 1770 subjects. 
Immunogenicity  Population:  All  subjects  who  received  a  full  dose  of 
investigational product, had post dose HAI antibody measurement, and had 
no  protocol  deviation  judged  to  have  the  potential  to  interfere  with  the 
generation or interpretation of an immune response.  
Subjects identified with deviations judged to have the potential to interfere 
with the generation or interpretation of an immune response were excluded 
from the Immunogenicity Population prior to unblinding. 
Subjects were included in the treatment arm corresponding to the treatment 
received even if it was different from the randomized treatment. 
Immunogenicity time point: during the interval of Day 28 to Day 35 post 
dose 
Primary endpoint 
Post dose strain-specific HAI antibody GMTs  
Descriptive statistics  
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
Strain 
1181  
5.9 
589  
6.5 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
Strain 
1181  
7.5 
589  
7.8 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
Strain 
1181  
51.2 
292  
56.4 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
GMT 
1181  
36.5 
297  
33.6 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Primary endpoint 
 (A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.09  
(1.01, 1.18) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.05  
(0.96, 1.14) 
Primary endpoint 
 (B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
1.10  
(0.97, 1.25) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 45/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Primary endpoint 
 (B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMT Ratio 
95% CI 
0.92  
(0.82, 1.03) 
Notes 
The All Fluenz group refers to data from both the Fluenz-Y arm and the 
Fluenz-V arm combined. 
The immune response of Q/LAIV was declared noninferior to that of trivalent 
Fluenz if the upper bound for each of the four 95% CIs for post-dose strain-
specific GMT ratios was ≤ 1.5. 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Immunogenicity Population. Subjects must also have had a baseline HAI 
measurement to be included in the analysis set. 
Immunogenicity time point. 
Secondary Endpoint 
Proportion of subjects who experienced post dose strain-specific 
seroresponse post dose by baseline serostatus. 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Seroresponse: ≥4-fold increase in HAI antibody titre from baseline. 
Baseline Serostatus 
Serosusceptible 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
889  
6.6 
429  
7.0 
95% CI 
Strain 
(5.1, 8.5) 
(4.8, 9.8) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
807  
6.6 
393 
6.4 
95% CI 
Strain 
(5.0, 8.5) 
(4.2, 9.2) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
197  
33.5 
43 
39.5 
95% CI 
Strain 
(27.0, 40.6) 
(25.0, 55.6) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
250  
36.8 
66  
42.4 
95% CI 
(30.8, 43.1) 
(30.3, 55.2) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.4  
95% CI 
(-3.5, 2.4) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 46/69 
 
  
  
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.2  
95% CI 
(-3.0, 3.0) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-6.0  
95% CI 
(-22.3, 9.0) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-5.6  
95% CI 
(-19.0, 7.2) 
Baseline Serostatus 
Seropositive 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
291  
0.7 
160 
0.6 
95% CI 
Strain 
(0.1, 2.5) 
(0.0, 3.4) 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
373  
1.6 
196 
0.0 
95% CI 
Strain 
(0.6, 3.5) 
(0.0, 1.9) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
983  
5.3 
249 
5.2 
95% CI 
Strain 
(4.0, 6.9) 
(2.8, 8.8) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
930 
5.7 
231 
3.0 
95% CI 
(4.3, 7.4) 
(1.2, 6.1) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.1  
(-2.8, 1.9) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
1.6  
(-0.3, 3.5) 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
0.1  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 47/69 
 
  
  
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
95% CI 
(-3.6, 2.8) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
95% CI 
Baseline Serostatus 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
2.7  
(-0.7, 5.0) 
All 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
1180 
5.2 
589 
5.3 
95% CI 
Strain 
(4.0, 6.6) 
(3.6, 7.4) 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
1180 
5.0 
589 
4.2 
95% CI 
Strain 
(3.8, 6.4) 
(2.8, 6.2) 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
1180 
10.0 
292  
10.3 
95% CI 
Strain 
(8.3, 11.9) 
(7.0, 14.3) 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
Seroresponse (%) 
1180 
12.3 
297 
11.8 
95% CI 
(10.5, 14.3) 
(8.3, 16.0) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Seroresponse 
(A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.1  
95% CI 
(-2.5, 2.0) 
Seroresponse 
(A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.8  
95% CI 
(-1.5, 2.7) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-0.3  
95% CI 
(-4.6, 3.3) 
Seroresponse 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
0.5  
95% CI 
(-4.0, 4.3) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 48/69 
 
  
  
 
 
Notes 
Strain-specific baseline serostatus was defined as follows:  
 
 
serosusceptible if baseline strain specific HAI antibody titre ≤ 8 
seropositive if baseline strain specific HAI antibody titre > 8. 
A value of 2 was assigned for an HAI titre reported as < 4. 
Two-sided exact CI for percentage. 
Rate difference: Q/LAIV rate – comparator rate. 
Two-sided based on standardized (score) statistic. 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Secondary Endpoint 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Immunogenicity Population.  
Immunogenicity time point. 
Percentage of subjects who achieved a strain-specific HAI antibody titre ≥ 
32 post dose by baseline serostatus. 
Baseline Serostatus 
Serosusceptible 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
889  
1.9 
429 
1.2 
(1.1, 3.0) 
(0.4, 2.7) 
Strain 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
807  
2.2 
393 
2.8 
(1.3, 3.5) 
(1.4, 5.0) 
Strain 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
197  
22.3 
43 
25.6 
(16.7, 28.8) 
(13.5, 41.2) 
Strain 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
250  
22.8 
66  
24.2 
(17.7, 28.5) 
(14.5, 36.4) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32 (A/H1N1)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.7  
95% CI 
(-0.9, 2.1) 
HAI≥32 (A/H3N2)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.6  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 49/69 
 
  
  
 
 
95% CI 
(-2.9, 1.2) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-3.2  
95% CI 
(-18.9, 9.3) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference  
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
-1.4  
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
95% CI 
(-14.0, 9.0) 
Baseline Serostatus 
Seropositive 
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
291  
59.1 
160 
59.4 
(53.2, 64.8) 
(51.3, 67.1) 
Strain 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
373  
62.2 
196 
62.2 
(57.1, 67.1) 
(55.1, 69.1) 
Strain 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
983  
85.1 
249 
86.3 
(82.8, 87.3) 
(81.4, 90.4) 
Strain 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
930  
76.8 
231  
75.8 
(73.9, 79.5) 
(69.7, 81.1) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32 (A/H1N1)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.3  
95% CI 
(-9.6, 9.3) 
HAI≥32 (A/H3N2)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-0.0  
95% CI 
(-8.3, 8.4) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-1.2  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 50/69 
 
  
  
 
95% CI 
(-5.6, 4.0) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
95% CI 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Baseline Serostatus 
Strain 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
1.0  
(-4.8, 7.5) 
All 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
1181 
16.0 
589  
17.0 
(14.0, 18.2) 
(14.0, 20.3) 
Strain 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
1181 
21.2 
589  
22.6 
(18.9, 23.6) 
(19.3, 26.2) 
Strain 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
1181 
74.6 
292 
77.4 
(72.0, 77.1) 
(72.2, 82.1) 
Strain 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
HAI≥32 (%) 
95% CI 
1181 
65.3 
292 
51.4 
(62.5, 68.0) 
(45.5, 57.2) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HAI≥32 (A/H1N1)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.0  
95% CI 
(-4.8, 2.6) 
HAI≥32 (A/H3N2)  Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
-1.4  
95% CI 
(-5.6, 2.6) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y for the 
B/Yamagata strain 
-2.8  
95% CI 
(-7.9, 2.9) 
HAI≥32 
(B/Victoria) 
Comparison groups 
Rate difference 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V for the 
B/Victoria strain 
1.0  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 51/69 
 
  
  
 
Notes 
Strain-specific baseline serostatus was defined as follows:  
 
 
serosusceptible if baseline strain specific HAI antibody titre ≤ 8 
seropositive if baseline strain specific HAI antibody titre > 8. 
95% CI 
(-5.0, 7.2) 
A value of 2 was assigned for an HAI titre reported as < 4. 
Two-sided exact CI for percentage. 
Rate difference: Q/LAIV rate – comparator rate. 
Two-sided based on standardized (score) statistic. 
Analysis description  Post Hoc Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Endpoint 
Descriptive statistics  
Immunogenicity Population 
Immunogenicity time point 
Geometric mean fold rise (GMFR) in HAI antibody titres  
Strain 
A/H1N1 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
1,180  
1.16 
589  
1.14 
Strain 
A/H3N2 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
All Fluenz group 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
1,180  
1.13 
589  
1.12 
Strain 
B/Yamagata 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-Y 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
1,180  
1.37 
292 
1.27 
Strain 
B/Victoria 
Treatment group 
Q/LAIV 
Fluenz-V 
Number of subjects 
GMFR 
1,180  
1.40 
GMFR (A/H1N1) 
Comparison groups 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
GMFR (A/H3N2) 
Comparison groups 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
297 
1.35 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.98  
(0.93, 1.04) 
Q/LAIV, All Fluenz 
Group 
0.99  
(0.94, 1.06) 
GMFR 
(B/Yamagata) 
Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-Y  
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
0.93  
(0.85, 1.01) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 52/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
GMFR (B/Victoria)  Comparison groups 
Q/LAIV, Fluenz-V 
GMFR Ratio 
95% CI 
0.97  
(0.89, 1.04) 
Notes 
A value of 2 was assigned for an HAI titre reported as < 4. 
Ratio = GMFR in comparator/GMFR in Q/LAIV. 
Confidence intervals based on bootstrapping method. 
This post hoc analysis was performed because of the differences between 
arms in baseline GMTs. 
Study MI-CP185 overall demonstrates immunologic non-inferiority between Q/LAIV and two 
formulations of Fluenz in subjects 18 to 49 years of age by comparing the 4 strain-specific GMTs of 
post-vaccination antibody titres measured by HAI. An analysis of GMFR in HAI antibody titres supports 
the primary endpoint conclusion. In general, secondary endpoint data were consistent with the primary 
endpoint. The results from the post hoc analyses also supported the primary endpoint conclusion. 
Based on the primary endpoint with support from the secondary endpoint of 
seroconversion/seroresponse data, the immune response to Q/LAIV can be considered as not inferior 
to the immune response induced by Fluenz. 
Summary of results for trial MI-CP206 
This was a randomized, partially blind active-controlled study to evaluate the immunogenicity of 
MEDI8662 in adults 18 to 49 years of age. 
The study was conducted at 18 sites in the United States of America from August 2009 to March 2010. 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the immunologic non-inferiority of Fluenz Tetra 
administered intranasally through a different delivery system (Fluenz Tetra-BFS) to 2 trivalent 
formulations of licensed FluMist (delivered intranasally using the Accuspray delivery device) by 
comparing the strain-specific geometric mean titres (GMTs) post dosing. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
1.  To estimate the proportion of subjects who experienced strain-specific hemagglutination 
inhibition (HAI) seroresponse following the dose of Fluenz Tetra-BFS, defined as a minimum 4-
fold rise in post-vaccination HAI antibody titre, by baseline serostatus. 
2.  To estimate the proportion of subjects who achieved a strain-specific HAI titre ≥  32 following 
the dose of Fluenz Tetra-BFS, by baseline serostatus. 
3.  To assess the safety and tolerability of Fluenz Tetra-BFS. 
4.  To determine the acceptability of the BFS dosing unit as a vaccine delivery system to vaccine 
recipients. 
In summary, study MI-CP206 met its primary endpoint demonstrating the immunologic non-inferiority 
of  Q/LAIV-BFS  to  two  formulations  of  Fluenz  by  comparing  the  4  strain-specific  HAI  antibody  GMTs 
post  dosing.  The  upper  bound  for  each  of  the  four  95%  CIs  for  the  post  dose  GMT  ratios  was  ≤  1.5 
(ranging between 1.0 and 1.1). 
Secondary  endpoint  data  were  consistent  with  the  primary  endpoint.  For  all  subjects,  regardless  of 
baseline serostatus, the post dose seroconversion/seroresponse rates were low (≤ 10%) but similar in 
the  Q/LAIV-BFS  group  and  in  the  All  Fluenz  group.  In  all  subjects,  regardless  of  baseline  serostatus, 
the  percentage  of  subjects  achieving  a  post  dose  HAI  antibody  titre  ≥  32  was  similar  between  the 
Q/LAIV-BFS and all Fluenz groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 53/69 
 
  
  
 
2.4.8.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The clinical development programme for Q/LAIV consisted of three studies: one pivotal study 
conducted in children (MI-CP208) and two supportive studies conducted in adults (MI-CP185 and MI-
CP206) one of which used a different delivery system (MI-CP206). The efficacy of Q/LAIV was 
compared with two Fluenz vaccines, each containing one of the B lineages used in Q/LAIV. The 
paediatric Fluenz studies provide supportive efficacy data. 
The studies were designed and conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of 
Helsinki and in compliance with the principles of Good Clinical Practice. The study designs are in 
accordance with recommendations made in the EMA “Guideline on Clinical Evaluation of New vaccines”. 
The number of paediatric subjects included in the Q/LAIV development programme is limited. Also for 
this reason the Applicant is asked to provide a post-authorisation study to evaluate the efficacy of 
Q/LAIV in children aged 24 months to less than 18 years. 
All Q/LAIV studies were conducted in the United States exclusively. Demographic characteristics of the 
Q/LAIV paediatric study were similar to the Fluenz studies and overall the patient population is 
considered to be representative of the general paediatric population. However it was noted that 
children with co-morbidities, and especially immune-compromised children, were generally excluded 
from the studies and subjects of Asian and African descent were underrepresented. In both studies 
(MI-CP208 and MI-CP185), the majority of the patients were Caucasian: 71% and 76% in Studies MI-
CP208 and MI-CP185, respectively. Approximately 20% of the patients were Black or African-
American. The number of subjects in the 2 to 8 years age subset was more than 3 times higher than in 
the 9 to 17 years age subset (approx. 3,5:1). In the younger age group, the majority of children had 
previously received an influenza vaccine (2,5:1).  
The relevance of measuring humoral immunity for a LAIV instead of mucosal immunity could be 
questioned. However, a standardized and validated method for isolation and quantitative analysis of 
mucosal antibodies is currently not available and such development would technically be very 
challenging (if at all possible). Moreover, no correlates of protection have been established. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In accordance with the primary objective of study MI-CP208 and with generally accepted parameters 
for the determination of non-inferior immunogenicity, immune responses to vaccination against each of 
the four virus strains contained in Q/LAIV were not inferior to immune responses induced against the 
same strains by the licensed (trivalent) Fluenz.  
Overall, secondary endpoints support this conclusion, despite the rate of seroconversion/seroresponse 
to A/H1N1 in the sero-susceptible subgroup, which was statistically higher in the Fluenz group than in 
the Q/LAIV arm, and likewise the proportion of subjects achieving an HAI antibody titre ≥ 32 for the 
B/Yamagata strain in all subjects regardless of baseline serostatus. However based on the overall 
results, these differences were not considered to be of clinical relevance. The analysis of GMFR from 
baseline also supports the conclusion that responses to Q/LAIV and Fluenz are similar. 
The non-inferiority analysis is relevant to investigate if the addition of a fourth virus strain affects 
negatively the immune responses induced by the vaccine as a surrogate for protection, despite the 
lack of an established correlate of protection. Lower immune responses against H1N1 and H3N2 were 
shown, which have been satisfactorily addressed by the Applicant based on the following observations: 
•  Different receptor binding specificity for A vs. B strains and among B-lineages can reduce risk 
of interference. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 54/69 
 
  
  
•  Non-inferiority  assessed  by  HAI  geometric  mean  fold  rise  ratio  (GMFR),  which  control  for 
differences in baseline titres, shows that the ratio of Fluenz/FluMist to Fluenz Tetra is close to 
1.0 in most cases. 
•  Non-inferiority assessed using neutralising antibody GMFR data in children 2 to 5 years shows 
that the ratio of Fluenz/FluMist to Fluenz Tetra is close to 1.0. 
• 
The  results  from  non-clinical  development,  including  from  4  challenge  studies  where  virus 
shedding  was  measured,  show  that  Fluenz  Tetra  and  Fluenz/FluMist  equally  block  viral 
replication. 
•  A  number  of  developmental  clinical  studies  including  a  challenge  study  indicate  that 
monovalent,  bivalent  and  trivalent  formulations  induce  similar  level  of  protection  (albeit 
different populations, strains and design make the comparison difficult). 
These observations indicate that the theoretical risk of immune interference by adding a fourth strain 
to the vaccine is small and outweighed by the advantage of covering both B lineages at the same time. 
Even though some differences in favour of the trivalent Fluenz/FluMist were noticed (i.e. higher 
seroconversion rate in seronegative children aged 2 to < 4 years and a GMFR ratio of 1.45 for 
seronegative subjects against H1N1 after dose 2), the overall picture seems similar. Especially the 
neutralising data are reassuring, although the number of subjects analysed is not extensive. The 
satisfactory protection data shown in ferrets by the challenge studies comparing tetravalent with 
trivalent LAIVs are also considered indicative of lack of immune interference. Finally, the Applicant 
agrees to perform a post-authorisation effectiveness study as detailed in the RMP. 
Concerning duration of immune response, in the pivotal paediatric study MI-CP208, strain-specific 
antibody levels were measured 4 weeks after the last dose. Previous data with Fluenz/FluMist show 
persistence of protection against disease and immunogenicity for up to 2 years post-vaccination. 
The supportive study MI-CP185 met its primary objective of demonstrating the immunologic non-
inferiority of Q/LAIV vs. 2 formulations of Fluenz in subjects 18 to 49 years of age by comparing the 4 
strain-specific HAI antibody GMTs post dosing. The immune response to Q/LAIV is considered non-
inferior vs. Fluenz because the upper bound for each of the four 95% CIs for the GMT ratios (Fluenz 
divided by Q/LAIV) was ≤ 1.5.  
The Applicant states that the data from 2 separate Fluenz studies in young subjects (D153-P501 and 
D153-P504) showed that receipt of Fluenz in Year 1 was associated with statistically significant efficacy 
against culture-positive influenza illness that persisted into the subsequent season, and that additional 
benefit was afforded by receipt of the second season revaccination. Data from another study in young 
subjects (AV006) showed that there was a high persistence of antibody against A/H3N2 and B strains 
(but not A/H1N1 strains) approximately 1 year after initial vaccination with a 1 or 2-dose primary 
regimen of Fluenz. The CHMP agrees that additional benefit from the second year revaccination is 
demonstrated, and in addition the effectiveness study planned for the post-authorisation phase should 
provide further data on consequent revaccination. The Applicant confirmed that the study will be 
sufficiently powered to detect if similar vaccine efficacy is maintained after Q/LAIV repeated use vs. 
subjects who received no influenza vaccine in previous seasons. 
2.4.9.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The pivotal study MI-CP208 and the supportive adult study MI-CP185 were well conducted and 
analyses performed as planned. Both studies met their primary endpoints, demonstrating that the 
immunogenicity of the quadrivalent formulation was non-inferior to the immunogenicity of the trivalent 
comparators. The analyses of GMFR ratios further support the conclusion of non-inferiority. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 55/69 
 
  
  
Based on the evidence provided, it can be concluded that overall the potential immune interference 
caused by adding a fourth strain to the vaccine formulation is considered unlikely. This conclusion is 
especially supported by clinical data from the development program of the Applicant’s bivalent and 
trivalent LAIVs as well as nonclinical data from the Q/LAIV development program, which overall 
indicate that clinically meaningful interference is not occurring.  
Moreover, the CHMP considers that to further characterise the efficacy profile of this product, the 
Applicant should conduct a post-authorisation effectiveness study as indicated in the RMP. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Consistent with the bridging strategy pursued by the Applicant, the safety profile of Fluenz Tetra (or 
Q/LAIV) was directly compared to that of Fluenz (FluMist) in 2 pivotal studies: study MI-CP208 in 
paediatric subjects (2 to 17 years of age) and study MI-CP185 in adult subjects (18 to 49 years of 
age). In the additional clinical study MI-CP206 in adults (18-49 years of age), Q/LAIV was 
administered as a liquid stream to a single nostril using a novel blow-fill-seal (BFS) delivery system, 
which differs from the nasal spray used in studies MI-CP208 and MI-CP185 and in the approved 
FluMist. Because of this difference in vaccine delivery, this study MI-CP206 is considered supportive of 
Q/LAIV safety for AEs and SAEs only, and not for solicited symptoms. In order to examine a larger 
safety database for the occurrence of rare events, a pooled analysis of safety was performed for AE 
and SAE data from studies MI-CP185 and MI-CP206. Since the safety of Q/LAIV was compared to that 
of FluMist in all studies, there is no placebo or control group to estimate the background rate of safety 
events, and therefore the rate difference between subjects who received Q/LAIV and those who 
received FluMist is the most relevant assessment. 
A total of 3779 subjects received at least one dose of Q/LAIV in the 3 studies that contribute to the 
Q/LAIV safety assessment, with 1382 of these subjects belonging to the target population of paediatric 
subjects, aged 2 to 17 years. The paediatric study provided over 98% confidence to detect an AE 
occurring at a rate of 0.3% (1 in 330); the 2 adult studies combined provided over 99% confidence to 
detect an AE occurring at a rate of 0.2% (1 in 500). All studies combined provided over 99% 
confidence to detect an AE occurring at a rate of 0.13% (1 in 770). Data are somewhat limited for the 
adolescent subgroup of the target population (299 subjects exposed in the age group 9 to 17 years). 
The CHMP however agrees with the Applicant that the safety data generated in adults and in younger 
children can provide reassurance regarding the safety of Q/LAIV in adolescents. The number of 
subjects exposed to Fluenz Tetra is considered acceptable for the bridging strategy that is pursued by 
the Applicant. 
Adverse events 
Solicited symptoms, which were actively queried from days 0 to 14 after dosing, were very commonly 
reported by subjects in both the Q/LAIV arm and the All FluMist arm in Q/LAIV studies: almost 50% of 
paediatric subjects (Q/LAIV recipients: 47.9%; FluMist recipients: 47.4%) and around 60% of adult 
subjects (Q/LAIV: 59.6%; FluMist: 60.0%) reported at least one solicited symptom in study MI-CP208 
and study MI-CP185 respectively. The observed solicited symptom profile for Q/LAIV was similar to 
that observed after FluMist administration. The most notable difference in solicited symptoms occurred 
for fever, which was significantly more commonly observed in children who received Q/LAIV than those 
who received FluMist: fever occurred in 6.6% of Q/LAIV recipients versus 4.2% of FluMist recipients in 
the subset of subjects 2 to 8 years of age (p=0.036) (study MI-CP208, 2 dose group post dose 1). This 
difference is also reflected in the AE of pyrexia in paediatric subjects (study MI-CP208), which was 
more commonly reported by subjects in the Q/LAIV arm (1.7% in all subjects Q/LAIV post dose 1; 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 56/69 
 
  
  
1.9% in the subgroup 2-8 years Q/LAIV post dose 1) than in the FluMist group (0.7% in all subjects 
FluMist post dose 1; 0.8% in the subgroup 2-8 years of age FluMist post dose 1). The increased rate of 
fever/pyrexia in paediatric subjects receiving Q/LAIV seems to be largely attributable to the increased 
rate in the 2 to 8 years age group, since less subjects 9 to 17 years of age receiving Q/LAIV reported 
fever as a solicited symptom (8/299; 2.7%) than did those receiving FluMist (6/204; 2.9%), and the 
rate difference for the AE of pyrexia was lower in this age group (2/299 or 0.7% in the Q/LAIV arm, 
0/204, 0.0% in the All FluMist arm). Given that the overall rates of fever were low, fevers were 
generally mild and of short duration, high grade fever (≥ 39.5°C) was uncommon and occurred with 
comparable rates of in the Q/LAIV and FluMist group, and no febrile seizures were observed, the CHMP 
agrees with the Applicant that no significant impact on the overall tolerability of Q/LAIV compared to 
FluMist is to be expected as a consequence of this observed increase in fever after Q//LIAV dosing. 
Fever is included as a common adverse reaction in the Fluenz Tetra SmPC. 
A number of imbalances between the Q/LAIV arm and the FluMist group were reported in the subset of 
subjects 9 to 17 years of age: the solicited symptom headache was reported by 2.8 percentage points 
more subjects in the Q/LAIV arm than in the All FluMist group, and proportionally more subjects 
reported ≥ 1 AE after Q/LAIV (23.4%) than after FluMist (12.7%), with the AE oropharyngeal pain 
being most disproportionally reported by subjects in this age group (5/299 or 1.7% of Q/LAIV subjects, 
no subjects who received FluMist). It should be noted that these observations were only based on a 
small sample size (299 subjects in the Q/LAIV arm, 204 subjects in the All FluMist). 
The solicited symptoms reported reflect the mechanism of action of LAIVs and are consistent with 
those previously observed in studies with FluMist. There is no placebo or control group in the Q/LAIV 
studies to estimate the background rate of these events, but these solicited symptoms were also 
commonly reported in placebo recipients in placebo-controlled FluMist studies. Using the pooled 
analysis of FluMist safety in paediatric subjects 2 to 17 years of age to describe solicited symptoms 
occurring after FluMist dosing in controlled studies, the most important solicited symptoms by rate 
difference were runny/stuffy nose, which occurred at an 11.8 percentage point higher rate in FluMist 
recipients than TIV recipients and at a 6.8 percentage point higher rate in FluMist recipients than 
placebo recipients; and headache, which occurred at a 6.9 percentage point higher rate in FluMist 
recipients than placebo recipients, but only a 1.5 percentage point higher rate in FluMist recipients 
than TIV recipients. These solicited symptoms were not imbalanced when Q/LAIV was compared to 
FluMist; therefore, the addition of a fourth strain to FluMist to construct the Q/LAIV vaccine did not 
affect the rate of these solicited symptoms that are associated with FluMist dosing. 
In general, adverse event were reported at similar rates by Q/LAIV and FluMist recipients, or with 
higher rates in the All FluMist group. In children and adolescents enrolled in the paediatric study MI-
208, the preferred term AE reported with the highest rate difference was pyrexia (1.7% in the Q/LAIV 
arm; 0.7% in the All FluMist arm), which confirms the pattern that was seen for “fever” as a solicited 
symptom. Other preferred term events with a rate difference (Q/LAIV minus FluMist) of ≥ 0.5 
percentage points were headache, oropharyngeal pain, epistaxis, abdominal pain, and nausea, but the 
proportion of subjects reporting these events was low (< 1%), and rate differences were small. 
Vomiting was the most frequently reported preferred term AE in both the Q/LAIV arm (2.6%) and the 
All FluMist group (2.2%). There were few events of wheezing occurring in either the Q/LAIV arm or the 
FluMist group; events were not imbalanced, and they were not clustered in the youngest subjects. In 
the pooled analysis of Q/LAIV safety in subjects 18 to 49 years of age, which combined data from both 
adult studies, one or more AEs were reported at a higher rate in the All FluMist group (17.3%) than in 
the All Q/LAIV group (16.6%). No preferred term AEs were reported with a rate difference of at least 
0.5 percentage points. Cough and sneezing were the preferred term AEs reported by the largest 
proportion of subjects who received Q/LAIV (1.3% compared to 0.9% of FluMist subjects for both 
events). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 57/69 
 
  
  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The rates of SAEs were low, particularly in children, and were balanced between Q/LAIV and FluMist 
recipients in the 2 pivotal Q/LAIV studies but not in the supportive Q/LAIV-BSF study where SAE were 
reported at a higher rate in the Q/LAIV-BSF group than in the FluMist group. The fact that the SAE rate 
was unexpectedly low in the FluMist group in this study could however be responsible for this 
imbalance. 
Serious adverse events related to vaccination were only experienced by a very low number of subjects 
(2): 1 hypersensitivity event in a FluMist recipient and 1 spontaneous abortion in a Q/LAIV-BSF 
recipient. Hypersensitivity, which is a potential adverse event for all vaccines, has been previously 
reported for FluMist, and in the Fluenz/FluMist SmPC (as well as in the proposed SmPC for Fluenz 
Tetra) the contraindications include “Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the 
excipients”. The term “hypersensitivity reactions” (including facial oedema, urticaria and very rare 
anaphylactic reactions) is also listed as an uncommon adverse reaction in this SmPC. For the SAE 
spontaneous abortion, the temporal association led to the assessment of a possible relationship to 
Q/LAIV, but according to the Applicant there is no overall pattern to suggest a causal relationship 
between Q/LAIV and spontaneous abortion. It can be argued however that the study population is too 
small for such a pattern to emerge, especially since a negative pregnancy test as well as the use of 
appropriate contraception are explicitly defined in the in-/exclusion criteria of the Q/LAIV studies. No 
definite conclusions on a putative causal relation between Q/LAIV and spontaneous abortion can 
therefore be drawn. In general, the use of live attenuated vaccines is not indicated in pregnant 
women. This is adequately pointed out in the SmPC, which explicitly states that Fluenz Tetra is not 
recommended during pregnancy. 
Both in children enrolled in Study MI-CP208 as in adults enrolled in Studies MI-CP185 and MI-CP206, 
no NOCDs were considered related to study dosing, and there was no pattern of NOCDs that suggested 
an association with Q/LAIV dosing. 
The two deaths that were reported in Q/LAIV studies both occurred in Q/LAIV-BSF recipients in 
supportive study MI-CP206. Both occurred in subjects with pre-existing medical illness and were 
considered unrelated to investigational product. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory evaluations other than pregnancy testing prior to dosing were not required in the 
protocol for any Q/LAIV study. Laboratory evaluations performed for clinical indications were to be 
reported as an AE, SAE, and/or NOCD as appropriate. 
Safety in special populations 
With regards to special populations, the safety of Q/LAIV has not been assessed in subjects with 
asthma, wheezing or respiratory disease, or in immunosuppressed subjects. The CHMP agrees with the 
Applicant’s approach to apply the same restrictions for Q/LAIV as for the trivalent LAIV Fluenz.  
As it was the case for Fluenz, Fluenz Tetra is not proposed for use in subjects < 24 months of age. This 
is adequately indicated in the Fluenz Tetra SmPC. A Paediatric Investigational Plan for this influenza 
vaccine, including a waiver for infants and toddlers from birth to less than 2 years of age, has been 
granted a positive opinion. 
 There are limited data on the use of Q/LAIV or FluMist in pregnant women, and the majority of data is 
from dosing with FluMist. Even though the existing data do not suggest an adverse effect of Q/LAIV or 
FluMist on maternal or foetal outcomes, there are inadequate data to assure the safety of Q/LAIV 
during pregnancy. Fluenz is not recommended during pregnancy and lactation, and this should also be 
the case for Fluenz Tetra. This is adequately reflected in the Fluenz Tetra SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 58/69 
 
  
  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No studies of potential drug-drug or drug-food interactions were conducted with Q/LAIV. Because of 
the route of administration and the mechanism of action, potential interactions with food would not be 
expected. Drug interaction data from FluMist studies would apply to dosing with Q/LAIV. Potential 
interactions between Q/LAIV or Fluenz and other drugs or vaccines are summarized below. 
• 
The concurrent use of Q/LAIV or Fluenz with antiviral agents that are active against influenza A 
and/or B viruses has not been evaluated; however, based upon the potential for antiviral 
agents with activity against influenza to reduce the effectiveness of Q/LAIV, Q/LAIV should not 
be administered until 48 hours after the cessation of such antiviral therapy, and these antiviral 
agents should not be administered until 2 weeks after administration of Q/LAIV unless 
medically indicated. If antiviral agents and Q/LAIV are administered concomitantly, 
revaccination should be considered when appropriate. 
•  Although there are no data linking Q/LAIV or Fluenz with Reye’s syndrome, because of the 
association of Reye’s syndrome with aspirin and wild-type influenza infection, Q/LAIV should 
not be administered to children and adolescents (2 to 17 years of age) who are receiving 
aspirin, salicylates, or aspirin containing therapy. 
• 
The safety and immunogenicity Q/LAIV when administered concurrently with inactivated 
vaccines have not been determined. In the USA, where FluMist has been commercially 
available since 2003, the recommended practice as advised by the United States Advisory 
Committee on Immunization Practices (US ACIP) has been to consider that FluMist and 
inactivated vaccines “can be administered simultaneously or at any interval between doses” 
(CDC, 2006). This recommendation remains in the US ACIP’s 2011 recommendation: “Any 
inactivated vaccine can be administered either simultaneously or at any time before or after a. 
. . live vaccine.” (CDC, 2011) 
•  Q/LAIV can be administered concurrently with the following live, attenuated vaccines: measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine (MMR), varicella vaccine, and orally-administered polio vaccine 
(OPV) based on data from Studies D153-P522, AV018, and D153-P511, conducted with 
FluMist. These studies were previously submitted to the EMA and assessed. Concomitant 
administration of these vaccines did not change their safety profile. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Withdrawals due to AEs could only be collected in the two-dose group in study MI-CP208, since the 
subjects in Studies MI-CP185 and MI-CP206 were to receive only one single dose of investigational 
product, and all subjects were to be followed for safety events for 180 days post last dose. 
Discontinuation from dosing due to an AE occurred in 2 children enrolled in Study MI-CP208. These 
subjects were withdrawn from dosing by a parent /legal guardian (not by the investigator) due to AEs 
of vomiting and dizziness (one child who received Q/LAIV), and gastroenteritis (one child who received 
FluMist). These events were not considered by the investigator to be related to study dosing nor did 
they require termination of dosing in the investigator’s judgment. 
Post-marketing experience 
In the extensive post-marketing experience of the trivalent LAIV FluMist (over 50 million doses 
distributed, primarily in the US), four distinct serious spontaneous reports of narcolepsy (with or 
without cataplexy) were identified. These cases occurred in children aged 36 months to 7 years, with 
an onset post FluMist vaccination of 1 to 6 months. Concern has been raised over a putative link 
between narcolepsy and H1N1 influenza vaccination following reports of narcolepsy in northern Europe 
after H1N1 vaccination. A retrospective cohort study by the National Institute for Health and Welfare in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 59/69 
 
  
  
Finland found a 12.7 fold increased risk of narcolepsy in Finnish children aged 4 to 19 years within 8 
months of H1N1 vaccination with Pandemrix as compared to unvaccinated individuals in the same age 
group (Nohynek et al., PLoS ONE 2012). A correlation of narcolepsy onset with seasonal and annual 
patterns of upper airway infections, including H1N1 influenza, has been observed in China, with a 3-
fold increase in narcolepsy onset following the 2009 H1N1 winter influenza pandemic (Han et al., 
Annals of Neurology 2011). No cases of narcolepsy with or without cataplexy were reported in the 
clinical trials for Q/LAIV or FluMist, and given the paucity of spontaneous post-marketing reports in 
association with FluMist (with observed reporting rate/expected incidence rate ratio of about 0.055) 
the current evidence does not support an association with FluMist. Narcolepsy is classified as an 
important potential risk for FluMist, and it is currently included as a potential risk in the Fluenz Tetra 
risk management plan. 
2.5.1.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In summary, the safety profile of Fluenz Tetra was similar to that of the currently authorized Fluenz. 
The most notable difference in solicited symptoms occurred for fever, which was significantly more 
commonly observed in children who received Fluenz Tetra than those who received Fluenz; a difference 
also reflected in the AE of pyrexia. However, the overall rates of fever were low, high fevers (≥  
39.5°C) were uncommon, no febrile seizures were observed, and fevers were of short duration. This 
small increase in fever after Fluenz Tetra dosing is not expected to significantly alter the tolerability of 
the vaccine. 
Adverse events and SAEs were proportionally similar between Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz; the events 
other than pyrexia disproportionately reported by Fluenz Tetra subjects, i.e. headache and 
oropharyngeal pain, occurred in < 1% of subjects, occurred late after dosing. 
The overall similarity of solicited symptoms and AEs between Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz permits the 
understanding of the safety of Fluenz derived from its very large safety database to apply to the 
quadrivalent formulation of the vaccine. From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported 
in clinical trials and post-marketing have been included in the Fluenz Tetra SmPC. The 
recommendations and contraindications that currently apply to Fluenz are also valid for Fluenz Tetra. 
Most importantly, Fluenz Tetra will not be indicated for use in infants and toddlers under the age of 
24 months. The use of Fluenz Tetra (and Fluenz) is not recommended in individuals with severe 
asthma and wheezing, and in pregnancy or breastfeeding, as there are limited data on the safety in 
these special populations. 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  Applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 60/69 
 
  
  
PRAC Advice 
Based on the PRAC review of the Risk Management Plan version 5.0, the PRAC considers by 
consensus that the risk management system for influenza vaccine (live attenuated, nasal)  (Fluenz 
and Fluenz Tetra) in the prophylaxis of influenza in children and adolescents 24 months to less than 
18 years of age is acceptable.  
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
•  Safety concerns 
The Applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP: 
Table 5: Summary of the Safety Concerns  
Important identified risks 
Medically significant wheezing in children under the age of 24 
months 
Hypersensitivity (including anaphylaxis) 
Guillain-Barré Syndrome 
Bell’s Palsy 
Secondary transmission to severely immunocompromised patients 
Inadvertent administration to immunocompromised patients 
Important potential risks 
Seizures and convulsions 
Encephalitis 
Neuritis 
Vasculitis 
Vaccination Failure (Lack of Efficacy) 
Narcolepsy with or without cataplexy 
There is limited information regarding safety of Fluenz and Fluenz 
Tetra in the following populations: 
Children under the age of 24 months 
Elderly 
Pregnant/lactating women 
Severe asthmatics 
Immunocompromised vaccine recipients 
Individuals with severe chronic illness 
Missing information 
The PRAC agreed. 
•  Pharmacovigilance plans 
Table 6: Ongoing and planned studies in the PhV development plan 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 61/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Study/Activity 
Type, Title and 
Category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Status 
(Planned, 
Started) 
Date for 
Submission of 
Interim or Final 
Reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
MI-MA194: A 
Postmarketing 
Observational 
Evaluation of the 
Safety of Fluenz in 
Children and 
Adolescents with 
High-risk Conditions 
(to include Q/LAIV 
following approval) 
Observational, 
Category 3 
MA-VA-MEDI3250-
1115 Postmarketing 
Safety Study of 
Q/LAIV in Subjects 2 
Through  49 Years of 
Age (USA) 
Observational, 
Category 3 
MA-VA-MEDI3250-
1116 A Case Control 
Study of the 
Effectiveness of 
Q/LAIV Versus 
Inactivated 
Influenza Vaccine 
and No Vaccine in 
Subjects 2-17 Years 
of Age (USA)  
Case-Control, 
Category 3 
To investigate the 
safety of Fluenz and 
Fluenz Tetra in high 
risk paediatric 
populations. 
All cause Serious 
Adverse Events (SAEs), 
lower respiratory SAEs 
and other Medically 
Attended Events 
(MAEs) in patients 
receiving LAIV. 
2013-2014  
Influenza 
Season 
First annual 
report submitted 
Oct2014 
To compare MAEs 
rates in patients 
receiving Q/LAIV, 
TIV or no vaccine 
MAEs in patients 
receiving Q/LAIV 
2013-2014  
Influenza 
Season 
First annual 
report submitted  
Jul2016 
To evaluate the 
effectiveness of 
Q/LAIV vaccination 
in children 2 through 
17 years of age 
Potential Risk: Lack of 
effect 
2013-2014  
Influenza 
Season 
First annual 
report submitted 
Sep2014 
SAE= Serious Adverse Event MAE= Medically Attended Event 
*Category 1 are imposed activities considered key to the benefit risk of the product. 
Category 2 are specific obligations 
Category 3 are required additional PhV activity (to address specific safety concerns or to measure effectiveness of risk minimisation measures) 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed post-
authorisation PhV development plan is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
•  Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 62/69 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Summary table of Risk Minimisation Measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Medically significant 
wheezing in children 
less than 24 months of 
age 
Hypersensitivity 
(including anaphylaxis) 
<PRODUCT> is not indicated in children less than 24 months of age. 
This information is included in the “Posology and method of 
administration,” “Special warnings and precautions for use” and 
“Undesirable effects” sections of the approved FLUENZ (SmPC 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8) and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (SmPC 
Sections 4.2 and 4.8). Information is also included in the 
<PRODUCT> Package Leaflet.   
This is a class effect that is included in the “Contraindications” 
section, and is listed in the “Undesirable effects” section of the 
approved FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV product SmPC (Sections 4.3 
and 4.8) and also included in the Package Leaflet.  
The following statement is also in the “Special warnings and 
precautions for use” section of the approved FLUENZ and proposed 
Q/LAIV SmPC: "As with most vaccines, appropriate medical 
treatment and supervision should always be readily available in case 
of an anaphylactic event following the administration of 
<PRODUCT>.” 
The wording in the proposed Q/LAIV SmPC is as follows: “As with 
most vaccines, appropriate medical treatment and supervision 
should always be readily available to manage an anaphylactic event 
or serious hypersensitivity event following the administration of 
<PRODUCT>.” 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
measures 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome 
Bell’s palsy 
Secondary 
transmission to 
severely 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Inadvertent 
administration to 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Seizures and 
convulsions 
Encephalitis 
Neuritis 
Vasculitis 
This is listed as one of the adverse reactions that have been 
reported post-vaccination in the post-marketing setting in the 
“Undesirable Effects” section of the approved FLUENZ and proposed 
Q/LAIV SmPC (SmPC Section 4.8).  
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
Bell’s palsy is included in this RMP as a potential risk, therefore, no 
risk minimisation activities are deemed necessary until such time it 
may be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
Information is included in the “Special warnings and precautions for 
use” section of the approved FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC 
(SmPC Section 4.4) and also included in the Package Leaflet.   
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
Information is included in the “Contraindications” section of the 
approved FLUENZ and approved Q/LAIV SmPC (SmPC Section 4.3) 
and also included in the Package Leaflet.   
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
Seizures and convulsions are included in this RMP as a potential risk, 
therefore, no risk minimisation activities are deemed necessary until 
such time it may be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
Encephalitis is included in this RMP as a potential risk, therefore, no 
risk minimisation activities are deemed necessary until such time it 
may be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
Neuritis is included in this RMP as a potential risk, therefore, no risk 
minimisation activities are deemed necessary until such time it may 
be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
Vasculitis is included in this RMP as a potential risk, therefore, no 
risk minimisation activities are deemed necessary until such time it 
may be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 63/69 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Vaccination failure 
(lack of efficacy) 
Section 2 of the approved FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC 
(“Qualitative and Quantitative Composition”) will provide details of 
the official viral strains included in each seasonal product. 
Section 5.1 of the approved FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC 
(“Pharmacodynamic properties”) provides information on the 
demonstrated efficacy of <PRODUCT> from controlled clinical 
studies. Efficacy was not demonstrated to be 100% therefore it 
should be understood that the vaccine may not be effective in all 
recipients. 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
measures 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient. 
Narcolepsy with or 
without cataplexy 
Narcolepsy with or without cataplexy is included in this RMP as a 
potential risk, therefore, no risk minimisation activities are deemed 
necessary until such time it may be confirmed as an identified risk.  
None applicable 
<PRODUCT> is not indicated for use in children younger than 24 
months (approved FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC Section 4.1, 
Therapeutic indications). 
The “Posology and method of administration section” of the 
proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (Section 4.2) contains the following 
instructions: 
“Fluenz Tetra should not be used in infants and toddlers below 24 
months of age because of safety concerns regarding increased rates 
of hospitalisation and wheezing in this population (see section 4.8).” 
Children under the age 
of 24 months 
The “Special warnings and precautions for use” section of the 
approved FLUENZ (Section 4.4) contains the following instructions: 
“Do not administer <PRODUCT> to infants and toddlers younger 
than 12 months.” 
“It is not recommended to administer <PRODUCT> to infants and 
toddlers 12-23 months of age.” 
The “Undesirable effects” section of the approved FLUENZ and 
proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (Section 4.8) contains the following 
statement: 
“<PRODUCT> is not indicated for use in infants and toddlers younger 
than 24 months (see section 4.4).” 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient 
Elderly 
<Product> is not indicated for use in elderly adults (approved 
FLUENZ and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC Section 4.1, Therapeutic 
indications).  
None applicable 
Pregnant and breast-
feeding women 
Pregnancy and lactation-related information is found in the “Fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation” section of the approved FLUENZ and 
proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (Section 4.6) and the Package Leaflet. 
<PRODUCT> is not recommended for use in women who are 
pregnant or during breast-feeding. 
Information related to severe asthmatics is found in the “Special 
warnings and precautions for use section” of the approved FLUENZ 
and proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (section 4.4) and the Package Leaflet.  
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient 
Severe asthmatics 
<PRODUCT> is not recommended for use in patients with severe 
asthma or active wheezing. 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient 
<PRODUCT> has not been adequately studied in children and 
adolescents with severe asthma or active wheezing in clinical 
studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 64/69 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Immunocompromised 
vaccine recipients 
Information related to clinically immunocompromised patients is 
found in the “Contraindications” section in the approved FLUENZ and 
proposed Q/LAIV SmPC (Section 4.3) and in the Package Leaflet.  
<PRODUCT> is contraindicated in children and adolescents who are 
clinically immunodeficient due to conditions or immunosuppressive 
therapy such as: acute and chronic leukaemias; lymphoma; 
symptomatic HIV infection; cellular immune deficiencies; high-dose 
corticosteroids. <PRODUCT> is not contraindicated for use in people 
with asymptomatic HIV infection; in people who are receiving 
topical/inhaled corticosteroids, low-dose systemic corticosteroids or 
those receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g. for 
adrenal insufficiency. 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
measures 
None applicable, routine 
risk minimisation 
activities are sufficient 
Serious chronic 
disease 
There is currently no evidence to suggest that vaccine recipients 
with serious chronic diseases (excluding those who are clinically 
immunodeficient, see above) are at increased risk compared to the 
general population. Therefore, no action is deemed necessary. 
None applicable 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed risk 
minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
2.8.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to the trivalent vaccine. The bridging report submitted by 
the Applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
First of all LAIVs provide a needle-free alternative to intramuscular vaccination, secondly the 
development of a quadrivalent influenza vaccine represents in principle an advance over currently 
available trivalent influenza vaccines, as it expands the number of protective strains included in the 
vaccine, thereby increasing the likelihood of protection against circulating B strains of influenza. 
Providing protection that is as broad as possible may be of particular importance for children and 
adolescents. Although influenza B causes disease in all age groups, its incidence relative to influenza A 
appears to be highest among older children and young adults. Furthermore, while influenza B causes 
mortality in all age groups, it appears to be a disproportionate cause of pediatric influenza deaths. 
Concerning study results for Fluenz Tetra, the pivotal paediatric study MI-CP208 showed that immune 
responses to Q/LAIV were non-inferior to Fluenz since the upper bound for each of the four 95% CIs 
for the GMT ratios (Fluenz divided by Q/LAIV) was ≤ 1.5, which was a pre-specified and acceptable 
target. The GMT ratios ranged between 1.04 and 1.21. The highest value for the upper bound of the 
95% CI was 1.37 for the B/Yamagata strain. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 65/69 
 
  
  
 
 
The supportive adult study MI-CP185 showed that immune responses to Q/LAIV were non-inferior to 
Fluenz since the upper bound for each of the four 95% CIs for the GMT ratios (Fluenz divided by 
Q/LAIV) was ≤ 1.5. The GMT ratios ranged between 0.92 and 1.10. The highest value for the upper 
bound of the 95% CI was 1.25 for the B/Yamagata strain.  
Hence, both studies met their primary endpoints, demonstrating that the immunogenicity of the 
quadrivalent formulation was non-inferior to the immunogenicity of the trivalent comparators based on 
HAI, NAI and MN assays. The immune response to vaccination with each of the influenza vaccine 
strains contained in Q/LAIV was not inferior to that occurring after vaccination with the same strains 
contained in the licensed (trivalent) Fluenz vaccine based on these assays. 
Efficacy studies with the trivalent Fluenz vaccine in young subjects showed that receipt of Fluenz in 
Year 1 was associated with statistically significant efficacy against culture-positive influenza illness and 
such effect persisted in part into the subsequent season 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about beneficial effects 
The efficacy of LAIV in children above the age of 8 has been questioned. A recent comprehensive 
review of influenza vaccines states that trivalent LAIVs have consistently shown highest efficacy in 
young children (from 6 months to 7 years old), whereas this is not always the case for individuals from 
8 to 59 years of age (Osterholm et al., 2012).  
The non-inferiority immunogenicity studies did not address culture-confirmed infection cases but 
instead are based upon serological assays which provide an indirect measure of efficacy in lack of an 
established correlate of protection. There remain therefore uncertainties to the extent non-inferiority 
established on the basis of humoral immunity corresponds to clinical non-inferiority. 
The immunogenicity data (HAI, NAI and MN assays) show that the immune responses obtained with 
Fluenz Tetra vs. Fluenz were similar but lower than expected with regard to the A/H1N1 and A/H3N2 
strains, whose antibody titres were not much higher than baseline values.  
The efficacy of the vaccine following repeated yearly revaccinations would benefit from further 
evidence.  
Overall these uncertainties are expected to be addressed in the post-authorisation effectiveness study 
described in the RMP. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The safety profile of Fluenz Tetra is similar to that of the authorized Fluenz.  
The most notable difference in solicited symptoms relates to fever, whose incidence was significantly 
higher in children who received Fluenz Tetra vs. Fluenz (respectively 6.6% versus 4.2% in the subset 2 
to 8 years of age (p=0.036) in study MI-CP208, 2 dose group post dose 1). In addition, the variable 
incidence of influenza B infection across seasons would render the inclusion of both B strains redundant 
in seasons with low incidence, whereas potential side effects such as increased fever associated with 
the exposure of subjects to the two influenza B strains remain. In such seasons, the benefit of adding 
a second B strain may thus become uncertain. However, the overall rates of fever remained low, fevers 
were generally mild and of short duration. High fevers (≥ 39.5°C) were uncommon and occurred with 
comparable rates between vaccines. No febrile seizures were observed. This limited increase in fever 
after Fluenz Tetra vaccination is not expected to significantly alter the tolerability of the vaccine. Fever 
is included as a common adverse reaction in the Fluenz Tetra Product Information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 66/69 
 
  
  
Adverse events and SAEs were proportionally very similar between Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz. The other 
events disproportionately reported by Fluenz Tetra subjects, i.e. headache and oropharyngeal pain, 
occurred in < 1% of subjects and late after dosing.  
The overall similarity of solicited symptoms and AEs between Fluenz Tetra and Fluenz allows for the 
extrapolation of the safety profile from Fluenz to the quadrivalent formulation Fluenz Tetra.  
The recommendations and contraindications that currently apply to Fluenz do also apply to Fluenz 
Tetra. Specifically, Fluenz Tetra should not be indicated for use in infants and toddlers under the age of 
24 months. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The use of Fluenz Tetra (and Fluenz) is not recommended in individuals with severe asthma and 
wheezing, neither during pregnancy or breastfeeding, as there are limited safety data in these special 
populations. 
Whether repeated use of the vaccine is equally well tolerated over time is not yet demonstrated. It 
cannot be excluded that allergic reactions may occur after repeated use. 
It is currently uncertain whether the incidence of serious adverse events with very low background 
rates (i.e., GBS, Bell’s palsy, and narcolepsy) can be determined through the proposed post-
authorization safety studies (MI-MA194, MI-MA1115). However the ten years long marketing 
experience in the US has not raised major concerns for the time being. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The LAIV vaccine provides a needle-free alternative to injection for influenza vaccination programmes 
in children and Q/LAIV increases vs. T/LAIV the likelihood of protection against both influenza B 
lineages.  
The efficacy of Fluenz Tetra in children can be extrapolated from its trivalent vaccine counterpart, 
based on demonstrated non-inferiority versus Fluenz in a predefined immunogenicity bridging strategy 
with similar results across different tests. Additional clinical and nonclinical evidence further support 
the bridging approach, despite a low humoral response to A/H1N1 and A/H3N2 by HAI in the 2 to < 18 
years age group.  
The safety profile of Fluenz Tetra is similar to that of the authorized Fluenz and is therefore acceptable. 
The recommendations and contraindications that currently apply to Fluenz do also apply to Fluenz 
Tetra. Specifically, Fluenz Tetra should not be indicated for use infants and toddlers under the age of 
24 months. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Overall the benefit/risk balance for Fluenz Tetra is positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Efficacy of Q/LAIV in the prevention of influenza infection is considered sufficiently studied despite 
some remaining uncertainties as detailed in sections above. For instance, efficacy upon repeated 
vaccinations is not yet fully ascertained.   
The safety profile of Fluenz Tetra is acceptable, although expectedly not fully characterized yet in 
respect to long-term safety data. Post-marketing safety effectiveness studies have been agreed to 
address such uncertainties and are detailed in the RMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 67/69 
 
  
  
The proposed test-negative, case-control effectiveness study (MI-MA1116) is anticipated to 
substantiate and confirm efficacy. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Fluenz Tetra in the prophylaxis of influenza in children and 
adolescents from 24 months to less than 18 years of age is favourable and therefore recommends 
the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal products subject to medical prescription. 
Official batch release 
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken by 
a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder 
shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and published on the European Medicines Agency web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the 
same time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 68/69 
 
  
  
 
 
product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data, the CHMP considers that the B/Yamagata strain contained in 
Fluenz Tetra is to be qualified as a new active substance in itself.  
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan  (P/0234/2012) and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/449386/2013 
Page 69/69 
 
  
  
