EMA/445120/2019  
EMEA/H/C/001208 
Foclivia (pandemic influenza vaccine [H5N1] [surface 
antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted]) 
An overview of Foclivia and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Foclivia and what is it used for? 
Foclivia is a vaccine used in adults to protect against flu when a ‘pandemic’ has been officially declared 
by the World Health Organization (WHO) or the European Union (EU). A flu pandemic occurs when a 
new type (strain) of flu virus can spread easily from person to person because people have no 
immunity (protection) against it. A pandemic can affect most countries and regions around the world. 
Foclivia would be given according to official recommendations. 
Foclivia contains some parts of inactivated (killed) influenza (flu) virus. It contains a flu strain called 
A/Vietnam/1194/2004 (H5N1). 
How is Foclivia used? 
Foclivia is given by injection into the upper arm muscle or the thigh in two doses, at least 3 weeks 
apart.  
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used according to official 
recommendations. 
How does Foclivia work? 
Foclivia is a ‘pandemic preparedness’ vaccine. This is a special type of vaccine that can be developed to 
help with the management of a future pandemic. 
Before a pandemic starts, nobody knows which strain of flu virus will be involved, so companies cannot 
prepare the correct vaccine in advance. Instead, they can prepare a vaccine that contains a strain of 
flu virus specifically chosen because nobody has been exposed to it, and to which nobody is immune. 
They test this vaccine to see how people react to it, allowing them to predict how people will react 
when the flu strain causing a pandemic is included in the vaccine. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccines work by preparing the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to defend itself against a 
disease. Foclivia contains some parts the H5N1 virus.The virus has been first inactivated so that it does 
not cause disease. During a pandemic, the virus strain in Foclivia will have to be replaced by the strain 
causing the pandemic before the vaccine can be used.  
When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the virus as ‘foreign’ and makes 
antibodies against it. When the person comes into contact with this or a similar virus, these antibodies, 
together with other components of the immune system, will be able to kill the viruses and help protect 
against the disease. 
The immune system will then be able to produce antibodies more quickly when it comes into contact 
with the virus again. This helps to protect against the disease caused by the virus. The vaccine also 
contains an ‘adjuvant’ to increase the vaccine’s effectiveness. 
What benefits of Foclivia have been shown in studies? 
The main study of Foclivia included 486 healthy people (a third of whom were over the age of 60) and 
compared the ability of two doses of Foclivia to trigger the production of antibodies (immunogenicity). 
The participants received two injections of Foclivia, containing either 7.5 or 15 micrograms of 
haemagglutinin (a protein found in flu viruses), 21 days apart. The main measures of effectiveness 
were the levels of antibodies against the flu virus in the blood before vaccination, on the day of the 
second injection (day 22), and 21 days later (day 43). 
According to EMA’s criteria, a pandemic preparedness vaccine needs to bring about protective levels of 
antibodies in at least 70% of people for it to be considered suitable. 
The study showed that Foclivia produced an antibody response that satisfies these criteria. Twenty-one 
days after the second injection, 86% of the people receiving the vaccine with 7.5 micrograms 
haemagglutinin had levels of antibodies that would protect them against H5N1. The figure was 85% in 
people who received the 15-microgram dose. 
What are the risks associated with Foclivia? 
The most common side effects with Foclivia (which may affect up to 1 people in 10) are headache, 
sweating, arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (muscle pain), reactions at the site of the injection (redness, 
swelling, hardening, bruising, pain), fever, feeling unwell, tiredness and shivering. The majority of 
these side effects disappear within 1 to 2 days. For the full list of all side effects of Foclivia, see the 
package leaflet. 
Foclivia should not be given to people who have had an anaphylactic reaction (severe allergic reaction) 
to any of the components of the vaccine, or to any substances found at trace levels in the vaccine, 
such as egg, chicken protein, kanamycin or neomycin (antibiotics), formaldehyde and 
cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB). However, if a pandemic has started, it may be appropriate 
to give the vaccine to these people, as long as facilities for resuscitation are available. 
Why is Foclivia authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Foclivia’s benefits are greater than its risk and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Foclivia has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that, because the vaccine 
is a pandemic preparedness vaccine and does not yet contain the strain of flu virus that is causing a 
Foclivia (pandemic influenza vaccine [H5N1] [surface antigen, inactivated, 
adjuvanted])  
EMA/445120/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
pandemic, it has not been possible to obtain full information about the final pandemic vaccine. Every 
year, the European Medicines Agency will review any new information that may become available and 
this summary will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Foclivia? 
Since Foclivia has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets Foclivia 
will collect information on the safety and effectiveness of the final pandemic vaccine when it includes 
the flu strain responsible for a pandemic in the vaccine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Foclivia? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and their patients for the 
safe and effective use of Foclivia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Foclivia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Foclivia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect people who receive Foclivia. 
Other information about Foclivia 
Foclivia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 October 2009. The 
authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Focetria in 2007 (‘informed consent’). 
Further information can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/foclivia.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2019.  
Foclivia (pandemic influenza vaccine [H5N1] [surface antigen, inactivated, 
adjuvanted])  
EMA/445120/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
