European Medicines Agency  
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/326095/2009 
FOLLOW-UP RECOMMENDATIONS FROM CHMP 
ON 
Novel Influenza (H1N1) outbreak 
Tamiflu (oseltamivir) 
Relenza (zanamivir) 
EMEA/H/A-5.3/1172 
Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
BACKGROUND 
On 27 April 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) raised the level of influenza pandemic alert 
from the current phase 3 to phase 4 based on the emergence of a new Infuenza A (H1N1) virus and its 
widespread presence in Mexico and the United States of America (USA).  
On  29  April  2009,  the  WHO  raised  the  level  of  influenza  pandemic  alert  to  phase  5,  based  on 
assessment  of  available  information  and  following  expert  consultations.  Advice  was  given  to  all 
countries to activate their pandemic preparedness plans and to monitor unusual outbreaks of influenza-
like illness and severe pneumonia.  
There are presently four antiviral drugs available for treatment of influenza and these belong to two 
inhibitors 
classes:  adamantane 
(oseltamivir and zanamivir). The novel influenza viruses detected in humans in Mexico and USA were 
found to be resistant to amantadine and rimantadine. Laboratory testing however indicated that these 
viruses may be susceptible to oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza). 
inhibitors  (amantadine  and  rimantadine)  and  neuraminidase 
Oseltamivir is a centrally authorised product with a marketing authorisation valid since 20 June 2002. 
Zamivir is authorised via the mutual recognition procedure since June 1999.  
Oseltamivir is indicated in the treatment of influenza in patients one year of age and older who present 
with symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Oseltamivir 
is  also  indicated  in  post-exposure  prevention  in  individuals  one  year  of  age  or  older.  Oseltamivir  is 
approved as hard capsules and powder for oral suspension. 
Zanamivir  is  indicated  for  treatment  of  influenza  in  patients  above  5  years  of  age  who  present  with 
symptoms  typical  of  influenza  when  influenza  is  circulating  in  the  community.  Zanamivir  is  also 
indicated for post-exposure prevention in individuals 5 years of age or older. Zanamivir is approved as 
oral inhalation powder administered through a Diskhaler device. 
Considering the spread of the novel Influenza A (H1N1) and the potential clinical need in case of a 
declared  pandemic,  the  EMEA  requested  that  dosing  recommendations  in  children  younger  than  1 
year of age for oseltamivir and pregnant and breastfeeding women for both oseltamivir and zanamivir 
should be investigated.  
On 27 April 2009 the MAH for Tamiflu submitted a variation (EMEA/H/C/402/II/65) to extend the 
shelf-life of Tamiflu 75 mg, 45 mg and 30 mg hard capsules from 5 to 7 years. A positive opinion was 
issued by the CHMP on 6 May 2009. 
Considering the data presented and the potential health implications of a shortage of oseltamivir in the 
EU, the EMEA requested that recommendations be given on the use of oseltamivir (finished product 
and bulk) manufactured since May 2002 onwards (for which stability has or will shortly expire).  
In view of the novel Influenza A (H1N1) outbreak, the Executive Director of the European Medicines 
Agency  (EMEA)  presented  on  30  April  2009,  a  request  for  a  CHMP  opinion  under  Article  5(3)  of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The CHMP opinion was sought on the following: 
(1) 
The potential usability of Tamiflu (oseltamivir) capsules already on the market in the EU 
for  which  the  expiry  date  is  about  to  expire  or  has  already  passed,  taking  into  account 
(a) the  outcome  of  the  ongoing  variation  procedure  to  extend  the  shelf-life  from  5  to 
7 years,  and  (b)  the  exceptional  potential  health  implications  that  may  result  from  a 
shortage  of  oseltamivir  available  in  the  EU.  The  recommendation  should  also  elaborate 
on the conditions to be fulfilled, e.g. in terms of the storage conditions to be adhered to. 
The CHMP should also consider whether it is in a position to provide a recommendation 
regarding the usability of oseltamivir bulk over the extended period. 
2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)  The appropriateness of administering oseltamivir to children younger than 1 year of age 
to treat or prevent the novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. If appropriate, the 
CHMP should make dosing recommendations. 
(3)  The  use  of  oseltamivir  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the  novel 
Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. 
(4)  The  use  of  Relenza  (zanamivir)  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the 
novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. 
The procedure started on 30 April 2009 and was finalised on 7 May 2009. 
2 
OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED ON 7 MAY 2009 
On 7 May 2009, the CHMP, having considered the matter, reviewed the available evidence and came 
to the conclusion that: 
(1)  Due  to  the  public  health  emergency  linked  to  the  current  risk  of  pandemic  influenza,  and 
based on data made available regarding the stability of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir) 30mg, 45mg and 75mg 
capsules for an additional period of 2 years, the CHMP recommends that boxes of Tamiflu capsules 
should not be discarded where the expiry date has already passed.  For these batches an updated expiry 
date should be determined by adding a further period of 2 years to the stated expiry date.  
The conditions of storage play a role in the stability of medicinal products.  It is of great importance 
that these boxes have always been kept and remains stored below 25oC. 
(2) It is acknowledged that limited data are available supporting the use of Tamiflu in children 
below  1 year  of  age.  However  considering  the  urgent  need  for  recommendations  to  treat  this 
population in case of a pandemic influenza is declared by the WHO in the context of the Novel 
influenza A (H1N1) outbreak, the CHMP recommends: 
1. To treat children below 1 year of age with Tamiflu. 
2. The appropriate dosage to treat children below 1 year of age is 2-3mg/kg twice daily during 5 days. 
3. The post-exposure prophylaxis of children below 1 year of age should be very carefully considered 
by prescribers. If it is decided to prescribe Tamiflu to prevent influenza for children below 1 year of 
age who have been exposed to the virus, the appropriate dose should be 2-3mg/kg once a day during 
10 days. 
4. The paediatric suspension or dilution of the capsules of tamiflu can be used to prepare the dose in 
children below 1 year of age. 
5.  Children  below  1  year  of  age  should  be  treated  under  medical  supervision.  However  in  case  of 
pandemic  influenza,  this  recommendation  could  potentially  place  huge  burden  on  hospital  resources 
and therefore, the CHMP strongly recommends that at least children below 3 months of age are treated 
under medical supervision in hospital. 
(3)  This  review  seems  to  show  that  no  new  safety  risks  to  foetus  are  connected  to  the  use  of 
Tamiflu  in  pregnant  women.  At  the  moment  the  statement  in  section  4.6.  of  the  SPC  “Oseltamivir 
should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential 
risk to the foetus.” remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
However,  the  overall  data  suggest  that  the  benefit  of  using  Tamiflu  in  pregnant  or  breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
At  the  moment  the  statement  in  section  4.6.  of  the  SPC  “Relenza  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy 
unless  the  expected  benefit  to  the  mother  is  thought  to  outweigh  any  possible  risk  to  the  foetus.” 
remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
(4)  Zanamivir  has  in  animal  studies  been  shown  to  cross  the  placenta  and  to  be  secreted  in 
breast milk. The non-clinical data are not indicative of any relevant cause for concerns regarding the 
safe use of Relenza at recommended doses. 
Taken together the overall data suggest that the benefit of using Relenza in pregnant or breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
FOLLOW-UP RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED ON 29 MAY 2009 
During its plenary meeting in May 2009, the CHMP discussed the following concerns as follow-up of 
the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 adopted on 7 May 2009: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
Practical guidance to prepare the solution for children < 1 year of age from a capsule of 
Tamiflu should be defined and agreed. 
The long term prophylaxis for children < 1 year of age should be discussed. 
The hospitalization of children less than 1 year of age should be considered in the context 
of a pandemia. 
The apparent non severity of the current Influenza A (H1N1) should be considered in the 
view of revising or not the CHMP recommendations.  
(1) 
Practical guidance to prepare the solution for children < 1 year of age from a capsule of Tamiflu 
should be defined and agreed. 
In  January  2009,  the  European  Commission  granted  a  Commission  Decision  to  a  type  II  variation 
(II/61) to update of section 4.2 of the SPC to provide instructions on the extemporaneous preparation 
of  liquid  formulations  of  Tamiflu  using  the  contents  of  the  30mg,  45mg  and  75mg  capsules.  The 
rational  for  this  extemporaneous  solution  is  that  Tamiflu  powder  for  oral  suspension  was  developed 
and is approved and commercialised in the EU for children above 1 year of age and adults who cannot 
swallow  capsules.  This  formulation  has  a  shelf  life  of  24  months  and  it  is  anticipated  that  limited 
availability  of  this  formulation  may  occur  specifically  in  emergency  situations  such  as  an  influenza 
pandemic  or  more  simply  when  supplies  of  the  oral  suspension  are  not  available.  Development 
activities  were  undertaken  to  explore  the  feasibility  of  preparing  extemporaneous  formulations  at 
home by the patient, parent or guardian using readily available sweetened food products to mask the 
bitter taste of the capsule content. This type II variation (II/61) was submitted to provide instructions 
in  the  SPC  and  the  PL  on  how  this  liquid  extemporaneous  preparation  should  be  made  using  the 
30 mg, 45 mg and 75 mg capsules of Tamiflu.  
The CHMP is now working in close collaboration with the MAH (Roche) to give practical guidance 
on how Tamiflu can be dosed from this extemporaneous solution to be given to children less than 1 
year of age. This practical guidance should soon be agreed and released. 
(2) 
The long term prophylaxis for children < 1 year of age should be discussed. 
The data of use of Tamiflu in children under 1 year of age are very limited. At the moment the CHMP 
has given a recommendation to treat children below 1 year of age only during a possible pandemia and 
the use of prophylaxis is restricted to the pandemic era too. The limited information of prophylaxis are 
only  for  10  days  concerning  the  situations  where  a  possible  contamination  has  happened.  No  data 
concerning a long-term prophylaxis for children less than 1 year of age are available. Therefore and 
for the time being, the CHMP is of the view that the prophylaxis for children less than 1 year of 
age should not exceed 10 days. 
(3) 
The hospitalization of children less than 1 year of age should be considered in the context 
of a pandemia. 
During its plenary session in May 2009, the CHMP agreed that children below 1 year of age should be 
treated  under  medical  supervision.  However  in  case  of  pandemic  influenza,  this  recommendation 
could potentially place huge burden on hospital resources and therefore, the CHMP recommends that 
at least children below 3 months of age are preferably treated under medical supervision in hospital. 
4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However hospitalisation of children below 1 year of age, including the children below 3 months 
of age, should follow recommendations from Member States depending on the local situation. 
(4) 
The apparent non severity of the current Novel Influenza A (H1N1) should be considered 
in the view of revising or not the CHMP recommendations.  
The recommendations adopted on 7 May 2009 by the CHMP were made in the context of a pandemic 
influenza,  meaning  a  phase  6  declared  by  the  WHO.  Further  to  a  discussion  during  its  plenary,  the 
CHMP is of the view that the previously adopted recommendations remain valid in the context 
of  a  pandemia  occurring  with  the  current  Novel  Influenza  A  (H1N1)  virus.  These 
recommendations can always be updated should a phase 6 be declared by WHO. 
5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
