London, 24 May 2007 
Product name: FORSTEO 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000425/II/0011 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I. 
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................ 3 
II.  CLINICAL ASPECTS ................................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
Clinical pharmacology ............................................................................................... 4 
Efficacy data............................................................................................................... 4 
2.2.1 
Pivotal study in women - study B3D-MC-GHAC (abbreviated GHAC)........... 4 
2.2.2 
Efficacy results in non-vertebral fractures ......................................................... 4 
2.2.3 
Discussion on efficacy results in non-vertebral fractures .................................. 5 
2.2.4 
Pivotal study in men - study B3D-MC-GHAJ (abbreviated GHAJ).................. 5 
2.2.5 
Efficacy results in men with osteoporosis.......................................................... 6 
2.2.6 
Discussion on efficacy results in men with osteoporosis................................... 7 
2.2.7 
Conclusion on efficacy data ............................................................................... 8 
2.3 
Safety data .................................................................................................................. 9 
2.3.1 
Discussion on safety data ................................................................................. 10 
2.3.2 
Conclusion on safety data ................................................................................ 11 
2.4 
Overall conclusion.................................................................................................... 11 
FOLLOW-UP MEASURES UNDERTAKEN BY THE MARKETING 
III. 
AUTHORISATION HOLDER .......................................................................................................... 11 
IV. CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION ................................................................. 11 
V. 
 CONCLUSION .......................................................................................................................... 12 
VI.     REFERENCES.......................................................................................................................... 13 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
FORSTEO  (teriparatide)  was  authorised  in  the  European  Union  for  the  treatment  of  established 
osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  on  10  June  2003  (European  Commission  Decision).  At  the 
time of the application for the initial Marketing Authorisation for Forsteo, the applicant was seeking 
an indication for the treatment of established osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men. The 
indication in men was based on a pivotal trial in men showing a significant increase in bone mineral 
density  (BMD)  after  approximately  1  year  of  treatment  and  further  extrapolation  to  men  of  the 
reduction in the incidence of fractures seen in women after approximately 2 years of treatment. The 
applicant reviewed the outcome of the clinical program carried out in men and concluded that Forsteo 
was an appropriate treatment for osteoporosis in men. Nevertheless, at that time the CPMP concluded 
that this extrapolation was not acceptable and the therapeutic indication for Forsteo should not include 
treatment of osteoporosis in men. 
Since  the  review  of  the  original  Marketing  Authorisation  application  for  Forsteo,  the  scientific 
knowledge of osteoporosis in both postmenopausal women and men has been advancing rapidly, and 
the  CHMP  Guideline  on  the  “Evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  primary 
osteoporosis” has been updated. Specifically, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) referred to 
the  CHMP  draft  Guideline  on  the  “Evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  primary 
osteoporosis”  dated  14 December  2005  in  order  to  introduce  the following  changes  into  the  Product 
Information in the framework of this Type II variation:  
- to revise the therapeutic indication from “established osteoporosis” to “osteoporosis at high 
risk  of  fracture”  and  to  extend  the  treatment  to  non-vertebral  fractures  with  consequential 
inclusion of clinical data on non-vertebral fractures in section 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SPC); 
-  to  extend  the  therapeutic  indication  to  “osteoporosis  in  men  at  high  risk  for  fracture”, 
supported by study results that are already included in the current SPC (section 5.1); 
- to change the Package Leaflet (PL) accordingly.  
Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  referred  to  the  final  version  of  the  Guideline,  dated  16  November  2006, 
which  superseded  the  one  the  MAH  was  referring  to.  Namely,  the  wording  for  the  therapeutic 
indication as expressed in the current version of the Guideline is “women at increased risk of fracture” 
which replaced the wording as stated in the previous version of the Guideline “women at high risk of 
fracture”. 
The  data  to  support  the  changes  in  this  type  II  variation  was  already  submitted  with  the  original 
application for Forsteo and was already reviewed by the CHMP (Study B3D-MC-GHAC, the pivotal 
study in women, and B3D-MC-GHAJ, the pivotal study in men). The only new information submitted 
within this type II variation was the final report of study B3D-MC-GHBJ, which had been designed to 
collect  safety  data  for  up  to  30  months  following  the  withdrawal  of  the  study  drug.  Additional 
objectives of this study were the evaluation of BMD and vertebral fractures; these data were submitted 
by the MAH in the form of a publication for the male cohort (Kaufman, 2005) as well as in an updated 
Clinical Study Report . 
3
 
 
 
II. 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
2.1 
Clinical pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology of teriparatide had been presented with the initial application for Forsteo. 
Thus,  the  MAH  referred  to  the  bioavailability  of  the  already  submitted  study  B3D-LC-GHBI 
(“Absolute bioavailability of teriparatide administered via subcutaneous injection”) in order to assess 
the potential difference between genders and to pharmacodynamics analysis performed during clinical 
studies B3D-MC-GHAC and B3D-MC-GHAJ. The bioavailability of teriparatide has been shown to 
be  lower  in  men  than  in  women  following  subcutaneous  injection  (23%  higher  exposure  in  women; 
p=0.034);  this  produced  a  25-50%  lower  response  in  bone  turnover  markers.  The  absolute 
bioavailability of teriparatide was not different between genders (p=0.679). The clinical consequence 
of  the  AUC  differences  has  not  been  further  investigated.  However,  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
teriparatide was not considered gender specific. 
2.2 
Efficacy data 
To support the proposed extension of indication the MAH referred to the information extracted from 
the  two  pivotal  trials  in  women  (study  B3D-MC-GHAC)  and  in  men  (study  B3D-MC-GHAJ)  to 
demonstrate that patients enrolled in these trials were at a high risk of fracture. 
2.2.1  Pivotal study in women - study B3D-MC-GHAC (abbreviated GHAC) 
The  pivotal  study  GHAC  was  a  double  blind,  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  trial  to 
evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  two  doses  of  teriparatide  in  postmenopausal  women  with 
established osteoporosis. The objective of this study was to demonstrate a reduction in the proportion 
of  patients  with  new  vertebral  fractures  following  3-year  treatment  with  20  and  40  µg/day  of 
teriparatide  plus  calcium  and  vitamin  D  compared  with  calcium  and  vitamin  D  alone.  This  pivotal 
study 
included  1,637  postmenopausal  women  (mean  age  69.5  years).  The  patients  were 
postmenopausal  women  with  cessation  of  ovarian  function  for  a  minimum  of  5 years  prior  to 
randomisation; they had a minimum of either one moderate or two mild atraumatic vertebral fractures. 
In  those  with  fewer  than  two  moderate  fractures  or  previously  treated  with  therapeutic  doses  of 
bisphosphonates or fluorides, the hip or lumbar spine BMD measurement was required to be at least 
1.0 standard deviation (SD) below the average  bone  mass for young, healthy women (T-score). The 
resultant annualized vertebral fracture rate in patients assigned to placebo was 8.3%.  
The  planned  duration  of  the  treatment  phase  of  this  study  was  36  months,  with  possible  interim 
analyses of safety after 12 months and of safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics after 24 months. Due 
to safety concern in animal (observation of osteosarcoma in a 24-month oncogenicity study in rat), this 
clinical study was stopped in December 1998. 
2.2.2  Efficacy results in non-vertebral fractures 
A  secondary  objective  of  study  GHAC  in  women  was  to  determine  the  effect  of  treatment  on  the 
proportion  of  patients  with  new  non-vertebral  fractures  alone,  and  with  new  vertebral  and  non-
vertebral  fractures  combined.  The  non-vertebral  fractures  were  assessed  only  when  clinically 
indicated,  and  study  site  personnel  were  requested  to  confirm  the  fracture  either  by  obtaining  a 
radiologist's written report or by review of the x-ray film. New non-vertebral fractures were recorded 
as  involving  the  hip,  radius,  ankle,  humerus,  ribs,  foot,  pelvis,  or  other  body  sites.  In  addition, 
investigators  were  asked  to  report  whether  the  fractures  were  traumatic,  defined  per  protocol  as  a 
fracture caused by a wound or injury that is severe enough to cause a fracture in an otherwise healthy 
person (for example, automobile accident or a fall from greater than standing height). 
Overall,  non-vertebral  fragility  and  traumatic  fractures  were  reported  in  119  patients  during  study 
GHAC. Treatment with teriparatide at the dose of 20 µg resulted in a significantly lower proportion of 
patients with fracture (6.3%) compared with placebo (9.7%) the relative risk (RR 95% CI) being 0.65 
4
 
 
 
 
 
[0.43, 0.98] (p<0.05). The reduction in fracture risk was not significantly different between the 40-µg 
group and the 20-µg group. An updated analysis of the major non-vertebral sites defined as hip, radius, 
humerus,  ribs,  and  pelvis  was  provided  by  the  MAH.    The  effect  of  treatment  was  also  statistically 
significant compared with placebo with an RR of 0.52 [0.30, 0.90] and for fragility fractures an RR of 
0.38 [0.17, 0.86]. 
Based on these results the MAH had initially proposed to delete the negative statement regarding hip 
fracture  from  the  therapeutic  indications  (section  4.1  of  the  SPC)  and  to  add  a  paragraph  in 
section 5.1 of the SPC describing the results for all and major non-vertebral fractures. 
2.2.3  Discussion on efficacy results in non-vertebral fractures 
To support the wording for the new indication as expressed in the current version of the Guideline (i.e. 
“women  at  increased  risk  of  fracture”  which  replaced  the  previous  wording  “women  at  high  risk  of 
fracture”),  the  MAH  used  information  extracted  from  the  pivotal  trial  to  demonstrate  that  patients 
enrolled in this trial were at a high risk of fracture. 
The CHMP noted that in the pivotal study GHAC, the new vertebral fracture rate was 14.3% over a 
median treatment duration of 19.2 months (range: 18-23), which yields an annualized rate of 8.3%. 
The  CHMP  highlighted  that  the  MAH  did  not  actually  try  to  characterise  the  study  population  with 
regard to the absolute fracture risk  as  recommended in the Guideline since they relied on the point-
estimate  of  the  risk  found  in  the  placebo  group.    In  the  last  version  of  the  Guideline,  a  10-year 
probability  range  of  15-20%  for  spinal  fracture  and  10-15%  for  major  non-vertebral  fractures  is 
considered  a  relevant  inclusion  criterion.  Although  a  wide  range  of  incertitude  was  to  be  expected 
when  extrapolating  a  10-year  rate  based  on  2-year  data  (which  would  yield  a  rate  of  58%),  it  was 
reasonable to conclude that this population was at increased risk of vertebral fracture. This was further 
supported by the main baseline characteristics of these women: mean age around 69 years with about 
21  years  since  menopause;  mean  number  of  existing  vertebral  fractures  of  2.3;  mean  lumbar  spine 
BMD of 0.82 g/cm2 (equivalent to a T-score = -2.6 SD). The concept of independent risk factors has 
not yet been translated into medical practice to promote a shift in focus towards a global assessment of 
future  fracture  risk.  In  order  to  be  consistent  with  recently  authorised  applications  for  similar 
medicinal  products,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the  wording  “increased  risk  of  fracture”  in 
section 4.1 of the SPC should be further qualified in section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic properties” of the 
SPC by a description of the relevant risk factors. 
Additionally,  following  the  Request  for  Supplementary  Information  adopted  at  the  December 2006 
CHMP plenary meeting, the MAH presented a new analysis of the results of study GHAC showing the 
incidence of major non-vertebral fragility fractures as defined in the Guideline (i.e. pelvis, hip, ribs, 
humerus, and radius). The relative risk (95% CI) in the group treated with the recommended dose of 
teriparatide (20µg/kg) was 0.383 (0.171, 0.857); this corresponded to a relative risk reduction of 62%. 
The reductions in the incidence of both vertebral and non-vertebral fractures were highly significant 
(p <  0.001  and  p  =  0.015,  respectively).  Therefore,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  analysis  of  major 
non-vertebral fragility fractures in study GHAC showed significant risk reduction with an acceptable 
type I error level.  
Thus,  based on  the  evidence  presented,  the  CHMP concluded  that  the  extension  of  the  indication  to 
non-vertebral fractures could be endorsed. Nevertheless, as a non significant reduction in the incidence 
of  hip  fracture  remained  valid,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  this  information  should  be  maintained  in 
section 4.1 of the SPC and should also be mentioned in section 5.1 of the SPC.   
2.2.4  Pivotal study in men - study B3D-MC-GHAJ (abbreviated GHAJ) 
The pivotal study GHAJ was a double blind, randomised study, to demonstrate an increase in vertebral 
BMD  in  men  with  primary  osteoporosis.  Male  patients  completed  up  to  14  months  (median 
11 months) of this study at the time of the study closure. Four hundred thirty seven (437) men, aged 
30-85,  were  recruited.  Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  one  of  the  following  treatments: 
5
 
 
 
teriparatide  20  µg/day  (151),  teriparatide  40  µg/day  (139),  and  placebo  (147)  as  subcutaneous 
injections into the abdominal wall or thigh. All patients received additionally calcium 1000mg/day and 
vitamin D 400 IU/day orally. 
The patients were men with primary osteoporosis defined as bone loss primarily attributable to either 
idiopathic or hypogonadal causes. They had at least one lumbar spine or proximal femur (neck or total 
hip) BMD at least 2 SD below the average for young, healthy men. Forty-one percent of the men had 
one or more prevalent vertebral fractures. Of the 437 men who participated in this study, 355 (81%) 
enrolled in the follow-up study B3D-MC-GHBJ already mentioned. The resultant annualized vertebral 
fracture rate in former GHAJ patients assigned to  placebo was 4.9% according to the publication of 
Kaufman (2005).  
The rates for vertebral fracture found in the placebo arm of each study were comparable to rates found 
in similar populations in other studies of osteoporosis therapies. In addition, the entry criteria for study 
GHAJ  resulted  in  a  male  population  which  had  an  observed  vertebral  fracture  rate  within  or  greater 
than the range seen in prior studies in women. 
Due  to  safety  concern  in  animal  (observation  of  osteosarcoma  in  a  24-month  oncogenicity  study  in 
rat), this study was stopped in December 1998. 
2.2.5  Efficacy results in men with osteoporosis 
The study GHAJ was a double-blind randomised study to demonstrate an increase in vertebral BMD 
in men with primary osteoporosis. Four hundred thirty seven men, aged 30-85, who had lumbar spine 
or hip BMD measurement at least 2.0 SD below the average bone mass for young healthy men, were 
recruited.  The  primary  endpoint  for  efficacy  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  vertebral  BMD.  The 
planned duration of the trial was 24 months but it was prematurely stopped in December 1998. As a 
result,  the  median  observation  time  was  11.6 months;  approximately  25%  of  the  men  received 
treatment for more than 12 months with the longest duration of treatment at 14 months. 
The  comparison  of  lumbar  spine  BMD  results  between  men  and  women  is  shown  in  the  following 
table for the recommended daily dose (20 µg).  
CHANGE IN LUMBAR SPINE BMD BASELINE TO STUDY END MEN (GHAJ) AND WOMAN (GHAC) 
In  addition,  the  MAH  extracted  data  on  the  incidence  of  vertebral  fractures  from  the  publication  of 
Kaufman (2005), which reported the results of the male cohort followed after drug withdrawal in study 
GHAJ. A subset of 279 patients had adequate spine radiographs at baseline and at the 18-month visit 
of the follow-up study; the incidence of new vertebral fractures in patients that had been treated with 
teriparatide  (both  doses  combined)  was  reduced  by  51%  compared  with  placebo  (p  =  0.07)  and  by 
6
 
 
 
 
 
83% for moderate/severe fractures (p = 0.01). In the 114 men who had a prevalent vertebral fracture at 
baseline the risk reduction was more significant. In addition, results were quite similar for both doses 
(20 and 40 µg daily). 
Based on these data the MAH had proposed to extend of the therapeutic indication to “osteoporosis in 
men at high risk for fracture” (section 4.1 of the SPC). 
2.2.6  Discussion on efficacy results in men with osteoporosis 
According  to  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  the  “Evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of 
primary  osteoporosis”,  once  an  initial  marketing  authorisation  has  been  granted  for  the  treatment  of 
osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, a separate bridging study can be sufficient to support a claim 
of treatment of osteoporosis in men provided that the following prerequisites are fulfilled: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the duration of the study is at least one year; 
the dosage is justified; 
the  applicant  justifies  that  the  cut-off  of  BMD,  age  and  any  other  risk  factor  chosen  for  the 
inclusion  of  men  in  the  pivotal  study  will  generate  a  fracture  risk  of  a  similar  magnitude 
compared  with  postmenopausal  women  that  were  recruited  in  the  studies  used  to  obtain  the 
indication; 
the  magnitude  of  the  changes  in  BMD  versus  placebo  is  similar  to  that  observed  in 
postmenopausal osteoporotic women treated with the same compound and is proportional to the 
decreased incidence of fractures in treated women. 
The  pivotal  study  GHAJ  in  men  with  primary  osteoporosis,  which  was  submitted  with  the  initial 
application  for  the  Marketing  Authorisation  for  Forsteo,  was  presented  by  the  MAH  as  a  bridging 
study. 
Thus, the CHMP discussed whether the four criteria for defining a bridging report, as established by 
the Guideline, were fulfilled. 
a)  Duration of the study 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  the  duration  of  the  trial  was  less  than  one  year  due  to  premature 
discontinuation  of  the  trial  as  already  mentioned.  Actually,  about  80%  of  the  patients  completed  at 
least 10 months in the trial while about 45% (approximately 70 patients) completed 12 months. 
Although  limited,  the  study  duration  was  considered  acceptable  by  the  CHMP  as  compared  to  the 
minimum of 12 months required in the Guideline.  
b)  Justification of the dose 
The magnitude of the changes in lumbar spine BMD appeared slightly smaller in men than in women.  
BMD  results  of  the  femoral  neck  were  not  provided.  They  were  less  favourable  than  lumbar  spine 
BMD results for both genders at the end of the trials and were similarly slightly better in women than 
in men. Although this difference seemed marginal it may be explained by the lower bioavailability of 
the  product  in  men.  BMD  results  showed  a  dose  response  in  both  women  and  men  but  this  did  not 
translate into significant differences with regard to fracture rates. 
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the same daily dose of 20 µg was adequate for men. 
c)  Risk factors 
Of  the  437 men  who  participated  in  study  GHAJ,  355  (81%)  enrolled  in  the  follow-up  study  GHBJ 
after  study  GHAJ  was  prematurely  stopped.  A  subgroup of  279  subjects  (64%)  had  adequate  lateral 
radiographs  at  GHAJ  baseline  and  also  at  the  18-month  follow-up  visit  of  study  GHBJ,  which 
7
 
 
 
occurred  in  average  30  months  from  treatment  study  GHAJ  baseline.  The  incidence  of  vertebral 
fractures over this 30-month period was estimated in this subgroup. Although this was not an endpoint 
in  the  initial  study  GHAJ,  it  was  the  specific  reason  for  a  prospective  amendment  to  the  follow-up 
study GHBJ, which was implemented in a majority of centres. Furthermore, the methodology, quality 
assurance  coordination  and  central  reading of  these  x-rays  were  the  same  for  studies  GHAC,  GHAJ 
and GHBJ as well as the vertebral fracture assessment which was performed by the same laboratory. 
Finally,  the  baseline  characteristics  of  the  subjects  who  participated  in  this  analysis  were 
representative of the original GHAJ cohort. 
The annualized vertebral fracture rate in former GHAJ patients assigned to placebo was estimated at 
4.9% based on the observation that 12/103 men (11.7%) developed a new vertebral fracture after an 
average follow-up of 30 months. The MAH argued that this fracture rate was within or greater than the 
range  seen  in  prior  published  studies  in  women.  However,  the  Guideline  recommends  that  this  risk 
should  be  “of  a  similar  magnitude”  compared  with  the  postmenopausal  women  recruited  in  study 
GHAC,  which  was  used  to  obtain  the  indication  (annualized  risk  of  8.3%).    It  should  be  noted  that 
25% of these male subjects received an osteoporosis drug after the end of the controlled trial, which 
means that this possibly underestimates the fracture risk slightly. 
Thus, considering the annualized fracture rates in men and women (respectively, 4.9% and 8.3%), the 
MAH was requested to justify the similarity of the magnitude of the fracture risk in men and in women 
through a Request for Supplementary Information and in an oral explanation.  
Thus,  an  oral  explanation  was  held  by  the  MAH  on  23  May  2007.  The  MAH  compared  the  rate  of 
incident  radiographic  vertebral  fractures  in  the  placebo  groups  of  women  and  men.  Although  the 
annualised fracture rate was lower in men (4.9% vs 8.3%) than in women, the MAH highlighted that 
there  was  an  overlapping  of  the  Confidence  Intervals.  Additionally,  considering  that  women  were 
enrolled  primarily  based  on  the  presence  of  a  radiographic  vertebral  fracture,  whereas  men  were 
enrolled  based  on  the  presence  of  low  bone  mineral  density,  the  MAH  compared  vertebral  fracture 
incidence  in  men  and  women  with  prevalent  vertebral  fractures.  The  MAH  highlighted  that  the 
annualized vertebral fracture rates were of a similar magnitude in men and women after accounting for 
prevalent  vertebral  fractures  (1.9%  vs  2.4%  in  the  group  with  “no  prevalent  vertebral  fracture”  and 
9.4% vs 9.5% in the group with “at least one prevalent vertebral fracture”). Likewise, BMD changes 
were comparable in men and women regardless of the baseline vertebral fracture status. 
The CHMP acknowledged that, while the overall risk for new incident vertebral fracture was higher in 
women  than  in  men,  these  new  analyses  suggested  that  the  risk  was  similar  after  accounting  for 
prevalent vertebral fractures. 
d)  Correlation of changes in BMD and fracture risk  
A  recently  published  manuscript  by  Chen  et  al  (2006)  described  a  post-hoc  correlation  analysis  of 
spine bone density and vertebral fracture data from study GHAC. This analysis demonstrated that in 
postmenopausal  women  treated  with  teriparatide,  increases  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  were  significant 
determinants of vertebral fracture risk reduction, accounting for about 30-40% of the risk reduction. 
Having considered that this relationship was as strong as or stronger than has been demonstrated for 
anti-resorptive treatments, the CHMP concluded that this last criterion was met. 
2.2.7  Conclusion on efficacy data 
Based on the assessment of the efficacy data, the CHMP concluded that the wording of the indication 
could be revised to osteoporosis “at increased risk of fracture”, and to include the treatment of non-
vertebral  fractures  in  women.  Nevertheless,  as  a  non  significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  hip 
fracture remained valid, the CHMP concluded that this information should not be deleted from section 
4.1 of the SPC and should be mentioned also in section 5.1, as well as an updated table reflecting the 
data  on  non-vertebral  fragility  fractures.  Furthermore,  considering  the  overall  evidence  of  clinical 
8
 
 
 
efficacy  in  men,  including  BMD  results  as  well  as  limited  but  favourable  fracture  data,  the  CHMP 
concluded  that  the  therapeutic  indication  for  Forsteo  could  be  extended  to  the  treatment  of 
osteoporosis in men. 
In addition, the CHMP recommended that section 5.1 of the SPC should include a description of the 
relevant risk factors of fracture in osteoporotic patients. 
2.3 
Safety data 
Study B3D-MC- GHBJ (abbreviated GHBJ) 
The MAH submitted the final report on serious adverse events for study GHBJ which was completed 
in  October  2004.  A  total  of  1,943  patients  formerly  treated  in  teriparatide  studies  were  enrolled  in 
GHBJ,  including  1,263  women  from  study  GHAC  and  355  men  from  study  GHAJ;  31%  reported 
serious adverse events during a median of 4.5 years of follow-up after stopping teriparatide treatment. 
There  were  no  significant  differences  between  groups  (teriparatide  20  µg  vs.  teriparatide  40  µg  vs. 
placebo) in any preferred terms in ≥1.0% of the study population in any system organ class. There was 
no  increase  in  bone  cancers,  in  cardiovascular  disease,  and  in  vertebral  fractures.  There  were  no 
instances  of  osteosarcoma.  Although  an  overall  statistical  comparison  between  groups  showed 
statistical  difference  in  three  serious  adverse  events  (chronic  lymphocytic  leukemia,  inguinal  hernia, 
and  asthma),  there  were  no  differences  in  the  incidences  of  these  adverse  events  in  pair  wise 
comparisons.  Moreover,  the  three  events  of  lymphocytic  leukaemia  were  evaluated  by  two  internal 
experts,  independently,  concluding  that  one  patient  was  suspected  to  have  had  leukemia  prior  to 
entering the treatment study and a second patient was possibly misdiagnosed because of a history of 
lymphadenopathy. In addition, the adverse event “colon cancer” showed a trend towards significance 
and greater numbers in the teriparatide-treated groups than in placebo but when considering all related 
colorectal cancers the occurrence was the same in all groups. 
Risk Management Plan 
The first Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Forsteo was submitted. 
As  of  14  June  2006,  teriparatide  has  been  approved  in  70  countries  and  marketed  in  approximately 
57 countries.  The  cumulative  patient  exposure  to  teriparatide  worldwide  (since  its  first  marketing 
through  26  May 2006)  was  estimated  to  be  approximately  400,500  patients.  Since  launch 
(9 December 2002),  the  gender  distribution  for  teriparatide  prescriptions  was  90%  women  and 
10% men. This post marketing exposure was sufficiently large to permit the detection of rare and very 
rare events. 
Based on this experience, the safety specification summary of the RMP was essentially focused on the 
potential risk for osteosarcoma since no new important risks have been identified for teriparatide. In 
June  2006,  the  MAH  identified  the  first  confirmed  case  of  osteosarcoma  (after  14  months  of 
treatment). However, causality between Forsteo and the osteosarcoma could not be established, taking 
into  account  this  was  a  single  case,  the  patient  had  a  complex  medical  history,  and  the  background 
incidence (1 per 250,000 per year in the general population over 60 years of age). 
Apart  from  standard  pharmacovigilance  activities,  including  targeted  surveillance  terms  and  early 
signal detection, a specific study was initiated to address the osteosarcoma issue. 
Study  GHBX  (Teriparatide  Post-Approval  Osteosarcoma  Surveillance  Study)  is  an  ongoing  case-
finding  surveillance  study  designed  to  identify  documented  cases  of  osteosarcoma  among  men  and 
women  40  years  of  age  and  older  and  determine  which  cases,  if  any,  have  a  history  of  teriparatide 
treatment. This study is conducted both in the US and in Europe. The protocol has been appended to 
the RMP. 
9
 
 
 
2.3.1  Discussion on safety data 
The safety profile in both postmenopausal women and men had been evaluated as part of the original 
assessment at the time of the initial Marketing Authorisation for Forsteo and the data from the female 
and male population had already been reflected in the Product Information. 
In the last PSUR covering the period from 27 May 2005 to 26 May 2006, one case of osteosarcoma 
and  one  case  of  bone  tumor  (undetermined  nature),  both  with  a  fatal  outcome  have  been  reported. 
More recently, one case of extraskeletal osteosarcoma was reported at the end of September 2006. In 
addition,  ten  cases  of  Paget’s  disease  of  the  bone  have  been  reported:  3  of  these  were  considered 
possibly related to teriparatide by the reporter. 
the 
long-term  carcinogenicity  studies,  focal  cellular  proliferative 
During 
including 
osteosarcomas,  were  observed  in  the  bone  of  rats  in  all  rhPTH  (recombinant  human  parathyroid 
hormone)  groups.  Malignant  bone  neoplasms  occurred  in  rats  (males  and  females)  in  a  dose 
responsive manner. Even though no such cases were observed during the phase III clinical studies, this 
was considered as a matter of concern, due to the fact that no such risk could be ruled out in human. 
Moreover,  the  lack  of  events  in  human  was  not  considered  as  reassuring  given  the  duration  of  the 
studies,  the  small  number  of  patients  who  received  teriparatide  (n=  2032),  and  the  fact  that 
osteosarcoma was a rare disease. 
lesions, 
Study  GHBJ  did  not  involve  study  drug  and  was  designed  as  safety  follow-up  study,  following  the 
completion  of  several  clinical  studies.  The  interim  study  report  had  been  submitted  in  the  original 
application for the Marketing Authorisation and included data up to 18 months of follow-up. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  analysis  of  serious  adverse  events  with  thorough  analysis  of  neoplasms 
provided reassuring conclusions. Nevertheless, when considering deaths, which occurred at a similar 
rate in the 3 treatment groups, the number of cases without specified cause seems high for a clinical 
trial (13/66, i.e. about 20%) raising a concern about the quality of the monitoring. Thus, the CHMP 
reinforced  the  conclusion  endorsed  with  the  assessment  of  the  last  PSUR  on  the  need  to  obtain 
complete follow-up information and to fully assess spontaneous cases. 
With regard to the RMP, the MAH submitted a revised one upon request from the CHMP (Request for 
Supplementary Information adopted at December 2006 CHMP plenary meeting). 
The  safety  specification  summary  of  the  RMP  was  essentially  focused  on  the  potential  risk  for 
osteosarcoma.  The  report  of  a  new  long  term  toxicity  study  in  ovariectomised  female  cynomolgus 
monkeys  was  submitted  by  the  MAH  with  its  responses  to  the  Request  for  Supplementary 
Information.  No  concerns  of  toxicity  arose  in  monkeys  treated  daily  for  a  prolonged  period 
(18 months), with a high dose (5 µg/kg) and with a 3-year follow-up period after treatment cessation. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  effects  observed  were  consistent  with  the  pharmacological  action  of  the 
drug.  This  study  can  be  considered  a  test  of  the  hypothesis  that  teriparatide  would  not  produce  the 
same  type  of  effect  in  monkeys  as  it  did  in  rats.    Indeed,  humans  and  monkeys  are  osteonal 
remodelling species, which is not the case of rats.  In addition, longitudinal skeletal growth continues 
throughout rodent life, whereas in primates, growth plates close and longitudinal growth ceases.  Thus, 
extreme gains in bone mass can be induced in rats by daily injections of teriparatide throughout their 
life.    In  contrast,  comparable  changes  are  not  possible  in  osteonal  remodelling  species  (i.e.,  humans 
and monkeys) given teriparatide for a relatively short (2 – 3%) portion of the normal life span. 
A comprehensive assessment of the risk of osteosarcoma has been performed. Background incidence 
data have been provided by gender and age category for adults aged 60 years and older. The incidence 
rate was approximately 4 per 1,000,000 people in the general population >60 years of age. Thus, the 2 
reports  of  osteosarcoma  in  the  estimated  400,500  patients  who  have  received  teriparatide  were  not 
unexpected. 
An assessment of the risk of Paget’s disease of the bone has also been performed upon request of the 
CHMP. A single case report of Paget's disease was diagnosed in clinical trials (prevalence = 0.04%) 
and  24 spontaneous  reports  have  been  received  through  30 November 2006  (prevalence = 0.005%). 
These  rates  were  compared  with  the  overall  age-  and  sex-standardized  prevalence  rate  of  Paget's 
10
 
disease (0.3%); however, this background rate was based on screening of abdominal x-rays while most 
of the cases in the spontaneous Adverse Event (AE) reports were symptomatic (when this information 
was available). The disease may have been pre-existing but an acceleration of the process due to the 
treatment cannot be ruled out. Furthermore, since Paget’s disease of the bone is a contraindication, this 
may  reveal  insufficient  screening  before  starting  treatment  with  teriparatide.  Therefore,  the  RMP 
should be updated to include Paget’s disease. 
Apart  from  standard  pharmacovigilance  activities,  including  targeted  surveillance  terms  and  early 
signal detection, the CHMP noted that a specific study was initiated to address the osteosarcoma issue.  
The CHMP concluded that the current version of the RMP should be amended. The MAH committed 
to  performing  all  Pharmacovigilance  activities  as  per  the  current  Pharmacovigilance  Plan  agreed  by 
the CHMP, as well as to updating the current RMP to address a few outstanding issues. 
2.3.2  Conclusion on safety data 
Having considered the safety profile in both postmenopausal women and men which was evaluated as 
part  of  the  original  assessment  at  the  time  of  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  for  Forsteo,  the 
assessment of recent PSURs and of study GHBJ, the CHMP concluded that no new safety issues have 
been identified which would change the positive benefit/risk balance of Forsteo.  
With regard to the RMP the CHMP concluded that the current version of the RMP should be amended 
to address some outstanding issues. 
2.4 
Overall conclusion 
The changes proposed by the MAH in this Type II variation were not supported by new data but were 
justified  referring  to  the  current  CHMP  Guideline  on  the  “Evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the 
treatment  of  primary  osteoporosis”  with  some  re-analysis  of  data  submitted  with  the  original 
application and of the follow-up study. 
Based  on  the  review  and  discussion  of  the  efficacy  data  from  the  pivotal  trials  in  postmenopausal 
women and in men, the CHMP concluded that the update of the therapeutic indication to osteoporosis 
in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fracture  as  well  as  the  extension  to  the  treatment  of 
osteoporosis  in  men  at  increased  risk  of  fracture  were  approvable.  Furthermore,  since  the  results 
showed  a  significant  decrease  in  the  risk  of  major  fragility  non-vertebral  fractures,  the  CHMP 
concluded that a significant reduction in non-vertebral fractures has been demonstrated in women. 
Furthermore, the CHMP concluded that this Type II variation was approvable provided that the MAH 
will amend the RMP to address some outstanding issues. 
III. 
FOLLOW-UP MEASURES UNDERTAKEN BY THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to address some outstanding questions on the RMP and 
to submit an updated RMP, as well as to submit any variation application which would be necessary in 
the  light  of  compliance  with  these  commitments.  The  MAH  has  submitted  the  response  to  the 
outstanding questions and an updated RMP on 14 June 2007. 
IV. CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
The CHMP and the MAH agreed to change the Product Information for Forsteo as follows. 
11
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
SECTION 4.1 “THERAPEUTIC INDICATIONS” 
The MAH had initially proposed to revise the therapeutic indication from “established osteoporosis” 
to  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  “at  high  risk  of  fracture”  in  line  with  the  CHMP  draft 
Guideline  on  the  “Evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  primary  osteoporosis”  dated 
14 December 2005.  Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the  final  version  of  the  Guideline  has  been 
released  on  16  November  2006  and  superseded  the  one  the  MAH  was  referring  to.  Namely,  the 
wording for the therapeutic indication as expressed in the current version of the Guideline is “women 
at  increased  risk  of  fracture”  which  replaced  the  wording  as  stated  in  the  previous  version  of  the 
Guideline “women at high risk of fracture”. Thus, based on the assessment of the data presented by 
the MAH, the CHMP concluded that the wording of the indication could be revised according to the 
current Guideline and the extension of the indication to non-vertebral fractures could be endorsed. As 
a non significant reduction in the incidence of hip fracture remained valid, the CHMP concluded that 
this  information  should  be  maintained  in  section  4.1  of  the  SPC.  The  MAH  agreed  to  update  this 
section as recommended by the CHMP. 
The therapeutic indication for Forsteo was revised to extend the treatment of osteoporosis in men 
SECTION 5.1 “PHARMACODYNAMICS PROPERTIES” 
As a non significant reduction in the incidence of hip fracture remained valid, the CHMP concluded 
that this information should also be mentioned in section 5.1 of the SPC, as well as an update of the 
existing  table  to  include  results  of  non-vertebral  fragility  fractures.  In  addition,  the  CHMP 
recommended that section 5.1 of the SPC should include a description of the relevant risk factors for 
fractures  in  osteoporotic  patients.  Furthermore,  with  regard  to  the  men  population,  the  CHMP 
requested the MAH to include the main baseline characteristics of the patients treated in the trial. 
The MAH agreed to update this section as recommended by the CHMP. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Section 1 “What Forsteo is and what it is used for” of the PL has been updated in accordance with the 
changes implemented in the SPC. 
Finally, the complete set of Annexes has been updated in line with the EMEA/QRD template version 
7.2, including the addition of the two new EU Member States (Bulgaria and Romania) in the list of 
local representatives in the PL. 
V. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  24  May  2007  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet based on the observations and the appropriate conclusions. 
The CHMP adopted on 24 May 2007 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms of the 
Community Marketing Authorisation, as amended. 
12
 
 
 
VI.     REFERENCES 
Kaufman J-M, Orwoll E, Goemaere S, San Martin J, Hossain A, Dalsky GP, Lindsay R, Mitlak BH. 
2005. Teriparatide effects on vertebral fractures and bone mineral density in men with osteoporosis: 
treatment and discontinuation of therapy. Osteoporos Int 16:510-516. 
Chen  P,  Miller  PD,  Delmas  PD,  Misurski  DA,  Krege  JH.  2006.  Change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  and 
vertebral  fracture  risk  reduction  in  teriparatide-treated  postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis.  J 
Bone Miner Res 21:1785-1790. 
13
 
