SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Forsteo. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Osteoporosis  is  a  systemic  disorder  characterised  by  decreased  bone  mass  and  microarchitectural 
deterioration  of  bone  tissue  leading  to  bone  fragility  and  increased  susceptibility  to  fractures  of  the 
hip, spine and wrist. Osteoporosis affects an estimated 75 million people in Europe, United States and 
Japan combined. Osteoporotic fractures represent a major health problem. Within the past few years 
several  antiresorptive  therapies  have  been  introduced.  These  include  biphosphonates,  hormone 
replacement therapy, selective oestrogen receptor modulators and calcitonin.  
FORSTEO was developed to stimulate the bone formation. It contains teriparatide, a recombinant 1-34 
N-terminal  fragment  of  endogenous  human  parathyroid  hormone  (rhPTH(1-34)).  84-amino  acid 
parathyroid  hormone  (PTH)  stimulates  the  bone  formation  by  direct  effects  on  bone-forming  cells 
(osteoblasts)  increasing  intestinal  absorption  of  calcium  and  excretion  of  phosphate  and  increasing 
intestinal absorption of calcium via its effects on 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D production.  
It is indicated for the ‘treatment of established osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. A significant 
reduction 
incidence  of  vertebral,  but  not  hip  fractures  has  been  demonstrated.’  
The recommended dose is 20 micrograms once daily administered subcutaneous. 
the 
in 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The finished product is formulated as a multi-dose small volume parenteral containing a 0.025 % w/v 
aqueous solution of teriparatide (20 µg/80 µl dose) in acetate buffer pH 4, preserved with 0.3 % w/v 
metacresol.  It  is  presented  in  a  3  ml  cartridge  assembled  into  a  disposable  product-dedicated  pen-
injector  that  contains  treatment  for  28  days.  The  pen-injector  is  identical  to  that  approved  for 
Humalog-Pen  in  June  1997  (EU/1/97/0042/001),  with  the  exception  of  injection  volume  and  dose 
display. The product does not contain ingredients of animal or human origin. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance,  teriparatide,  is  the  1-34  N-terminal  fragment  (4117.8  Da,  as  calculated)  of 
endogenous human parathyroid hormone (rhPTH(1-34), produced in E. coli using recombinant DNA 
technology. The amino terminus is critical for G-protein linked stimulation of adenylate cyclase that 
catalyses  the  formation  of  second  messengers  such  as  cAMP  that  activates  the  desired  biological 
effects by phosphorylation of critical intracellular proteins. 
Development genetics and cell bank system 
Teriparatide  is  produced  in  a  transformed  non-pathogenic  E.  coli  K12  strain.  Construction  of  the 
recombinant gene and production host/vector is described in detail.  
Production of the Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) is adequately described.  
Characterisation  testing  of  the  cell  banks  was  carried  out  in  accordance  with  ICH  Guideline  Q5D.   
All  test  results  demonstrate  a  pure  and  stable  host/vector  system  through  or  beyond  the  end  of 
production cycle. 
Production and purification 
The active substance is manufactured by Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, USA. 
1/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several process optimisations occurred during development, designated Process I, II, IIIa, IIIb and IIIc 
(commercial process), with no changes in manufacturing site. The consistency of the impurity profile 
of  commercial  lots  (Process  IIIc)  compared  to  pre-clinical/clinical  lots  manufactured  by  earlier 
processes  (Process  I  →  IIIb)  has  been  demonstrated  by  comparative  RP-HPLC  chromatograms. 
Moreover,  the  commercial  process  was  used  to  manufacture  batches  used  in  late  Phase  III  clinical 
trials. 
The  fermentation  and  isolation  process  have  been  adequately  described  in  the  application.   
The  isolated  materials  are  held  at  not  more  than  -10°C  until  further  processing.    In-process  controls 
assure  appropriate  cell  growth,  product  synthesis  and  the  absence  of  microbial  or  phage 
contamination.  Specifications for raw materials and a description of cell culture media and equipment 
have been provided.  No human or animal sourced raw materials are used in processing.  The process 
has been validated and the data indicate that the manufacturing process consistently meets in-process 
specifications  and  control  ranges.  The  rhPTH(1-34)  purification  process  has  been  comprehensively 
described  in  the  application  and  consists  of  several  chromatographic  separations,  tangential  flow 
filtrations,  chemical  reactions  and  a  final  freeze  drying  step.    In-process  controls  assure  appropriate 
purity.    Specifications  for  raw  materials  have  been  provided.    No  human  or  animal  sourced  raw 
materials  are  used  in  processing.    The  process  has  been  validated  and  the  data  indicate  that  the 
manufacturing process consistently meets in-process specifications and control ranges.  
Additionally, validation addressed the removal of process and product related impurities and stability 
of process intermediates.  
Characterisation of the active substance 
rhPTH(1-34) is a single chain peptide containing 34 amino acids with a molecular mass of 4117.8 Da. 
The  peptide is highly flexible,  with  transient  helical  regions. Full  characterisation  of the active  drug 
substance has been performed on a primary in house reference standard (RS0265). Physico-chemical 
characteristics,  primary,  secondary,  tertiary  and  quaternary  structure  of  rhPTH(1-34)  were  evaluated 
and appropriately documented. 
The biological potency is characterised by a cell-based assay which relies upon the ability of rhPTH 
(1-34) to stimulate cAMP production in a cell line expressing PTH receptors.  
Analytical development 
rhPTH(1-34)  specific  methods  were  developed  at  Eli  Lilly  and  Company.  Validation  of  all  product 
specific analytical methods is described in detail, the reference standards used are fully documented. 
Impurities 
The data presented by the applicant demonstrate the capacity of the purification process to effectively 
remove product as well as process related impurities. 
Batch Results 
Batch data for all batches used in pre-clinical, toxicology and clinical trials and three recent validation 
lots  manufactured  according 
the 
specifications. 
the  commercial  process  demonstrate  compliance  with 
to 
Stability of the active ingredient 
The company has provided updated drug substance stability data for three pilot-scale (primary stability 
lots) and three full-scale lots. The data provided indicates acceptable stability of the drug substance for 
the proposed shelf life.  
Other ingredients 
Excipients meet Ph. Eur. Monographs, where available (metacresol: USP). A certificate of analysis is 
provided for the 35% silicone emulsion. Water for injections is prepared by distillation and meets the 
requirements  for  Water  for  Injections  in  bulk,  Ph.  Eur.  Standard  microbial  limits  for  raw  materials 
used to prepare parenteral products are applied. 
2/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
The  manufacture  of  the  finished  product  including  batch  release  takes  place  at  Lilly  France  S.A.S., 
Fegersheim, France 
Briefly, the manufacturing process involves the following steps: 
•  Preparation of the excipient solution   
•  Preparation  of  a  PTH  intermediate  solution.  The  pH  is  measured  and  adjusted  if  necessary. 
The intermediate solution is assayed by HPLC for rhPTH(1-34) content.  
•  Preparation  of  the  final  solution  by  diluting  the  PTH  intermediate  solution  with  additional 
excipient  solution,  based  upon  the  in-process  HPLC  rhPTH(1-34)  content  assay.  The  pH  is 
measured and may be adjusted.  
•  The solution is sterilized by filtration.   
•  The sterile solution is aseptically filled  into sterile cartridges; then the cartridges are sealed, 
exterior washed and controlled for visual defects.  
•  The sorted cartridges are then finally assembled in the pen-injector.  
Process validation 
The  manufacturing  process  steps  and  materials  were  validated  using  three  validation  lots. 
Commitment  has  been  taken  to  provide  stability  data  for  any  new  reprocessing  steps,  besides  the 
refiltration of the drug product, that are carried out. 
Specification  of the finished product 
The  release  specifications  limits  were  established  based  on  experience  with  the  manufacture  of  this 
product. 
TSE and viral safety 
The culture media are chemically defined and no Specified Risk Materials have been used to prepare 
or store Working Cell Banks (WCBs) or during routine manufacture of the finished product. Glycerol 
used in freezing menstruum of cell banks is of synthetic origin. Overall, the viral safety of the finished 
product has been adequately demonstrated. 
Stability of the Product 
Based on the stability data provided in the dossier, the proposed 24 months shelf-life at 2-8 °C (in a 
refrigerator)  is  accepted.  The  proposed  in-use  shelf-life  is  28  days  stored  at  2  °C  to  8  °C  (in  a 
refrigerator), in line with ICH requirements for in-use shelf life of aqueous preserved sterile injections 
(ICH/380/95).  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general,  the  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation  are 
satisfactorily  addressed.  The  development  of  the  product  went  through  several  process  changes; 
comparability  of  these  processes  has  been  validated  by  batch  analysis  and  impurity  and  stability 
profiles  for  clinical  batches  manufactured  by  earlier  processes  compared  to  production-scale  lots 
manufactured by the final process intended for marketing. 
During the procedure, the characterisation of the strain, the cell bank system and its genetic stability 
has  been  further  documented.  Also,  the  batch  definition  has  been  further  clarified,  to  ascertain  that 
blending does not occur at any stage. The purity of the active substance and finished product relies on 
a single RP-HPLC assay. The company committed to validate and implement an additional method to 
support control of the purity of the active substance. Stability data support the 24 months shelf life of 
the product. 
3/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacological  effects  of  either  teriparatide  or  a  chemically  synthesised  PTH  (1-34)  were 
evaluated in four animal models: monkeys, rabbits, rats, and mice. Experimental models reproducing 
the  characteristics  and  development  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  do  not  exist.    Nevertheless,  the 
pharmacodynamic studies performed in these preclinical species have provided essential information 
on the pharmacological properties of teriparatide. It should be noted, however, although monkeys and 
rabbits are remodelling species (similar to humans) their bone physiology does not mimic that seen in 
Man.  Skeletal  endpoints  assessed  in  most  of  these  studies  included  analyses  of  bone  mass  by 
quantitative computed tomography (QCT) or dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), assessment of 
bone architecture  by histomorphometry  and  determination  of  bone quality by biomechanical testing. 
Bone mass data were collected for the  proximal femur, mid-diaphysis, lumbar vertebra and proximals 
tibia. 
The studies demonstrated that intermittent subcutaneous (sc) administration of teriparatide stimulated 
bone  apposition  and  new  bone  formation  in  the  rat,  mouse,  rabbit  and  monkey.  In  ovariectomised 
(OVX) monkeys, 1 and 5 µg/kg/day of teriparatide administered for 18 months improved bone mass, 
architecture  and  mechanical  strength  of  trabecular  and  cortical  bone  without  producing  any  adverse 
effects. In osteopenic OVX rat, the minimally efficacious dose was between  0.3 and 1µg/kg/day. 
After treatment withdrawal in monkeys, beneficial changes in bone mass and biomechanical properties 
were sustained for about 6 months. Overall, teriparatide stimulated both modelling and remodelling of 
bone leading to improved bone quality. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Selective  oestrogen  receptor  modulator  (SERM)  in  association  with  teriparatide  increased  BMD  in 
trabecular bone. Raloxifene did not modify teriparatide efficacy in osteopenic rats. 
Estrogens  prevented  further  increase  of  bone  loss  while  PTH  (1-34)  alone  or  in  combination  with 
estrogens increased bone mass and strength above sham controls rats level. 
Antiresorptive  agents  when  associated  with  PTH  (1-34)  treatment  neither  blocked  nor  enhanced  its 
skeletal effects on femoral neck, femur, vertebrae or tibia of intact males or osteopenic female rats. 
1,25  dihydroxyvitamine  D3  combined  with  PTH  (1-34)  did  not  significantly  affect  the  skeletal 
efficacy of PTH (1-34). 
Growth hormone (GH) alone increased trabecular and cortical bone mass, while a 30% to 50% greater 
bone  mass  was  observed  when  (GH)  was  combined  with  PTH  (1-34).  This  synergetic  effect 
disappeared in aged female rats. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Decreased  blood  pressure  and  increased  heart  rate  were  observed  in  conscious  rat  and  dog  models 
reflecting teriparatide-induced  vasodilation. The  no observed effect  level (NOEL) for cardiovascular 
changes  in  the  rat  was  4.3  µg/kg  of  teriparatide.  In  female  dog  a  decrease  of  arterial  pressure  and 
increase of left ventricular inotropic state and heart rate were observed after treatment with  
6-µg/kg/day doses.  
A quantitative assessment of ECG data after repeated-dose (toxicological studies) in monkey did not 
show any effects on cardiac conduction, re-polarisation (QTc) or production of cardiac arrhythmia. 
In  male  adult  mice,  teriparatide  at  doses  100  µg/kg  did  not  produce  secondary  pharmacology  effect 
related  to  central  nervous  system  and  behavioural  functions  such  as  changes  in  body  temperature, 
4/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ambulatory  and  non-ambulatory  activity  levels,  central  nervous  system  depression,  and  convulsive 
thresholds. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  after  single  dose  and  repeated  doses  were  performed  with  teriparatide  in 
Fischer 344 rats and Cynomolgus monkeys. 
Clearance  and  volume  of  distribution,  measured  after  10  µg/kg  of  teriparatide  intravenous 
administration were 67.5 ml/min/kg and 0.54 L/kg in rat and 6.18 ml/min/kg and 0.14 L/kg in monkey 
respectively. Minor sex differences were observed in rats with the higher parameters in male than in 
female (74.2 ml/min/kg and 62.1 ml/min/kg and 0.61 L/kg and 0.48 L/kg for clearance and a volume 
of distribution respectively).  
The absolute bioavailability of the subcutaneous route for 10 µg/kg dose was 0.57 in rat (0.61 in male 
and  0.55  in  female)  and  0.36  in  monkey  (0.39  in  male  and  0.34  in  female).  The  teriparatide 
bioavailability  was  lower  in  animals  than  in  humans  (57%  in  rat  and  36%  in  monkey  for  10  µg/kg 
dose against 95% in humans). 
The kinetic profile of teriparatide was relatively simple with a short tmax and elimination half-life (both 
15-40  min  in  the  rat  and  monkey)  after  sc  injection.  AUC  and  Cmax  were  dose-related.  
Minor  differences  in  Cmax  and  AUC  between  the  rat  toxicokinetic  studies  were  observed,  but  no 
consistent  pattern  of  increase  or  decrease  and  no  consistent  effect  of  gender  could  be  noted.  There 
were no changes in terminal elimination rates after repeated dosing; no serum accumulation or enzyme 
induction  was  detected  following  repeated  administration.  No  notable  gender  differences  were 
observed in both species, except in rats at high teriparatide doses (i.e. > 100 µg/kg for Cmax and AUC 
values greater in female than in male). 
Distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  studies  have  not  been  studied,  which  was  considered 
acceptable for a recombinant hormone. The Applicant has relied on literature information concerning 
metabolic clearance of PTH mainly by the liver and kidney. 
No drug interaction study was performed. There was no induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes in 
male and female Cynomolgus monkeys given daily subcutaneous doses of teriparatide for 3 months. 
Toxicology 
The  design  of  the  experimental  protocols  for  the  toxicological  studies  were  in  agreement  with  that 
proposed with the route (sc.) and the frequency (daily) of study drug administration as well as duration 
for the clinical use. Animal species retained for toxicological studies (rat, rabbit and monkey) may be 
considered as relevant considering the bone responses observed in the pharmacological studies. 
Acute  toxicity  in  rat  using  subcutaneous  (doses  up  to  1000  µg/kg)  or  intravenous  (doses  up  to  
300 µg/kg) administration of teriparatide did not reveal any functional toxic effects and the observable 
effects seemed to be related to the vasodilatation effects of the active substance. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies were conducted in rat up to 6 months using doses up to 300 µg/kg/day 
and cynomolgus monkeys up to one year using doses up to 10 µg/kg/day subcutaneously. 
Two  chronic  specific  toxicity  studies  have  been  carried-out  in  Cynomolgus  monkey,  one  evaluating 
special renal function (4 months of treatment with 3-months reversibility period) and one evaluating 
special  histopathologic  patterns  (8  months  of  treatment  or  12  months  of  treatment  with  6-month 
reversibility period). Histological changes observed in renal function study are probably related to an 
exaggerated pharmacological effect induced by hypercalcaemia.  
In summary, toxicity studies revealed a similar pattern of findings, which resulted from  exaggerated 
pharmacological  effects  of  high  doses  of  teriparatide.  The  main  target  organs  were  the  bone,  liver 
spleen  and kidney. Data suggest that the renal changes observed are secondary to increased  calcium 
mobilisation.  Since  hypercalcaemia  is  not  observed  in  patients  at  the  intended  clinical  dose,  the 
occurrence  of  kidney  lesions  seems  unlikely.  The  changes  are  more  evident  in  rat  than  in  monkey. 
Absence of antigenic response is reported in the rodent and a weak antigenic potential is reported in 
the monkey. 
5/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproductive toxicity studies were generally uneventful indicating a low potential for effects on male 
and  female  fertility  and  embryo  toxicity.  However,  there  was  some  evidence  for  growth  retardation 
and reduced motor activity in F1 animals in the rat pre- and postnatal study. In addition, teriparatide 
was associated with a high level of embryolethality in the rabbit, probably associated with the foetal 
sensitivity  of  this  species  to  hypercalcaemia.  Given  these  uncertainties,  it  is  considered  prudent  to 
avoid foetal exposure to teriparatide. 
No mutagenic potential was detected in a standard battery of tests. 
Carcinogenic potential has been evaluated in a 2-year rat bioassay. The main finding from this study 
was  a  pronounced  treatment-  and  dose-related  occurrence  in  malignant  metastatic  osteosarcoma  in 
both  males  and  females.  Osteosarcoma  was  dependent  upon  dose  and  duration  of  treatment.  
The Applicant has provided a range of plausible explanations to account for these proliferative lesions, 
including  chronic  hormonal  stimulation,  virtual  lifetime  treatment  duration  spanning  25-30  bone 
turnover  cycles,  exposure  during  the  rapid  growth  phase  and  exaggerated  pharmacodynamic  effects. 
Relative systemic exposure in the study ranged from ca 2 to 50 fold, although the expert’s view that 
AUC-based exposure margins greatly underestimate the relative magnitude of the pharmacodynamic 
responses in rat and man is accepted.  
A second rat oncogenicity study and a histopathological peer review of the results of this study were 
conducted. The data support the applicant’s view, that the animal data indicate that teriparatide  will 
likely not cause the formation of osteosarcoma in patients. It can be concluded: 
•  Teriparatide is not genotoxic. 
•  The  NOEL  relationship  identified  in  the  second  carcinogenicity  study  is  consistent  with  a 
threshold effect of dose and duration of treatment for non-genotoxic carcinogenesis. 
•  There is no evidence of carcinogenicity in the primate study (18 months dosing at 1 or 5µg/kg) or 
in the 12-month rat study (doses of 8 or 40µg/kg). 
•  The  duration  of  treatment  is  the  key  factor  in  the  development  of  bone  neoplasms  in  the  rat.  
Based on percentage of lifespan and bone turnover cycles, there are marked differences between 
the rat studies and intended human use. 
• 
Increase in tumour incidence in mature female rats (6-12 months of age) is not seen at an 8x dose 
multiple  (based  on  Cmax)  and  3x  dose  multiple  (based  on  AUC)  for  humans  and  following 
substantial increases in bone mass (↑BMC 87%) in treated rats. 
•  The dose and duration thresholds for development of bone neoplasms in rats are greater than the 
threshold for pharmacodynamic responses on rat bone. 
•  The rat is more sensitive than Man to the bone anabolic effects of PTH and AUC-based exposure 
margins greatly underestimate the relative magnitude of the pharmacodynamic response. 
•  The incidence of osteosarcoma in patients with chronic primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism 
is not increased despite increased osteoblast activity. 
•  There are no increases in bone  malignancies in clinical trials with teriparatide or any other PTH 
hormone. 
Furthermore,  analysis  of  AUC  values  from  all  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  rats  estimate  the  AUC 
margin  of  exposure  at  5µg/ml  to  be  between  2  and  9  times  that  seen  in  patients  given  at  20µg/ml. 
These data indicate that an exposure multiple of 3 at the NOEL for osteosarcoma has now established 
for the formation of osteosarcomas.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Eli Lilly has submitted a marketing authorisation application for FORSTEO (teriparatide) 250 µg/ml, 
solution for injection. Teriparatide (teriparatide) is identical to the 34 N-terminal amino acid sequence 
of endogenous human parathyroid hormone, and is manufactured using recombinant DNA technology. 
The indication approved for this product is ‘treatment of established osteoporosis in postmenopausal 
women.  A  significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  vertebral,  but  not  hip  fractures  has  been 
6/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
demonstrated’.  The  recommended  dose  of  teriparatide  is  20  µg  administered  once  daily  by 
subcutaneous injection in the thigh or abdomen. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics studies in relation with the claimed indication evaluate the teriparatide effects on 
bone and mineral metabolism in all patients receiving teriparatide and in healthy volunteers (men and 
postmenopausal women). 
A  safety  pharmacological  program  includes  specific  studies  of  the  teriparatide  effects  on  calcium 
homeostasis  in  healthy  postmenopausal  women,  on  cardiac  conduction,  and  on  reporalisation  in 
healthy  volunteers.  Additionally,  a  global  analysis  of  ECG  data  obtained  from  5  clinical  studies  in  
118  subjects  has  been  performed.  Teriparatide  pharmacodynamic  properties  were  also  evaluated  in 
hypertensive  women,  in  patients  (men  and  women)  with  stable  renal  insufficiency,  and  in  patients 
(men and women) with stable heart failure. Lastly, the effects of combination use of teriparatide with 
thiazid drug were assessed. 
In  December  1998  all  ongoing  clinical  trials  involving  subcutaneous  administration  of  teriparatide 
were discontinued by the applicant due to osteosarcoma finding in a 24-month rat ongogenicity study. 
A second rat oncogenicity study was performed and the findings support the applicants assertion that 
teriparatide will not cause the formation of osteosarcomas in patients (see 3.3. Toxicology). 
The clinical programme intended to demonstrate efficacy of teriparatide in the proposed indication by 
the Company comprises: 
•  One dose-ranging study  
•  Three  studies  performed  in  woman:  one  placebo-controlled  pivotal  study  and  two  comparative 
supportive  studies  (teriparatide  versus  alendronate,  and  teriparatide  versus  placebo  in  women 
receiving hormonal replacement therapy (HRT)); 
•  One pivotal study performed in men. 
Since the applicant decided due to osteosarcoma finding in a 24-month rat oncogenicity study (see 3.3. 
toxicology) to discontinue all clinical trials involving subcutaneous administration of teriparatide, an 
analysis of all the above-mentioned phase 3 studies has also been performed, including all safety data 
after discontinuation of studies and efficacy data as secondary objectives. This pooled data analyses, 
also included safety data, from three small supportive studies. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Dynamic studies:  
Overall, a total of 6724 measurements from 1927 randomised patients who received either placebo or 
teriparatide were included in this analysis. Biomarkers from 623 patients were measured. The skeletal 
end-points of teriparatide were measured by bone mineral density (BMD) and by biochemical markers 
(urinary  markers:  Ca,  N-telopeptide,  free  deoxypyridinoline  and  serum  biological  markers:  calcium, 
bone specific phosphatase alcaline-BSAP, procollagen I carboxyterminal propeptide-PICP).  
The  analyses  revealed  a  rapid  BMD  increase  at  lumbar  site  independent  of  the  site  of  injection 
(abdominal  wall  or  thigh).  No  gender  differences  were  observed.  The  BMD  response  was  not 
confounded by any of the following variables: body weight; body mass index, alcohol consumption, 
cigarette  smoking  and  baseline  serum  concentrations  of  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  and  1,25-
dihydroxyvitamin D. A rapid increase of bone formation markers (maximal increase of 45% in women 
and  23%  in  men  for  BSAP  and  of  41%  for  PICP)  with  a  secondary  increase  of  bone  resorption 
markers (N-telopeptide-NTX and urinary deoxypyridinoline-DPD) was observed. Gender differences 
were observed in BSAP, NTX and DPD changes that were 25% to 50% lower in men than in women.   
The  effect  of  teriparatide  on  calcium  homeostasis  has  been  especially  assessed  in  several  clinical 
studies, especially in one open-label, partially randomised study performed in 23 healthy women aged 
from 48 to 75 years. A subcutaneous 40 µg teriparatide dose injection was administered for 14 days, 
7/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
repeated dose combined with oral vitamin D supplementation. Overall results showed an increase in 
serum  calcium  at  the  therapeutic  dose  of  20  µg  for  a  short  period  of  time.  When  administered  once 
daily, the serum total calcium increased transiently, beginning approximately 2 hours after dosing and 
reaching a maximum concentration between 4 and 6 hours. The serum calcium concentration began to 
decline  approximately  6  hours  after  dosing  and  returned  to  baseline  16  to  24  hours  after  each  dose. 
Teriparatide  caused  an  increase  in  urine  calcium  excretion;  however,  a  dose-response  relationship 
between  calcium  intake  and  urine  calcium  excretion  was  not  apparent  during  teriparatide 
administration. The results were similar with a 40 µg teriparatide dose. 
The assessment of effects of an acute dose of teriparatide on blood pressure and heart rate (pulse rate) 
showed  that  teriparatide  was  safe  and  well  tolerated  in  these  subjects  with  mild  or  moderate  heart 
failure. The  drug  was  not  associated with changed in supine or standing  haemodynamic  parameters, 
QT or other ECG abnormalities. Based on this study, the Applicant does not recommend adjustment 
for patients with heart failure. 
In an open-label, non-randomised study performed in 14 women with hypertension, teriparatide 40µg 
was  administered  alone  and  in  combination  with  atenolol  or  with  a  long-acting  calcium  channel 
antagonist. Results showed an increase in peak pulse rate and decrease in nadir blood pressure. Neither 
calcium channel antagonists nor atenolol potentiate the blood response associated with teriparatide. 
In a single blind, randomised; two-period crossover study the effects of a 20 µg subcutaneous dose of 
teriparatide on cardiac conduction and re-polarisation was evaluated. Results showed that teriparatide 
was associated with a small but statistically significant decrease in average standing SBP compared to 
placebo, a slight increased in average pulse rate, relative to placebo, but approximately 3 and 2 bpm in 
the standing and supine positions, respectively and a small statistically significant decreases in RR and 
QT intervals but no changes in PR and QRS. 
Additionally, a global analysis of ECG data obtained from 5 clinical studies in 118 subjects has been 
performed. Results did not show apparent adverse effects on ECG intervals with single subcutaneous 
doses  of  teriparatide  in  amounts  of  20,  40  and  80  µg.  No  effect  on  the  PR  and  QRS  intervals  was 
observed;  however,  dose-related  shortenings  in  the  RR,  QT  and  QTc  intervals  were  observed.  
A modest and not significant increase in heart rate was also observed. 
In a single blind, randomised, two-arm crossover study performed in 24 subjects, 9 healthy subjects, 
12 subjects with mild to moderate chronic renal insufficiency, and 5 subjects with severe chronic renal 
insufficiency, a 40-µg teriparatide dose was administered alone and with and without an infusion of 
furosemide  (20  to  100  mg).  An  approximately  decrease  of  60  to  65%  of  the  calcium  excretion  in  
24 hours in subjects with renal insufficiency compared with healthy subjects was observed. The serum 
ionised calcium response to teriparatide was also significantly reduced in the renal insufficiency group 
suggesting that both the calcaemic and calciuric response was blunted. 
Interaction  with  thiazides  was  assessed  in,  a  single  blind,  partially  randomised,  placebo-controlled 
study, five-period crossover in 10 healthy men and 10 healthy women. The study evaluated the effect 
of hydrochlorothiazid on the serum and urine calcium in response to teriparatide 40 µg combined with 
1000 mg/day calcium and 50 UI/day vitamin D. Results showed that the co-administration of HCTZ 
25  mg  with  teriparatide  did  not  result  in  a  clinically  significant  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction. 
However, the combined treatment was associated with a 15% reduction in the 24-hour urine calcium 
excretion compared with the response to teriparatide given alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  teriparatide  has  been  studied  in  healthy  men  and  women,  in  patients  with 
hypertension,  renal  insufficiency,  heart  failure,  and  in  patients  with  osteoporosis.  Pharmacokinetic 
data  were  obtained  from  approximately  200  healthy  men  and  women  who  received  at  least  one 
subcutaneous  dose  of  teriparatide,  ranging  from  5  µg  to  100  µg.  For  population  pharmacokinetics, 
over 800 men and postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, who received teriparatide in the doses 
ranging  6  to  60  µg,  were  evaluated.  Approximately,  similar  numbers  of  men  and  women  were 
investigated and majority (90 %) of the subjects and patients were at least 50 years of age.  
8/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Following  a  subcutaneous  injection,  absorption  of  teriparatide  was  rapid  with  peak  concentrations 
after 30 minutes and half-life was approximately 1 hour. Absolute bioavailability of teriparatide was 
95 %. Pharmacokinetic results were consistent for studies carried out in 1995-1997. In the remaining  
8  studies,  performed  after  1997,  the  teriparatide  concentrations  were  significantly  lower.  The 
Applicant suggested that this could be due to the new batch of antibodies for the assay kit or to the 
change of the analytical site. 
Systemic  exposure  (AUC)  was  approximately  20  %  to  30  %  lower  in  men  than  in  women.  
In the population analyses, volume of distribution increased from 21 % to 30 % when teriparatide was 
injected  into  the  thigh  relative  to  the  abdominal  wall.  This  resulted  in  lower  peak  concentrations  of 
teriparatide when injected into the thigh. There were no differences in pharmacokinetics with regard to 
age, smoking and alcohol consumption. 
Serum total calcium concentration increased transiently  reaching  a  maximum  concentration  between  
4  and  6  hours,  returning  to  baseline  within  16  to  24  hours  after  injection.  High  concentrations  of 
teriparatide were not associated with clinically relevant hypercalcaemia or hypercalcuria. 
Studies in mild to moderate heart failure and in mild to moderate renal insufficiency suggested that the 
dose adjustment would not be required in these patients. 
There was a marked increase in exposure to teriparatide in patients with severe renal impairment.  
No pharmacokinetic data have been generated in patients with impaired hepatic function 
There were no pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic interactions between teriparatide and furosemide or 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
No formal interaction studies were performed, however, the following combinations have been tested: 
•  With intravenous furosemide  
•  Co-administration of raloxifene 
•  With HRT in clinical phase 3 study 
Results  showed  that  furosemide  did  not  seem  to  alter  teriparatide  pharmacokinetics,  teriparatide  did 
not  seem  to  alter  HRT  pharmacological  effects,  however  this  study  has  been  performed  with  40-µg 
teriparatide.  
Clinical efficacy  
In  December  1998,  the  applicant  decided  to  discontinue  all  clinical  trial  involving  subcutaneous 
administration of teriparatide, therefore none of the clinical studies in women and men succeeded in 
achieving  their  planed  duration.  This  decision  was  based  on  the  observation  of  osteosarcoma  in  a  
24-month  rat  oncogenicity  study.  At  this  time  a  second  rat  oncogenicity  study  was  ongoing.  
The findings from the second study supported the applicants assertion that teriparatide will not cause 
the formation of osteosarcoma in patients (see 3.3 Toxicology).  
The following clinical studies were performed to demonstrate efficacy of teriparatide in the proposed 
indication by the company: 
•  One dose-ranging study in women only 
•  One placebo-controlled pivotal study  
•  Two  comparative  supportive  studies  in  women:  one  study  versus  alendronate,  the  second  study 
versus placebo in women receiving hormonal replacement therapy (HRT); 
•  One placebo-controlled pivotal study in men. 
Additionally,  a  pooled  analysis  of  all  the  above-mentioned  phase  3  studies  has  been  performed, 
including  all  safety  data  after  discontinuation  of  studies  and  efficacy  data  as  secondary  objectives.  
The analyses also included safety data from three small supportive studies.   
9/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose response study (ies) 
Fifty-one ambulatory women, aged 42 years or older, postmenopausal for at least 2 years prior (with 
or without hysterectomy) with a vertebral T-score < 0 SD were enrolled in a double-blind, multicentre, 
randomised, placebo-controlled study. The primary objective of the study was to establish a range of 
safe  and  potentially  effective  doses  of  teriparatide  in  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis. 
The  primary  endpoint  for  the  efficacy  evaluation  was  to  characterise  the  dose  dependent  effect  of 
teriparatide based on biochemical markers of bone formation (PCIP and serum BSAP) and resorption 
(urine  NTX).  Secondary  endpoints  included  BMD  and  endogenous  PTH  (1-84)  measurements.  
A  safety  analysis  of  data  was  performed  including  discontinuation  percentage  and  incidence  of 
adverse  events  by  dose.  The  planned  duration  of  the  treatment  phase  and  follow-up  phase  was  both  
6 weeks. Though not stated in the protocol, vitamin D was supplemented through the follow-up phase. 
The  patients  were  randomised  to  receive  either  teriparatide  6  µg/day  (n=4),  teriparatide  15  µg/day 
(n=8),  teriparatide  30  µg/day  (n=9),  teriparatide  40  µg/day  (n=6),  teriparatide  50  µg/day  (n=8), 
teriparatide 60 µg/day (n=7) or placebo (n=9). 
A  response  for  the  markers  of  bone  formation  serum  PICP  and  serum  bone-specific  alkaline 
phosphatase  (BSAP)  between  15-  and  40µg/day  doses  could  be  observed.  Statistically  significant 
differences from baseline were observed in both serum PICP and serum BSAP with doses as low as  
15 µg/day, and 6 µg/day appeared to be a no-effect dose. BMD data indicated that out of 14 patients 
receiving teriparatide, 12 patients had an increase in lumbar spine BMD from baseline ranging from 
0.52% (1 patient in the 15µg dose group) to 5.79% (1 patient in the 60µg dose group). There was an 
increase in the incidence of adverse events on doses above 40 µg/day.  
The  Applicant  justifies  the  choice  of  the  20  µg/day  dose  as  being  an  intermediate  between  the  two 
efficacious doses of 15 µg/day and 30 µg/day. It is not possible to recommend a particular dose on the 
basis of the dose finding study. However, in women there is good evidence from Phase III studies that 
establishes the efficacy of both the 20µg and 40µg dose groups. The safety profile of the 20 µg dose is 
acceptable and therefore the risk/benefit of this dose is positive in women. 
Main study(ies) (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials)  
Pivotal study GHAC 
1. 
Description of the study 
A double blind, multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
two  doses  of  teriparatide  20  or  40  µg/day  subcutaneous  injection  in  postmenopausal  women  with 
established  osteoporosis  was  performed.  The  patients  were  postmenopausal  for  at  least  5  years.  
Each  patient  had  a  minimum  of  either  one  moderate  or  two  mild  non-traumatic  vertebral  fractures.  
In  patients  with  fewer  than  two  moderate  fractures  or  in  patients  previously  treated  with 
biphosphonates or fluorides, the hip BMD or lumbar spine BMD measurement were required to be at 
least 1.0 SD below the average bone mass for young, healthy women (T score <–1.0).  
The  planned  duration  of  the  treatment  phase  of  this  study  was  36  months,  with  possible  interim 
analyses  of  safety  after  12  months  and  of  safety,  efficacy  and  pharmacokinetics  after  24  months.  
As  previously  mentioned,  due  to  safety  concern  in  animal,  the  study  was  discontinued.  Thus,  data 
from 18 to 23 months (median time on study drugs, i.e. teriparatide exposure is 19.2 months) are only 
available. 
The  primary  efficacy  objective  of  the  study  was  to  demonstrate  a  reduction  in  the  proportion  of 
patients  with  new  vertebral fractures following treatment with 20 and  40 µg/day of teriparatide plus 
calcium and vitamin D compared with calcium and vitamin D alone. 
Secondary objectives include: efficacy on lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD), on hip BMD, on 
total  body  and  radial  (forearm)  BMD,  on  the  rates  of  new  nonvertebral  fractures  alone  and  of  new 
nonvertebral and vertebral fractures combined, on height (via Harpenden stadiometer or other suitable 
stadiometer), on the iliac crest (histomorphometric effects), on biochemical markers of bone formation 
10/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  resorption  (bone-specific  alkaline  phosphatase  [BSAP],  serum  procollagen  I  C-terminal 
propeptide [PICP], urinary N-telopeptide [urinary NTX], and  urinary free deoxypyridinoline); safety 
profile  of  chronic  administration  of  teriparatide;  pharmacokinetics  data  at  selected  sites;  cost-
effectiveness analysis; quality of life. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The  primary endpoint  was occurrence  of new vertebral  fractures,  determined by blinded, centralised 
evaluations  of  all  spinal  x-ray  films.  A  patient  was  categorised  as  having  a  new  vertebral  fracture 
based  on  a  reduction  of  at  least  20%  in  anterior,  mid  or  posterior  height  and  for  a  minimum  of  one 
vertebra. The number of patients with new moderate or severe fracture or with multiple fractures was 
analysed separately. Worsening fractures were not included in the analysis. 
Statistical analysis 
The study was designed to enrol at least 1476 patients (492 in each treatment groups). It was planned 
that the total number of patients would be prospectively divided into two identical sub studies, sites 
were considered to be part of substudy 1 or 2 according to a size-based scheme. 
Based  on  an  anticipated  fracture  rate  of  approximately  60  new  vertebral  fractures  per  1000  patient-
years  observation  in  the  patients  treated  in  the  control  group,  and  a  50%  reduction  in  the  patients 
treated  with  teriparatide,  each  substudy  was  to  have  over  75%  to  80%  power  to  detect  a  significant 
treatment  effect  using  a  two-tailed  chi-square  (χ2)  test  of  proportions  at  the  0.05  level,  when 
comparing  the  pooled  teriparatide  groups  with  placebo  after  3  years  of  treatment.  Additionally,  the 
two  sub  studies  combined  would  have  over  90%  power  to  detect  a  significant  treatment  effect  with 
either dose compared with placebo using these assumptions. 
Primary  analysis:  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  analysis  using  data  from  all  randomised  patients  with  at  least 
one baseline and one post baseline measurement (x-ray film). Based on the primary efficacy variable, 
analysis  would  compare  the  proportion  of  patients  with  new  vertebral  fractures  in  each  teriparatide 
treatment  group;  and  in  the  combined  teriparatide  treatment  group  with  those  in  the  control  group 
using  Pearson’s  chi-square  (χ2)  test.  Change  and  percent  change  of  continuous  variables  (i.e.  BMD 
and  biochemical  markers  of  bone  metabolism),  were  assessed  by  an  analysis  of  variance  model 
(ANOVA). Missing values were imputed using Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF). 
RESULTS 
4. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
A total of 1637 women, aged 30 – 85 years were randomised to receive teriparatide 20 µg (n=541), 
teriparatide  40  µg  (n=552)  or  placebo  (n=544),  plus  calcium  and  vitamin  D.  The  three  treatment 
groups were well balanced regarding demographic characteristics.   
Regarding discontinuations of treatment, it must be pointed out that due to the Applicants decision to 
stop  the  study,  the  first  reason  for  discontinuation  was  sponsor's  decision.  A  total  of  1295  (79.1%) 
patients discontinued due to this reason.  
A total of 126 (7.7%) patients discontinued from the study because of an adverse event, 32 (5.9%) in 
the placebo group, 35 (6.5%) in the 20 g group, and 59 (10.7%) in the 40 µg group (p=0.005). 
Seven (0.4%) patients discontinued from the study because of a lack of efficacy, progressive disease: 5 
(0.9%) patients in the placebo group, no patients in the 20 µg group, and 2 (0.4%) patients in the 40 µg 
group. 
Sixteen (1.0%) patients died during the study; none of the deaths were causally related to study drug 
or study conditions as assessed by the investigators. There was no significant difference in the number 
of death among the treatment groups. 
11/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Efficacy results 
The efficacy analyses is on an 18 to 23 months (median 19 months) treatment-period with teriparatide 
20 and 40 µg due to the premature stop of the study decided by the Applicant.  
Overall, 1121 of the 1637 (68.5%) patients received placebo or teriparatide from 18 to 23 months. 
Of the 1637 randomised patients, 1326 patients were evaluable with adequate baseline and endpoint x-
ray films. A total of 105 of these 1326 patients experienced at least one new vertebral fracture. 
Effect of teriparatide on risk of vertebral fractures 
Number 
  (%)  of  patients  with
Fracture 
Placebo      PTH20       PTH40 
(N=448)   (N=444)     (N=434) 
64 (14.3)    22 (5.0)a 
 19 (4.4)a 
Absolute 
Risk Reduction 
PTH20   PTH40 
Risk 
Relative 
Reduction 
PTH20   PTH40 
9.3% 
   9.9% 
65% 
 69% 
22 (4.9)       5 (1.1)a 
   3(0.7)a 
3.8% 
  4.2% 
77%      86% 
New fractures 
Multiple new fractures 
New moderate or severe 
fractures 
New severe fractures 
Abbreviations:  PTH20 = teriparatide 20 µg/day; PTH40 = teriparatide 40 µg/day; N = number of patients with 
evaluated baseline and endpoint x-ray films. 
a p≤0.001 compared with placebo 
bp=0.009 
42 (9.4)       4( 0.9)a 
14 (3.1)         0 (0.0)a 
90% 
 78% 
100%    77% 
   9 (2.1)a 
    3 (0.7)b 
  7.3%   
  2.4% 
8.5% 
3.1% 
Each  teriparatide  dose  was  statistically  effective  in  reducing  the  frequency  of  vertebral  fractures.  
No statistically difference was observed between the two dosage groups. The results demonstrated that 
20 µg/day is statistically superior to placebo in reducing the frequency of new vertebral fractures. 
Non-vertebral fractures occurred in 119 patients.  
12/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of non-vertebral fragility and traumatic fractures  
Placebo 
544 
PTH20 
541 
PTH40 
552 
Total 
1637 
N 
Body site (n) 
Hip 
Radius 
Ankle 
Humerus 
Ribs 
Foot 
Pelvis 
Other 
Total 
n (%) 
4 
13 
4 
5 
10 
4 
3 
16 
2 
7 
2 
4 
5 
1 
1 
14 
a 
53 (9.7%) 
34  
(6.3%) 
3 
10 
2 
3 
5 
4 
0 
9 
32 
 (5.8%) 
40% 
9 
30 
8 
12 
20 
9 
4 
39 
119 (7.3%) 
— 
Relative  risk  reduction  compared 
with placebo 
— 
35% 
Relative  risk  (95%  CI)  compared 
with placebo 
— 
Pairwise comparison with placebo  — 
Overall Treatment Comparison  
— 
Abbreviations:  PTH20 = teriparatide 20 µg/day;  PTH40 = teriparatide40 µg/day; N = number of patients randomly assigned 
to each treatment group;  n = number of patients in each group with nonvertebral fractures;  CI = confidence interval. 
a  The  number  of patients  with  nonvertebral  fractures  at  each  body  site  does  not  necessarily  add  up  to  the  total  number  of 
patients  with  nonvertebral  fractures.    Of  the  119  patients,  16  had  two  nonvertebral  fractures,  and  in  11  of  these  16 
patients, both fractures occurred on the same date.   
0.645 (0.426, 0.976) 
p=0.036 
— 
0.595 (0.390, 0.908) 
p=0.015 
— 
— 
— 
p=0.024 
Treatment with teriparatide 20µg/day and 40µg/day resulted in a statistically significant reduction in 
the  proportion  of  patients  with  non-vertebral  fractures  compared  with  placebo.  Results  on  non-
vertebral fractures were not conclusive for specific fracture sites, in particular hip fracture. 
Treatment  with  teriparatide  20µg/day  and  40µg/day  for  18  to  23  months  resulted  in  statistically 
significant  dose-related  increases  in  lumbar  spine  BMD,  statistically  significant  increases  in  spine 
BMD were evident after 3 months of treatment, and at all subsequent visits.  
Increases  in  femoral  neck  BMD  for  teriparatide  20µg/day  and  40µg/day  were  observed  at  study 
endpoint). 
There  was  a  dose  related  decrease  in  BMD  for  the  distal  radius:  in  the  placebo  group  there  was  a 
decrease of  –1.28%, in the 20µg group –2.07%, and in the 40µg group –3.21%. 
13/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of BMD 
Variable 
Lumbar Spine 
(L-1 through L-4) 
(g/cm2) 
n 
Mean baseline ± SD 
Mean change ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
Total Hip (g/cm2) 
N 
Mean baseline ± SD 
Mean change ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
Femoral Neck (g/cm2) 
N 
Mean  baseline ± SD 
Mean  change ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
            P-Value (Treatment Comparison) 
Placebo 
(N=544) 
PTH20 
(N=541) 
PTH40 (N=522)  Placebo 
504 
0.82 ± 0.17 
0.01 ± 0.04 
1.13 ± 5.47 
498 
0.82 ± 0.17 
0.07 ± 0.05 
9.70 ± 7.41 
497 
0.82 ± 0.17 
0.11 ± 0.07 
13.73 ± 9.69 
230 
0.71 ± 0.12 
0.01 ± 0.03 
-1.01 ± 4.25 
222 
0.71 ± 0.12 
0.02 ± 0.03 
2.58 ± 4.88 
232 
0.71 ± 0.12 
0.02 ± 0.04 
3.60 ± 5.42 
479 
0.64 ± 0.11 
-0.00 ±0.03 
0.69 ± 5.39 
479 
0.64 ± 0.11 
0.02 ± 0.04 
2.79 ± 5.72 
482 
0.064 ± 0.11 
0.03 ± 0.04 
5.06 ± 6.73 
 vs 
PTH20 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
Placebo 
 vs PTH40 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
- 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
According to the protocol, investigators had the possibility to reduce permanently or not the doses of 
teriparatide  in  cases  of  AEs  and/or  increase  in  clinical  laboratory  serum  calcium  or  urinary  calcium 
values. No relation between the dose reduction (permanent or not) in each teriparatide groups and the 
reasoning for reduction was shown.  
Regarding  other  secondary  parameters  such  as  BMC  and  height,  results  confirmed  the  activity  of 
teriparatide on bone as well as measurement of biochemical markers of bone metabolism. 
According to the protocol, investigators had the possibility to reduce permanently or not the doses of 
teriparatide  in  cases  of  AEs  and/or  increase  in  clinical  laboratory  serum  calcium  or  urinary  calcium 
values. No relation between the dose reduction (permanent or not) in each teriparatide groups and the 
reasoning for reduction was shown.  
Due  to  the  premature  discontinuation  of  the  study,  long-term  efficacy  results  are  available  for  up  to  
24  months  (median:  19  months)  as  opposed  to  3  years  required  per  CPMP  guideline  for 
Postmenopausal Osteoporosis in Women (CPMP/EWP/552/95 rev 1). This is reflected in the SmPC. 
Two comparative studies have also been performed in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis: 
•  Study in patients treated with Hormonal Replacement Therapy (HRT) 
A total of 247 postmenopausal women, aged 30-85, who were receiving HRT and had a hip or spine 
BMD  measurements  with  T-score  <  -  1.0  SD,  were  randomized  to  receive  teriparatide  40µg/day  or 
placebo as subcutaneous injections. 
Patients were stratified into two groups: 122 women received HRT for at least 1 year prior to the study 
and  125  women  started HRT when  enrolled to the study. All patients received  calcium  1000mg/day 
and vitamin D 400-1200 IU/day. 
The  primary endpoints  were BMD  of the  spine,  and the secondary endpoints included BMD  of  hip, 
femoral neck and total body. 
Patients completed up to 17 months (median 14 months) of the study at the time of study closure. 
14/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean percent change from baseline in total lumbar spine BMD (ITT-analyses) 
Previous use of HRT 
No previous use of HRT 
HRT 
PTH40 / HRT  HRT 
PTH 40 / HRT 
58 
n 
Total lumbar spine BMD 
  Mean baseline (g/cm2) 
  Mean percent change from baseline 
a within group comparisons versus no change (p<0.05) 
b between group comparison (p<0.05) 
Abbreviations: PTH40 / HRT = teriparatide 40 µg/day plus hormone replacement therapy; PTH40 = teriparatide 40 µg/day; 
N = number of patients; BMD = Bone Mineral Density. 
0.92  
11.19 ab 
0.91 
1.47  ab 
0.89  
4.58 ab 
58 
58 
56 
0.88  
16.93 ab 
Teriparatide 40 µg/day in combination with HRT significantly increased BMD (lumbar spine, the total 
hip and femoral neck) compared to that of the HRT only group. There were no differences between 
women treated with HRT or not treated with HRT before the study.   
•  Study in  patients treated with teriparatide or alendronate  
A  double-blind,  randomized  study  in  postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis  to  evaluate  lumbar 
BMD.  A  total  of  146  postmenopausal  women,  aged  30-85,  who  had  a  hip  or  lumbar  BMD 
measurements  with  T  score  <-2.5  SD  were  randomized  to  teriparatide  40  µg/day  or  alendronate 
10mg/day  orally.  All  patients  received  additionally  calcium  1000  mg/day  and  vitamin  D  400-1200 
IU/day.  The  primary  endpoint  was  percent  BMD  change  from  baseline  in  total  lumbar  spine  BMD, 
and the secondary endpoints included BMD of hip, radius and total body. 
Patients completed up to 17 months (median 14 months) of the study at the time of study closure. 
Analysis Mean percent change from baseline in total lumbar spine BMD (ITT analyses) 
ALN10 
PTH40 
66 
n 
Total lumbar spine BMD (L1 or L2 through L4) 
  Mean baseline (g/cm2) 
  Mean percent change from baseline 
a within group comparisons versus no change (p<0.05) 
b between group comparison (p<0.05) 
Abbreviations: ALN10 =  alendronate sodium 10mg/day; PTH40 = teriparatide 40 µg/day; N = number of patients; BMD  = Bone Mineral 
Density. 
0.80  
12.21 ab 
0.80  
5.62  ab 
62 
There  was  a  significantly  increased  BMD  following  teriparatide  treatment  when  compared  with  the 
alendronate group at the lumbar spine, the total hip and femoral neck. The mean distal radius BMD in 
the teriparatide group was not statistically significantly different from the alendronate group. 
The mean proximal radius BMD was lower in the teriparatide group then in the alendronate group.  
Pivotal study in men 
A double blind, randomized study, to demonstrate an increase in vertebral BMD in men with primary 
osteoporosis  was  performed.  Male  patients  completed  up  to  14  months  (median  11  months)  of  the 
study at the time of the study closure. 
Four hundred thirty seven (437) men, aged 30-85, who had lumbar spine (L-1 to L-4 or L-2 to L-4) 
BMD or hip BMD measurement at least 2.0 standard deviations (SD) below the average bone mass for 
young, healthy men (T-score) were recruited. 
Patients  were  randomized  to  receive  one  of  the  following  treatments:  teriparatide  20  µg/day  (151), 
teriparatide 40 µg/day (139), and placebo (147) as subcutaneous injections into the abdominal wall or 
thigh. All patients received additionally calcium 1000mg/day and vitamin D 400 IU/day orally. 
The  primary  endpoint  for  efficacy  was  vertebral  BMD  change  from  baseline  at  3,  6  and  12  month.  
The secondary endpoints included change from baseline BMD in hip, total body, and radial (forearm).   
15/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary  of  bone  mineral  density  for 
lumbar  spine,  total  hip  and  femoral  neck 
Variable 
Placebo 
(N=147) 
PTH20 
(N=151) 
PTH40 
(N=139) 
Placebo 
vs 
PTH20 
Placebo 
vs PTH40 
Lumbar  Spine  (L-1  through  L-4) 
(g/cm2) 
N 
Mean baseline ± SD 
Mean change (g/cm2) ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
Total Hip (g/cm2) 
N 
Mean baseline ± SD 
Mean change ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
143 
0.85 ± 0.14 
0.01 ± 0.03 
0.54 ± 4.19 
141 
0.89 ± 0.15 
0.05 ± 0.04 
5.73 ± 4.46 
129 
0.87 ± 0.14 
0.07 ± 0.05 
8.75 ± 6.25 
— 
0.005 
<0.001 
<0.001 
— 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
137 
0.83 ± 0.11 
0.00 ± 0.02 
0.41 ± 2.77 
135 
0.84 ± 0.10 
0.01 ± 0.02 
1.14 ± 2.89 
125 
0.83 ± 0.11 
0.02 ± 0.03 
2.33 ± 4.51 
NS 
0.017 
0.040 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
Femoral Neck (g/cm2) 
N 
Mean baseline ± SD 
Mean change ± SD 
Mean percent change ± SD 
SD = standard deviation;  n = maximum number of patients with a baseline and at least one post baseline measurement;  NS 
137 
0.70 ± 0.11 
0.00 ± 0.03a 
0.36 ± 3.95 
125 
0.70 ± 0.11 
0.02 ± 0.04 
2.85 ± 6.07 
135 
0.71 ± 0.10 
0.01 ± 0.03 
1.44 ± 3.61 
— 
NS 
<0.001 
<0.001 
— 
NS 
0.013 
0.038 
= not significant. 
Patients  treated  with  teriparatide  20  µg/day  and  40  µg/day  had  statistically  significant  increases  in 
lumbar  spine  BMD  of  5.7%  and  8.8%,  respectively,  and  significant  increases  in  hip  (femoral  neck) 
BMD of 1.4% and 2.9%, respectively, at study endpoint. These increases were statistically significant 
compared  with  the  placebo  group.  There  was  a  dose  response  for  BMD  measurements,  with  greater 
increases in the 40 µg/day group.  
Compared  with  the  placebo  group,  the  teriparatide  treated  patients  had  a  statistically  significant 
increase in total body BMD of approximately 0.5% in both the 20µg and 40µg groups compared with 
a decrease of 0.3% in the placebo group.  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  mean  height 
changes. 
There  were  significant  increases  in  serum  BSAP  and  serum  PICP  after  the  first  month  of  treatment 
with teriparatide. All bone markers regressed to baseline at the end of the study. 
Exploratory analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis). 
Not applicable 
Supportive study(ies) 
Since  the  efficacy  studies  were  discontinued  prematurely,  the  applicant  initiated  an  observational 
follow-up study (non-blinded study) study to assess the effects of withdrawal of teriparatide treatment. 
All  patients  who  received  injectable  study  material  during  teriparatide  studies  were  eligible  to 
participate. The study was planned to be of two years duration. An interim report after 1 year has been 
submitted.  
During the follow-up phase, all patients were offered calcium and vitamin D supplements. In addition, 
investigators  could  treat  patients  with  any  other  drug  treatments  for  osteoporosis.  A  patient  was 
considered to be taking osteoporosis treatment if he or she reported any use of these drugs regardless 
duration of treatment. Moreover, patients may have taken multiple osteoporosis treatments. 
A total of 1930 out of 2486 eligible patients were enrolled in the study from seven previous studies.  
9 patients discontinued before the first visit (6 months following discontinuation of teriparatide) and 
16/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an additional 70 patients discontinued before the second visit (18 months following discontinuation of 
teriparatide). 
After  a  median  of  18  months  following  discontinuation  of  teriparatide,  there  was  a  41%  reduction 
(p=0.004)  compared  with  placebo  in  the  number  of  patients  with  a  minimum  of  one  new  vertebral 
fracture.   
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  Applicant submitted  one small  Phase  2  study. Data from this  trial suggested that teriparatide in 
doses 15-40 µg/day could be safe and efficacious in the treatment of osteoporosis. However, the study 
did not allow for robust evaluation of a dose response. 
In the pivotal Phase 3 studies, two doses of teriparatide were studied, 20 µg/day and 40 µg/day and 
over 500 women and 150 men received teriparatide 20 µg/day. 
In the pivotal study postmenopausal women with osteoporosis were treated with teriparatide for up to 
2  years.  Teriparatide  significantly  decreased  the  incidence  of  vertebral  and  non-vertebral  fractures 
(such as hip, radius, ankle, humerus) compared  with  placebo, and increased BMD in the total body, 
lumbar spine, and hip. Nevertheless, results on non-vertebral fractures were not conclusive for specific 
fracture sites, in particular hip fractures. The effect on vertebral fractures and BMD of the spine was 
more  pronounced  then  the  effect  on  nonvertebral  BMD  and  fractures.  The  effect  on  BMD  was 
observed after 3 months of treatment with teriparatide. 
Over  a  median  treatment  period  of  19  months,  teriparatide  20  µg/day  and  40  µg/day  reduced  the 
proportion  of  women  who  developed  a  new  vertebral  fracture  by  65  %  and  69  %,  respectively, 
compared with placebo.  The two doses of teriparatide did not differ significantly with respect to the 
reduction in risk of vertebral fracture. Treatment with teriparatide 20 µg/day or 40 µg/day resulted in 
statistically  significant,  dose-related  increases  in  lumbar  spine  (BMD  of  approximately  10  %  and 
14 %,  respectively,  and  hip  BMD  of  approximately  3  %  and  4  %,  respectively,  in  postmenopausal 
women). 
There was a decrease in BMD for distal radius (cortical bone), and this was statistically significant for 
the teriparatide 40 µg group. 
In  men  with  osteoporosis,  treatment  with  teriparatide  20  µg/day  or  40  µg/day  for  up  to  14  months 
resulted  in  statistically  significant  increases  in  lumbar  spine  and  hip  BMD.  No  fracture  data  were 
available. 
In the follow-up observational study, there was a reduction in the proportion of women and men with 
at  least  one  new  vertebral  fracture  during  the  18  months  after  discontinuation  of  treatment  with 
teriparatide.  A  significant  reduction  in  non-vertebral  fracture  risk  in  postmenopausal  women  was 
maintained for 18 months. 
Treatment with teriparatide 20 µg/day significantly reduced height loss in the subgroup of women who 
had suffered one or more new vertebral fractures. 
Clinical safety 
The  application  for  marketing  authorisation  presents  data  from  24  clinical  trials:  15  phase  I  studies,  
1 phase II study (51 subjects) and 8 phase III (2573 subjects).  
This assessment focuses on the results from all phase III clinical studies, especially the pivotal study. 
Among  the  phase  III  studies  performed  in  postmenopausal  women,  approximately  84%  of  patients 
exposed  were  in  the  pivotal  study.  In  addition,  this  is  the  only  long-term  study  in  postmenopausal 
women in which the 20-µg dose was administered. 
It is to be noted that three studies were suspended prior to completing enrolment and the 4 other phase 
III  clinical  studies  were  terminated  earlier  due  to  sponsor  decision.  An  observational  study  was 
performed to obtain additional information about the safety and the efficacy after discontinuation of 
teriparatide. A total of 1930 patients were enrolled in the observational study out of 2486 eligible from 
the 7 previous studies. 
17/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
Safety data derived from 23 clinical trials that enrolled over 2800 subjects. A total of  2032 subjects 
received  teriparatide,  including  800  subjects  at  20  µg/day  and  1107  subjects  at  40  µg/day.  
2486  subjects  were  randomised  in  the  6  phase  3  placebo  controlled  studies.  Among  these  subjects, 
1590 received teriparatide. 
The  four  long-term  phase  III  clinical  trials  included  2030  postmenopausal  women  and  437  men.  
1137  patients  were  exposed  to  teriparatide  for  greater  than  one  year  (500  at  20  µg/day  and  637  at  
40 µg/day). Total exposure to teriparatide was more than 1967 patient-years. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
In  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  orthostatic  hypotension  was  observed  in  healthy  subjects 
following  administration  of  teriparatide  at  doses  higher  that  20  µg/day;  teriparatide  was  associated 
with  an  increase  in  heart  rate  and  a  decrease  in  blood  pressure  in  women  with  hypertension. 
Orthostatic hypotension did not occur in Phase 3 clinical trials. There were no significant changes in 
blood pressure or pulse rate, and no significant effects on other major cardiovascular adverse events 
were observed. 
Out  of  800  subjects,  who  received  teriparatide  at  the  proposed  therapeutic  dose  of  20  µg/day,  
500 patients received teriparatide 20 µg/day for one year. The most frequently reported AEs were leg 
cramps, nausea and headache. 
Concerning  all  primary  phase  3  studies  (  i.e.  excluding  studies  GHAV  and  GHAU),  a  total  of  
418  patients  (16.9  %)  reported  a  minimum  of  one  serious  adverse  effect  (SAE).  There  was  no 
significant  difference in  the number  of  patients reporting  at least  one SAE  among treatment groups. 
No  major  concerns  are  raised  by  the  SAE.  However,  there  were  some  areas  are  of  interest,  such  as 
dyspnea, cardiovascular adverse effects ( palpitations and tachycardia, see SmPC), even though most 
patients have risk factors for cardiovascular disorders (age, history) and should be monitored.  
Two  cases  of  Paget’s  disease  were  diagnosed  in  patients  receiving  teriparatide,  one  of  which  being 
considered as related to treatment. No cases of osteosarcoma have been reported (follow-up less than  
2 years), and the incidence of other malignancies in teriparatide patients was not different then in the 
placebo-treated patients. 
A total of 20 patients (16 teriparatide group, 4 placebo group) died among the 2486 patients enrolled 
in the following phase III trials. No statistically significant treatment group difference was found.  
The causes of death in the teriparatide groups were: 
-  Cardiovascular  disorders  (7  cases:  cerebrovascular  accident  due  to  hypertension,  myocardial 
infarction,  possible  myocardial  infarction,  cardiac  failure,  hypertensive  crisis,  cardiac  arrest, 
possible cardiac arrhythmia), 
-  Pneumonia 4 cases (in 2 cases, the pneumonia was related to pre-existing lung cancer and in one 
case, the patient had a history of pulmonary emphysema since 1991), 
-  Carcinomas 3 cases (larynx neoplasm, lung cancer, bladder neoplasm), 
-  Pancreatitis  1  patient  concomitantly  treated  with  fenofibrate  after  427  days  of  teriparatide 
therapy, the patient had slightly elevated calcium levels, 
-  Cardiopulmonary arrest as a direct consequence of suicide. 
No cases of death were considered related to teriparatide by the investigators. 
The  four  fatal  cases  in  the  placebo  group  involved  cardiovascular  system  (heart  attack,  cardiogenic 
shock,  myocardial  infarction)  and  respiratory  system  (aspiration  causing  respiratory  failure) 
respectively in 3 cases and one case. 
In  most  of  the  cases  of  cardiovascular  disorders,  the  patients  had  history  of  cardiovascular  disease 
(hypertension,  arteriosclerosis,  myocardial  infarction,  coronary  artery  disease)  and  5/7  received 
antihypertensive drugs. 
In one case, the patient died of possible cardiac arrhythmia 3 months after teriparatide discontinuation 
because of a lack of efficacy. In 2 cases, the patients were found dead at home and the cause of death 
is  only  supposed  (myocardial  infarction,  cardiac  arrest).  These  2  deaths  appeared  450  and  313  days 
after therapy initiation and the data are too scarce to draw any conclusion. 
18/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The narratives do not allow suggesting a link between teriparatide and the fatal cases of carcinoma. 
One fatal case of pancreatitis has been reported in a patient who experienced slightly elevated blood 
calcium  levels.  Hypercalcaemia  (and  hyperparathyroidism)  is  a  known  risk  factor  for  pancreatitis. 
Even  though  this  patient  was  also  treated  with  fenofibrate,  known  to  cause  cholelithiasis,  this  case 
should be kept in mind. It is to be noted that another case of pancreatitis was reported in a patient, but 
no information is provided. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation due to adverse event was the second most common reason for discontinuation in the 
phase 3 studies. 
A total of 215  patients (8.7 %) discontinued due to an adverse event. 
Concerning  the  pivotal  study  (GHAC),  5.9%,  6.5%  and  10.7%  of  the  randomised  patients 
discontinued  from  the  studies  earlier  due  to  adverse  event  or  death,  in  the  placebo  groups,  in  the 
teriparatide 20 µg/day and in the teriparatide 40 µg/day, respectively. In  this study, nausea resulted in 
discontinuation  by  significantly  more  patients  treated  with  teriparatide  40  µg/day  than  in  patients 
treated with placebo. There were no events that caused discontinuation significantly more often in the 
teriparatide 20 µg/day group compared with placebo. 
Concerning the observational study, discontinuations due to AEs were amnesia (1pt), asthma (1 pt), GI 
carcinoma (2 pts), breast carcinoma (1 pt). 
Laboratory findings 
There  were  small  but  statistically  significant  transient  increases  in  4-  to  6-hour  post  dose  serum 
calcium levels and in urinary calcium excretion. Serum calcium in all instances returned to baseline by 
16  hours,  and  the  24-hour  post  dose  serum  calcium  was  not  increased.  There  was  no  increase  in 
urolithiasis or other clinical adverse effects related to increased urine calcium. 
Teriparatide significantly increased serum uric acid with no other relevant clinical adverse outcomes. 
In the 20 µg and 40 µg groups, there was a statistically significant increase in median serum uric acid 
while  patients  were  on  study  drug,  which  decreased  at  endpoint,  when  most  patients  had  been 
withdrawn  from  treatment  for  approximately  5  weeks.  Analyses  of  urolithiasis  and  related  events 
during and after treatment with teriparatide do not suggest that treatment for up to 2 years significantly 
increased the risk of these events. 
In total, approximately 4% of patients developed anti-teriparatide antibodies. No effects were seen on 
BMD  response  or  serum  calcium  concentrations.  The  clinical  significance  of  this  finding  is  not 
known. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety data is based on the overall data provided from the clinical development program, which 
comprised 24 clinical studies including 2573 patients. A total of 2032 subjects  received teriparatide, 
including 800 subjects at 20 µg daily.  
FORSTEO  treatment  was  well  tolerated  when  administered  for  up  to  2  years  in  postmenopausal 
women with osteoporosis and up to 14 months in men.  
The  major  safety  concern  (pre-clinical)  was  raised  due  to  the  findings  from  evaluation  of  the 
carcinogenicity potential of FORSTEO in the 2-year rat bioassay. A pronounced treatment- and dose-
related occurrence in malignant metastatic osteosarcoma in both males and females rats was observed. 
When this data became  apparent the applicant discontinued all ongoing trial involving subcutaneous 
administration  of  FORSTEO.  No  cases  of  osteosarcoma  have  been  reported  in  clinical  studies.  
A  second  rat  oncogenicity  study  as  well  as  the  review  of  clinical  data  leads  to  the  conclusion  that 
FORSTEO will be safe in this respect in clinical use. The applicant has established a comprehensive 
post-approval osteosarcoma surveillance program.   
19/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
"Viral  Safety  and  Batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications". 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  intermittent 
subcutaneous (sc) administration of teriparatide stimulated bone apposition and new bone formation in 
the rat, mouse, rabbit and monkey. After treatment withdrawal, beneficial changes in bone mass and 
biomechanical  properties  were  sustained  for  about  6  months.  Overall,  teriparatide  stimulated  both 
modelling  and  remodelling  of  bone  leading  to  improved  bone  quality.  The  general  pharmacology 
studies showed that teriparatide posses vasopressor activity. Notwithstanding this, there were no ECG 
changes  in  animals  indicative  of  adverse  effects  on  conduction  or  repolarisation  and  no  cardiac 
arrhythmias.  
From the pharmacokinetic  point  of  view, Fischer  344 rats  and  Cynomolgus  monkeys were the  most 
relevant  species  for  preclinical  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  The  kinetic  profile  of  teriparatide  was 
relatively  simple  with  a  short  Tmax  and  elimination  half-life  after  sc  injection.  AUC  and  Cmax  were 
dose-related,  and  no  serum  accumulation  or  enzyme  induction  was  detected  following  repeated 
administration.  The  applicant  has  relied  on  literature  information  concerning  metabolic  clearance  of 
PTH mainly by the liver and kidney. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  a  similar  pattern  of  findings,  which  resulted  from 
exaggerated  pharmacological  effects  of  high  doses  of  teriparatide.  The  main  target  organs  were  the 
bone, liver spleen and kidney. Data suggest that the renal changes observed are secondary to increased 
calcium mobilisation. Since hypercalcaemia is not observed in patients at the intended clinical dose, 
the occurrence of kidney lesions seems unlikely. A weak antigenic potential is reported in the monkey. 
Teriparatide  produced  no  teratogenic  effects  in  rats  and  mice.  In  pregnant  rabbits,  embryo/foetal 
mortality that was attributable to increases in blood ionised calcium occurred at doses >3 µg/kg and 
may  occult  an  eventual  teratogenic  effect.  Teriparatide  had  no  effects  on  fertility  of  male  or  female 
rats at doses up to 300 µg/kg. This information has been included in the SPC. 
Due  to  the  results  of  a  rat  carcinogenicity  study  major  objections  were  raised.  In  the  initial 
carcinogenicity study the subcutaneous administration of 5, 30 or 75 µg/kg/day of teriparatide caused 
a highly significant increase in the incidence of osteosarcoma at all dose levels when administered for 
24  months  starting  at  age  6-7  week.  However,  in  a  second  carcinogenicity  study,  there  was  no 
neoplastic bone lesions at a dose of 5 µg/kg/day, provided treatment did not commence until the rats 
were  6  months  old.  As  such,  the  No-Observed-Adverse-Effect  Level  (NOAEL)  was  5  µg/kg/day  in 
full-grown  rats.  The  applicant  has  now  provided  convincing  toxico-  and  pharmacokinetic  evidence 
that the exposure multiple – or safety margin – is 3, based on AUC measurements. 
20/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The  intended  indication  is  the  treatment  of  established  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  and 
men.  The  recommended  dose  is  20  µg/day  administered  by  subcutaneous  injection  into  the  thigh  or 
abdomen.   
In  the  two  pivotal  studies  in  women  and  in  men  over  541  women  and  151  men  with  osteoporosis 
received teriparatide 20 µg/day. Both trials were stopped early and the median duration of treatment in 
women was 19 months and for treatment in men was 11 months.  
In  women  treatment  with  teriparatide  20  µg/day  for  18  to  23  months  resulted  in  a  statistically 
significant  reduction  of  the  frequency  of  new  vertebral  fractures  compared  with  placebo.  
The treatment also resulted in a statistically significant reduction of non-vertebral fractures compared 
with placebo, however results were not conclusive for specific fracture sites, in particular hip fracture. 
Regarding  the  secondary  endpoints,  treatment  with  teriparatide  20µg/day  resulted  in  statistically 
significant dose-related increases in lumbar spine BMD.  
The  applicant  was  seeking  an  indication  for  the  treatment  of  established  osteoporosis  in 
postmenopausal  women  and  in  men.  An  oral  explanation  was  held  on  20  November  2002.  
The  company  reviewed  the  outcome  of  the  clinical  program  carried  out  in  man  and  concluded  that 
FORSTEO was an appropriate treatment for osteoporosis in men. The company stated that the ability 
of FORSTEO to reduce fractures had been established in women and a positive relationship between 
BMD and fracture reduction had been shown in women. This data had then been extrapolated to the 
studies in men, with bone mineral density used as a primary end point. The company stated, that if the 
indication in men is granted, a naturalistic outcomes study would be conducted in men. 
Following this discussion, a number of members stated that anti fracture efficacy in men had not been 
shown, the data was based on a smaller overall database (compared with the antisorptive -alendronate) 
and there were difficulties in accepting extrapolation. The fact that the clinical programme had been 
shortened  due  to  concerns  of  the  outcomes  of  the  pre-clinical  studies  was  also  highlighted.  
An orientation was sought among CPMP Members on whether the indication should include treatment 
of osteoporosis in men and a negative trend was observed (with the majority of members considering 
that such an indication could not be granted). 
Safety 
The safety data is based on the overall data provided from the clinical development program, which 
comprised  2573  patients  included  in  24  clinical  studies.  In  general,  teriparatide  treatment  was  well 
tolerated when administered for up to 2 years in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and up to 
14  months  in  men.  The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  were  leg  cramps,  nausea  and  headache.  
Two  cases  of  Paget’s  disease  were  diagnosed  in  patients  receiving  teriparatide,  one  of  which  being 
considered as related to treatment. 
No cases of osteosarcoma have been reported in clinical studies. However, it cannot be assessed that 
the  duration  of  the  observational  study  was  sufficient  to  detect  potential  cases  of  osteosarcoma,  and 
the  possibility  of  a  longer  latency  period  cannot  be  excluded.  The  applicant  commits  to  perform  a 
Post-Approval Surveillance Study to identify newly diagnosed cases of osteosarcoma and to determine 
incident cases, if any, with a history of FORSTEO treatment. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
In  women  treatment  with  FORSTEO  20  µg/day  for  18  to  23  months  resulted  in  a  statistically 
significant  reduction  of  the  frequency  of  new  vertebral  fractures  compared  with  placebo.  
The treatment also resulted in a statistically significant reduction of non-vertebral fractures compared 
with placebo, however results were not conclusive for specific fracture sites, in particular hip fracture. 
Regarding  the  secondary  endpoints,  treatment  with  FORSTEO  20µg/day  resulted  in  statistically 
significant dose-related increases in lumbar spine BMD 
FORSTEO  treatment  was  well  tolerated  when  administered  for  up  to  2  years  in  postmenopausal 
women with osteoporosis and up to 14 months in men.  
21/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  FORSTEO  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  established 
osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
22/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
