London, 21 February 2008 
Product name: FORSTEO 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000425/II/0013 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
GLOSSARY 
I. 
II. 
INTRODUCTION 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
2.1  Clinical Pharmacology 
2.2  Efficacy data 
2.3  Discussion on efficacy data 
2.4  Safety data 
2.5  Discussion on safety data 
2.6  Overall conclusion 
III. 
AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
FOLLOW-UP MEASURES UNDERTAKEN BY THE MARKETING 
IV. 
V. 
CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
CONCLUSION 
VI.   REFERENCES 
3 
3 
4 
4 
5 
10 
12 
14 
15 
16 
16 
17 
17 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY 
ADR: adverse drug reaction 
ANOVA: analysis of variance 
BMD: bone mineral density 
DXA: dual x-ray absorptiometry 
FAS: full analysis set 
GC: glucocorticoids 
GIO: glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis 
GREES: group for the respect ad excellence in science 
MAH: marketing authorisation holder 
MMRM: model repeated measures 
PMO: post-menopausal osteoporosis 
PL: package leaflet 
SPC: summary of product characteristics 
TEAEs: treatment emergent adverse events 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
Forsteo  (teriparatide)  was  authorised  in  the  European  Union  for  the  treatment  of  established 
osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  on  10  June  2003  (European  Commission  Decision);  on  21 
June 2007 (European Commission Decision) the indication was extended to treatment of osteoporosis 
in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture.  
This Type II variation is an application to extend the therapeutic indication to include the treatment of 
glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIO), the most frequent cause of secondary osteoporosis. 
Many studies have documented the association between glucocorticoid therapy and the risk of both hip 
and vertebral fractures, which is increased even at daily doses of prednisolone as low as 2.5 to 7.5 mg 
and  which  increases  further  with  higher  daily  doses.    This  risk  increases  rapidly  in  the  first  3  to 
6 months after glucocorticoid therapy is initiated while rapid bone loss is observed.  The mechanisms 
by which glucocorticoids increase fracture risk are complex and only partially understood.  Bone loss 
and reduction in bone mineral density (BMD) certainly contribute, but a component of the increased 
fracture risk is independent of BMD and may be mediated via changes in the composition of the bone 
mineral/matrix  composite  or  some  other  aspects  of  bone  quality.    Trabecular  bone  appears  to  be 
preferentially affected and evidence exists that vertebral fracture occurs at a higher BMD in GIO than 
in  post-menopausal  osteoporosis  (PMO).    In  addition,  glucocorticoid  therapy  may  lead  to  muscle 
weakness and hence increase the risk of falls.  Many of the diseases for which glucocorticoid therapy 
is  given  may  also  have  independent  effects  on  fracture  risk,  such  as  rheumatoid  arthritis,  chronic 
obstructive  pulmonary  disease,  asthma,  and  inflammatory  bowel  disease  (role  of  proinflammmatory 
cytokines).  Finally, age and female gender have been confirmed to be important risk factors in GIO. 
In a Cochrane review, calcium and vitamin D were shown to produce significant effect on bone loss in 
the spine and forearm but no fracture data are available (Homik et al, 2000).  Bisphosphonates have 
been  widely  assessed;  the  conclusion  of  a  Cochrane  review  (13  trials,  842  patients)  reported  a 
weighted mean difference of the percent change in BMD between the treatment and placebo groups of 
4.3%  (95%  CI  2.7,  5.9)  at  the  lumbar  spine  and  of  2.1%  (95%  CI  0.01,  3.8)  at  the  lumbar  neck.  
Although there was a 24% reduction in odds of spinal fractures [OR 0.76 (95% CI 0.37, 1.53)], this 
result was not statistically significant (Homik et al, 2000).  However, subgroup and secondary analyses 
have  shown  significant  vertebral  fracture  reduction  after  12-24  months  (alendronate,  etidronate, 
risedronate), but overall, no robust fracture data are available.  Nevertheless, these constitute the only 
drug  class  currently  approved  for  this  indication.    Alendronate  sodium  and  risedronate  sodium  are 
approved in most EU Member States for the treatment of GIO. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rationale of using teriparatide in the treatment of GIO is based on the stimulatory effects exerted 
by teriparatide on bone formation while decreased bone formation is the dominant phenomenon in the 
occurrence of GIO. 
Contrary  to  primary  osteoporosis,  no  CHMP  guidance  exists  for  GIO.    However,  the  Group  for  the 
Respect  and  Excellence  in  Science  (GREES)  has  issued  recommendations  for  the  registration  of 
agents to be used in the prevention and treatment of GIO, which have been further updated in 2005 
(Abadie  et  al,  Semin  Arthritis  Rheum,  2005).    These  recommendations  provide  the  basis  for  the 
assessment of this variation. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  submitted  this  variation  to  change  the  Product 
Information as follows: 
a)  to  extend  the  therapeutic  indication  to  “Treatment  of  osteoporosis  associated  with  sustained 
systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men at increased risk for fracture”; 
b)  to update section 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) to include efficacy data in 
relation to this indication; 
c) 
to  update  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  to  include  a  new  adverse  drug  reaction  (ADR)  reported  post-
marketing (“serious back cramp”). 
II.  CLINICAL ASPECTS  
2.1 
Clinical Pharmacology 
No  further  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted.    Pharmacodynamic  data  (bone  markers)  are 
provided in the clinical trial. 
Upon  CHMP’s  Requests  for  Supplementary  Information,  the  potential  interactions  between 
teriparatide and glucocorticoids were discussed by the MAH. 
Being a peptide hormone, teriparatide is metabolised by non-specific peptidases.  Thus, it would not 
be likely to alter the metabolism of glucocorticoids which occurs by microsomal enzymes in the liver 
and  other  tissues,  nor  would  its  metabolism  be  altered  by  glucocorticoids.    Most  of  the  known 
glucocorticoid  drug  interactions  are  the  results  of  either  induction  or  inhibition  of  P450  enzymes 
whereas teriparatide and other peptides do not directly interact with the P450 system. 
In  the  comparative  clinical  study  versus  alendronate  sodium  (see  “Efficacy  data”),  the  mean 
glucocorticoid  dose  at  baseline  and  18  months  was  not  significantly  different  between  treatment 
groups  either  in  the  overall  population  or  in  those  patients  who  maintained  glucocorticoid  therapy.  
Furthermore, the number of patients who increased, decreased, or did not change their glucocorticoid 
dose  from  visit  to  visit  was  not  significantly  different  between  treatments.    Changes  in  BMD  at  the 
lumbar  spine,  femoral  neck,  and  total  hip  as  well  as  changes  in  markers  of  bone  turnover  were 
consistent  with  what  had  been  measured  in  patients  with  osteoporosis  not  taking  glucocorticoids 
during  treatment  with  these  medications.    Adverse  events  were  not  significantly  different  between 
treatment groups except for insomnia (see “Safety data”). 
In conclusion, the absence of a formal interaction study was considered acceptable. 
4
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Efficacy data 
This variation is supported by the results of a single phase 3 trial comparing the effects of Forsteo with 
those of alendronate sodium on lumbar spine bone mineral density in GIO (study GHBZ). 
a)  Study design 
Study GHBZ was a randomised double-blind double dummy comparative trial vs. alendronate sodium.  
Patients of both genders receive either teriparatide at a daily dose of 20 µg s.c. and an oral placebo or 
alendronate  at  a  daily  dose  of  10  mg  p.o.  and  a  subcutaneous  injection  of  placebo.    In  addition,  all 
patients  receive  elemental  calcium  (approximately  1000  mg/d)  and  vitamin  D  (approximately 
800 UI/d).  The overall duration of treatment is 36 months. 
The study comprises 2 phases. 
(cid:190) The  primary  phase  corresponding  to  the  first  18  months  of  therapy  started  in  2002  and  was 
completed  in  July  2006;  its  results  are  submitted  with  this  variation  and  address  the  primary 
objective of the trial, namely the lumbar spine BMD response. 
(cid:190) The  continuation  phase  with  an  additional  18-month  therapy  is  ongoing;  it  addresses  the  same 
objectives as the primary phase as well as additional secondary objectives, in particular the effects 
on fracture risk.  Of note, patients and investigators remain blinded until the end of the trial.  
b)  Study organisation 
The  trial  is  being  conducted  in  76  sites  in  Latin  America,  where  the  majority  of  patients  have  been 
enrolled (57%), in the US (30%), and in Europe (14%); the 14 centres in Europe (Germany, Belgium, 
Austria, Finland, Denmark, and Norway) have only recruited female patients. 
c)  Study objectives and endpoints 
The primary objective of the trial was to determine whether the increase from baseline to 18 months in 
lumbar  spine  BMD  (as  determined  by  dual  x-ray  absorptiometry  -  DXA)  induced  by  teriparatide 
statistically  significantly  exceeds  that  obtained  with  alendronate  in  women  and  men  who  had  been 
taking glucocorticoids (GC) for ≥ 3 months. 
The  main  secondary  objectives  were  to  address  the  same  question  in  the  population  of  women  only 
and to describe the time course of BMD response.  Other secondary efficacy endpoints included the 
changes in lumbar spine BMD at 24 and 36 months, in femoral neck and total hip BMD at 18, 24, and 
36 months, the time course of all BMD responses and of biochemical markers of bone turnover, and 
finally the incidence of new fractures (vertebral and non vertebral) at 36 months. 
d)  Study population 
Study  patients  were  adults  older  than  21  years  of  both  genders  with  osteoporosis  associated  with 
sustained  GC  therapy.    This  was  defined  as  an  average  dose  of  at  least  5  mg  of  prednisone  or  its 
equivalent for a minimum of 3 consecutive months preceding screening.  Osteoporosis was defined as 
follows: 
•  BMD T score ≤ -2.0 at the total hip, femoral neck, or lumbar spine 
•  Or,  at  least  one  known  prior  fragility  fracture  likely  associated  with  GC  therapy  and  BMD 
T score ≤ -1.0 at the total hip, femoral neck, or lumbar spine 
e)  Statistical analysis 
The sample size was increased during the study from 300 (150 per treatment group) to approximately 
450  in  order  to  ensure  the  enrolment  of  about  300  women  in  the  trial;  the  enrolment  of  additional 
females  (in  Europe)  allowed  the  primary  hypothesis  to  also  be  tested  with  sufficient  power  in  a 
females-only subgroup.  Drop-outs were assumed to be about 5% and 20% of the study sample before 
and  after  a  post-baseline  BMD  measurement,  respectively.    This  sample  size  allowed  at  least  90% 
power to detect a between-treatment difference in lumbar spine BMD of 0.015 gm/cm2 with a standard 
deviation of 0.04 gm/cm2.  A separate randomisation by country was stratified by gender and previous 
use of bisphosphonates. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  analysis  was  performed  in  the  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS),  defined  as  all  randomised  and 
treated patients (at least one dose) according to the treatment assigned.  An “endpoint analysis” was 
performed, where the last observed measurement obtained after randomisation was used.  Adjustment 
was made for the stratification variables only, with three geographic regions being defined.  The actual 
change  in  anteroposterior  lumbar  spine  BMD  from  baseline  to  endpoint  was  analysed  using  an 
ANOVA  (analysis  of  variance)  with  2-sided  significance  level  of  0.05.    The  results  of  the  primary 
analysis were qualitatively compared to the results from the Per Protocol Set. 
If the primary analysis reached statistical significance for both the combined male/female and females-
only datasets, a strategy for testing the time-course of BMD response was employed using the mixed 
model repeated measures (MMRM) method and a pre-specified sequence of 2-sided hypotheses tested 
at  level  0.05.    Furthermore,  the  analysis  of  fracture  data  at  18  months  was  added  to  the  planned 
analyses.    The  analysis  of  vertebral  fractures  was  based  on  the  readings  of  the  central  laboratory  in 
subjects who had both baseline and post-baseline spinal radiographs; clinical non vertebral fractures 
(traumatic or fragility) were diagnosed locally. 
Exploratory  analyses  were  conducted  on  the  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  in  subgroups  defined 
according  to  age,  gender,  region,  Body  Mass  Index,  presence  of  a  prevalent  vertebral  fracture, 
menopausal status, prior use of bisphosphonates, primary disease, baseline GC dose, and duration of 
GC therapy. 
f)  Patient disposition 
Out of 712 patients screened, 429 were randomised; the same number of patients (214) was allocated 
and  treated  in  each  treatment  group.    A  similar  number  of  patients,  slightly  more  with  Forsteo  than 
alendronate (150 vs. 144), completed the first 18 months of treatment. 
Two  reasons  for  discontinuation  were  significantly  different  between  treatment  groups.    “Patient 
decision” was the most common reason for alendronate and was twice as frequent as for Forsteo (30 
vs. 16 subjects); the MAH clarified that “withdrawal of consent” was the most frequent reason, other 
reasons  including  that  the  patient  did  not  wish  to  continue  in  the  study,  moving  away  from 
investigative  site,  and  not  wishing  to  continue  with  injections.    “Adverse  events”  was  the  most 
common  reason  for  Forsteo  and  was  twice  as  frequent  as  for  alendronate  (25  vs.  13  subjects).  
However,  when  these  “Adverse  events”  were  combined  with  “Deaths”,  the  difference  was  not 
significant any more because there were more deaths in the alendronate group (12) then in the Forsteo 
group (7). 
Upon  CHMP’s  request,  the  MAH  also  clarified  that  103  patients  discontinued  their  glucocorticoid 
therapy  (56  [26.2%]  alendronate,  47  [22.0%]  teriparatide).    Of  these  103  patients,  95  had  both  a 
baseline  and  postbaseline  lumbar  spine  BMD  measurement  and  were  included  in  the  FAS  lumbar 
spine efficacy analyses.  Compliance with study drugs and maintenance in the trial for patients who 
discontinued glucocorticoid therapy were consistent with the results in the overall population.  Of the 
103  patients  who  discontinued  glucocorticoid  therapy,  77  (74.8%)  completed  and  26  (25.2%) 
discontinued the study.  There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups in 
the number of patients who completed or discontinued the study. 
g)  Baseline characteristics 
Patient  demographics,  GC  therapy,  prevalent  vertebral  fractures,  and  baseline  BMD  measures  are 
shown in Table 1.  The groups were comparable for baseline characteristics. 
The  study  population  consists  of  277  postmenopausal  women  (65%),  67  premenopausal  women 
(16%),  and  83  men  (19%).    More  than  80%  of  the  postmenopausal  women  had  over  5  years  of 
menopause  at  study  entry.    Based  on  the  median  daily  dose  of  prednisone  equivalent,  the  mean  T 
scores,  the  prevalence  of  vertebral  and  non  vertebral  fragility  fractures,  this  study  population 
adequately qualifies as suffering from GIO and being at increased risk for fracture. 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1  
Baseline characteristics 
Alendronate 10 mg/d Teriparatide 20 mcg/d
Characteristics
Age (years), mean ± SE
Caucasian, n (%)
Women, n (%)
Prior bisphosphonate use, n (%)
Prednisone equivalent daily dose (mg, median)
Duration glucocorticoid use (years, median)
Radiographically confirmed vertebral fracture, n (%)
Non vertebral fracture, n (%)
Non vertebral fragility fracture, n (%)
Lumbar spine T-Score, mean ± SE
Total hip T-Score, mean ± SE
Femoral neck T-Score, mean ± SE
Underlying glucocorticoid-requiring disorders at baseline
Joint disorders, n (%)
Other musculoskeletal disorder, n (%)
Respiratory, n (%)
Other disorders, n (%)
h)  Treatment compliance 
(n = 214)
59.1 ± 1.5
148 (69%)
173 (81%)
20 (9%)
7.8
1.2
53 (25%)
89 (42%)
43 (20%)
-2.5 ± 0.1
-2.0 ± 0.1
-2.1 ± 0.1
120 (56%)
37 (17%)
30 (14%)
26 (12%)
(n = 214)
57.9 ± 1.5
153 (72%)
172 (80%)
20 (9%)
7.5
1.5
62 (30%)
93 (44%)
42 (20%)
-2.4 ± 0.1
-2.0 ± 0.1
-2.2 ± 0.1
110 (52%)
45 (21%)
29 (14%)
29 (14%)
The treatment compliance was calculated based on the amount of drug dispensed and returned at each 
study visit in those subjects where these data were available for all visits.  The percentage of compliant 
patients (compliance > 70%) was similar for the oral study drug but lower for the injection of Forsteo 
(86%) as compared with the placebo (92%) (p = 0.077). 
The mean baseline calcium doses were around the recommended dose and similar in both alendronate 
and Forsteo groups (1048 and 1042 mg/d, respectively); they decreased slightly during the trial with 
endpoint  mean  doses  of  977  and  988  mg/d,  respectively.    No  data  were  recorded  on  vitamin  D 
supplementation. 
i)  Efficacy results 
(cid:190) Bone Mineral Density 
The results of the primary analysis (change in lumbar spine BMD) are shown in Table 2. 
Table 2  
Change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD (g/cm2) 
Alendronate 10 mg/d  Teriparatide 20 mcg/d
Lumbar Spine  n 
Month 3 
Month 6 
Month 12 
Month 18 
End point 
184 
173 
159 
148 
195 
Mean ± SE 
0.014 ± 0.004 
0.018 ± 0.004 
0.029 ± 0.004 
0.033 ± 0.005 
0.028 ± 0.006 
N
183
178 
170 
156 
198 
Mean ± SE
0.020 ± 0.004
0.035 ± 0.004 
0.055 ± 0.004 
0.067 ± 0.005 
0.059 ± 0.006 
P-value
0.067
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
The  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  from  baseline  to  endpoint  was  significantly  greater  in  patients 
treated with Forsteo than with alendronate (p< 0.001) and corresponded to a percent increase of 7.2% 
vs. 3.4%, respectively.  For those patients completing 18 months of treatment, the figures were 8.2% 
and 3.9%, respectively.  Similar results were obtained in the females-only dataset.  The analysis in the 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Per  Protocol  Set  showed  similar  results  to  that  in  the  FAS.    Furthermore,  sensitivity  analyses  using 
other imputation techniques confirmed the robustness of the primary analysis. 
Although  less  important,  the  increases  in  total  hip  and  femoral  neck  BMD  were  still  significantly 
greater with Forsteo in the combined male/female dataset (respectively 0.026 vs. 0.017 g/cm2; p=0.006 
and  0.024  vs.  0.014  g/cm2;  p=0.011);  the  corresponding  percent  increases  were  3.6%  vs.  2.2%  and 
3.7%  vs.  2.1%,  respectively.    However,  in  the  females-only  dataset,  the  difference  did  only  reach 
statistical significance for the total hip. 
Upon  CHMP’s  request,  sub-group  analyses  were  presented  by  the  MAH.    These  showed  a 
significantly greater increase from baseline to endpoint (primary study objective) and at 6, 12, and 18 
months  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  in  the  teriparatide  compared  with  the  alendronate  group  in 
postmenopausal women, premenopausal women, and  men plus premenopausal women.  In the men-
only  subgroup,  there  was  a  significantly  greater  increase  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  in  the  teriparatide 
versus the alendronate group at 18 months (see Figure). 
Figure: Mean percent change in lumbar spine BMD 
2D Graph 1
10
POSTMENOPAUSAL WOMEN
10 PREMENOPAUSAL WOMEN
D
M
B
e
n
i
p
S
r
a
b
m
u
L
)
e
g
n
a
h
c
%
(
D
M
B
e
n
i
p
S
r
a
b
m
u
L
)
e
g
n
a
h
c
%
(
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
*
*
*
*
ALENDRONATE 10 mg/day
TERIPARATIDE 20 ug/day
MEN
ALENDRONATE 10 mg/day
TERIPARATIDE 20 ug/day
+
D
M
B
e
n
i
p
S
r
a
b
m
u
L
)
e
g
n
a
h
c
%
(
3 mos
6 mos
12 mos 18 mos
LOCF
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
*
*
*
+
MEN + PREMENOPAUSAL WOMEN
*
**
*
+
3 mos
6 mos
12 mos 18 mos
LOCF
LS Means ± SE, *p<.001, **p=.001, +p<.03. 
Sample sizes are shown in the previous table. 
(cid:190) Biochemical markers 
Changes in biochemical markers of bone formation (PICP, PINP, BSAP) and resorption (CTX) in a 
subset  of  patients  during  therapy  with Forsteo  and alendronate  were  consistent  with  their  antagonist 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamic  properties,  anabolic  effects  for  teriparatide  and  antiresorptive  effects  for 
alendronate. 
(cid:190) Vertebral and non vertebral fractures 
Although no analysis of vertebral fracture was initially planned at the end of the primary phase, it was 
performed in the subgroup of patients with both baseline and post-baseline radiographs (78% of the 
study population). 
The fracture results are shown in Table 3. 
Table 3  
Vertebral and non vertebral fractures 
Alendronate 10 mg/d 
n/N (%)
10/165 (6.1) 
8/214 (3.7) 
Teriparatide 20 
mcg/d
1/171 (0.6) 
  12/214 (5.6) 
Vertebral radiographic 
Non vertebral 
P-value 
  0.004 
  0.362 
During  the  primary  phase  of  the  trial,  17 patients  in  the  alendronate  group  and  13  patients  in  the 
Forsteo  group  experienced  vertebral  and/or  non  vertebral  fracture(s);  one  patient  in  the  alendronate 
group experienced both a vertebral and a non vertebral fracture. 
Ten  patients  in  the  alendronate  group  had  new  vertebral  fractures  (1  new  vertebral  fracture  in  each 
patient) that were mild (n=4), moderate (n=2), and severe (n=4); one patient in the Forsteo group had 1 
new  vertebral  fracture  that  was  moderate  in  severity.    The  10  fractures  in  the  alendronate  group 
occurred in 6 postmenopausal women and 4 men, and the 1 fracture in the teriparatide group occurred 
in a postmenopausal woman (see Table 4). 
Table 4  
Incident radiographic vertebral fractures in sub-groups 
New non vertebral fractures were reported in a similar number of patients from both groups: 12 (5.6%) 
in  the  Forsteo  group  and  9  (4.2%)  patients  in  the  alendronate  group  (this  includes  one  additional 
patient for whom a hip fracture was reported as a serious TEAE (treatment emergent adverse events)).  
Most of the non vertebral fractures occurred in postmenopausal women in both treatment groups (see 
Table 5). 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5  
Incident non vertebral and clinical vertebral fractures in sub-groups 
2.3 
Discussion on efficacy data 
The objective of this type II variation was to extend the therapeutic indications for Forsteo to include 
the treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and 
men at increased risk for fracture. 
The MAH submitted the results of the primary phase of a randomised double-blind comparative trial 
vs. alendronate, which is in line with the current recommendations of the GREES for the registration 
of agents in this indication. 
At the dose recommended for PMO (20 µg/d), Forsteo produced significant effects on BMD that were 
comparable  to  those  reported  in  the  PMO  pivotal  trial  after  a  similar  follow-up  duration 
(approximately  18  months).    The  increase  in  lumbar  BMD,  the  primary  endpoint,  was  substantial, 
twice  as  large  as  that  achieved  by  alendronate  (10  mg/d)  (p<  0.001).    Although  still  statistically 
significant, much smaller differences were observed at the level of the hip and the femoral neck; their 
clinical significance is unknown. 
The  trial  is  continuing  -  blinded  –  for  an  additional  18  months  of  treatment.    Compliance  will 
obviously become an issue.  Already, 24% of patients have stopped taking glucocorticoids and 31% 
have  withdrawn  from  the  trial  at  the  end  of  the  first  phase.    Preliminary  fracture  data,  a  secondary 
endpoint  at  the  end  of  the  continuation  phase,  are  supportive  of  the  BMD  findings;  a  significant 
benefit  of  Forsteo  over  alendronate  was  observed  on  the  spinal  column  with  a  lower  incidence  of 
vertebral fractures but not on the appendicular skeleton.  The MAH committed to provide the complete 
results of the GHBZ trial by September 2008 (see Letter of Undertaking).  This study should provide 
further information on the effect of Forsteo over time. 
The CHMP requested the MAH to further justify the use of Forsteo in premenopausal women given 
the absence of a clear definition of risk factors for this population. 
The  MAH  highlighted  that  many  of  the  disorders  that  require  long-term  use  of  glucocorticoids 
including  systemic 
lupus  erythematosus,  rheumatoid  arthritis,  respiratory  disorders  (chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma), and gastrointestinal disorders (Crohn’s) affect both younger 
and  older  adults.    Analyses  of  the  effects  of  underlying  disease  and  use  of  glucocorticoids  in  these 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
populations  have  been  published  and  indicate  that younger  adults  with  disorders  requiring  sustained 
glucocorticoid  therapy  have  decreased  BMD  and/or  are  at  increased  risk  for  fracture  (Ramsey-
Goldman et al. 1999, van Staa et al. 2006 and Klaus et al. 2002).  
The MAH highlighted that BMD is a strong predictor of fracture risk in patients with osteoporosis not 
taking  glucocorticoids.    This  is  not  the  case  in  patients  with  GIOP  where  glucocorticoids  treatment 
influences  the  occurrence  of  fracture  by  a  mechanism  independent  of  BMD.    For  patients  with 
glucocorticoids treatment, BMD is one of several risk indicators of fracture (van Staa et al. 2003 and 
2005).  Studies have shown that patients with GIOP have a risk of fracture exceeding that predicted by 
BMD  values  alone;  postmenopausal  patients  taking  glucocorticoids  had  a  higher  risk  of  vertebral 
fracture  at  the  same  level  of  BMD  compared  with  controls  (van  Staa  et  al.  2003).    These  types  of 
analyses have led to recommendations for treating patients with current or previous glucocorticoid use 
at higher levels of BMD than individuals of the same age with osteoporosis not associated with the use 
of glucocorticoids (Kanis et al. 2004; van Staa et al. 2003). 
The  MAH  highlighted  that  although  there  is  less  information  available  on  the  role  of  risk  factors  in 
predicting  fracture  risk  in  patients  with  GIOP  than  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis,  studies  have 
shown that factors such as age, gender, fall history, fracture history and indication for glucocorticoid 
therapy independently contribute to fracture risk in patients with GIOP (van Staa et al. 2005). 
The CHMP highlighted that although information from the literature is sparse, it shows that women 
less  than  50  years  of  age  (a  proxy  for  premenopausal  status)  suffering  from  lupus  erythematosus  or 
rheumatoid  arthritis  are  2-3  times  more  likely  to  have  a  fracture  as  compared  to  age  and  gender-
matched  controls;  this  is  attributable  to  a  combination  of  disease  activity  and use  of  glucocorticoids 
although  their  respective  relative  contribution  remains  unclear.    Risk  factors  include  sustained  high 
dose  GC  therapy  (cumulative  dose  and  duration),  low  BMD,  history  of  fractures  or  falls,  low  BMI, 
disease activity, no use of oral contraceptives. 
A number of these factors were present at baseline in the premenopausal cohort of study GHBZ.  The 
underlying diseases requiring glucocorticoid therapy were mainly rheumatologic diseases, essentially 
rheumatoid arthritis and lupus erythematosus.  Patients were taking a median dose of glucocorticoid 
(prednisone equivalent) of 10 mg/d in the alendronate group and 8 mg/d in the teriparatide group with 
a median duration of glucocorticoid use of 0.8 and 1.2 years, respectively.  The mean lumbar spine T-
score  at  baseline  was  −2.2±0.2  in  the  alendronate  group  and  −2.1±0.2  in  the  teriparatide  group.  
Finally, 1/3 of the premenopausal women reported a clinical fracture at baseline and about 1/10 had 
already a prevalent vertebral fracture. 
Based  on  these  data,  the  majority  of  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the  MAH’s  proposal  to  include  a 
statement in  section 5.1 to describe  more specifically the factors  that increase  the risk of fracture in 
premenopausal women which are consistent with the literature and study GHBZ.  The majority of the 
CHMP  considered  acceptable  to  assume  that  a  history  of  osteoporotic  fracture  reflects  an  increased 
risk  of  fracture  or,  failing  that,  the  combination  of  several  factors  (e.g.,  low  bone  density,  sustained 
high  dose  glucocorticoid  therapy,  high  underlying  disease  activity,  low  sex  steroid  levels).    The 
majority  of  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the  MAH  should  further  specify  thresholds  to  define  low 
bone density (T score ≤ -2) and sustained high dose GC therapy (≥ 7.5 mg/d for at least 6 months). 
The majority of the CHMP also recommended that the description of the study results in section 5.1 
should include a description of the baseline characteristics (risk factors) in the three patient subgroups 
(post- and premenopausal women, and men) as well as a separate description of the efficacy results in 
premenopausal women. 
Based on the efficacy data submitted, the majority of the CHMP concluded that the MAH has justified 
the  use  of  Forsteo  in  the  new  indication.    Nevertheless,  4  CHMP  members  highlighted  that  the 
population of the pivotal study GHBZ consisted mainly of postmenopausal women and men with low 
BMD  which  corresponded  to  the  population  Forsteo  is  already  indicated  for. The  number  of 
premenopausal women was low, only 16% of the included patients. This is too small a data base to 
support  a  positive  benefit/risk  balance.  The  clinical  relevance  of  an  increase  in  BMD  might  be 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
different  in  this  population  and  bridging  using  BMD  data  is  doubtful.    Therefore  these  CHMP 
members did not agree to extend the indication for Forsteo to the treatment of osteoporosis associated 
with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in premenopausal women. 
2.4 
Safety data 
Safety results in study GHBZ 
Overall,  there  were  no  significant  differences  between  both  treatment  groups  in  the  frequency  of 
TEAEs, in TEAEs possibly related to medication or possibly related to device, in serious TEAEs, in 
TEAEs leading to discontinuation, or in TEAEs resulting in death (see Table 7). 
Table 7  
Overview of TEAEs 
(cid:190) Treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) 
o  The  most  frequent  TEAEs  were  infections  in  both  groups;  this  is  not  unexpected  in 
patients  on  glucocorticoid  therapy  and  a  causal  relationship  with  the  study  drugs  is 
unlikely. 
o  Gastrointestinal complaints were more frequent in the Forsteo group, especially nausea 
(twice as frequent: 14% vs. 7%; p=0.016).  Nausea is listed in the SPC. 
o  In  the  SOC  of  Nervous  System  Disorders,  headache  and  dizziness  were  slightly  more 
frequent in the Forsteo group; they are listed in the SPC. 
o  In the SOC of General Disorders, asthenia and fatigue were slightly more frequent in the 
Forsteo group; they are listed in the SPC. 
o  In the SOC of Cardiac Disorders, palpitations were reported slightly more frequently in 
the Forsteo group; this is listed in the SPC. 
o  Symptoms related to the SOC of Psychiatric disorders were significantly more frequent 
in  the  Forsteo  group,  mainly  due  to  insomnia  (5.1%  vs.  0.9%;  p=  0.011)  and  anxiety 
(3.7%  vs.  1.4%)  whereas  the  rate  of  depression  was  similar  (5.6%  vs.  5.1%).    These 
events are not listed in the SPC. 
(cid:190) Possibly related TEAEs and device-related TEAEs 
o  Those TEAEs that led to  withdrawal  were  more frequent in the Forsteo group (5% vs. 
2%; p=0.065); these were mainly GI symptoms and dizziness. 
o  Injection site reactions, whether considered related to the medication or the device, were 
more  frequent  with  Forsteo  than  with  the  placebo  injection.    These  local  reactions  are 
listed in the SPC. 
(cid:190) Serious TEAEs, deaths, and TAEs leading to study withdrawal 
o  There  were  more  deaths  in  the  alendronate  group  (12)  than  in  the  Forsteo  group  (8).  
There was no notable difference in the SAEs; most of them were infections. 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Two  pregnancies  were  reported,  one  in  each  treatment  group.    The  patient  in  the 
alendronate group delivered an infant with low birth weight, while otherwise no anomaly 
was reported. 
o  Serious renal events and study withdrawals due to renal events occurred more frequently 
in the Forsteo group than in the alendronate group (6 patients vs. 1).  According to the 
narratives  provided  in  the  study  report,  these  were  unlikely  to  be  related  to  the  study 
drug. 
(cid:190) Laboratory tests 
o  The laboratory results demonstrated the known effects of teriparatide and antiresorptive 
agents  on  serum  calcium.    Small  decreases  in  predose  serum  calcium  occurred  in  the 
alendronate  group  whereas  small  increases  occurred  in  the  Forsteo  group;  one  patient 
reported  a  TEAE  of  hypercalcemia  that  was  mild  in  severity  and  considered  by  the 
investigator as possibly related to study drug.  This effect is listed in the SPC. 
o  The increase from baseline to endpoint in serum uric acid was significantly greater in the 
Forsteo  group  compared  with  the  alendronate  group.    In  the  Forsteo  group,  3  patients 
reported TEAEs of hyperuricemia that were mild (1) and moderate (2) in severity, and 1 
patient reported a TEAE of gout that was mild in severity.  The effect of hyperuricemia 
is listed in the SPC. 
o  There was a significant decrease in serum alkaline phosphatase in the alendronate group 
that was likely due to the antiresorptive effects of the drug. 
o  Mean 24-hour urinary calcium concentrations decreased slightly in each treatment group 
with  the  decrease  being  significant  in  the  alendronate  group.    However,  there  was  no 
difference  between  groups  in  the  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  24-hour  urinary 
calcium. 
Post-marketing data 
Following  the  assessment  of  PSURs  no  5  and  6  (covering  the  period  from  27  May  2005  to 
26 May 2006), the MAH was requested to review and closely monitor, amongst other events, the event 
of “back pain”.  In addition, in December 2006, Swissmedic requested the addition of “muscle cramps 
in the back/lumbar region in the sense of ischias syndrome” to the adverse event section of the Swiss 
SPC.  This request was based on their assessment of a single report from a patient in Switzerland who 
had the non-serious adverse event report of “… cramps from neck to pelvis and cramps radiating from 
vertebral column …” with a positive dechallenge and rechallenge. 
A comprehensive review of the Lilly Safety System revealed: 
•  14 serious reports of muscle spasms, 10 of which specifically involved the back 
•  67 serious reports of back pain, 13 of which specifically described muscle spasms. 
Based on the fact that 10 of these 23 serious adverse event reports occurred shortly after the first dose 
of Forsteo and that 7 reports included a positive rechallenge for “muscle spasm of the back”, the MAH 
has determined that muscle spasm of the back is an adverse reaction to Forsteo. 
Muscle  cramps,  predominantly  in  the  legs,  were  identified  as  a  reaction  with  teriparatide  during 
clinical  trials.    The  current  SPC  incorporates  muscle  cramps  as  a  common  adverse  reaction  of 
teriparatide in Section 4.8, Table 2. 
The  MAH  proposed  adding  “serious  back  cramp”  as  a  “very  rare”  adverse  reaction  to  Section  4.8, 
post-marketing  experience,  to  more  clearly  distinguish  for  prescribers  the  rare  observation  of  this 
unusual form of muscle cramp.  The “very rare” designation is based on the fact that these 23 cases 
were  reported  from  the  estimated  400,500  cumulative  teriparatide  new  patient  starts  worldwide 
through November 2006 (for a reporting rate of 0.57 per 10,000 or <0.01%). 
Risk Management Plan 
The Risk Management Plan initially submitted by the MAH (dated 5 April 2007) did not address the 
new proposed indication. No additional data with regard to the new target population were provided 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the MAH had not discussed the potential impact for the treatment in this specific population, in 
particular  the  risk  of  potentiating  the  side-effects  of  GC  therapy.    Furthermore,  no  long-term  safety 
data had been obtained in patients with GIO on sustained systemic corticoid therapy and no discussion 
was included about the impact of the immusuppression status of such patients and the potential risk of 
bone cancers including osteosarcoma. 
An  updated  Risk  Management  Plan  was  submitted  by  the  MAH  in  October  2007;  it  was  further 
updated in January 2008 (dated 17 January 2008 – version n. 2.5).  Upon request from the CHMP, the 
MAH included a section referring to the epidemiology of GIOP. Furthermore, the pharmacovigilance 
plan  for  teriparatide  was  revised  to  include  a  provision  to  analyse  post-marketing  safety  data  using 
gender and age of female patients <50 years as a proxy for premenopausal status.  The MAH agreed to 
modify  the  Statistical  Analysis  Plan  of  Study  GHBX  in  osteosarcoma  to  take  into  account  regional 
differences in expected response rates.  However, it is clearly specified in the current protocol that the 
study aims at identify approximately 40% of newly diagnosed cases of osteosarcoma among men and 
women  40  years  and  determine  which  cases,  if  any,  have  a  history  of  teriparatide  treatment.    No 
distinction  in  this  objective  has  been  provided  despite  the  ability  to  identify  a  higher  number  of 
osteosarcoma cases in the European component of the study thanks to Scandinavian registries.  It is of 
crucial  importance  that  agreement  between  the  Scandinavian  Sarcoma  Group  Registry,  the 
Coordinating  Epidemiology  Unit  and  the  MAH  take  into  account  that  the  identification  of  40%  of 
osteosarcoma cases corresponds to the American's goal and not to the EU's one.  If this agreement is in 
line  with  the  EU  objective,  it  could  be  acceptable  to  amend  only  the  statistical  plan  and  not  the 
protocol of the study GHBX but only on this condition. 
The  MAH  has  also  committed  to  reformat  their  RMP  in  accordance  with  the  latest  template  and  to 
include  the  amendments  to  the  statistical  plan  for  study  GHBX  by  Q3  2008  (see  Letter  of 
Undertaking).  
2.5 
Discussion on safety data 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  there  were  no  significant  differences  between  the  alendronate  and 
teriparatide groups in the frequency of TEAEs, in TEAEs possibly related to medication or possibly 
related  to  device,  in  serious  TEAEs,  in  TEAEs  leading  to  discontinuation,  or  in  TEAEs  resulting  in 
death. 
Nevertheless,  considering  that  the  use  of  Forsteo  would  be  extended  to  premenopausal  women,  the 
CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  address  the  issue  of  the  potential  risks  of  Forsteo  in  women  of 
childbearing age. 
In Study GHBZ the number of patients reporting TEAEs at the system organ class and preferred term 
levels in the alendronate and teriparatide groups was consistent among subgroups of postmenopausal 
women, premenopausal women, men, and men plus premenopausal women.  The incidence of TEAEs 
in  these  subgroups  both  within  and  between  the  alendronate  and  teriparatide  groups  was  also 
consistent with those in the overall study population.  Therefore, the safety profile of teriparatide in 
patients with GIOP did not differ in women based on menopausal status. 
In order to address the management of women of childbearing age the CHMP agreed with the MAH’s 
proposal  to  include  “pregnancy  and  lactaction”  as  a  contraindication  and  to  include  that  women  of 
childbearing potential should use effective methods of contraception during use of Forsteo. Moreover 
the Product Information should state that if pregnancy occurs, Forsteo should be discontinued.   
The Pharmacovigilance Plan for teriparatide has been revised to include a provision to analyse post-
marketing  safety  data  using  gender  and  age  of  female  patients  <50  years  as  a proxy  for  pre-
menopausal status.  This will enable the MAH to discern any unique features of the safety profile of 
teriparatide in this patient population.  Section 4 of the RMP has been revised to include the changes 
to the SPC described above. 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  additional  question  was  raised  by  the  CHMP  whether  sufficient  safeguards  were  in  place  to 
prevent long term use of Forsteo, which is currently limited to 18 months.  The MAH argued that the 
current  SPC  with  statements  in  sections  4.2  and  4.4  was  sufficient  to  prevent  long  term  use  of  the 
product.    Supportive  evidence  was  provided  by  the  results  of  an  observational  study  (EFOS) 
conducted in a community setting in 8 EU countries.  The protocol was submitted and the MAH has 
committed  to  submit  the  full  results  when  available  (see  Letter  of  Undertaking).    Out  of 
1649 postmenopausal  women,  78%  effectively  discontinued  treatment  before  18  months  and  the 
maximum duration was 21 months.  These results are reassuring although it is not clear whether the 
conditions  of  this  study  were  fully  representative  of  the  usual  clinical  practice  and  how  they  can  be 
extrapolated to premenopausal women.  Therefore, the mention in section 4.2 of the SPC of 18 months 
as  the  maximum  treatment  duration  has  been  reinforced  by  a  statement  that  the  18-month  course  of 
Forsteo should not be repeated over a patient’s lifetime. 
The MAH committed to reformat their RMP in accordance with the latest template and to include the 
amendments to the statistical plan for study GHBX by Q3 2008 (see Letter of Undertaking).  
Most TEAEs that occurred in the Forsteo group are known ADRs listed in the current SPC, with the 
exception  of  insomnia  and  anxiety.    These  are  well  known  ADRs  of  GC  therapy.    They  were 
mild/moderate  in  all  cases  but  one  and  did  not  lead  to  treatment  discontinuation.    Although  a 
potentiation of the side-effects of glucocorticoids cannot be completely ruled out, the relationship of 
these  events  to  the  test  drug  appeared  highly  questionable  in  a  number  of  cases  (e.g.  implausible 
chronology, other possible causes). 
Upon request by the CHMP, the MAH provided a comprehensive review of the serious reaction “back 
cramp”.  Unfortunately,  the  information  is  very  scarce.    From  the  listing  submitted,  it  can  only  be 
inferred  that  it  is  an  injection  reaction,  since  it  usually  occurred  within  minutes  of  the  injection; 
furthermore,  six  patients  (out  of  23)  were  administered  narcotic  analgesics.    The  mechanism  of  this 
reaction has not been elucidated.  The MAH confirmed that it had not been reported in clinical trials. 
The CHMP agreed that “back cramp” is an ADR to Forsteo. However, in line with the Guideline on 
SPC  (2005),  frequencies  for  ADRs  should  not  be  based  on  post-marketing  sales  and  therefore  the 
frequency “not known” should be used. Furthermore, additional details should be included in the SPC 
in  order  to  better  describe  for  prescribers  the  nature  and  chronology  of  this  ADR.    In  addition,  the 
CHMP recommended to include the term “back pain”. 
2.6 
Overall conclusion 
The objective of this type II variation was to extend the therapeutic indications for Forsteo to include 
the treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and 
men at increased risk for fracture. 
The MAH submitted the results of the primary phase of a randomised double-blind comparative trial 
vs. alendronate, which is in line with the current recommendations of the GREES for the registration 
of agents in this indication. 
At the dose recommended for PMO (20 µg/d), Forsteo produced significant effects on BMD that were 
comparable  to  those  reported  in  the  PMO  pivotal  trial  after  a  similar  follow-up  duration 
(approximately  18  months).    The  increase  in  lumbar  BMD,  the  primary  endpoint,  was  substantial, 
twice  as  large  as  that  achieved  by  alendronate  (10  mg/d)  (p<  0.001).    Although  still  statistically 
significant, much smaller differences were observed at the level of the hip and the femoral neck; their 
clinical significance is unknown. 
The  trial  is  continuing  -  blinded  –  for  an  additional  18  months  of  treatment.    Compliance  will 
obviously become an issue.  Already, 24% of patients have stopped taking glucocorticoids and 31% 
have  withdrawn  from  the  trial  at  the  end  of  the  first  phase.    Preliminary  fracture  data,  a  secondary 
endpoint  at  the  end  of  the  continuation  phase,  are  supportive  of  the  BMD  findings;  a  significant 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
benefit  of  Forsteo  over  alendronate  was  observed  on  the  spinal  column  with  a  lower  incidence  of 
vertebral fractures but not on the appendicular skeleton.  The MAH committed to provide the complete 
results of the GHBZ trial by September 2008 (see Letter of Undertaking). This study should provide 
further information on the effect of Forsteo over time. 
Upon  CHMP’s  request,  further  analysis  of  BMD  data  was  presented  in  the  subgroups  of 
postmenopausal  women,  premenopausal  women,  and  men.    The  greatest  difference  between 
alendronate and Forsteo was observed in premenopausal women.  However, it is acknowledged that 
the  relationship  between  BMD  and  fracture  risk  is  less  well  established  in  GIO  than  in  PMO  with 
vertebral  fracture  occurring  at  a  higher  BMD.    The  MAH  provided  additional  supporting  evidence 
from literature that women less than 50 years of age (a proxy for premenopausal status) suffering from 
lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis are 2-3 times more likely to have a fracture as compared 
to  age  and  gender-matched  controls.    Several  risk  factors  have  been  identified,  which  the  MAH 
proposed to introduce in section 5.1 of the SPC.  Additional information has been added in the SPC 
regarding  the  management  of  women  of  childbearing  potential  and  the  recommendation  of  a 
maximum  treatment  duration  of  18  months  has  been  reinforced.    The  majority  of  the  CHMP  also 
recommended that the description of the study results in section 5.1 should include a description of the 
baseline characteristics (risk factors) in the three patient subgroups (post- and premenopausal women, 
and men) as well as a separate description of the efficacy results in premenopausal women. 
The MAH committed to reformat their RMP in accordance with the latest template and to include the 
amendments to the statistical plan for study GHBX by Q3 2008 (see Letter of Undertaking).  
Thus,  the  majority  of  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  new  indication  is  approvable  provided  that  the 
Product Information will be amended as outlined in section VI of this assessment report. 
Nevertheless, 4 CHMP members highlighted that the population of the pivotal study GHBZ consisted 
mainly  of  postmenopausal  women  and  men  with  low  BMD  which  corresponded  to  the  population 
Forsteo  is  already  indicated  for. The  number  of  premenopausal  women  was  low,  only  16%  of  the 
included patients. This is too small a data base to support a positive benefit/risk balance. The clinical 
relevance of an increase in BMD might be different in this population and bridging using BMD data is 
doubtful.   Therefore  these  CHMP  members  did  not agree  to  extend  the  indication  for  Forsteo  to the 
treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in premenopausal 
women. 
As far as the addition of a new ADR to section 4.8 is concerned, this change is also approvable. 
III.  FOLLOW-UP  MEASURES 
AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
UNDERTAKEN 
BY 
THE  MARKETING 
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the final study reports of two clinical studies 
upon their completion, to re-format the RMP and to submit any variation application which would be 
necessary in the light of compliance with these commitments. 
IV.  CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION   
The  majority  of  the  CHMP  and  the  MAH  agreed  to  change  the  Product  Information  for  Forsteo  as 
follows. 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
The  majority  of  the  CHMP  requested  to  include  in  section  4.2  “Posology  and  method  of 
administration” that the 18-month course of Forsteo should not be repeated over a patient’s lifetime. 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 
include  “pregnancy  and 
In  order  to  address  the  management  of  women  of  child-bearing  age  the  majority  of  the  CHMP 
in  section  4.3 
recommended 
“Contraindications” of the SPC and to include in sections 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for 
use”  and  section  4.6  “Pregnancy  and  lactation”  of  the  SPC  that  women  of  childbearing  potential 
should use effective methods of contraception during use of Forsteo. Moreover if pregnancy occurs, 
Forsteo should be discontinued.   
lactation”  as  a  contraindication 
With regard to section 4.8 “Undesirable effects”, as the frequencies for ADRs should not be based on 
post-marketing  sales,  the  CHMP  recommended  to  use  the  frequency  “not  known”  for  back  cramp.  
Furthermore,  the  CHMP  recommended  to  include  the  description  that  this  ADR  has  been  reported 
within minutes of the injection and to include the term “back pain”. 
The  majority  of  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the  description  of  the  study  results  in  section  5.1 
“Pharmacodynamic  properties”  should  include  a  description  of  the  baseline  characteristics  (risk 
factors)  in  the  three  patient  subgroups  (post-  and  premenopausal  women,  and  men)  as  well  as  a 
separate description of the efficacy results in premenopausal women. The majority of the CHMP also 
recommended to include a statement in section 5.1 of the SPC to further specify thresholds to define 
low bone density (T score ≤ -2) and sustained high dose GC therapy (≥ 7.5 mg/d for at least 6 months).  
The majority of the CHMP recommended including in section 5.3 “Preclinical safety data” of the SPC 
a description of studies in rabbits which are mentioned in section 4.6. 
ANNEX II  
The Annex II should be updated to reflect the last version and date of the RMP. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
The majority of the CHMP recommended updating section 2 “Before you use Forsteo” of the PL to 
include  that  women  of  child-bearing  potential  should  use  effective  methods  of  contraception  during 
the use of Forsteo and that Forsteo should be discontinued if pregnancy occurs. 
The majority of the CHMP recommend updating section 3 “How to use Forsteo” of the PL to include 
that patients should not receive more than one treatment course of 18 months over your lifetime. 
The Product Information includes also the changes from variation EMEA/H/C/000425/II/0017 which 
received a positive opinion by CHMP at the February CHMP plenary meeting (To include the adverse 
reaction “alkaline phosphatase increase” in section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” of the SPC and to amend  
section 4 “Possible side effects” of the PL accordingly). 
The MAH agreed with the changes in the SPC, Annex II and PL as recommended by the majority of 
the CHMP and submitted a revised Product Information. 
V.  CONCLUSION  
On 21 February 2008 the majority of the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and 
agreed on the amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and 
Package Leaflet subject to the additional commitments undertaken  
VI.   REFERENCES  
Abadie  EC,  Devogealer  J-P,  Ringe  JD,  Ethgen  DJ,  Bouvenot  GM,  Kreutz  G,  Laslop  A,  Orloff  JJ, 
Vanderauwera PM, Delmas PD, Dere WH, Branco J, Altman RD, Avouac BP, Menkes CJ, Vanhaelst 
L, Mitlak BH, Tsouderos Y, Reginster J-Y. 2005. Recommendations for the registration of agents to 
be  used 
treatment  of  glucocorticoid-induced  osteoporosis:  updated 
recommendations  from  the  Group  for  the  Respect  of  Ethics  and  Excellence  in  Science  (GREES). 
Semin Arthritis Rheum 35:1-4. 
the  prevention  and 
in 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Homik  J,  Cranney  A,  Shea  B,  Tugwell  P,  Wells  G,  Adachi  JD,  Suarez-Almazor  M.  2000. 
induced  osteoporosis  (Review).  Cochrane  Database  Syst  Rev 
Bisphosphonates  for  steroid 
(1):CD001347. 
Kanis JA, Johansson H, Oden A, Johnell O, de Laet C, Melton III LJ, Tenenhouse A, Reeve J, Silman 
AJ, Pols HA, Eisman JA, McCloskey EV, Mellstrom D. 2004. A meta-analysis of prior corticosteroid 
use and fracture risk. J Bone Miner Res 19(6):893-899. 
Klaus J, Armbrecht G, Steinkamp M, Bruckel J, Rieber A, Adler G, Reinshagen M, Felsenberg D, von 
TC.  2002.  High  prevalence  of  osteoporotic  vertebral  fractures  in  patients  with  Crohn's  disease.  Gut 
51:654-658. 
Ramsey-Goldman  R,  Dunn  JE,  Huang  CF,  Dunlop  D,  Rairie  JE,  Fitzgerald  S,  Manzi  S.  1999. 
Frequency of fractures in women with systemic lupus erythematosus: comparison with United States 
population data. Arthritis Rheum 42:882-890. 
van Staa TP, Geusens P, Bijlsma JW, Leufkens HG, Cooper C. 2006. Clinical assessment of the long-
term risk of fracture in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Rheum 54:3104-3112. 
van  Staa  TP,  Geusens  P,  Pols  HA,  de  LC,  Leufkens  HG,  Cooper  C.  2005.  A  simple  score  for 
estimating the long-term risk of fracture in patients using oral glucocorticoids. QJM 98:191-198. 
van Staa TP, Laan RF, Barton IP, Cohen S, Reid DM, Cooper C. 2003. Bone density threshold and 
other predictors of vertebral fracture in patients receiving oral glucocorticoid therapy. Arthritis Rheum 
48(11):3224–3229. 
18
 
