PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
FORTACIN (LIDOCAINE / PRILOCAINE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Fortacin cutaneous spray, solution (150 mg/ml 
lidocaine  /  50  mg/ml  prilocaine).  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Fortacin,  how  these  risks  can  be 
minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Fortacin’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Fortacin’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Fortacin should be used. 
This  summary  of the  RMP  for  Fortacin should  be read  in  the  context  of all this  information including  the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones are included in updates of Fortacin's RMP. 
I.  
The medicine and what it is used for 
Fortacin is authorised for the treatment of primary premature ejaculation in adult men. It contains lidocaine 
and prilocaine as the active substances and it is given topically as a cutaneous spray. A single dose of Fortacin 
(3 actuations) consists of a total of 22.5 mg lidocaine and 7.5 mg prilocaine. 
Further information about the evaluation of Fortacin’s benefits can be found in Fortacin’s EPAR, including in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II.  
Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Fortacin, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning 
more about Fortacin risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the medicine 
is used correctly; 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and  regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Fortacin is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing 
information’ below. 
II.A  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Fortacin  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Fortacin. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based 
on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
There are currently no important (identified and potential) risks and mission information that warrant 
additional review other than maintenance of the routine pharmacovigilance activities for Fortacin. 
II.B  
Summary of important risks 
There are no applicable important risks. 
II.C  
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligations of Fortacin. 
II.C.2  
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Fortacin. 
 
 
 
