EMA/414001/2020  
EMEA/H/C/002693 
Fortacin1 (lidocaine/prilocaine) 
An overview of Fortacin and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fortacin and what is it used for? 
Fortacin is used to treat men with primary (lifelong) premature ejaculation (when ejaculation regularly 
occurs before, or too early during, penetration). 
Fortacin contains the active substances lidocaine and prilocaine. 
 How is Fortacin used? 
Fortacin can be obtained without a prescription and is available as a spray-on solution that supplies 7.5 
mg of lidocaine and 2.5 mg of prilocaine per spray. The recommended dose is 3 sprays onto the head 
(glans) of the penis before intercourse. Doses should not be repeated more frequently than every 4 
hours, and no more than 3 doses should be used in 24 hours. For more information about using 
Fortacin, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Fortacin work? 
The active substances in the medicine, lidocaine and prilocaine, are local anaesthetics that temporarily 
numb the contact area by blocking the transmission of signals in the nerves. This reduces sensitivity to 
stimulation, helping to increase the time taken to ejaculate. 
What benefits of Fortacin have been shown in studies? 
The effectiveness of Fortacin has been shown in two main studies involving 256 and 300 heterosexual 
adult men with premature ejaculation, respectively; both studies compared the medicine with a 
placebo (dummy) spray over 12 weeks. The main measures of effectiveness were the time taken to 
ejaculate after penetration and control over ejaculation, sexual satisfaction and distress reported by 
the patients. In the first study, the average time to ejaculation in patients treated with Fortacin was 
2.6 minutes, compared with 0.8 minutes in those using placebo; in the second study, average 
ejaculation time in patients using the medicine was 3.8 minutes compared with 1.1 minutes in the 
placebo group. In both studies, patients given the medicine reported substantially greater 
improvements in reported control, sexual satisfaction and distress than patients given the placebo. 
1 Previously known as Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some patients from the main studies were monitored for up to 9 and Fortacin continued to show 
similar benefit. 
What are the risks associated with Fortacin? 
The most common side effects with Fortacin (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are hypoaesthesia 
(reduced sensation) and a burning sensation in the genital area in both men and their sexual partners, 
and erectile dysfunction (inability to maintain a normal erection) in men. For the full list of side effects 
with Fortacin, see the package leaflet.  
Fortacin must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to other local anaesthetics 
which are chemically similar with the active ingredients (amide-type local anaesthetics). Fortacin must 
also not be used in patients whose partners are hypersensitive to these substances. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fortacin approved? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that the active ingredients are a well-known local 
anaesthetic combination, and the use of a local spray minimises the amount of active substance 
absorbed and hence the risk of side effects affecting the body as a whole. There were positive 
psychological benefits to patients and their partners, and side effects were generally manageable and 
confined to the area coming into contact with the medicine. The Agency therefore decided that 
Fortacin’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fortacin? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fortacin have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fortacin are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Fortacin are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Fortacin 
Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 
November 2013.  
The name of the medicine was changed to Fortacin on 26 September 2014. 
Further information on Fortacin can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fortacin  
This overview was last updated in 08-2020.  
Fortacin0F (lidocaine/prilocaine)  
EMA/414001/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
