23 July 2020 
EMA/418487/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Fortacin  
International non-proprietary name: lidocaine / prilocaine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002693/II/0030 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Current 
Description 
Planned date  Actual Date  Need for 
step 
discussion 
Start of procedure 
14 Oct 2019 
14 Oct 2019 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
12 Nov 2019 
13 Nov 2019 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
15 Nov 2019 
13 Nov 2019 
PRAC members comments 
20 Nov 2019 
20 Nov 2019 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Assessment 
21 Nov 2019 
21 Nov 2019 
Report 
PRAC endorsed relevant sections of the 
28 Nov 2019 
28 Nov 2019 
assessment report 
CHMP members comments 
02 Dec 2019 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
05 Dec 2019 
05 Dec 2019 
Report 
Request for supplementary information 
12 Dec 2019 
12 Dec 2019 
(RSI) 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
25 Feb 2020 
26 Feb 2020 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
28 Feb 2020 
26 Feb 2020 
PRAC members comments 
04 Mar 2020 
04 Mar 2020 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Assessment 
05 Mar 2020 
N/A 
Report 
PRAC endorsed relevant sections of the 
12 Mar 2020 
12 Mar 2020 
assessment report 
CHMP members comments 
16 Mar 2020 
16 Mar 2020 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
19 Mar 2020 
20 Mar 2020 
Report 
2nd RSI 
26 Mar 2020 
26 Mar 2020 
Deadline for submission 
23 Jun 2020 
23 Jun 2020 
Re-start of procedure 
24 Jun 2020 
24 Jun 2020 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
29 Jun 2020 
n/a 
Comments from PRAC 
01 Jul 2020 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Assessment 
02 Jul 2020 
n/a 
n/a 
Report 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
08 Jul 2020 
08 Jul 2020 
PRAC outcome 
Comments from CHMP 
09 Jul 2020 
13 Jul 2020 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
16 Jul 2020 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Report 
Opinion 
23 Jul 2020 
23 Jul 2020 
Page 2/3 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure resources 
CHMP Rapporteur:  
PRAC Rapporteur: 
Concha Prieto Yerro 
Maria del Pilar Rayon 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 5 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 8 
4. EPAR changes .......................................................................................... 9 
5. Introduction .......................................................................................... 10 
6. Clinical Efficacy aspects ......................................................................... 10 
7. Clinical Safety aspects ........................................................................... 11 
8. Analysis of Fortacin 150 mg/mL + 50 mg/mL cutaneous spray with 
respect to the four criteria of the EC Guideline .......................................... 12 
9. Risk management plan .......................................................................... 26 
9.1. Overall conclusion on the RMP ............................................................................. 26 
10. Changes to the Product Information .................................................... 26 
10.1.1. Quick Response (QR) code .............................................................................. 27 
10.1.2. User consultation ........................................................................................... 27 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Recordati Ireland Ltd submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 25 September 2019 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.5.b  
C.I.5.b - Change in the legal status of a medicinal product 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
for centrally authorised products - All other legal status 
and IIIB 
changes 
Change in the legal status of Fortacin from ‘medicinal product subject to medical prescription’ to 
‘medicinal product not subject to medical prescription’. Furthermore, the PI is being brought in line 
with the latest QRD template (version 10.1). The RMP version 3.1 has also been submitted. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet and to the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Fortacin containing the active substances lidocaine (150 mg/ml) and prilocaine (50 mg/ml) is a 
cutaneous spray solution indicated in the treatment of primary premature ejaculation (PE) in adult 
men. It provides topical anaesthesia to the glans penis. The active substances lidocaine and prilocaine 
block the transmission of nerve impulses in the glans penis, reducing the sensitivity of the glans penis. 
This is translated into a delaying of the ejaculatory latency time without adversely affecting the 
sensation of ejaculation. 
The recommended dose is 3 actuations applied to cover the glans penis. Each dose consists of a total 
of 22.5 mg lidocaine and 7.5 mg prilocaine per application.  
Fortacin was approved in the European Union (EU) on 15 November 2013 and it was first marketed in 
the UK in November 2016 followed by Italy, France, Spain, Germany and Portugal in 2018. 
Cumulatively, 58,431 patients have been exposed to the product. This number is based on an 
estimation from the number of cutaneous spray and pack units sold and therefore may reflect an 
overestimation. 
PE is a prevalent male sexual disorder and causes a high level of bother and distress. It has been 
classified into two forms: a primary (lifelong) form that begins when a male first becomes sexually 
active and a secondary (acquired) form1. Pharmacotherapy is the basis of treatment in life-long PE. In 
acquired PE, it is recommended to treat also the associated condition, such as erectile dysfunction (ED) 
or prostatitis. 
Dapoxetin, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and a number of topical anaesthetics 
containing lidocaine or lidocaine/prilocaine are currently authorised for the treatment of PE. The MAH 
has provided information about several medicinal products containing mainly lidocaine that have been 
available as non-prescription medicines for many years, some as sprays and others as creams.  
In the current application the MAH proposes to change the legal status of Fortacin from "medicinal 
product subject to medical prescription" to "medicinal product not subject to medical prescription" in 
1 American Urological Association. Premature Ejaculation. Guideline on the Pharmacologic Management of Premature 
Ejaculation 2010 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
the EU.  
In support of this change, the MAH provided an overview of the rationale of the request, including 
current treatment options for PE and summary data on Fortacin, as well as the reasons why they 
consider the criteria for classifying the product as subject to a medical prescription no longer apply to 
this product2,3.  
The submitted data and the four criteria mentioned in Article 71 of Directive 2001/83/EC and the 
European Commission Guideline on changing the classification for the supply of a medicinal product for 
human use have been considered by the CHMP during the assessment of the variation. 
1.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are likely to present a 
danger either directly or indirectly, even when used correctly, if utilised without medical 
supervision  
In (pre)clinical studies and post-marketing experience, Fortacin has shown a good safety profile with 
only a low incidence of mild-to-moderate drug related side effects.  
No new information has become available regarding the toxicity profile of Fortacin and it is considered 
that Fortacin has a low general toxicity and no relevant productive toxicity, genotoxic or carcinogenic 
properties. The pre-clinical section of the summary of product characteristics (SmPC) is considered up 
to date and no changes are proposed. 
One case of rash in one male patient was reported with positive dechallenge and rechallenge. Although 
the adverse event (AE) was non-serious and not-medically significant, CHMP considered that a warning 
on rash and skin irritation should be included in the product information, therefore section 4.4 of the 
SmPC and section 2 of the package leaflet are updated accordingly. No new adverse drug reaction 
(ADR) is proposed to be listed in the product information. Overall, CHMP considered that Fortacin has 
low risk of serious adverse reactions in the general population. 
Due to the low systemic exposure to lidocaine and prilocaine and the short duration of its effect, 
systemic adverse reactions and drug-drug interaction (DDI) are not expected. No cases of DDI 
interactions have been reported and it is considered that the product information contains the 
appropriate information about any potential DDI to healthcare professionals and patients.  
Deterioration has been observed when Fortacin is used with polyurethane-based female and male 
condoms. Therefore, Fortacin should not be used with polyurethane-based female and male condoms 
as protection from sexual transmitted diseases or pregnancy may be reduced. Fortacin can be used 
with contraceptive devices made of latex rubber, polyisoprene, nitrile and silicone as no deterioration 
has been shown with these materials. CHMP considers that this risk is manageable in a non-
prescription setting and appropriate information and instructions have been included in the section 4.4 
of the SmPC, section 2 of the package leaflet and the outer package for patients and physicians. 
Precautionary measures are included in the product information for sexual partners and pregnant 
women recommending avoiding its use with pregnant or breast-feeding partners. The tabulated list of 
ADRs is updated to replace ‘female’ partners by ‘sexual’ partners. 
With regard to the absence of indirect danger, CHMP agrees that the risk of hiding an underlying 
condition by a symptomatic improvement of PE with Fortacin is low in patient with primary PE. In 
patients with secondary (acquired) PE, other conditions could be present, such as ED or prostatitis and 
patients are able to identify other symptoms related to the disease. Unlike ED, that has been 
2 EC guideline ‘Guideline on changing the classification for the supply of a medicinal product for human use’ (Revision 
January 2006)  
3 CHMP guideline ‘Guideline on legal status for the supply to the patient of centrally authorised medicinal products’ 
(EMEA/186279/2006) 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
considered an early marker of cardiovascular disease, underlying conditions are not described to be 
associated to PE. Nevertheless, for precautionary measures, the section 4.4 of the SmPC and section 2 
of the package leaflet are updated to state the if this product used as directed does not provide relief, 
the patient should discontinue its use and seek medical advice.  
CHMP agrees with the MAH that the condition of PE can be easily assessed by the patient. In this 
context, Fortacin could benefit from a non-prescription status, as the accessibility to the drug will be 
easier. 
The list of contraindications and warnings in the product information is very limited. The CHMP 
considers that the contra-indications, interactions, warnings and precautions are correctly reflected in 
the product information and can be easily understood by the patient.  
Overall, CHMP considers that appropriate preventive actions are included in the SmPC, package leaflet 
and labelling of Fortacin with respect to the direct and indirect dangers, including how to use the 
product correctly, to prevent overdose or inadvertent trauma.   
In view of the current safety profile of lidocaine/prilocaine containing medicinal products, it is unlikely 
that Fortacin will present a danger either directly or indirectly if utilised without medical supervision. 
This is also supported by the current safety knowledge on other similar products available as non-
prescription medicines in some EU countries. CHMP concluded that criterion 1 does not apply to 
Fortacin. 
2.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are frequently and to a 
very wide extent used incorrectly, and as a result are likely to present a direct or indirect 
danger to human health  
There has been no report of incorrect use of Fortacin, or adverse reaction caused by overdose or 
excessive use. Neither have any adverse reactions been reported that have been caused due to non-
adherence to the contraindications, precautions or warnings. 
Although no risk of abuse or misuse have been identified with Fortacin or other prilocaine-lidocaine 
containing medicinal product, the use of Fortacin with recreational purposes with or without other 
drugs that enhance sexual performance cannot be ruled out if available as a non-prescription drug. The 
risk of off-label use will be followed in the next PSURs.  
In addition, a statement reinforcing the fact that this medicine should not be used in children or 
adolescents is added to the package leaflet and in the outer packaging. 
Based on the above, CHMP considered that Fortacin is unlikely to be frequently and to a very wide 
extent used incorrectly in a non-prescription setting, as a result are unlikely to present a direct or 
indirect danger to human health. CHMP concluded that criterion 2 does not apply to Fortacin. 
3.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they contain substances or 
preparations thereof, the activity and/or side-effects of which require further investigation  
With this variation the MAH does not apply for a new strength, dose, route of administration, 
therapeutic indication or new age group.  
Although the post-marketing experience with Fortacin is still limited, the available post-marketing 
safety data are reassuring with only few non serious ADRs reported with Fortacin. Furthermore, 
lidocaine and prilocaine are well known active substances which are authorised worldwide in various 
topical formulations, including creams, sprays, gels and solutions, and also available as non-
prescription medicines in some countries4. Two recent meta-analyses have reinforced the positive 
4 Waldinger MD. Drug treatment options for premature ejaculation. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2018; 19 (10):1077-1085 
Page 7/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
benefit and safety profile of topical anaesthetics when used for PE5,6.  
Therefore, Fortacin does not contain any substances or preparations thereof, the activity and/or side 
effects of which require further investigation. CHMP concluded that criterion 3 does not apply. 
4.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are normally prescribed 
by a doctor to be administered parenterally (for injection)  
Fortacin is for cutaneous use and therefore not to be administered parentally (for injection). The fourth 
criterion does not apply to Fortacin. 
5.  Other considerations 
Fortacin is included in a spray container. There are two containers authorised, one of 5 ml and one of 
6.5 ml, which deliver 12 or 20 doses respectively. One dose is equal to 3 actuations. The maximum 
daily dose is 3 doses with at least 4 hours between doses. The product information advises patients to 
discontinue use and seek medical advice if the product used as directed does not provide relief. CHMP 
considers that appropriate instructions and precaution for use are included in the product information 
for patients and that the spray containers are adequate for use without medical prescription. 
In conclusion, the CHMP considered that the four criteria mentioned in the European Commission 
Guideline on changing the classification for the supply of a medicinal product for human use do not 
apply to Fortacin and therefore the change from “medicinal product subject to medical prescription” to 
“medicinal product not subject to medical prescription” is approvable. The SmPC, labelling and package 
leaflet are updated accordingly. In addition, the product information is updated in line with the latest 
QRD template (version 10.1). This includes the removal of a statement about in vitro interaction 
studies in section 4.5 of the SmPC as the absence of in vitro interactions which should not be 
mentioned. The benefit-risk balance of Fortacin remains unchanged. 
With this variation the RMP (version 4.0) is updated in line with the version 2 of the GVP module V.  
In addition, the MAH should address the following issues in the next PSUR: 
Due to the still limited experience with Fortacin, in order to promptly assess the safety data when the 
product becomes a non-prescription medicine, the PSUR frequency should be changed from 3-year to a 
2-year cycle to allow the collection of timely information. In addition, in the next PSURs, potential risks 
that may arise are requested to be followed (Methaheamoglobinemia, Hypersensitivity, Effect on 
fertility, Partner exposure (including ADRs reported from the partner), Pregnancy cases, incorrect and 
off-label use). 
Furthermore, the Committee considers that this variation implements changes to the decision granting 
the marketing authorisation due to a significant public health concern on the following grounds: 
This variation changes the legal status of the medicinal product, as discussed in section 3 below. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.5.b  
C.I.5.b - Change in the legal status of a medicinal 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
5 Xia JD, Han YF, Zhou LH, et al. Efficacy and safety of local anaesthetics for premature ejaculation: a systematic review 
and meta-analysis. Asian J Androl. 2013;15 (4) :497–502   
6 Pu C, Yang L, Liu L, et al. Topical anesthetic agents for premature ejaculation: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Urology. 2013;81:799–804 
Page 8/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Variation requested 
product for centrally authorised products - All other 
legal status changes 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
and IIIB 
Change in the legal status of Fortacin from ‘medicinal product subject to medical prescription’ to 
‘medicinal product not subject to medical prescription’. As a consequence, sections 4.4, 4.8, 4.9 of the 
SmPC are updated. The package leaflet and labelling are updated accordingly. Furthermore, the 
product information is being brought in line with the latest QRD template (version 10.1). The RMP is 
updated to version 4.0. 
 is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annexes I, II, IIIA and IIIB and to 
the Risk Management Plan are recommended. 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘Fortacin-H-C-2693-II-0030’  
For more information, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Page 9/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
5.  Introduction 
Fortacin containing the active substances lidocaine (150 mg) and prilocaine (50 mg) is a cutaneous 
spray solution for application to the glans penis indicated in the treatment of primary premature 
ejaculation (PE) in adult men. It was approved in the European Union (EU) on 15 November 2013. 
PE is a prevalent male sexual disorder and causes a high level of bother and distress. It has been 
classified into two forms: a primary (lifelong) form that begins when a male first becomes sexually 
active and a secondary (acquired) form. Pharmacotherapy is the basis of treatment in life-long PE. In 
acquired PE, it is recommended to treat also the associated condition, such as erectile dysfunction or 
prostatitis. The negative consequences of long-term and unsuccessfully treated PE, on both patient and 
partner, are well established in the literature and include personal distress, impairment of the partner's 
sexual function, and interpersonal difficulties (Porst, 2019)7. 
Fortacin provides topical anaesthesia to the glans penis. The active substances lidocaine and prilocaine 
block the transmission of nerve impulses in the glans penis, reducing the sensitivity of the glans penis. 
This is translated into a delaying of the ejaculatory latency time without adversely affecting the 
sensation of ejaculation. 
The recommended dose is 3 actuations applied to cover the glans penis. Each dose consists of a total 
of 22.5 mg lidocaine and 7.5 mg prilocaine per application (1 dose is equal to 3 actuations). A 
maximum of 3 doses can be used within 24 hours with at least 4 hours between doses.  
In the present application, the MAH is requesting a change in the classification for the supply of 
Fortacin in the European Union from “medicinal product subject to medical prescription” to “medicinal 
product not subject to medical prescription”.  
In support of this change, the MAH provided an overview of the rationale of the request, including 
current treatment options for PE and summary data on Fortacin, as well as the reasons why they 
consider the criteria for classifying the product as subject to a medical prescription no longer apply to 
this product. A summary of clinical efficacy and safety is also provided. 
6.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
At the time of approval, the efficacy of Fortacin was demonstrated in two multi-centre, multinational, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies, both followed by an open-label phase. Men 
satisfying the International Society for Sexual Medicine (ISSM) criteria for premature ejaculation (PE) 
who had a baseline ejaculatory latency time (IELT) ≤ 1 minute in at least 2 of the first 3 sexual 
encounters during screening were eligible to enrol. 
The effectiveness of Fortacin in treating PE was assessed by measuring IELT and the co primary 
endpoints of ejaculatory control, sexual satisfaction, and distress using the IPE. During the 3 months of 
the double-blind treatment phase, the geometric mean IELT increased from 0.58 to 3.17 minutes in 
the Fortacin group and from 0.56 to 0.94 minutes in the placebo group.  
85.2% of subjects in the Fortacin group achieved a mean IELT of > 1 minute over the course of 3 
months of treatment with it, whereas 46.4% of the placebo subjects had a mean IELT of > 1 minute. 
66.2% of Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora-treated subjects and 18.8% of placebo-treated subjects 
7 Porst H, Burri A. Novel Treatment for Premature Ejaculation in the Light of Currently Used Therapies: A Review. Sex Med 
Rev. 2019; 7(1):129-140 
Page 10/11 
 
  
 
 
 
 
achieved a mean IELT > 2 minutes. 
The clinically significant increases in IELT were paralleled by significant differences in the IPE scores (p 
<0.0001). Adjusted mean change scores (Fortacin vs. placebo) at month 3 were 8.2 vs. 2.2 for the 
ejaculatory control score, 7.2 vs. 1.9 for the sexual satisfaction score, and 3.7 vs. 1.1 for the distress 
score. 
In Fortacin-treated subjects, IELT and IPE scores increased at the first measured timepoint. Both IELT 
and IPE scores continued to increase slightly more throughout the remainder of the double-blind 
phase. The positive changes in IELT and IPE domain scores were maintained during the open-label 
treatment phase. 
At each of the three-monthly assessments all subjects completed a Premature Ejaculation Profile (PEP) 
questionnaire relating to perceived control over ejaculation, personal distress related to ejaculation, 
satisfaction with sexual intercourse, and interpersonal difficulty relating to ejaculation. The PEP scores 
followed a similar pattern of improvement to the IELT and IPE scores. For all of the three-monthly 
assessments completed by the subjects, there was a significant difference between Fortacin and 
placebo (p < 0.0001). Partners completed the PEP questionnaire at month three. There was also a 
significant difference over placebo in all domains for the responses from the partners (p < 0.0001). 
7.  Clinical Safety aspects 
Clinical development 
No major safety concerns were identified in the clinical development of Fortacin for PE at the time of 
approval.  
Most of adverse events reported were mild or moderate in intensity and mainly localised reactions 
related to the local administration and mechanism of action of the product (genital hypoaesthesia, 
erectile dysfunction, genital burning sensation, genital erythema and ejaculation failure).  
Few cases were considered severe (3 cases of ED, impaired glucose tolerance, hypercholesterolaemia, 
hyperlipidaemia and hypertension) all of them considered related to the studied medicinal product. 
Some systemic adverse events were also observed such as nasopharyngitis, headache and influenza.  
Overall, the female sexual partners also had treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs), some 
localised and related to the local administration of the product (vulvovaginal burning sensation, 
vulvovaginal discomfort and hypoaesthesia) and other systemic (headache, influenza, 
nasopharyngitis). There is no data in male sexual partners although no differences regarding adverse 
events in genital mucosa are to be expected.  
Furthermore, it is known that the use of prilocaine in high doses may cause an increase in the 
methaemoglobinaemia level particularly in conjunction with methaemoglobinaemia-inducing agents 
(e.g. sulphonamides). In addition, there is carcinogenicity potential from o-toluidine metabolite in 
humans, a prolonged exposure could lead to a higher incidence of these potentially negative events. 
The potential occurrence of these risks seems to be negligible although cannot be ruled out. A specific 
wording is included to reflect these risks in the section 4.9 and 5.3 of the SmPC respectively and the 
risk management plan (RMP). Similarly, a concern related to the potential risks for the foetus in 
pregnant women was also raised. Given the limited data available, some recommendations are 
provided in the product information. 
Post-marketing data 
Fortacin was first launched in the UK in November 2016; to date, it has also been launched in Italy, 
Page 11/12 
 
  
 
 
 
France, Spain, Germany and in Portugal in 2018. 
A cumulative patient exposure of 58,431 patients (data lock point (DLP) = 15 May 2019) has been 
estimated from the number of cutaneous spray solution packet units sold (1 pack corresponds to 1 
patient). However, the units sold probably do not correspond to the exact number of patients exposed 
and may reflect overestimation. 
Cumulatively, only 5 non serious Individual Case Safety Reports ICSRs have been collected from post-
marketing sources since the launch of the product: two of these reports were “drug ineffective”, the 
other three ICSRs were one report of genital burning sensation in a female partner, one report of 
genital blister and one report of rash each experienced by separate male patients. The outcome of 
these events is “unknown” for genital blister, and “recovered” for genital burning sensation and rash 
(see additional information in section 8 of the report: criterion 3). Genital burning sensation is listed as 
adverse reactions in the current Fortacin SmPC. A warning about rash is proposed to be added in the 
product information. 
During the reporting period, a qualitative market research has been conducted in Italy with the 
objective to better understand the condition of the patients with PE, and their perception and 
experience with the different products available on the market, with a focus on Fortacin. In this 
research, a total of 28 solicited ICSR have been collected, including 21 cases of product misuse due to 
underdosing. The following non serious adverse reaction have been reported: genital hypaesthesia (3), 
penile burning sensation (2), vulvovaginal burning sensation (2), not better specified off-label use (1), 
effect decreased (1).  
No serious adverse reactions were collected, and no new safety signal has been identified from these 
reports. 
8.  Analysis of Fortacin 150 mg/mL + 50 mg/mL cutaneous 
spray with respect to the four criteria of the EC Guideline  
According to the “EU Guideline on changing the classification for the supply of a medicinal product for 
human use, Rev. January 2006”, a number of criteria should be taken into consideration for classifying 
a medicinal product as not subject to medical prescription. 
These four criteria are: 
1.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are likely to present a 
danger either directly or indirectly, even when used correctly, if utilised without medical 
supervision 
2.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are frequently and to a 
very wide extent used incorrectly, and as a result are likely to present a direct or indirect 
danger to human health 
3.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they contain substances or 
preparations thereof, the activity and/or side-effects of which require further investigation 
4.  Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are normally prescribed 
by a doctor to be administered parenterally (for injection) 
Criterion 1: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription 
when they are likely to present a danger either directly or indirectly, even 
when used correctly, if utilised without medical supervision 
Page 12/13 
 
  
 
 
 
A summary of the MAH’s justification for the first criterion is provided below. 
1.1 Direct danger/safety profile 
a)  Toxicity 
The plasma levels of lidocaine and prilocaine in male and female subjects exposed to Fortacin are well 
below the levels associated with human toxicity (5000 ng/mL). After repeated dosing, male volunteers 
had maximum plasma concentrations of lidocaine which were less than 4% of toxic levels, and 
prilocaine which were less than 0.4% of toxic level. Female volunteers receiving repeated doses to the 
cervix and vagina of up to five times the recommended dose for the male partner, had maximum 
plasma levels of lidocaine which were less than 8% of toxic levels, and prilocaine which were less than 
1% of toxic levels. 
Reproductive toxicity  
Lidocaine  
No teratogenic effects were observed in studies of embryonic/foetal development in rats and rabbits 
receiving doses during organogenesis. Embryotoxicity was observed in rabbits at doses toxic to the 
mother. The postnatal survival time of the offspring of rats treated during pregnancy and lactation with 
a dose toxic to the mother was shown to be reduced.  
Prilocaine  
In a study of pregnant rats receiving a combination of lidocaine and prilocaine during organogenesis, 
no effects on embryonic/foetal development were observed. There are however no systemic exposure 
data available for comparison with clinical exposure. 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Fortacin is not indicated for use by women. However, there may be some exposure in female partners 
of men treated with Fortacin. There are no or limited amount of data from the use of lidocaine and 
prilocaine in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity. As per the SmPC, 
as a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Fortacin during pregnancy unless 
effective male barrier contraceptive measures are taken, in order to avoid potential foetal exposure. 
Lidocaine and prilocaine are excreted in human milk, but at therapeutic doses of Fortacin no effects on 
the breastfed new-borns/infants are anticipated due to active substance transfer from the male patient 
to his female partner. This is also reflected in the SmPC of Fortacin. 
No effects of reproductive toxicity have been reported in the clinical development of Fortacin or the 
post-marketing experience to date. However, the MAH acknowledges that the exposure of pregnant 
women to Fortacin is limited. There was only one incident of pregnancy during the clinical development 
of Fortacin and no information on the outcome was obtained. Suitable warnings are provided for the 
patient in the Package Leaflet and there has been no report of pregnancy since the product was 
launched.  
Despite the fact that lidocaine and prilocaine both rapidly cross the placenta, the limited systemic 
absorption of lidocaine and prilocaine from Fortacin would mean that drug concentrations in the 
placenta and foetus would be correspondingly low, so that it is not considered likely that the drug will 
cause any reproductive toxicity should a pregnant woman be exposed. Reports of adverse effects of 
lidocaine or prilocaine on the foetus have not been located in the literature despite their use for many 
years. 
Page 13/14 
 
  
 
 
 
As a precautionary measure, it is reported in the current product information that it is preferable to 
avoid the use of Fortacin during pregnancy, unless effective male barrier contraceptive measures are 
taken in order to avoid potential foetal exposure. 
Effect on fertility  
An in vitro study of rats Fortacin has shown a reduction in sperm motility when 22.5 mg lidocaine and 
7.5 mg prilocaine (i.e. the amount in 1 human dose) was in direct contact with rat sperm. However 
this study did not reproduce the circumstances of clinical use, as the concentration of Fortacin in direct 
contact with the sperm would be many fold lower. The potential for reduction of sperm motility 
following the clinical use of the medicinal product cannot be excluded; therefore it is not possible to 
state whether Fortacin would prevent pregnancy. Overall, the MAH does not considered that there will 
be any increase in the incidence of reproductive toxicity or effect on fertility due to the change in 
classification of Fortacin to non-prescription, as proposed. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity  
Lidocaine  
Lidocaine was not genotoxic and the carcinogenic potential of lidocaine has not been studied. The 
lidocaine metabolite 2,6-xylidine has genotoxic potential in vitro. In a carcinogenicity study of rats 
exposed to 2,6-xylidine in utero, postnatally and throughout their lifetime, tumours in the nasal cavity, 
subcutaneous tumours and liver tumours were observed. The clinical relevance of tumour findings in 
relation to short-term/intermittent use of lidocaine in humans is unknown. Human exposure from 
Fortacin is 20-30 fold less than the minimum dose that did not result in tumours and 200 fold less than 
the minimum dose that did result in tumours.  
Prilocaine  
Prilocaine was not genotoxic and the carcinogenic potential of prilocaine has not been studied. The 
prilocaine metabolite o-toluidine has genotoxic potential in vitro. In carcinogenicity studies of o-
toluidine in rats, mice and hamsters, tumours were observed in several organs. The clinical relevance 
of tumour findings in respect of short-term/intermittent use of prilocaine in humans is unknown. 
Human exposure is 1000 fold less than the minimum dose studied. Note, this dose did result in 
tumours. 
The MAH do not consider that the risks of genotoxicity or carcinogenicity would be increased due to the 
change in classification of Fortacin to non-prescription, as proposed and it would be no greater for 
Fortacin than any of the other similar products currently classified as non-prescription. 
b)  Interactions 
Topical drugs 
The results of in vitro studies showed that there was no interference by Fortacin with topical antifungal 
(clotrimazole, econazole, imidazole, nystatin, miconazole, ketoconazole), antibacterial (clindamycin, 
metronidazole) and antiviral medicinal products (acyclovir). 
Other drugs 
The low systemic exposure to lidocaine and prilocaine and short duration of topical application means 
that drug-drug interactions of clinical significance are considered to be unlikely. 
The following interactions are considered for all topical products containing lidocaine and prilocaine and 
are included in the SmPC: 
Page 14/15 
 
  
 
 
 
-  Prilocaine at high doses may cause an increase in methaemoglobin levels, particularly in 
conjunction with methaemoglobin- inducing medicinal products. As consequence, 
methaemoglobinaemia may be accentuated in patients already taking medicinal products known 
to induce the condition, e.g. sulphonamides, acetanilid, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, 
dapsone, metoclopramide, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, 
nitroprusside, pamaquine, para-aminosalicylic acid, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine and 
quinine 
-  The risk of additional systemic toxicity should be considered when large doses of local 
anaesthetics are applied to patients already using other local anaesthetics or medicinal products 
structurally related medicinal products e.g. class I anti-arrhythmics such as mexiletine. 
-  Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and anti-arrhythmic medicinal products class 
III (e.g. amiodarone) have not been performed, but caution is advised. 
-  Medicinal products that reduce the clearance of lidocaine (e.g. cimetidine or betablockers) might 
cause potentially toxic plasma concentrations when lidocaine is given intravenously in repeated 
high doses over a long time period (30 hours).  
There have been no reports of drug-drug interactions with Fortacin. Information on the above risks is 
included in the SmPC and the Package Leaflet (see Section 2 ‘Warning and precautions). The risk of 
systemic exposure leading to systemic reactions e.g. methaemoglobinaemia was included as an 
“important potential risk” in the RMP (version 3.1) submitted at time of this variation, as it is 
acknowledged that prilocaine is the local anaesthetic most commonly associated with this condition. 
However, as the absorption area in the clinical use of Fortacin is very small, and the absorption so low, 
the risk of methaemoglobinaemia is considered to be extremely unlikely even with the change in 
classification of Fortacin to non-prescription, as proposed. This risk has been removed from the safety 
concerns of the RMP (version 4) and will be followed in the PSURs. 
Drug-device interaction 
Device interaction testing conducted with barrier contraceptives showed that the tensile strength of 
polyurethane devices (female and male condoms) was compromised, causing increased puncture 
rates. Devices made from latex rubber, polyisoprene, nitrile and silicone were unaffected. 
Any barrier contraceptives (e.g. male or female condom) which are made from polyurethane based 
material cannot guarantee to protect against disease or pregnancy. 
This is considered an important potential risk in the RMP (version 3.1) submitted at time of this 
variation. Appropriate information is proposed to be included in the Product Information. There have 
been no reports of such an interaction since the product was launched. This risk has been removed 
from the safety concerns of the RMP (version 4). 
c)  Adverse reactions 
Risk of serious type A reactions8 in the general population 
In all studies, Fortacin has shown a good safety profile with only a low incidence of mild to-moderate 
drug-related side effects, as demonstrated in a combined evaluation of 596 male patients and 584 
female partners who participated in the clinical trials. Most treatment-related side effects occurred 
immediately or within 24 hours of treatment and most were mild or moderate in severity. None were 
serious. 
8 Type A: Those that result from exaggeration of a medicinal product’s expected pharmacological actions when given in the 
usual therapeutic dose; normally dose-dependent. 
Page 15/16 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The most frequent side effects reported in male subjects were local effects of genital hypoesthesia 
(4.5%) and ED (4.4%), with discontinuation of treatment in 0.2% and 0.5% of subjects, respectively. 
The most frequent side effects reported in female partners were vulvovaginal burning sensation 
(3.9%), and genital hypoesthesia (1.0%). Vulvovaginal discomfort or burning sensation caused 
discontinuation of treatment in 0.3% of subjects. 
Erectile dysfunction was included in the RMP (version 3.1) as an “important identified risk”, as it is 
acknowledged that Fortacin could affect nerve endings in the penis and aggravate the condition. In the 
clinical development program all reports of ED resolved without treatment and there have been no 
reports of ED since the product was launched. If this adverse reaction was to occur, any effect would 
be short-lived due to the duration of action of lidocaine and prilocaine. Erectile dysfunction should 
therefore be considered an undesirable effect (already included in the product information), but not a 
true safety concern. This risk has been removed from the safety concerns of the RMP (version 4). 
Inadvertent trauma, secondary to hypoaesthesia, was included as an “important potential risk” in the 
RMP (version 3.1) submitted at time of this variation. In the clinical development programme all male 
subjects and female partners recovered from hypoaesthesia without treatment. There were no 
recorded cases of trauma occurring as a result of genital (or other area) hypoaesthesia and there have 
been no confirmed reports since the product was launched. Suitable warnings on the risks associated 
with hypoaesthesia are already included in the Package Leaflet (see Section 2 ‘Warnings and 
precautions’). This risk has been removed from the safety concerns of the RMP (version 4).Exposure 
via partner leading to application site reactions and trauma secondary to hyopaesthesia was included 
as an “important potential risk” in the RMP (version 3.1) submitted at time of this variation. In clinical 
trials, all female partners recovered from these reactions without treatment and there has only been 
one report of a localised adverse reaction due to partner exposure since Fortacin was launched. This 
risk has been removed from the safety concerns of the RMP (version 4). 
In the post-marketing experience only a few, non-serious adverse reactions have been reported and 
no new safety signal has been identified.  
In total, 8 ADRs in 5 ICSRs were reported from spontaneous sources and 28 ICSRs from a qualitative 
market research study. The ICSR are in line with the labelled safety profile of Fortacin except from a 
non-serious adverse drug reaction of local rash. The time to onset in unknown, the AE lasted 5 days 
and the patient recovered. Although the case reported a positive dechallenge and rechallenge, with the 
information available, it is not possible to determine if it is secondary to a local administration or if it is 
a hypersensitivity symptom.   
No serious risk has been identified when Fortacin is used in real life conditions. Furthermore, no 
serious risk has been identified for other similar products which are supplied on a non-prescription 
basis. 
The MAH, therefore, do not consider that the risk of serious Type A reactions to Fortacin will increase 
due to the change in classification to non-prescription, as proposed. 
Risk of serious type B reactions9 
The active substances are well established and are widely used in different dosage forms, including 
various topical non-prescription preparations, as detailed above. Allergic reactions to the amide group 
of local anaesthetics are only rarely reported. However, it is acknowledged that such reactions can be 
life-threatening. There have been no reports of hypersensitivity to Fortacin. 
As per the SmPC, in order to avoid hypersensitivity reactions, Fortacin should not be used in patients 
or their partner with a known history of sensitivity to local anaesthetics. The Package Leaflet contains 
9 Type B: Those that represent a novel response not expected from known pharmacological action. 
Page 16/17 
 
  
 
 
 
 
information that Fortacin is contraindicated in patients, or their partners, with hypersensitivity to any 
of the ingredients in Fortacin or to local anaesthetics of the amide type. 
The MAH, therefore, considered that the risk of serious Type B reactions to Fortacin will be any greater 
than any of the other similar products currently classified as non-prescription medicine. 
d)  Preventive actions 
Detailed information for the user is contained in the Package Leaflet of Fortacin with respect to the 
direct and indirect dangers, including how to use the product correctly, to prevent overdose, or 
inadvertent trauma. This is considered to represent adequate routine risk minimisation activities by the 
MAH; notably, there have been only isolated local adverse reactions reported since the product was 
launched with no new safety signals. 
e)  Safety vs other treatment 
The adverse reactions reported with the use of Fortacin in male patients or in female partners are 
mainly local effects, mostly classed as mild or moderate as per Fortacin’s SmPC. Only a few local 
adverse reactions have been reported since the product launch. Similarly, the most frequently 
observed adverse drug reactions observed with EMLA 5% (lidocaine/prilocaine), a topical anaesthesia, 
are related to administration site conditions (transient local reactions at the application site) (EMLA 
SmPC). 
On the contrary, syncope and orthostatic hypotension have been reported in clinical trials with 
dapoxetine hydrochloride, a short-acting SSRI (Priligy SmPC) indicated for the treatment of PE in adult 
men. The following adverse drug reactions were most commonly reported during Phase 3 clinical trials 
and were dose related: nausea (11.0% and 22.2% in 30 mg and 60 mg prn dapoxetine groups, 
respectively), dizziness (5.8% and 10.9%), headache (5.6% and 8.8%), diarrhoea (3.5% and 6.9%), 
insomnia (2.1% and 3.9%) and fatigue (2.0% and 4.1%). The most common adverse events leading 
to discontinuation were nausea (2.2% of Priligy-treated subjects) and dizziness (1.2% of Priligy-
treated subjects). 
Of note, other SSRIs are used off-label as oral daily treatment of PE, exposing the patients to systemic 
side effects (Waldinger, 2004)10. 
1.2 Indirect danger/ safety profile 
The MAH considers that there is no risk to hide an underlying condition by a symptomatic improvement 
of PE with Fortacin. In patients with primary PE no underlying condition is present. 
In case of use also in patients with secondary (acquired) PE, other conditions could be present, such as 
erectile dysfunction or a prostatitis. Since these conditions should be also treated, the Package Leaflet 
is proposed to be amended in order to avoid the long-term use of Fortacin without consulting a 
physician. 
The MAH considers that a wider use of Fortacin would not increase the risk of resistance to the product 
in the general population. 
1.3 Self-assessment 
The MAH considers that the condition of PE can be easily assessed by the patient. 
Patients with primary PE ejaculate too early at almost every attempt at intercourse, with (nearly) 
every sexual partner. A physical examination is not mandatory. Self-estimation by the patient and 
10 Waldinger MD. Drug treatment options for premature ejaculation. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2018 
Jul;19(10):1077-1085. 
Page 17/18 
 
  
 
 
 
 
partner of the ejaculatory latency is accepted as the method for determining IELT in clinical practice. 
There is no risk of over diagnose the condition by the patient. 
The MAH also considers that the availability of a non-prescription product for PE, specifically designed 
and developed to treat this condition, would be important, and would avoid the off-label use of other 
medicines available without medical prescription. Although premature ejaculation is a common male 
sexual dysfunction, patients are often unwilling to discuss their symptoms with doctor and use 
products subject to non-prescription. 
1.4 Risk and consequences of incorrect use 
There have been no reports of incorrect use of Fortacin, or adverse reactions caused by overdose or 
excessive use. Neither have any adverse reactions been reported that have been caused due to non-
adherence to the contraindications, precautions or warnings. 
The MAH considers that overdose of lidocaine or prilocaine with Fortacin is unlikely due to the small 
container size and low systemic availability of the active ingredients following topical application. 
Furthermore, overdose due to excess application is extremely unlikely. 
The MAH considers that there are clear instructions on “How to use Fortacin” included in Section 3 of 
the Package Leaflet, as well as actions to take if it is considered that too much Fortacin has been 
applied. 
1.5 Patient information 
The MAH has revised different sections of the product information to a non-prescription setting in order 
to provide necessary guidance to men, while minimising risk for them and their sexual partners. It also 
includes appropriate instructions as to when the patient should consider consulting Doctor or 
Pharmacist, including when they suspect that they have had an adverse reaction to the product. 
The MAH considers that since the product is for self-use by the patient for PE, it is unlikely that the 
way in which the medicinal product will be used as an drug subject to non-prescrition will differ from 
the way in which the same product has been used when available as prescription drug. Notably, there 
are several other similar products, which are currently available as medicines subject to non-
prescription. 
The MAH also stated that the current product information has undergone User Testing during the MAA 
procedure to ensure that they convey the required information to patients in a format and style that is 
easy to access and understand. It should also be noted that the information is similar to what is 
included for other local anaesthetics available as products subject to non-prescription. 
CHMP discussion on first criterion 
First criterion: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are likely to 
present a danger either directly or indirectly, even when used correctly, if utilised without medical 
supervision 
The CHMP has considered the safety profile of Fortacin in order to ensure that it is not likely to present 
a direct danger even when used correctly, if utilised without medical supervision. 
The plasma levels of lidocaine and prilocaine in male and female subjects exposed to Fortacin are well 
below the levels associated with human toxicity (5000 ng/mL). After repeated dosing, male volunteers 
had maximum plasma concentrations of lidocaine which were less than 4% of toxic levels, and 
prilocaine which were less than 0.4% of toxic level. Female volunteers receiving repeated doses to the 
cervix and vagina of up to five times the recommended dose for the male partner, had maximum 
Page 18/19 
 
  
 
 
 
plasma levels of lidocaine which were less than 8% of toxic levels, and prilocaine which were less than 
1% of toxic levels. 
The MAH has also provided some comparisons of the plasma concentrations of Fortacin following 3 
applications of Fortacin at 4-hourly intervals in one day to volunteer males (the maximum dose 
recommended in the SmPC) and EMLA Cream after the application of 10 g for 10 minutes to vaginal 
mucosa. While for lidocaine similar systemic concentrations are achieved for prilocaine such exposure 
was 10-fold below for Fortacin. The limited contribution of prilocaine to any potential systemic AE is 
reassuring. Nevertheless, such systemic concentrations could increase if greater amounts of Fortacin 
were used and potential consequences both at local and systemic level cannot be ruled out. The dose 
recommended in the SmPC is 3 actuations to cover the glans penis. A maximum of 3 doses can be 
used within 24 hours with at least 4 hours between doses is specified in the product information. 
However, since a more extensive use of Fortacin is possible the recommendation for not exceeding the 
recommended posology (3 doses within 24 hours) has been reinforced in the package leaflet and the 
outer package.  
No new information has become available regarding the toxicity profile of Fortacin and it is considered 
that Fortacin has a low general toxicity and no relevant productive toxicity, genotoxic or carcinogenic 
properties. The pre-clinical section of the product information is considered up to date. 
The safety profile of Fortacin for both male glans-penis-treated subjects and female partners appears 
to be benign and manageable since adverse events observed during the clinical trials seem to be 
expected considering the mechanism of action of both anaesthetics (lidocaine and prilocaine) and the 
topical administration of this cutaneous solution.  
With regard to the post-marketing experience with Fortacin, which is still limited, no new safety 
concerns have been identified except a case of rash in one male patient. Although the case reported a 
positive dechallenge and rechallenge, with the information available, the reported adverse drug 
reaction is not systemic and does not represent a safety issue since it is non-serious and not-medically 
significant. However, CHMP recommends including a warning on rash and skin irritation in section 4.4 
of the SmPC, in the package leaflet. No new ADR is proposed to be listed in the product information. 
The tabulated list of ADRs is now updated to replace ‘female’ partners by ‘sexual’ partners. 
Overall, CHMP considered that Fortacin has low risk of serious adverse reactions in the general 
population. 
Due to the low systemic exposure to lidocaine and prilocaine and the short duration of its effect, 
clinically relevant drug-drug interactions (DDI) are not expected. In vitro DDI studies with products 
that are more likely to be concomitantly given, like topical antifungal, antibacterial and antiviral, have 
not shown loss of antimicrobial activity. No concerns related to DDI interactions are in principle 
foreseen. No changes to the product information regarding the interactions are considered necessary. 
There are limited data about the impact of Fortacin on women of childbearing potential, pregnancy and 
lactation. Even when it is not indicated for women there may be some exposure in female partners and 
that is why precautionary measures are included in the product information recommending avoiding its 
use in pregnant sexual partners. Furthermore, CHMP considers that these recommendations should be 
reinforced in the package leaflet (section 2) to state that Fortacin should not be used whilst the partner 
is pregnant unless an effective male condom is used. 
Deterioration has been observed when Fortacin is used with polyurethane-based female and male 
condoms. Patients/partners who want to use a condom should check that it is polyurethane free and 
Fortacin must not be used with polyurethane-based female and male condoms as deterioration was 
observed and protection from disease or pregnancy may be reduced. Fortacin can be used with 
Page 19/20 
 
  
 
 
 
contraceptive devices made of latex rubber, polyisoprene, nitrile and silicone as no deterioration has 
been shown with these materials. The section 4.4 of the SmPC, the section 2 of the package leaflet 
and the outer packaging are updated to reflect this warning. 
CHMP considers that appropriate preventive actions are included in the SmPC, package leaflet and 
labelling of Fortacin with respect to the direct and indirect dangers, including how to use the product 
correctly, to prevent overdose, or inadvertent trauma. This is considered to represent adequate routine 
risk minimisation activities. 
Based on this safety profile, CHMP considered that Fortacin is not likely to present a direct danger even 
when used correctly, if utilised without medical prescription. 
With regard to the absence of indirect danger, CHMP agrees that the risk of hiding an underlying 
condition by a symptomatic improvement of PE with Fortacin is low in patient with primary PE. In 
patients with secondary (acquired) PE, other conditions could be present, such as ED or prostatis. The 
product information is updated to reflect that if the product used as directed does not provide relief, 
the patient should discontinue its use and seek medical advice.   
CHMP considered the self-assessment of the condition by patient as follows.   
PE is defined according to three essential criteria: (i) brief ejaculatory latency; (ii) loss of control; and 
(iii) psychological distress in the patients and/or partner. The three criteria can easily be identified by 
the patient itself and that is why PE is usually a self-reported diagnosis. Unlike erectile dysfunction, 
that has been considered an early marker of cardiovascular disease, underlying conditions are not 
described to be associated to primary PE. In this context, Fortacin could benefit from a non-
prescription status, as the accessibility to the drug will be easier.  
Furthermore, CHMP considered that the contra-indications, interactions, warnings and precautions are 
correctly reflected in the product information and can be easily understood by the patient.  
With regard to the risk and consequences of an incorrect use, CHMP considers that the list of 
contraindications and warnings in the SmPC is very limited so if Fortacin is used as an non-prescription 
medicine the incidence and risk of misuse is not expected to be increased. 
It acknowledged that the use of Fortacin in a non-prescription setting could not be limited to primary 
PE. However, it is likely that patients with PE secondary to prostatitis or erectile dysfunction (the most 
frequent causes of secondary PE) are able to identify other symptoms related to the disease. Prostatitis 
is usually accompanied by other symptoms like pain, voiding, general symptoms (like fatigue, malaise, 
fever) that makes patients to seek medical attention. Similarly, erectile dysfunction can also be 
identified by the patients. The potential for misuse in these specific situations seems low. Nevertheless, 
the product information is updated to state that ‘premature ejaculation may be due to a condition 
requiring medical supervision. If this product used as directed does not provide relief, the patient 
should discontinue use and seek medical advice’. 
Regarding the appropriateness of the product information, it is not expected that the use of the 
product represents a concern if administered without medical supervision. In addition to the package 
leaflet, appropriate, instructions on use have been included in the labelling. These include the 
indication and age limit, the posology and maximum daily dose, warnings about avoiding contact with 
eyes, nose, mouth and ears, and recommendation not to use Fortacin with polyurethane condoms. 
CHMP considers that this information is sufficient to substitute for the absence of medical supervision. 
The package leaflet also advises to always use Fortacin exactly as described in the leaflet or as the 
physician or the pharmacist have instructed. In addition, the section 4.4 of the SmPC and section 2 of 
package leaflet also informs that patient that PE may be due to a condition requiring medical 
Page 20/21 
 
  
 
 
 
supervision and that if the product used as directed does not provide relief, the patient should consult 
a doctor. 
Contraindications, interactions, warnings and precautions (such as related to the contact of Fortacin 
with eyes, mouth, other mucous membranes and use of condoms) are clearly described in layman’s 
terms and prominently presented in the leaflet. The results of the user consultation with target patient 
groups on the package leaflet submitted by the MAH during the evaluation show that the package 
leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of the label and 
package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
In order to monitor potential risk that may arise due to the change of legal status, CHMP requests that 
the following issues be monitored in the next PSUR: Methaemoglobinemia, Hypersensitivity, Effect on 
fertility, Partner exposure (including ADRs reported from the partner), Pregnancy cases, Incorrect use, 
and Off-label use. 
CHMP conclusion on the first criterion 
In view of the above discussion, the CHMP considered that Criterion 1 of the Article 71 of Directive 
2001/83/EC and European Commission Guideline “Medicinal products shall be subject to medical Table 
of Contents EMA/73099/2015 Page 30/76 prescription when they are likely to present a danger either 
directly or indirectly, even when used correctly, if utilised without medical supervision” does not apply. 
Criterion 2: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription 
when they are frequently and to a very wide extent used incorrectly, and as 
a result are likely to present a direct or indirect danger to human health. 
The following justification has been provided by the MAH for the second criterion. 
According to the MAH, there is no risk of abuse use in unapproved indications, since local anaesthetics 
are not associated with recreational use. 
There is no evidence that Fortacin is used incorrectly either frequently, or to a widespread extent, 
causing a direct or indirect danger to human health. 
No case of drug abuse or incorrect use has been reported for Fortacin during its administration during 
the clinical development and during post-marketing experience. 
The literature reports reviewed on other non-prescription products containing local anaesthetics have 
not indicated any risk of incorrect use. 
Following request by CHMP during the procedure due to concerns on the risk of misuse in a 
recreational intention, the MAHs could not find any cases concerning the risk of misuse “recreational 
intention to prolong sexual performance” in EVDAS for Fortacin, EMLA and other similar products. 
In addition, following a search on websites of the MHRA, CMDh, FDA and EMA and a review relevant to 
all safety report concerning the preferred ‘term misuse’ and ‘off-label use’, the MAH did not identify 
any potential safety signal on potential misuse and off-label used relevant to lidocaine as single active 
ingredient with similar indication granted to Fortacin. 
On the basis of the safety data review concerning the extraction via EVDAS of all misuse safety reports 
and related PTs, there is no evidence that the safety profile of lidocaine prilocaine containing products 
such as EMLA (and other similar products) could be influenced by the use “with recreational intention 
to prolong sexual performance”. The MAH will ensure the continuous product safety monitoring 
throughout routine pharmacovigilance activities such as close monitoring and review in PSURs and 
signal management activities. 
Page 21/22 
 
  
 
 
 
The MAH considers that the proposed change of the classification of Fortacin to non-prescription, is not 
considered to pose an additional risk of undesirable effects and untoward occurrences which would 
adversely affect the product’s positive benefit-risk profile. 
CHMP discussion on the second criterion 
Second Criterion: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they are frequently 
and to a very wide extent used incorrectly, and as a result are likely to present a direct or indirect 
danger to human health. 
According to the MAH, there is no risk of abuse or misuse of Fortacin in unapproved indications since 
local anaesthetics are not associated with recreational use and no safety signal of misuse and off-label 
use have been identified with other prilocaine-lidocaine containing medicinal products. 
CHMP noted the above information but considers that the potential use of Fortacin with or without 
other drugs that enhance sexual performance cannot be ruled out, if available as a non-prescription 
drug. The safety profile of Fortacin seems relatively benign when used for the treatment of PE, 
although data available in the post-authorisation setting is scarce.  
Due to the still limited experience with Fortacin, in order to promptly assess the safety data when the 
product becomes a non-prescription medicine, the PSUR frequency should be changed from 3-year to a 
2-year cycle to allow the collection of timely information. The risk of off-label use should be followed in 
the next PSURs. 
In addition, it is important to consider the access of the children to the medicine. The Guideline, as 
other consideration, states that the container should as far as possible prevent children gaining access 
to the medicine. A statement reinforcing the fact that this medicine should not be used in children or 
adolescents under 18 years of age is added in section 2 of the package leaflet. In addition, the outer 
packaging will include a warning stating “keep out of the sight and reach of children”. 
CHMP conclusion on second criterion 
In view of the above discussion, the CHMP considered that Criterion 2 of the Article 71 of Directive 
2001/83/EC and European Commission Guideline “Medicinal products shall be subject to medical 
prescription when they are frequently and to a very wide extent used incorrectly, and as a result are 
likely to present a direct or indirect danger to human health” does not apply. 
Criterion 3: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription 
when they contain substances or preparations thereof, the activity and/or 
side-effects of which require further investigation.  
A summary of the justification provided by the MAH for the third criterion is provided hereafter. 
The MAH considers that Fortacin does not contain any substances or preparations thereof, the activity 
and/or side effects of which require further investigation based on the following data. 
3.1 Recent authorisation/limited experience 
In the EU, a centralised MA for Fortacin was granted on 15 November 2013 (international birth date). 
Even considering that the post-marketing experience with Fortacin has been for a limited period, only a 
few non serious ADRs have been reported so far. 
Furthermore, an extensive post-marketing experience over a considerable number of years, supports 
the use of local anaesthetics as on demand treatment for PE. 
Page 22/23 
 
  
 
 
 
Lidocaine and prilocaine are authorised worldwide in various topical formulations, including creams, 
sprays, gels and solutions, which are available as non-prescription medicines (Waldinger, 2018)4. 
Two recent meta-analyses have confirmed the positive benefit-risk profile of topical anaesthetics when 
used for PE. They have a favourable side-effect profile. In general, a low incidence of topical side-
effects occurs mainly of penile hypoaesthesia, numbness or erectile difficulties. Transfer of the cream 
to the female partner may lead to vaginal numbness. Analysis of eight trials has shown the efficacy 
and safety of topical anaesthetic treatment for lifelong PE (Xia 2013; Pu 2013)5,6. 
Safety profile of similar products used for PE, currently supplied as non-prescription medicines 
• EMLA Cream 
EMLA Cream 5% is a eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine and is marketed as a non-prescription 
medicine in a number of EU countries. EMLA Cream contains 2.5% lidocaine w/w (25 mg/g) and 2.5% 
prilocaine (25 mg/g), and it is approved not only for topical anaesthesia of the skin, but also for topical 
anaesthesia of the genital mucosa, e.g. prior to superficial surgical procedures or infiltration 
anaesthesia in adults and adolescents ≥12 years (EMLA UK SmPC). 
Of interest, EMLA has been used off-label to treat premature ejaculation for a period of decades and it 
is still used (IQVIA-SPM 2018). 
The most commonly reported events (>1%) with the use of EMLA Cream on the skin or on the genital 
mucosa are local reactions at the administration site, such as burning sensation, pruritus, erythema, 
oedema, warmth and pallor. Application site paraesthesia (tingling) has been uncommonly reported 
after application on the genital mucosa. 
Methaemoglobinaemia is a rare reaction, more frequently observed in connection with overdose in 
newborns and infants <1 year. Patients with defective glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, hereditary 
or idiopathic methaemoglobinaemia are more susceptible to active-substance induced signs of 
methaemoglobinaemia. 
Metabolites of lidocaine and prilocaine include anilines such as 2,6-xylidine and o-toluidine, 
respectively, which are toxic at high levels. Symptoms of aniline poisoning include 
methaemoglobinaemia, headache, paraesthesia, hyperalgesia, poly neuritis, cardiac arrhythmias, 
dizziness, hypotension, convulsion, muscle weakness, and/or digestive derangement. 
Allergic reactions to the amide group of local anaesthetics are rare. Occasional reports of contact 
sensitivity to lidocaine have been reported, and cross reactivity between lidocaine and prilocaine has 
also been described (Curley 1986; Timmermans 2009)11,12. 
EMLA Cream is contraindicated in individuals with known drug sensitivity to amide-type local 
anaesthetics and it is not recommended in patients with methaemoglobinaemia (congenital or 
idiopathic). In addition, individuals with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency are more 
susceptible to drug-induced methaemoglobinaemia. 
• Stud100 Spray 
Stud100 was introduced onto the market in 1970, and is the oldest topical anaesthetic spray still 
marketed as an OTC medicine for delaying ejaculation. Stud100 Spray contains 9.6% w/w lidocaine 
presented as a metered aerosol spray delivering a dose of 7.7 mg lidocaine base per actuation. The 
recommended dosage is three or more metered actuations with a maximum dose of eight actuations 
11 Curley RK, Macfarlane AW, King CM. Contact sensitivity to the amide anaesthetics lidocaine, prilocaine, and mepivacaine. 
Case report and review of the literature. Arch Dermatol. 1986;122(8):924-6 
12 Timmermans MW, Bruynzeel DP, Rustemeyer T. Allergic contact dermatitis from EMLA cream: concomitant sensitization 
to both local anesthetics lidocaine and prilocaine. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2009;7(3):237-8 
Page 23/24 
 
  
 
 
 
 
(62 mg lidocaine). The Product Information reports that, in extremely rare cases, local anaesthetic 
preparations have been associated with allergic reactions and that occasional local skin irritation may 
occur. It is also reported that the plasma lidocaine levels achieved following application of Stud100 at 
the maximum recommended dose are extremely low, at about 25 x lower than the concentrations 
associated with systemic toxicity (STUD 100 UK SmPC). 
• Promescent spray 
Promescent is a lidocaine spray in a metered-dose delivery system, which is currently available in the 
USA as an OTC medicine to delay ejaculation. Similar to Fortacin, Promescent also utilizes a eutectic 
formulation which enables increased absorption of the anaesthetics through the skin. Promescent and 
Fortacin deliver similar doses of anaesthetics per actuation; Promescent delivers 10 mg lidocaine and 
Fortacin delivers 7.5 mg lidocaine and 2.5 mg prilocaine per actuation. 
In the Prescribing Information of Promescent it is reported that if the patient or his partner develop a 
rash or irritation, such as burning or itching, the product should be discontinued and, if symptoms 
persist, a Doctor should be consulted. It is also reported that if the product does not provide relief, the 
patient should discontinue its use and consult a Doctor 
(https://www.drugs.com/otc/120607/promescent.html). 
● Dynamo Delay: Lidocaine USP 13% (approximately 10 mg per spray) and 
● KY-Duration: Lidocaine USP (9.6%) (Approximately 10 mg per Spray) 
These are both topical anaesthetic sprays for external use indicated in the treatment of PE and 
marketed in the USA as non-prescription products 
(https://www.drugs.com/otc/325841/dynamodelay.html). Both products have a similar safety profile 
to other OTC topical anaesthetic products and may cause local side effects such as rash or irritation 
and burning or itching. In case of allergy, products administration should be discontinued. As for other 
topical anaesthetics, contact with the eyes must be avoided. 
Safety profile of other lidocaine-containing products for genital use 
Other lidocaine-containing products for genital use are also currently marketed in EU as non-
prescription medicines. 
Vagisil 2% is marketed in Italy and UK without prescription, for the relief of intimate itching, burning 
and irritation and contains lidocaine base 2% w/w (20 mg/g): dose and posology consist of an 
appropriate quantity of cream, applied 3-4 times a day. If 3-5 g of cream are applied, per application, 
a single dose of 60-100 mg of lidocaine is administered with a maximum of 240-400 mg of lidocaine 
administered within 24 hours. 
Luan 2.5 % gel (a product marketed in EU countries without prescription, to facilitate intra-urethral 
manoeuvres such as the introduction of catheters). The product contains lidocaine hydrochloride (25 
mg/g), dose and the posology comprises application of 15 g gel in a single dose, corresponding to 375 
mg of administered lidocaine. 
Several other lidocaine-containing drugs are currently marketed in EU countries without prescription 
and are indicated for administration to the oral mucosa (e.g. spray for sore throat pain relief or 
gingival gel) or to the anal mucosa, for itching relief in the case of haemorrhoids (either in cream or 
suppositories). 
3.2 New strength, dose, route of administration, indication, new age group or combination 
of substances 
Page 24/25 
 
  
 
 
 
With this variation the MAH does not apply for a new strength, dose, route of administration, 
therapeutic indication or new age group.  
CHMP discussion on third criteria 
Third criterion 3: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription when they contain 
substances or preparations thereof the activity and/or side-effects of which require further 
investigation. 
With regard to recent authorisation/limited experience, CHMP acknowledges that there has been 
limited post-marketing experience due to the recent authorisation of Fortacin (2013) and recent launch 
of the product in few countries (from 2016 in UK, and from 2018 in Italy, France, Spain, Germany and 
Portugal).  
According to the MAH, the cumulative exposure of the drug (until May 2019) ascended to 58,431 
patients (estimated from the numbers of cutaneous spray, solution packet units sold, taking into 
account that 1 pack corresponds to 1 patient). It is important to highlight that the sales after starting 
marketing authorisation could reflect channel saturation (on stock by wholesalers or pharmacies) 
instead a real estimation of patient exposure. So, the number of patients exposed could be 
overestimated.  
However, the post-marketing safety data is reassuring with cumulatively 8 ADRS in 5 ICSRs received 
and 28 ICSRs including 21 non serious cases of product misuse due to underdosing collected from a 
qualitative market research study in Italy. The following non-serious ADRs have also been reported: 
genital hypaesthesia (3), penile burning sensation (2), vulvovaginal burning sensation (2), not better 
specified off-label use (1), effect decreased (1). 
The MAH has provided information on other products used for PE, currently supplied as non-
prescription medicines (Stud100 Spray, Promescent spray, Dynamo Delay and KY Duration). The 
information included general data of all of them, and what the product information states for them.  
At the request of CHMP, the MAH also conducted a research in order to retrieve any potential safety 
signal relevant to lidocaine as single active ingredient with similar indication granted to Fortacin. The 
results of this search did not highlight any potential safety signal. In addition, a review relevant to all 
safety reports concerning PT Misuse and Off-label use (along with related terms) has been done for 
products with similar composition (lidocaine prilocaine) through a Standardized MedDRA Query (SMQ) 
in the EVDAS.  
Up to know, no relevant safety reports from these safety issues have been found for Fortacin. 
However, the change in the legal status may be related to the lack of posology compliance or not 
following the precautions of use and therefore, systemic exposure of lidocaine/prilocaine may occur in 
users but even more in their partners. In order to follow these potential risks, the PSUR frequency 
submission will be shortened to 2 years. The risk to expose patients and their partners to an 
inappropriate use of Fortacin should be lower in comparison to similar medicinal products due to its 
administration limited to topical application but not on large skin areas, and also its metered-dose 
spray that allow the delivery of limited quantities of product. However, misuse and potential ADRs that 
could emerge from the misuse and off-label use should be followed in the PSURs. 
Furthermore, it is important to have post-marketing experience in the general population, including 
elderly, children etc. Regarding children, Fortacin is indicated in adult men but other products 
containing lidocaine/prilocaine, such as EMLA is authorised in paediatric population. 
According to the MAH, two recent meta-analyses have confirmed the positive benefit-risk profile of 
topical anaesthetics when used for PE (Xia 2013; Pu 2013)5,6. In addition, there is another review with 
Page 25/26 
 
  
 
 
 
similar conclusions (Butcher. et.al 2019)13: topical agents are an effective and well-tolerated option for 
treatment of PE; the topical agents have minimal systemic side effects including minimal partner 
absorption), allow for spontaneity with on demand usage and demonstrate effective delay of IELT. 
CHMP agrees with the MAH that Fortacin does not constitute to a new strength, dose, route of 
administration, indication, new age group or combination of substances, and that this criterion 
does not apply.  
CHMP conclusion on third criteria 
In view of the above discussion, the CHMP considered that Criterion 3 of Article 71 of Directive 
2001/83/EC and the European Commission Guideline “Medicinal products shall be subject to medical 
prescription when they contain substances or preparations thereof the activity and/or side effects of 
which require further investigation” does not apply. 
Criterion 4: Medicinal products shall be subject to medical prescription 
when they are normally prescribed by a doctor to be administered 
parenterally (for injection). 
This criterion is not applicable to Fortacin since the product is not to be administered parentally (for 
injection). 
Other considerations: 
Fortacin is included in a spray container. There are two containers authorised, one of 5 ml and one of 
6.5 ml, which deliver 12 or 20 doses respectively (only the container of 5 ml is currently 
commercialised). One dose is equal to 3 actuations. The maximum daily dose is 3 doses with at least 
4 hours between doses. The product information advises patients to discontinue use and seek medical 
advice if the product used as directed does not provide relief. CHMP considers that appropriate 
instructions and precaution for use are included in the product information for patients and that the 
spray containers are adequate for use without medical prescription.  
9.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns 
All safety concerns have been removed following an update to align to GVP V rev2.  
9.1.  Overall conclusion on the RMP 
 The changes to the RMP version 4.0 are acceptable. 
10.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation, sections 4.4, 4.8, 4.9 of the SmPC are being updated to reflect the change 
of legal status. The Package Leaflet (PL) and labelling are updated accordingly. 
Changes  are  also  made  to  the  product  information  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  current  QRD  template 
version 10.1.  
Changes are made to the Opinion Annex II conditions as detailed in the recommendations section above. 
13 Butcher MJ, Zubert T, Christiansen K, Carranza A, Pawlicki P, Seibel S. Topical Agents for Premature Ejaculation: A 
Review. Sex Med Rev. 2019 Apr 12. pii: S2050-0521(19)30020-4. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2019.03.003. [Epub ahead of print] 
Page 26/27 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Please refer to Attachment 1 which includes all agreed changes to the Product Information. 
10.1.1.  Quick Response (QR) code 
The review of the QR code request submitted by the MAH is presented in a separate attachment to this 
report. 
10.1.2.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
MAH show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Page 27/27 
 
  
 
 
 
