SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
FOSAVANCE  is  presented  as  a  fixed  combination  tablet  containing  70 mg  alendronic  acid  (as 
alendronate sodium trihydrate) and 70 micrograms (2800 IU) colecalciferol (vitamin D3). It is intended 
as a once weekly treatment of postmenopause osteoporosis. 
Postmenopausal osteoporosis is characterised by a reduction in bone mass and strength resulting from 
a compromise of bone density and/or bone architecture, leading to increased fragility and fracture risk. 
The  main  reason  for  this  process  is  that  oestrogen  deficiency  after  the  menopause  results  in  an 
imbalance between bone resorption and bone formation, favouring the former. Osteoporosis is defined 
as  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)  expressed  as  T-scores,  i.e.  the  number  of  standard  deviations  (SD) 
difference  from the  mean value  of  healthy premenopause  women in the spine  and/or  hip, of -2.5 or 
lower.  It  is  estimated  that  40%  of  women  aged  50,  or  over,  will  develop  an  osteoporosis-related 
fracture during their remaining lifetime and the incidence in Europe, over 1 million cases per annum, 
is associated with significant morbidity, mortality and economic burden.  
The  ultimate  goal  of  pharmacological  treatment  of  women  with  postmenopause  osteoporosis  is  to 
reduce the risk of fractures by increasing bone mass of normal quality. There are several compounds 
currently  authorised  for  the  treatment  and/or  prevention  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  including 
bisphosphonates,  selective  oestrogen-receptor  modulators,  as  well  as  estrogens  (now  second-line 
therapy, because of safety concerns regarding hormonal replacement therapy).  
Alendronate  is  a  nitrogen-containing  bisphosphonate  which  selectively  inhibits  osteoclast-mediated 
bone  resorption.  It  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  and  partially  reverse  the  progression  of  osteoporosis, 
resulting  in  increased  BMD  with  histologically  normal  bone  and  decreased  fracture  incidence.  A 
medicinal  product  containing  alendronate  has  already  been  authorised  throughout  the  EU  for 
postmenopause osteoporosis as a 10 mg daily dose and more recently as a 70 mg weekly dose.  
Vitamin D3 is an essential for calcium absorption and therefore for normal bone formation. The main 
source is from sunlight exposure. Vitamin D insufficiency develops when both sunlight exposure and 
dietary intake are inadequate. 
The rationale for the proposed alendronate/colecalciferol combination product is that it would ensure, 
in  a  simple  one  tablet  a  week  regimen,  a  level  of  vitamin  D  supplementation  which  would  help  to 
provide a background of adequate vitamin D status upon which alendronate can act. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin 
D insufficiency. FOSAVANCE reduces the risk of vertebral and hip fractures”. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
FOSAVANCE  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  70 mg  alendronic  acid  (as  alendronate  sodium 
trihydrate) and 70 micrograms (2800 IU) colecalciferol (vitamin D3) as active substances.  
Excipients include microcrystalline cellulose, lactose anhydrous, medium chain triglycerides, gelatin, 
croscarmellose  sodium,  sucrose,  colloidal  silicon  dioxide,  magnesium  stearate,  butylated 
hydroxytoluene, modified food starch and sodium aluminum silicate. 
Tablets are supplied in push-through all aluminium blisters. 
1/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substances  
Alendronate sodium 
This active substance is a white or almost white, crystalline powder, and is the subject of a monograph 
in the Ph Eur. The aqueous solubility of alendronate sodium is 40.0 mg/ml; it is practically insoluble 
in  organic  solvents.  Alendronate  sodium  has  been  demonstrated  to  be  not  hygroscopic.  The  drug 
substance  is  achiral,  not  optically  active,  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  polymorphism.  The  chemical 
name is (4-Amino-1-hydroxybutylidene) bisphosphonic acid monosodium salt trihydrate. 
Alendronate  sodium  is  synthesised  in  a  two-step  process.  Adequate  in-process  controls  are  applied 
during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting 
materials and reagents, have been presented. The three-production scale batch data presented show a 
reproducible manufacturing process leading to homogeneous batches. 
This active substance is tested according to the specifications established in the Ph Eur. Monograph. 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identity of the active substance (IR), 
identity  of  sodium,  assay  (HPLC,  99.0-101.0  %  w/w),  impurities  (HPLC),  heavy  metals,  lost  of 
drying, degree of coloration, opalescence, pH, phosphates / phosphates and particle size. 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
used in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are in accordance with the 
ICH Guidelines. 
Alendronate  sodium  has  been  stored  at  the  ICH  conditions  of  25ºC/60%RH  and  40ºC/75%RH  in 
double  polyethylene  bags  in  fiberboard  containers.  Stability  tests  included  assay  and  impurities  by 
HPLC and testing on loss on drying. Additionally, alendronate sodium has been exposed to extreme 
thermal, humidity, photolytic, acidic, basic and oxidative stress conditions to induce the formation of 
potential degradation products and to demonstrate the stability indicating nature of the applied HPLC 
analytical  procedures.  All  results  submitted  comply  with  the  proposed  specification,  it  was 
demonstrated  to  be  a  very  stable  substance.  Therefore,  the  re-test  period  proposed  is  acceptable 
according to the stability data submitted. 
Colecalciferol (vitamin D3) 
Colecalciferol is practically insoluble in water (it is a fat-soluble vitamin) and it is sensitive to air, heat 
and  light.  Therefore,  it  is  presented  as  colecalciferol  concentrate  (powder  form)  Ph  Eur,  which  is  a 
formulated material to improve the stability of the active substance. 
Colecalciferol concentrate, powder form is a formulation of colecalciferol dissolved in medium chain 
triglycerides, embedded in a modified food starch coated matrix based on a combination of gelatin and 
sucrose to form granules. The product contains butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) as an antioxidant and 
sodium aluminum silicate as an anti-caking agent.  Given this, the bioavailability of colecalciferol will 
be dependant upon the disintegration of the tablet. 
Information  on  colecalciferol  has  been  supplied  in  the  form  of  an  ASMF  (Active  Substance  Master 
File). 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have been presented. 
Colecalciferol  concentrate  (powder  form)  specification  includes  tests  for  characteristics,  identity 
(HPLC,  Ph  Eur,  NIR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  assay  BHT  (HPLC),  Lost  on  drying  (Ph 
Eur), particle size (Ph Eur) and microbial limits.  
Two stability studies were provided to support the proposed retest period: (1) a twelve-month primary 
stability study for four commercial batches. All batches stored in laminated aluminium-foil bags were 
tested according to ICH-conditions. Humidity is not controlled and this was justified by data showing 
2/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that the proposed laminate packing is impermeable to moisture. No significant changes were observed. 
The data support extrapolation and justify the proposed retest period (2) 36 month supportive stability 
for  three  production  scale  batches,  packed  in  the  proposed  packing,  the  storage  temperatures  were 
25˚C and 40˚C. 
The re-test period proposed was considered acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  intention  was  to  develop  a  physical  and  chemical  stable  dosage  form,  which  provides  a  once-
weekly dose of both alendronate sodium and colecalciferol. 
Due  to  the  instability  of  colecalciferol,  the  development  was  focused  on  a  suitable,  commercially 
available,  stabilised  vitamin  D3  granulation  formulation.  Finally,  colecalciferol  concentrate,  powder 
form  was  chosen  as  a  commercial  formulation.  The  particle  size  of  the  granule  is  satisfactorily 
controlled in the Active Substance Specification. 
The  development  pharmaceutics  is  comprehensive  and  the  proposed  formulation  and  the  standard 
method of manufacture was satisfactorily justified. 
The batches used in the clinical studies are the same quality as that proposed for marketing.  
The excipients chosen for the proposed commercial product are the same as those that were selected 
during early development. Selection of the excipients was based on the goal of developing a physical 
and chemical stable formulation. Most of the excipients chosen are the same as those currently used in 
the  Alendronate Sodium Tablet  formulation. Colloidal silicon dioxide  was added to the  combination 
tablet  formulation  to  improve  the  flow  of  the  lubricated  powder  blend,  vegetable-based  magnesium 
stearate is used. 
All excipients are of Ph. Eur. quality and commonly used within pharmaceutical solid dosage forms. 
The finished product contains the excipients lactose anhydrous and magnesium stearate, which are the 
only ingredients that may be of ruminant origin. Lactose anhydrous is derived from milk that satisfies 
the requirements outlined in the TSE Guideline (EMEA/410/01 rev 2). Magnesium stearate is derived 
from purely vegetable source. 
The  active  material  colecalciferol  concentrate  (powder  form)  contains  one  ingredient  of  ruminant 
origin, wool grease from which the vitamin D3 is synthetically derived, for which a satisfactory TSE 
certificate  of  suitability  has  been  provided.  Colecalciferol  concentrate  (powder  form)  also  contains 
gelatin, for which satisfactory confirmation is provided that it is of porcine, not ruminant, origin. 
As primary packaging materials push-through all aluminium blisters are used. The identity of plastic 
materials is controlled routinely. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
Product  manufacture  consists  of standard processes including  mixing, blending,  dry  granulation  and 
compression.  
The release testing batch results presented show sufficient quality of the product, this can be regarded 
acceptable. A summary protocol for the validation study was provided. 
In process controls are adequate for this tablet preparation.  
The  3  commercial  batch  analysis  data  provided  show  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable  for  control of 
this oral preparation. 
Product Specification 
• 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  assay  of  the  active 
substances  (95-105%,  HPLC),  identity  of  the  active  substances  (HPLC,  TLC),  degradates  (HPLC), 
content uniformity (HPLC), dissolution (HPLC), moisture (Karl Fischer or NIR) and microbial limit 
3/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Ph  Eur).  Degradation  products  are  controlled  and  their  limits  are  justified  by  reference  to  stability 
studies and toxicology studies. 
Tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality of 
the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  on  four  pilot-scale  batches  confirm  satisfactory  uniformity  of  the  product  at 
release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
The primary stability data consisted of three pilot batches packed in a number of primary containers, 
including those proposed for marketing. 
The storage conditions comply with ICH requirements, consisting of 25°C/60%RH, 30°C/65%RH and 
40°C/75%RH. Up to 51 weeks stability data are provided. 
Stability investigation were performed according to the methods of Finished Product Specification and 
included  tests  for  appearance,  sodium  alendronate  and  vitamin  D3  assay,  vitamin  D3  degradation 
products, sodium alendronate dissolution, and moisture, except that the sodium alendronate assay was 
a  slightly  different  HPLC  assay  procedure  for  which  satisfactory  methodology  and  validation  are 
provided. 
Tests  in  addition  to  those  specified  in  the  Finished  Product  Specification  include  vitamin  D3 
dissolution,  BHT  assay,  sodium  alendronate  degradation  product  2-phosphonopyrrolidine,  hardness, 
disintegration  and  microbial  limit  testing.  Appropriate  methodology  and  validation  data  have  been 
provided. 
Three  month  stability  data  at  long  term  25°C/60%RH  and  accelerate  conditions  40°C/75%RH  ICH 
conditions for three production batches are also provided. 
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics are acceptable. 
Bioequivalence 
Two pilot studies were conducted prior to the definitive bioequivalence study to ensure there was no 
evidence  that  co-administration  affected  alendronate  bioavailability,  to  gain  experience  with  a  new 
mass spectrometry vitamin D3 assay, and to obtain preliminary variability estimates. 
A  main study  was  conducted to  demonstrate that there  was  no pharmacokinetic interaction between 
alendronate  sodium  and  colecalciferol  when  taken  in  the  proposed  marketed  product.  The  study 
consisted  of  two  parts:  (1)  an  open-label,  randomised,  two  period,  crossover  single  centre 
bioequivalence  study  to  determine  the  relative  bioavailability  of  alendronate  from  FOSAVANCE 
compared  to  alendronate  tablet  medicinal  product  and  (2)  an  open-label,  randomised,  two  period, 
crossover single centre bioequivalence study to determine the relative bioavailability of colecalciferol 
from FOSAVANCE compared to a specially manufactured vitamin D3 2800IU tablet. 
The data adequately demonstrated that there is no significant pharmacokinetic interaction between the 
two active substances in the proposed combination product. 
These  studies  are  further  presented  under  the  part  3.4  Clinical  aspects  in  the  section  related  to 
pharmacokinetics data. 
4/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  applicant  had  previously  conducted  a  comprehensive  programme 
the 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of alendronate alone. For vitamin D3, given that it is 
a natural metabolite of cholesterol upon sunlight exposure and is used as nutritional supplementation, 
no studies were conducted but an extensive review of the literature of non-clinical studies of vitamin 
D3  or  its  metabolites  was  provided.  The  toxicology  data  on  vitamin  D3  are  mainly  based  on  studies 
with calcitriol, a synthetic hormonal metabolite of vitamin D3 , available from the NDA Report 21-068 
and NDA Report 18-044/S025 (FDA, 2003, Approval package for Rocaltrol) [1]. 
investigated 
to 
No  additional  studies  were  conducted  with  the  combination  of  alendronate  with  vitamin  D3.  It  was 
considered  that  the  extensive  literature  for  vitamin  D3,  the  comprehensive  preclinical  data  for 
alendronate,  and  the  clinical  experience  with  co-administration  of  alendronate  and  vitamine  D3, 
superseded the need for additional animal data. 
The applicant has provided an overview of the comprehensive information on each active substance. 
Previous findings with the individual components in relation to pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and 
toxicology  are  summarised  in  the  below  sections.  For  vitamin  D3,  not  all  the  published  references, 
which were part of the application are listed in this document. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Alendronate 
Alendronate is a nitrogen-containing biphosphonate that inhibits osteoclastic bone resorption. It has no 
direct effect  on bone formation.  The mode of action postulates incorporation of alendronate present 
preferentially  on  the  bone  resorption  surfaces  into  the  cytoplasm  of  the  osteoclast.  The  activity  of 
osteoclasts is thereby inhibited. After bone resorption stops, bone formation proceeds on the surfaces 
containing  alendronate,  which  is  then  incorporated  within  the  matrix  where  it  is  no  longer 
pharmacologically active. 
µ
The  primary  pharmacology  of  alendronate  has  been  investigated  in  various  animal  models. 
Alendronate  was  administered intermittently, twice  weekly  (1.8 or 18 
g/kg s.c.), to  ovariectomised 
rats  in  a  1-year  treatment  study  and  every  two  weeks  (0.05  or  0.25  mg/kg  i.v.)  to  ovariectomised 
baboons in a 2-years prevention study. Alendronate prevented or reversed the bone changes produced 
in the estrogen deficient animals. The changes such as increased bone turnover, increase in cancellous 
bone  remodeling,  decrease  BMD  and  bone  loss  were  similar  as  observed  in  humans  following 
ovariectomy or menopause.  
In  other  animal  models  of  human  bone  diseases,  alendronate  was  shown  to  inhibit  bone  resorption 
regardless of cause. 
In the long-term study in dogs (36 months at doses ranging from 0.25 to 1.0 mg.kg/day) alendronate 
treatment had no deleterious effect on bone quality, bone strength, or bone dynamics.   
Vitamin D3 
Various animal pharmacodynamic studies show that  vitamin D3 acts as a prohormone that is readily 
α
metabolised to 25-OH vitamin D3 in the liver.  It is then hydroxylated by the 1
position  in  the  kidney.  This  activating  step  is  tightly  controlled  by  circulating  levels  of  parathyroid 
hormone,  calcitonin  and  1,
,25(OH)2  vitamin  D3)  itself.    The 
α
,  25(OH)2  vitamin  D3  on  bone  is  mediated  via  the  vitamin  D  receptor  (VDR).  
action  of  1
,25  dihydroxyvitamin  vitamin  D3  (1
-hydroxylase at the 1
α
α
α
5/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
α
α
,25(OH)2  D3  increased  serum  calcium  and  prevented  the  ovariectomy-
Because vitamin D3 serves as a prohormone with little intrinsic biological activity towards VDR, most 
α
, 
animal  studies  have  been  performed  using  the  fully  active  hormone  1,
hydroxyvitamin D3, which is readily converted to the hormone by 25-hydroxylation in the kidney.  
In  ovariectomised  rats,  1,
induced lumbar bone loss. [2]  
In  ovariectomised  rats,  0.1-02  µ g/kg  1
α
human parathyroid  hormone (1-34). 1
high doses up to 0.4 mg/kg) at a given urinary and serum calcium level. [3]  
,25(OH)2  D3  combined  with  a  biphosphonate  (risedronate)  resulted  in 
Pharmacological  doses  of  1,
additive effects in prevented ovariectomy-induced bone loss in rats. This suggests that the mechanism 
of action of either agent is non-redundant. [4]  
-OH  vitamin  D3  increased  BMD  in  PTX  rats  infused  with 
-OH  vitamin  D3  increased BMD  more than  vitamin D3 (with 
25(OH)2  vitamin  D3  or  1,
α
α
α
,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 in knockout mice lacking 
Published data on pharmacodynamic effects  of the 1
either  VDR  or  the  1-α  hydroxylase  enzyme  confirm  the  known  targets  for  the  active  vitamin  D3 
-hydroxylase,  but  not  the  VDR,  knockout  mice,  all  bone  and  cartilage 
metabolites.  For  the  1
α
,25(OH)2  vitamin  D3  suggesting  that  that 
phenotypes  were  rescued  through  administration  of  1
α
1
,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 is the essential metabolite responsible for most biological effects. 
α
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No studies were conducted and no additional data were considered necessary. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Alendronate  was  studied  in  a  battery  of  tests  and  was  devoid  of  any  significant  activity  on  the 
cardiovascular, renal, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and central nervous systems.   
Vitamin D3 is a naturally occurring intermediary metabolite in humans that is the obligate precursor of 
the  hormone  calcitriol.    Because  of  the  extensive  human  data  available  on  the  use  of  vitamin  D3  in 
clinical trials and the intended weekly dose of 2800-IU vitamin D3, which is in accordance with a daily 
intake  of  400-IU  vitamin  D3  recommended  in  guidelines,  additional  animal  safety  data  were  not 
considered necessary. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Alendronate  acts  on  bone  independently  of  hormonal  systems  and  has  no  known  interaction  with 
vitamin D. The extensive human data available on the concurrent use of alendronate and vitamin D3 in 
clinical trials supersedes the need for any additional animal data. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  alendronate  had  previously  been  evaluated  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and 
monkeys using validated methods.  The pharmacokinetic data of vitamin D3 derive from the published 
literature. 
Absorption  
Alendronate 
Alendronate,  like  all  bisphosphonates,  is  absorbed  poorly  in  animals.  Since  alendronate  is  not 
metabolised  and  is  largely  deposited  in bone  (60  to  70%  of  i.v.  dose),  absorption  was  evaluated  by 
comparing  the  concentration  of  alendronate  in  bone  tissues  from  oral  (14C-labeled)  and  i.v.  (3H-
labeled) administration. The bioavailability in  fasted animals was about 0.2% in the  mouse, 0.7% in 
the  rat,  1.8%  in  the  dog,  and  1.7%  in  the  monkey.  Food  markedly  decreased  the  absorption  of 
alendronate  in  rats.  The  poor  absorption  of  alendronate  (and  other  bisphosphonates)  is  most  likely 
attributed  to  its  very  poor  lipophilicity,  which  prohibits  transcellular  transport  across  the  epithelial 
barriers, and to its relative large molecular size (250 daltons), which hinders paracellular transport. 
6/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vitamin D3 
Vitamin D3 is absorbed by passive diffusion in the intestine as a fat-soluble vitamin, and requires bile 
salt for optimal absorption.  The normal plasma concentration of vitamin D3 in animals fed a standard 
diet (according to the National Research Council) is species dependent, ranging from 0.6ng/ml (sheep) 
to ca. 10 ng/ml (pig) [5]. 
Distribution 
Alendronate 
The plasma protein binding (means ± SD) determined by ultrafiltration at alendronate concentrations 
of 0.2-10 µg/ml (rat, human) and 0.5-5 µg/ml (dog, monkey) is species-dependent: high to rat plasma 
proteins (94.76 ± 0.29%), but not to dog (24.6 ± 3.0%), monkey (68.9 ± 3.8%) or human (72.3 ± 3.7 
%). At a low concentration range of 0.2 to 0.5 µg/ml, the unbound fraction was about 3% for the rat, 
23% for the human, 27% for the monkey and 74% for the dog. 
Systemically  available alendronate  disappears  very  rapidly  from plasma, and it is either taken  up by 
bone  tissues  or  excreted  by  the  kidneys.  The  uptake  of  alendronate  by  bone  tissues  was  species-
dependent, likely due to plasma flow rate to bone tissues as well as intrinsic bone uptake, and  dose-
dependent.  
Vitamin D3 
Once absorbed, vitamin D3 binds to the vitamin D-binding protein in blood [6], which is an α-globulin 
that  serves  to  transport  vitamin  D3  to  the  liver,  where  it  is  stored  prior  to  metabolism  to  25-
hydroxyvitamin D3. Vitamin D3 is well taken up by the liver; the fractional uptake of vitamin D3 in a 
single pass across the liver is 40 to 60% in rats and dogs [7]. 
Metabolism 
Alendronate 
Alendronate is not metabolised in rats and dogs, a finding reported also for other bisphosphonates.  
Vitamin D3 
As  already  mentioned,  vitamin  D3  is  inactive  and  requires  sequential  hydroxylation  in  the  liver  and 
, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3, to exert its role in calcium 
kidney to become the biologically active form, 1
homeostasis.  The  enzymes  that  mediate  the  hepatic  and  renal  metabolism  of  vitamin  D3  are  the 
mitochondrial CYP27A1 and CYP27B1, respectively.  In rats and pigs, there are microsomal vitamin 
D3 25-hydroxylases whose physiological relevance is not well characterised. 
α
α
,25(OH)2    D3,  is  metabolically  inactivated  in  a  multistep 
The  biologically  form  of  vitamin  D3,  1
process. The  first step is  hydroxylation at the 24-position to 1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D3, which is 
less active [8]. The  oxidation of the 24-hydroxy  group produces the  corresponding  ketone,  which in 
turn  undergoes  oxidative  cleavage between C-23 and  C-24. This is followed by further  oxidation to 
calcitroic  acid,  which  is  inactive.  Most,  if  not  all,  of  these  metabolic  reactions  are  mediated  by  the 
mitochondrial enzyme, CYP24 (also called P450c24) [8]. 
α
,25(OH)2    D3  is  formation  of  conjugated  metabolites. 
An  additional  elimination  pathway  for  1
α
Following intravenous administration of [3H]1
,25 (OH)2  D3 to rats, glucuronide, sulfate, taurine, and 
glycine  conjugates  were  excreted  in  the  bile  [9].  The  structure  of  these  metabolites  has  not  been 
definitively  determined;  however,  their  chromatographic  properties  suggest  they  are  likely  to  be 
α
, 25(OH)2 D3 itself is subject to O-glucuronidation without 
conjugates of calcitroic acid. In addition, 1
prior oxidation in rats [9]. 
7/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excretion 
Alendronate 
Renal  excretion is the  only route  of  elimination  of alendronate  and  urinary recovery is quite similar 
among  species.  Following  i.v.  administration  (1  or  0.8  mg/kg)  to  rats,  dogs,  and  monkeys, 
approximately 30 to 40% of the dose was excreted in the urine in 24 hours, mostly in the first 3 to 4 
hours. Only a very small fraction, less than 0.4% of the dose, was recovered in rat faeces in 24 hours. 
Detailed  studies  in  rats  revealed  that  alendronate  is  actively  secreted  by  an  uncharacterised  renal 
transport  system,  but  not  by  anionic  or  cationic  renal  transport  systems.  Because  alendronate  is  not 
metabolised and has no biliary excretion, compound not excreted in 24 hr post-dose is believed to be 
sequestered in the skeleton. Once taken up by the bone, the elimination of alendronate from the bone 
tissue  into  the  circulation  to  be  then  eliminated  renally  is  slow,  ranging  from  200  days  in  rats  to  3 
years in dogs. 
Vitamin D3 
Following  administration  of  [3H]vitamin  D3  to  intact  rats,  the  vast  majority  of  the  administered 
radioactivity (79%) was recovered in faeces, which suggested that vitamin D3 and its metabolites were 
eliminated  by  biliary  excretion.  Urinary  excretion  of  the  vitamin  D3  radioequivalents  in  rats  was 
quantitatively minor (2.1% of dose) [10].  
Following i.v. administration of labeled 1α,25 (OH)2 vitamin D3 to rats about 24% of the administered 
radioactivity was excreted in bile within 24 h; only 10% of the excreted radioactivity was unchanged, 
while 85 to 90% consisted of relatively polar metabolic components. 1α,25 (OH)2 vitamin D3 t and its 
metabolites, possibly the glucuronide conjugate, undergo enterohepatic recirculation [11]. 
Toxicology 
(cid:0) 
Single dose toxicity  
Alendronate 
After  oral administration, the  dose lethal 50 (LD50) in  male  mice and  rats  were  approximately 1280 
and  626  mg/kg,  respectively,  and  in  female  mice  and  rats  approximately  966  and  552  mg/kg, 
respectively.  The  lethality  in  both  species  was  primarily  due  to  gastrointestinal  irritation.  The 
intravenous  LD50  in  male  mice  and  rats  were  approximately  48  and  42  mg/kg,  respectively,  and  in 
female mice and rats approximately 51 and 40 mg/kg, respectively. There was no lethality in dogs at 
single oral doses up to 200 mg/kg, although there was evidence of slight renal toxicity. 
Vitamin D3 
After single oral dose  of calcitriol or transcalcitriol in neobee oil at 1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 mg/kg in mice, 
clinical  signs  of  toxicity  were  only  observed  in  calcitriol-treated  animals  and  included  respiratory 
depression, decreased motor activity, tremors, ptosis, and abnormal gait. At the high-dose all animals 
died 4 to 9 days post-dose.  
(cid:0) 
Repeat-dose toxicity  
Alendronate 
Studies were performed in rats (14 and 53 weeks with oral doses up to 5 mg/kg/day) and in dogs (14 
and  27  weeks  with  oral  doses  up  to  8  mg/kg/day;  53  weeks  at  0,  0.5,  2  or  8  mg/kg/day  and 
8 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks plus a recovery period). 
In  the  rat  studies  there  was  no  renal,  gastrointestinal  or  liver  toxicity  observed  at  oral  doses  up  to 
5 mg/kg/day.    Toxicity  was  nonetheless  evident  with  high  oral  alendronate  doses  (given  up  to  150 
mg/kg/day) over 14 days in a dose finding carcinogenicity study. In this study renal toxicity (tubular 
necrosis,  increase  in  serum  urea),  gastrointestinal  toxicity  (gastric  mucosal  degeneration,  gastritis, 
8/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mucosal erosions or ulcers) and liver toxicity (increases in liver enzymes, ALT, AST) were observed 
at about 30 mg/kg/day or at higher doses; mortality was observed at doses ≥ 30 mg/kg/day.  
In  the  dog  studies,  renal  toxicity  was  observed  at  4  and  8  mg/kg/day  given  orally  including  renal 
tubular degeneration and chronic focal nephritis, but no marked gastrointestinal effects were observed.  
Other  effects  observed  such  as  reduced  serum  calcium  and  serum  phosphate,  increased  urinary 
excretion  of  calcium and phosphate in  rats and  dogs,  increase in  extramedullary  hematopoiesis (rat) 
are the result of exaggerated pharmacological actions. Retention of primary spongiosa was observed in 
all repeat dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs and is consistent with a decrease in bone remodelling, a 
desired pharmacological effect. 
The NOAEL in the 53-weeks oral toxicity study in rats was 2.5 mg/kg/day and in the oral 53-weeks 
dog study 2.0 mg/kg/day.  
No toxicokinetics data were obtained for the repeat-dose toxicity studies. 
Additional  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  gastric  irritation  in  rats  and  the  oesophageal 
irritation potential in dogs. 
In rats, the potential gastric effects of 3 bisphosphonates (alendronate sodium, risedronate sodium and 
etidronate sodium)  were  compared. There  were  dose-dependent increases in the incidence  of  gastric 
lesions  involving  both  the  glandular  and  non-glandular  mucosa  of  the  stomach.  The  no-effect  dose 
levels  for  gastric  lesions  were  10,  5,  and  200  mg/kg/day  orally  for  alendronate,  risedronate  and 
etidronate, respectively. 
The studies in anaesthetised dogs were performed with single and repeated intra-esophageal infusion 
of  alendronate  over  30  min.  Alendronate  administered  at  0.2  mg/ml  (pH=2)  in  infusion  on  5 
consecutive days caused esophageal erosions and ulceration.  Esophageal infusion twice a week with 
0.4 mg/ml alendronate (pH=2) over 4 consecutive weeks resulted in erosive or ulcerative esophagitis, 
however  following  infusions  with  alendronate  (50  ml,  0.8  mg/ml,  pH=2)  once  a  week  for  4  weeks 
caused no esophageal irritation.  
Vitamin D3 
In rats, in a 13-weeks i.v. study (0, 0.05, 0.15 and 0.45 µ g/kg/day calcitriol) and a 26-weeks i.v. study 
(0,  0.05,0.15,  0.45  and  0.9  µg/kg  calcitriol,  administered  intermittently  on  3  days/week)  signs 
observed  included  hypercalcemia,  hypercholesterolemia,  hypoproteinemia,  increased  blood  urea 
nitrogen,  changes  in  body  weight  and  organ  weights  (liver),  parathyroid  gland  atrophy  and  tissue 
calcification. There was no treatment-related mortality. The observed changes, such as hypercalcemia, 
parathyroid  gland  atrophy,  and  tissue  calcification  were  considered  an  exaggerated  pharmacological 
effect  of  calcitriol.  The  observed  NOAEL  was  0.05  µg/kg/day  (13-weeks  study)  and  ≤  0.05 
µg/kg/dose (26-weeks study).  
In  dogs,  in  a  13-weeks  i.v.  study  (0,  025,  0.05,  or  0.1  µg/kg/day  calcitriol)  the  highest  dose  was 
discontinued on Day 56 due to excessive mortality. Observed changes were decrease in body weight 
and  food  consumption,  hypercalcemia,  hypercholesterolemia,  hypochloremia,  hypomagnesemia, 
changes in organ weights. Histopathology changes included deposition of calcium in numerous tissues 
(heart, kidney, lung, trachea, salivary  glands, glandular stomach  mucosa), parafollicular  cell (C-cell) 
hyperplasia  (not  recovered  in  the  recovery  groups),  atrophy  of  parathyroid  cells,  thymic  atrophy, 
cytoplasmatic  pigmentation  of  Kupffer  cells  in  the  liver,  and  salivary  gland  atrophy.  The  observed 
NOAEL was ≤ 0.025 µg/kg/day. In a 52-weeks i.v. study (0, 001, 0.02, or 0.04/0.06 µ g/kg calcitriol 3-
times/week) similar changes were observed.  
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
Alendronate 
There  was  no  evidence  for  genotoxic potential  of alendronate  when studied in  a standard battery  of 
assays:  in  vitro  microbial  mutagenesis  assay  using  strains  of  E.  coli  and  S.  typhimurium,  in  vitro 
9/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chromosomal aberration assay,  and an in vivo  chromosomal aberration assay  in  mice. In  an in  vitro 
mammalian cell assay, there was a slight increase in the percent cells with chromosomal aberrations at 
concentration > 5 mM (approximately 1.625 mg/ml), which were considered of no clinical relevance.  
Vitamin D3 
Calcitriol  was  not  genotoxic  in  in  vitro  gene  mutation  test  in  bacteria  (Ames  Test)  and  one  in  vivo 
chromosomal aberration test (micronucleus Test) in mice.  
(cid:0) 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Alendronate 
There  was  no  evidence  for  carcinogenic  potential  of  alendronate  in  studies  in  mice  (92  weeks  with 
doses up to 10 mg/kg/day) nor in rats (105 weeks with doses up to 3.75 mg/kg/day).  
Vitamin D3 
There are no carcinogenicity data available with vitamin D3 or its active metabolite in the literature but 
no studies were considered necessary. 
(cid:0) 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Alendronate 
Alendronate  did  not  affect  male  rats  fertility  (NOAEL  9  mg/kg/day).  It  had  no  effect  on 
fertility/reproduction  in  female  rats  at  low  doses  (NOAEL  2  mg/kg/day).  The  dose  of  5  mg/kg/day 
caused  maternotoxicity  (death  at  the  time  of  delivery),  decrease  in  body  weight  gain  in  F1  males 
during  post  weaning  weeks.  There  was  no  effect  of  behaviour  and  reproductive  performance  of  F1 
pups. 
Alendronate  was  neither  embryotoxic  nor  teratogenic  in  rats  (NOAEL  =  5.0  mg/kg/d)  and  rabbits 
(NOAEL = 10 mg/kg/d).  
Dystocia observed in maternal rats during parturition a class effect of bisphosphonates.  
Placental transfer and excretion in milk of alendronate have not been studied in animals. 
Vitamin D3 
There are no published studies evaluating the female and male fertility and the developmental toxicity 
of  vitamin  D3  in  laboratory  animals.  The  developmental  toxicity  of  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  and/or 
vitamin D2 has been studied in rabbits and rats. These published data were considered relevant since 
vitamin  D2  and  vitamin  D3  have  the  same  biological  activity  in  humans  and  both  vitamin  D2  and 
vitamin  D3  are  hydroxylated  in  the  liver  to  25-0H  hydroxyl  vitamin  D  which  is  the  major  form  of 
vitamin D in  circulation.  In  rabbits  high  doses  of  vitamin  D2  (10.000  or  100.000  IU/animal)  during 
pregnancy  affected  foetal  death,  maternal  calcium  and  cholesterol  homeostasis  and  caused  calcific 
aortic  lesions  and  an  apparent  dose  related  development  of  supravalvular  aortic  lesions  in  the 
newborns  [12].  In  rats  it  was  shown  that  high  doses  of  vitamin  D2  (20.000  IU/animal;  150.000-
200.000 IU/kg/d) given to females prior to mating inhibited pregnancy [13].  
(cid:0) 
Local tolerance 
Alendronate, as a bulk substance, caused irritation to skin and eyes in rabbits. The 5 mg-granulation 
tablet containing 2.5 % alendronate caused eye irritation but no skin. 
There are no available data on local tolerance of vitamin D3 but no studies were considered necessary. 
10/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:0) 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Based on an analysis of the environmental risk posed by the use of alendronate, no significant risk to 
the environment related to the use of the fixed combination is anticipated. 
References:  
1   U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Approval Package for  
     ROCALTROL (calcitriol) 1 mcg/ml Oral Solution and Capsules (Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc.), NDA 21-068 and 
NDA 18-044/S-025. 20-Nov-1998 
2   Erben RG, Weiser H, Sinowatz F, Rambeck WA, Zucker H. Vitamin D metabolites prevent vertebral  
     osteopenia in ovariectomized rats. Calcif Tissue Int 1992;50:228-36. 
3   Shiraishi A., Higashi S, Ohkawa H, Kubodera N, Hirasawa T, Ezawa I, et al. The advantage of  
     alfacalcidol over vitamin D in the treatment of osteoporosis. Calcif Tissue Int 1999;65:311-6. 
4   Erben RG, Mosekilde L, Thomsen JS, Weber K, Stahr K, Leyshon A, et al. Prevention of bone loss in  
     ovariectomized rats by combined treatment with risedronate and 1
,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. J Bone Miner 
α
Res 2002;17(8):1498-511. 
5   Horst RL, Littledike ET, Riley JL, Napoli JL. Quantitation of vitamin D and its metabolites and their plasma 
concentrations in five species of animals. Anal Biochem 1981;116:189-203. 
6    Marcus  R.  Agents  affecting  calcification  and  bone  turnover:  calcium,  phosphate,  parathyroid  hormone, 
vitamin D, calcitonin, and other compounds. In: Hardman JG, Limberd LE, eds. Goodman &  Gilman’s The 
Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics. 10th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001;1715-43. 
7   Gascon-Barré  M.  Vitamin  D  25-hydroxylase.  In:  Feldman  D,  Glorieux  FH,  Pike  JW,  eds.  Vitamin  D.  San 
Diego: Academic Press 1997;41-55. 
8   Omdahl J, May B. The 25-hydroxyvitamin D 24-hydroxylase.  In:  Feldman D, Glorieux FH, Pike JW,   eds. 
Vitamin D. San Diego: Academic Press 1997:69-85. 
α
9   Ayton  B,  Martin  F.  Conjugated  forms  of  [3H]1
,25-dihydroxyvitamin  D3  in  rat  bile.  J  Steroid  Biochem 
1987;26(6):667-77. 
10  Bell PA, Kodicek E. Investigations on metabolites of vitamin D in rat bile: separation and partial  
      identification of a major metabolite. Biochem J 1969;115:663-9. 
11  Kumar  R,  Nagubandi  S,  Mattox  VR,  Londowski  JM.  Enterohepatic  physiology  of  1,25-  dihydroxyvitamin 
D3. J Clin Invest 1980;65:277- 84. 
12  Chan GM, Buchino JJ. Mehlhorn D, Bove KE, Steichen JJ, Tsang RC. Effect of vitamin D on pregnant 
    rabbits and their offspring. Pediat Res 1979;13:121-6. 
13   Nebel L, Ornstein A. Effect of hypervitaminosis D2 on fertility and pregnancy in rats. Isr J Med Sci  
     1966;2(1):14-21. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Alendronate has already been approved as a separate medicinal product in the EU for the treatment of 
postmenopause osteoporosis. Previous clinical studies have demonstrated the effects of alendronate on 
bone  mass  and  fracture  incidence  in  postmenopause  women  were  examined  in  two  initial  efficacy 
studies of identical design (n=994) as well as in the Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT: n=6,459) which 
consisted  of  two  placebo-controlled  studies  using  alendronate  daily  (5 mg  daily  for  two  years  and 
10 mg daily for either one or two additional years). In the initial efficacy studies, the mean body bone 
mineral density (BMD) increases with alendronate 10 mg/day relative to placebo at three years were 
8.8 %,  5.9 %  and  7.8 %  at  the  spine,  femoral  neck  and  trochanter,  respectively.    Total  BMD  also 
increased  significantly.    There  was  a  48 %  reduction  (alendronate  3.2 %  vs  placebo  6.2 %)  in  the 
proportion of patients treated with alendronate experiencing one or more vertebral fractures relative to 
those treated with placebo.  In the two-year extension of these studies BMD at the spine and trochanter 
continued to increase and BMD at the femoral neck and total body were maintained.  
In  the  study  FIT1,  a  three-year  study  of  2,027  patients  who  had  at  least  one  baseline  vertebral 
(compression) fracture, alendronate daily reduced the incidence of ≥1 new vertebral fracture by 47 % 
(alendronate 7.9 % vs. placebo 15.0 %).  In addition, a statistically significant reduction was found in 
the incidence  of  hip  fractures (1.1 % vs. 2.2 %, a reduction of 51 %). In FIT 2, a four-year study  of 
11/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,432 patients  with low bone  mass but  without a baseline  vertebral  fracture, a significant  difference 
was  observed in the  analysis of the subgroup  of osteoporotic women (37 % of the  global population 
who  correspond  with  the  above  definition  of  osteoporosis)  in  the  incidence  of  hip  fractures 
(alendronate  1.0 %  vs.  placebo  2.2 %,  a  reduction  of  56 %)  and  in  the  incidence  of  ≥1  vertebral 
fracture (2.9 % vs. 5.8 %, a reduction of 50 %). 
The therapeutic equivalence of alendronate once weekly 70 mg (n=519) and alendronate 10 mg daily 
(n=370)  was  subsequently  demonstrated  in  a  one-year  multicentre  study  of  postmenopause  women 
with osteoporosis (study 118).  The mean increases from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at one  year 
were 5.1% (95% CI: 4.8, 5.4%) in the 70 mg once-weekly group and 5.4% (95% CI: 5.0, 5.8%) in the 
10 mg daily group.  The mean BMD increases were 2.3% and 2.9% at the femoral neck and 2.9% and 
3.1%  at  the  total  hip  in  the  70 mg  once  weekly  and  10 mg  daily  groups,  respectively.  The  two 
treatment groups were also similar with regard to BMD increases at other skeletal sites. 
FOSAVANCE  combines  alendronate  at  the  same  70  mg  weekly  dose  as the  one  already  authorised 
and vitamin D3. Consequently, the clinical development programme focused on the demonstration of 
the bioequivalence between alendronate/vitamin D3 combination tablet and alendronate 70  mg tablet 
and  on  the  provision  pharmacokinetic  data  for  the  vitamin  D3  component  of  the  combination  tablet 
(Study 226). This allows for the bridging with existing efficacy data on alendronate.  
No new studies investigating the efficacy of alendronate in terms of bone mass and fracture incidence 
were therefore conducted. 
In  the  previously  conducted  pivotal  efficacy  studies  with  alendronate,  patients  received  vitamin  D 
supplements.  These  supplements  were  however  administered  at  a  different  time  of  day  from  the 
alendronate tablet, and in the weekly dosing alendronate study, they needed to be taken on days when 
alendronate tablets were not being given. The data from these previous studies were not sufficient to 
support the simultaneous administration of alendronate and  vitamin D within the same tablet. A new 
pivotal  study  was  therefore  conducted  in  support  of  the  weekly  oral  regimen  for  the  treatment  of 
postmenopause osteoporosis with the alendronate/vitamin D3 combination tablet (Study 227). 
All the studies were claimed to have been conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices. 
Pharmacokinetics 
As already mentioned the pharmacokinetics profile of alendronate had previously been assessed. The 
pharmacokinetic programme consisted therefore of 3 pharmacokinetic studies in support of the weekly 
oral regimen with the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU combination tablet. 
Two pilot studies were conducted prior to the definitive bioequivalence study to gain experience with 
a new mass spectrometry vitamin D3 assay to: 
• 
• 
ensure there was no evidence, prior to the definitive study with the proposed formulation, that 
co-administration with vitamin D3 affected alendronate bioavailability  
explore the relative bioavailability  of  alendronate in the  combination tablet  compared to the 
70mg alendronate tablet  
•  obtain preliminary variability estimates.  
The  definitive  bioequivalence  study  (Study  226)  investigated  both  alendronate  and  vitamin  D3 
pharmacokinetics, each in a separate part of the study. 
A  brief  summary  of  the  major  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  alendronate  is  presented  below  for 
reference. 
The  bioavailability  of  alendronate  after  oral  dosing  in  human  was  less  than  1  %,  similar  to  that 
observed in the mouse and rat, and approximately half to that observed in the dog and monkey. 
Relative to an intravenous reference dose, the oral mean bioavailability of alendronate in women was 
0.64%  for  doses  ranging  from  5  to  70 mg  when  administered  after  an  overnight  fast  and  two  hours 
before  a  standardised  breakfast.  Bioavailability  was  decreased  similarly  to  an  estimated  0.46%  and 
0.39% when alendronate was administered one hour or half an hour before a standardised breakfast.  
12/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  osteoporosis  studies,  alendronate  was  effective  when  administered  at  least  30  minutes  before  the 
first food or beverage of the day. Bioavailability was negligible whether alendronate was administered 
with,  or  up to two hours after, a standardised breakfast.  Concomitant  administration of alendronate 
with  coffee  or  orange  juice  reduced  bioavailability  by  approximately  60%.  Systematically 
administered alendronate is tightly sequestered in bone  with slightly  more sequestration  observed in 
animals (56 % versus 60 to 70 %). 
Following therapeutic  oral  doses  of alendronate,  concentrations in plasma  are too low  for  analytical 
detection (<5 ng/ml).  Protein binding in human plasma is approximately 78%. 
As in animals, there is no evidence that alendronate is metabolised in humans. 
Following a single intravenous dose of [14C]alendronate, approximately 50% of the radioactivity was 
excreted  in  the  urine  within  72  hours  and  little  or  no  radioactivity  was  recovered  in  the  faeces. 
Following  a  single  10 mg  intravenous  dose,  the  renal  clearance  of  alendronate  was  71 ml/min,  and 
systemic clearance did not exceed 200 ml/min.  Plasma concentrations fell by more than 95 % within 
6 hours following intravenous administration.  The terminal half-life in humans is estimated to exceed 
ten years, reflecting release of alendronate from the skeleton.  Alendronate is not excreted through the 
acidic or basic transport systems of the kidney in rats, and thus it is not anticipated to interfere with the 
excretion of other medicinal products by those systems in humans. 
Bioequivalence studies 
An outline of the bioequivalence studies is provided in table 1. 
Table 1 
Study 
Pilot study 
183 
Pilot study 
220 
Design 
single dose, open label, randomised, 
2-period, crossover study  
13 healthy adults (7 males, aged 50-
61 years and 7 females, aged 33-54 
years) 
single dose, open label, randomised, 
3-period, crossover study  
12 healthy adults (8 males, aged 24-
41 years and 4 females, aged 23-48 
years) 
Definitive 
bioequivalence 
study 226  
single dose, 2-part, open label, 
randomised, crossover study 
244 healthy adults  
Part I included 214 adults (95 males, 
aged 18-64 years and 119 females, 
aged 18-65 years).  
Part II included 30 healthy adults (16 
males, aged 20-54 years and 14 
females, aged 19-48 years) 
Objective 
Bioavailability of alendronate 70 mg tablet with or 
without vitamin D3 (5600-IU reconstituted in tap 
water).  
To assess:  
a) the relative bioavailability of alendronate, 
following administration of the alendronate 70-
mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU combination tablet, relative 
to the 70 mg alendronate tablet, using cumulative 
urinary excretion of alendronate over 36 h post-dose, 
and  
b) the pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of 
vitamin D3 from the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 
2800-IU combination tablet versus a vitamin D3 
2800-IU tablet alone 
a)  PART I: the relative bioavailability of 
alendronate following administration of the 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU 
combination tablet, relative to the 70 mg 
alendronate tablet  - based on cumulative urinary 
excretion over 36 h post-dose  
b)  PART II:  the pharmacokinetic and relative 
bioavailability of vitamin D3 with the 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU 
combination tablet versus a vitamin D3 2800-IU 
tablet alone. 
Urinary  recovery  data,  rather  than  plasma  levels,  were  used  to  demonstrate  bioequivalence  of 
alendronate in the combined tablet compared to alendronate 70 mg tablet, as levels in the blood were 
too low for accurate delineation of AUC with currently available assays.  
Serum concentrations of vitamin D3 were determined using validated assay with a limit of detection of 
0.5 ng/ml. 
13/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Pilot study 183 
The  alendronate  total  urinary  excretion  geometric  mean  ratio,  with  corresponding  95%  confidence 
intervals  (CIs),  was  1.16  (0.74,  1.83)  for  alendronate  +vitamin  D3/alendronate  alone.  These  results 
showed  that  the  relative  bioavailability  of  alendronate  was  similar  with  or  without  concomitant 
vitamin D3. The alendronate/vitamin D3 2800 IU combination tablet was subsequently developed and 
tested in the second pilot study. 
Pilot study 220  
The geometric mean ratio, with corresponding 90% CIs, for the urinary excretion of alendronate was 
1.02 (0.71, 1.47) for 70-mg alendronate plus 2800-IU vitamin D3 relative to 70-mg alendronate alone. 
Thus,  the  study  failed  to  show  bioequivalence  according  to  the  accepted  80-125%  90%  CI  CHMP 
parameters.  These  results  indicated  nonetheless  that  the  relative  bioavailability  of  alendronate  was 
similar in the alendronate 70mg tablet and the combination tablet and that bioequivalence was likely to 
be demonstrated in a larger, definitive, study. 
With regard to vitamin D3, the AUC0-24h, Cmax and pharmacokinetic profile after administration of 
the  combination  tablet  are  generally  similar  indicating  that  alendronate  does  not  affect  vitamin  D3 
pharmacokinetics. However, serum concentrations of vitamin D3 had not returned to baseline at the 24 
h post-dose time-point, therefore it was concluded that a longer collection period (120h) was needed to 
fully describe the vitamin D3 pharmacokinetic profile. This was applied to the definitive Study 226. 
Definitive bioequivalence study 226  
Part I (for alendronate): The geometric mean ratio, with corresponding 90% CIs, for the total urinary 
recovery  of  alendronate  /vitamin  D3  2800  IU  to  70  mg  alendronate  alone  was  1.03  (0.91,  1.17). 
Bioequivalence was therefore demonstrated with respect to alendronate between the fixed combination 
tablet intended for market and the marketed alendronate 70 mg tablet.  
Part II (vitamin D3): The unadjusted-for-baseline endogenous serum vitamin D3 concentrations single 
dose pharmacokinetics of vitamin D3 (AUC0-120h and Cmax) were compared for alendronate/vitamin 
D3  2800  IU  combination  tablet  and  the  2800  IU  vitamin  D3  tablet  alone.    The  results  are  shown  in 
Table 2.  The 90% CI for the Geometric Mean Ratio (GMR) for AUC0-120h and Cmax are within the 
pre-specified bioequivalence limits of [0.8,1.25]. 
Table  2:  Vitamin  D3  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  single-dose  administration  of  Alendronate 
70mg/vitamin D3 2800 IU Combination tablet and a 2800 IU vitamin D3 tablet 
Treatment 
N 
LS Mean 
SD 
GMR 
90% CI for 
GMR 
28 
28 
296.4 
375.5 
Vitamin D3 AUC0-120h (ng.h/ml) unadjusted for endogenous vitamin D3 serum concentrations 
70mg alendronate/2800 IU 
vitamin D3 
2800 IU vitamin D3 alone 
Vitamin D3 Cmax (ng/ml) unadjusted for endogenous vitamin D3 serum concentrations 
70mg alendronate/2800 IU 
vitamin D3 
2800 IU vitamin D3 alone 
LS = least squares (back transformed from the log scale) 
SD = between subject standard deviation (back transformed from log scale) 
GMR = least squares mean ratio (alendronate + vitamin D3/alendronate) 
CI = confidence interval 
344.2 
337.9 
0.89 
0.88 
3.1 
3.3 
6.6 
5.9 
28 
28 
0.81, 0.95 
0.84,0.95 
Two alternate methods were used post hoc for sensitivity analyses: (1) ANCOVA with concentration 
at time 0  hour  employed  as a  covariate and  (2) a  model-fitted approach  which adjusted  for baseline 
serum  vitamin  D3  concentrations.  These provided similar results (see Table 3). The 90%  confidence 
14/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intervals  for  both  parameters  for  the  ANCOVA  model  fell  within  the  standard  80-125%  limits  for 
bioequivalence,  while  the  model-based  approach  did  show  some  reduction  of  bioavailability  of 
vitamin  D3  in  the  combination  tablet  relative  to  the  reference  vitamin  D3  tablet  (90%  confidence 
interval (CI) for the geometric mean ratio (GMR) of the AUC combination tablet / reference tablet is 
(0.76,  0.94).  However,  this  small  difference  was  not  considered  to  have  any  clinical  relevance,  as 
demonstrated by the clinical study (Protocol 227) in which the efficacy of the alendronate / vitamin D3 
combination tablet was demonstrated. 
Table 3   Vitamin D3 Pharmacokinetic Parameters After Single-Dose Administrations of an 
Alendronate/Vitamin D3 2800-IU Combination Tablet and a Vitamin D3 2800- IU Tablet  
AUC, Cmax (concentration at time O as covariate) and GMR (90% CI)  
Treatment 
AUC  Alendronate /vit D3 
vitamin D3 Alone  
Cmax  Alendronate /vit D3 
vitamin D3 Alone  
N 
28 
28 
28 
28 
LS Mean*  SD**  Median 
376.8 
297.5  
343.0 
336.7 
3.3 
5.9 
3.1 
6.6 
257.5 
309.6 
5.3 
6.2 
Min    Max  GMR  90% CI for GMR  
85 
111 
2.5 
3.5 
1648  0.88 
1485 
17.48  0.90 
18.1 
(0.82, 0.95) 
(0.85, 0.95) 
AUC, Cmax (Model-based vitamin D3 baseline concentration) and GMR (90% CI)  
Treatment 
N  LS Mean*  SD**  Median 
AUC   Alendronate /Vit D3  28  143.1 
28  169.1 
Vitamin D3 Alone  
Cmax   Alendronate /Vit D3  28  4.0 
28  4.6 
Vitamin D3 Alone  
47.7 
37.3 
1.1 
0.9 
153.5 
175.0 
4.0 
4.6 
0.85 
Min    Max  GMR 
236 
61 
107  251 
6.0 
1.9 
7.2 
3.0 
0.88 
90% CI for GMR  
   (0.76, 0.94) 
(0.83, 0.93) 
AUC = ng.h/ml; Cmax = ng/ml;  
Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) = 0.168 (from the ANOVA model). 
* Least-square Means back-transformed from the log scale.** Standard Deviation back-transformed from log scale. 
GMR=Geometric Mean Ratio (LS mean of vitamin D3+ alendronate/LS mean of vitamin D3). CI=Confidence Interval. 
Given that the pharmacokinetics profile of alendronate had previously been investigated, and having 
demonstrated  bioequivalence  with  the  currently  authorised  alendronate  70mg/week  dose  in  healthy 
subjects,  no  further  pharmacokinetics  studies  in  the  target  population,  special  population  or  to 
investigate  the  interaction  profile  was  deemed  necessary.  All  the  information  relevant  to  the 
combination tablet were reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  and  secondary  pharmacodynamic  actions  of  alendronate  have  been  previously 
extensively studied. In summary, the primary effect is on bone mineral density via specific inhibition 
of  osteoclast-mediated  bone  resorption  which  arrests  and  partially  reverses  the  progression  of 
osteoporosis  resulting  in  increased  bone  mineral  density,  producing  histologically  normal  bone  and 
decreased  fracture  incidence.    It  can  therefore  be  used  to  reduce  the  high  rate  of  bone  turnover  in 
postmenopause  women to a premenopause level. In  common  with  other treatments  for  osteoporosis, 
alendronate  is  always  studied  in  and  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  along  with 
supplemental calcium and/or vitamin D3 if intake is inadequate.  
Vitamin  D  is  the  obligate  precursor  of  the  active  calcium-mobilising  hormone  –  calcitriol  (1,25-
dihydroxyvitamin  D3).  It  is  an  essential  nutrient  in  the  typical  osteoporotic  patient  who  has  little 
exposure to sunlight and/or lives in the  high latitudes of Europe, Northern  Asia and North  America 
where  there  is  less  potential  for  exposure  to  the  UBV  wavelength  required  for  skin  synthesis  of 
vitamin  D3.  Calcitriol  increases  intestinal  calcium  absorption  and  is  required  for  healthy  bone 
formation.  
No new specific pharmacodynamic studies have been performed with the fixed combination tablet 
alendronate/vitamin D3, but markers of bone turnover were incorporated in the main Study 227, whose 
results are presented in the Clinical efficacy part of this document.  
15/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
(cid:0) 
Dose response study(ies) 
The  dose  of  alendronate  selected  in  the  fixed  combination  tablet  is  70  mg,  which  is  currently 
authorised for once weekly treatment of postmenopause osteoporosis. 
The rationale for the selected dose of vitamin D3 in the combination tablet is based on the FDA and 
Scientific Committee for Food, established by the Commission of the European Communities, which 
recommends a  daily  dose  of 10µ g/day (≡ 400 IU) of  vitamin D3 for all adults (including  the  elderly 
and those  with inadequate light exposure). It  was therefore thought, a 400 IU  vitamin D3 daily dose 
should  be  sufficient  to  ensure  adequate  vitamin  D  levels  in  osteoporotic  patients,  including  those 
whose  supplemental  requirements  may  be  greater  than  average,  due  to  relatively  little  sunlight 
exposure and/or little vitamin D in their diet.  
Efficacy  of  vitamin  D3,  in  terms  of  maintaining  normal  levels  of  25-hydroxy  vitamin  D,  has  been 
demonstrated in  numerous published literature  over the last 20  years.  Although the  findings seemed 
reasonably consistent, for comparative purposes, these studies are limited by the fact that a variety of 
vitamin D3 products were used and potency, stability and bioavailability of these products were rarely 
reported. Furthermore, none was studied using the proposed dosing schedule of 2800 IU once weekly, 
to be taken at least 30 minutes before breakfast or other medication.  
Given that it was technically not feasible to conduct a study to show that a weekly dose of 2800 IU is 
bioequivalent to giving 400 IU/day, adequate efficacy of the weekly dose in terms of vitamin D status 
needed to be proven in order to adequately support the application. The applicant therefore conducted 
Study 227, described in the section below. 
• 
Main study 
Study  227  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double  blind,  double  dummy,  parallel  group,  active-
controlled Phase III study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of alendronate 70 mg/vitamin 
D3 2800 IU combination tablet in men and postmenopause women with osteoporosis over 15 weeks. 
The study included a 24 week randomised double active controlled extension. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The study was conducted in predominantly postmenopause osteoporotic women and osteoporotic men. 
Entry  criteria  were  consistent  with  the  current  alendronate  product  information  and  included  those 
patients in general good health aged between 40 and 90 years with a lumbar spine or hip bone mineral 
density (BMD T-score ≥ 2.5 SD below the mean for normal premenopause women). ‘Postmenopause’ 
was  defined  as  amenorrhoea  for  ≥  6  months  preceding  randomisation  [+  endocrine  confirmation  in 
non-ovariectomised women <55 years if less than 18 months since last menses].  
All patients were required to  have serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level > 9 ng/ml. Patients with levels 
between  9  and  15  ng/ml  (cut-off  level  for  vitamin  D  insufficiency)  were  required  to  have  a  normal 
parathyroid hormone and alkaline phosphatase.   
Treatments 
Patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  alendronate  70mg/vitamin  D3  2800  IU  or 
alendronate  70mg  for  15  weeks.  A  “double-dummy”  design  was  used.  All  patients  received  daily 
supplementation  with  500  to  600  mg  of  elemental  Ca++  (as  carbonate).  If  a  patient’s  25-
hydroxyvitamin  D  level  fell  below  9 ng/ml,  study  medication  was  discontinued,  but  the  patient 
remained in the study and continued to be followed for safety.  
16/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  alendronate  70  mg/vitamin  D3  2800  IU 
administered once weekly as a combination tablet to reduce the proportion of patients with vitamin D 
insufficiency  in  postmenopause  women  and  men  with  osteoporosis,  compared  to  alendronate  70mg 
alone after 15 weeks of treatment.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D below 
the insufficiency  threshold  of  15  ng/ml  at  week  15.  The  applicant  justified  the  choice  of  serum  25-
hydroxyvitamin D <15ng/ml as cut-off point for vitamin D deficiency. 
Secondary endpoints included the proportion of patients with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D below the 
deficiency cut-point (<9 ng/ml); change from baseline in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D; the log fraction 
of baseline value in serum calcium, 24-hour urine calcium, serum Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase 
(BSAP),  urine  N-telopeptides  of  Type  1  collagen  (NTx),  serum  phosphate,  and  serum  parathyroid 
hormone. 
Sample size 
For  the  primary  hypothesis,  a  sample  size  of  340  evaluable  patients  per  treatment  group,  after  15 
weeks of treatment with alendronate/vitamin D3, would have 90% power to detect a difference of  at 
least 11.3% in the combination group (alpha=0.05, two-tailed). This calculation assumed that after 15 
weeks  of  treatment,  the  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  insufficiency  (<15  ng/ml)  rate  would  be  35%  in  the 
alendronate only group. 
Randomisation 
Eligible  patients  were  stratified  by  baseline  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  level  (≥  9  but  <15ng/ml  or 
>15 ng/ml),  then  randomised  by  a  computer-generated  allocation  schedule  to  receive  either 
alendronate/vitamin D3 2800 IU or alendronate once weekly for 15 weeks 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  method  used  was  an  All-Patients-Treated  (APT)  analysis.  It  included  all  randomised 
patients  who  took  at  least  one  dose  of  study  treatment  and  had  at  least  one  post-randomisation 
measurement.  Missing  data  were  inputed  by  carrying  the  previous  post-randomisation  measurement 
forward.  However,  since  patients  whose  25  hydroxyvitamin  D3  levels  fell  to  below  9ng/ml  were 
instructed  to  treat  their  vitamin  D  deficiency  with  a  supplement,  measurements  taken  after  the 
identification of vitamin D deficiency were treated as missing.  
For the 15 weeks base  study, the  efficacy  of alendronate/vitamin D3 2800 IU on low vitamin D rate 
reduction  was  evaluated by  calculating the proportions of patients  with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin  D 
<15ng/ml  and  comparing  the  proportions  between  the  combination  tablet  group  and  alendronate 
groups.  The  comparison  was  performed  using  a  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  test  adjusted  for  baseline 
vitamin D stratum. The test assessed the relative reduction in the proportion of patients with serum 25 
hydroxyvitamin D <15ng/ml in the alendronate/vitamin D3 2800 IU group. The associated 95% CI for 
the  relative  risk  was  provided.  In  addition,  the  between-treatment  difference  of  the  proportions 
summarised  across  strata  was  estimated  with  a  95%  CI  using  the  weighted  average  method  with 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel weighting strategy. The same testing and estimation techniques were utilised 
to compare the proportion of patients at week 15 with vitamin D levels <9 ng/ml as the key secondary 
analysis. As a secondary analysis, a parametric analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model was used to 
analyse  the  treatment  effect  on  changes  from  baseline  at  week  15  in  serum  25-hydroxyvitamin  D 
levels. The  model included  factors  for baseline serum 25-hydroxy D  levels, geographic location and 
treatment groups. Treatment differences were estimated by differences in least-squares means from the 
model and their 95% CIs were calculated. 
17/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Results at 15 weeks are available. 
Participant flow 
The  study  enrolled  717  patients  (682  women  and  35  men).  Of  those,  360  were  randomised  to  the 
alendronate/vitamin D3 combination tablet and 357 to alendronate tablet.  
Of the 717 patients entered into the study, 673 (93.9%) completed; 338 (93.9%) and 335 (93.8%) in 
the alendronate/vitamin D3 2800-IU and alendronate treatment groups, respectively. Of the 44 (6.1%) 
patients  who  discontinued,  22  (6.1%)  received  alendronate/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  and  22  (6.2%) 
received  alendronate.  Reasons  for  discontinuation  included  adverse  events:  30  (4.1%)  of  patients 
overall;  14  (3.9%)  in  the  alendronate/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  group  and  16  (4.5%)  in  the  alendronate 
group. Six (0.8%) patients overall discontinued due to protocol deviations; 5 (1.1%) and 2 (0.6%) in 
the  alendronate/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  and  alendronate  treatment  groups,  respectively.  Four  (0.6%) 
patients, 2 (0.6%) in each treatment group, withdrew consent; and 4 (0.6%) patients, 2 (0.6%) in each 
treatment group, discontinued due to patient move or other reasons. 
Baseline data  
The patients had a mean age of 66.8 years (range: 35 to 89 years). 98.6% of patients were White, 0.7% 
Black,  0.6%  Hispanic  American,  and  0.1%  Indian.  At  baseline,  there  were  no  clinically  meaningful 
differences between treatment groups with respect to  age,  calcium intake,  vitamin D intake, average 
BMD  (lumbar  spine:  0.73  and  0.86  g/cm2,  femoral  neck:  0.60  and  0.74  g/cm2;  Hologic  and  Lunar, 
respectively) and the average laboratory values. About 95 % of the patients had a T-score < - 2.5 for at 
least one of the T-scores in either femoral neck or lumbar spine total sites (79 % had a lumbar spine T 
score of < - 2.5).  
Mean  25-OHD  levels  at  baseline  in  the  two  treatment  groups  were  22.4  ng/ml  (median  21  ng/ml, 
range 9-90 ng/ml) in the  alendronate/vitamin D3 group and 22.3 ng/ml (median 21 ng/ml, range 9-84 
ng/ml) in the alendronate group. At baseline, 21% of patients in both treatment groups had serum 25-
hydroxyvitamin  D  levels  <15  ng/ml  (none  had  serum  25-OHD  concentration  of  <9  ng/ml;  see 
exclusion criteria).  
Efficacy data  
The results are displayed in table 4. 
At  week  15,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  serum  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  levels  <15  ng/ml  in  the 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU treatment group (11 % versus 32 %) was significantly reduced 
versus the group treated with alendronate alone (p<0.001). The relative risk was 0.36 (95% CI: 0.27, 
0.48) in those who received alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU (relative risk reduction = 64%). 
18/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4:  Analysis  of the proportion  of patients  with 25  hydroxyvitamin  D levels  <15  ng/ml (all patients 
treated population) 
Treatment 
ALN/VITD 
ALN 
N 
357 
351 
Baseline 
events 
76 
75 
proportion 
0.21 
0.21 
On-treatment 
events 
41 
112 
proportion 
0.11 
0.32 
Relative risk using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test adjusted for baseline stratum 
Between-group comparison 
ALN VITD vs ALN 
95 % CI for relative risk 
(0.27, 0.48) 
Relative risk 
0.36 
p-value  
< 0.001 
Difference in proportion using weighted average approach with Cochran- Mantel –Haenszel weighting strategy 
Between group comparison 
Adjusted rate difference 
for  Adjusted 
rate 
ALN VITD vs ALN 
- 0.20 
95  %  CI 
difference 
(- 0.25, -0.15) 
Alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  also  significantly  reduced  the  proportion  of  patients  with 
vitamin  D  deficiency  (serum  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  levels  <9  ng/ml),  compared  with  patients 
administered alendronate tablet (secondary efficacy parameter). The proportion of patients with serum 
25-hydroxyvitamin D levels <9 ng/ml at Week 15 was 1% in the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-
IU group and 13% in the alendronate 70 mg group. The relative risk was 0.09 (95% CI: 0.03, 0.23) in 
those who received alendronate/vitamin D3 2800-IU (relative risk reduction = 91%). 
With respect to the change from baseline in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, there was a slight increase of 
average  1 ng/ml  in  the  patients  treated  with  alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  (from  22.2  to 
23.1 ng/ml) while treatment with alendronate tablet resulted in a decrease of -3.4 ng/ml (from 22.1 to 
18.4 ng/ml). The between-group difference of 4.6 ng/ml was significant (p<0.001). 
The mean changes from baseline 25-OH vitamin D in patients with vitamin D insufficiency (25-OHD 
< 15ng/ml) were in the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU group (n=76) from 12.1 ± 1.7 ng/ml (at 
baseline) to 15.8 ± 3.9 ng/ml (SD) at week 15, and in the alendronate tablet group (n=75) from 12.1 ± 
1.7  ng/ml  (at  baseline)  to  10.4  ±  4.0  ng/ml  (SD)  at  week  15.    In  addition,  the  combination  of 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU did not fully prevent the development of vitamin D deficiency 
[alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU: 1% (4/357 patients]; alendronate tablet alone: 13% (46/357 
patients).  
With regard to markers of bone turnover, there was no significant difference between the 2 treatment 
groups. The means of urine NTx/Cr (bone resorption marker) decreased significantly from baseline at 
week 15 (53.40% and 53.27%) and the  means  of serum bone-specific alkaline  phosphatase (as bone 
formation  marker)  decreased  significantly  from  baseline  at  week  15  (27.2%  and  25.16%)  in  the 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU and alendronate groups, respectively (p
The changes in urine NTX and BSAP were similar to those observed in study 118 (a study previously 
reported  which  compared  the  effects  of  10  mg  daily,  35-  mg  twice  daily  and  70  mg  once  weekly 
alendronate  in  postmenopause  women  with  osteoporosis).  Despite  some  differences  in  methodology 
and time points of assay (week 15 in study 227 and 3 month in study 118) the effects on bone turnover 
are comparable in both studies. 
Patients in both treatment groups experienced significant decreases: 
0.001).  
≤
≤
- 
- 
in serum calcium  from baseline at Week 15: 0.87% (9.49 to 9.43 mg/dl; p
≤
versus 1.38% (9.48 to 9.38 mg/dl; p
2800-IU and alendronate groups, respectively 
in serum  phosphate  from baseline at Week 15  ( 2.37% (3.58 to 3.47  mgP/dl)  vs 
3.60%  (3.61  to  3.45  mgP/dl)  in  the  alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  and 
alendronate groups, respectively (p<0.001)).  
0.01) 
0.001) in the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 
There was no significant difference between the 2 treatment groups. 
19/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  in  both  treatment  groups  experienced  significant  increases  in  serum  parathyroid  hormone 
from baseline at Week 15. The increase in the alendronate group was 24.33% (45.46 to 54.65 pg/ml), 
and the increase in the alendronate/vitamin D3 2800-IU group was 13.90% (47.35 to 52.47 pg/ml). The 
mean difference between groups, -10.43 (95% CI -17.57, -3.30), was significant (p=0.004) but small. 
Subgroup  analysis revealed that there  was an inverse  relationship between 25-OHD levels  and PTH 
levels - the lower the baseline 25-OHD level, the higher was the increase in PTH at the end of study. 
The percentage of men included in the study is small (about 4.9%), and the applicant showed that the 
data  from  men  did  not  significantly  influence  the  baseline  data  or  the  overall  outcome  in 
postmenopause women. 
The  applicant  committed  to  provide  longer-term  efficacy  data  from  the  24-week  double  blind 
extension with the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU combination tablet as a follow-up measure 
to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Clinical safety 
Safety  data  for  the  alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  combination  tablet  derive  from  the 
pharmacokinetic studies (Studies 183, 220 and 226) and the main clinical trial (Study 227).  
In  addition  safety  data  from  the  previously  mentioned  12-month  study  (Study  118),  where  women 
with  postmenopause  osteoporosis  were  treated  with  alendronate  10  mg  daily  (n=370),  35  mg  twice 
weekly (n=369) and 70 mg once weekly (n=519) are available. 
• 
Patient exposure 
In the pharmacokinetic studies, 250 adults were exposed to a single dose of the combination tablet.  
In the clinical Study 227, 360 patients with osteoporosis (mean age 66.6 years, range 35-89 years) in 
the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU group received an average of 14.7 weeks of treatment.  
• 
Adverse events  
In  all  three  pharmacokinetics  studies,  there  were  no  clinically  significant  changes  or  trends  in  vital 
signs, physical examinations, or ECGs based on visual inspection of the data. One subject in Study226 
was  discontinued  from  the  study  because  of  a  non  treatment-related  adverse  event.  There  were  no 
serious adverse events, and no subject was discontinued due to a laboratory adverse event. 
For Study 22, the summary of  adverse  events is shown in Table 5 and the  most  common treatment-
related  adverse  events  (occurring  in  at  least  1%  of  patients  in  either  treatment  group)  are  shown  in 
Table  24.  No  new  treatment-related  adverse  events  were  identified  and  the  safety  profile  of  the 
combination tablet seems to be consistent with that of alendronate alone.  
Table 5: Study 227 Summary of adverse events 
% 
% 
Combination tablet N=360  Alendronate 70mg† N=357 
Number of 
patients 
215 
145 
57 
7 
0 
0 
18 
13 
Number of 
patients 
210 
147 
57 
15 
1 
0 
17 
13 
≥ one Adverse Event 
No Adverse Events 
With treatment-related Adverse Events 
With Serious Adverse Events 
With Serious treatment-related* Adverse Events 
Deaths 
Discontinuation due to Adverse Events 
Discontinuation due to treatment-related* 
Adverse Events 
Discontinuation due to Serious Adverse Events 
Discontinuation due to Serious treatment-related* 
Adverse Events 
*Treatment related = considered by the investigator to be possibly, probably or definitely treatment-related 
58.8 
41.2 
16.0 
4.2 
0.3 
0 
4.8 
3.6 
59.7 
40.3 
15.8 
1.9 
0 
0 
5 
3.6 
0.3 
0 
1 
0 
2 
0 
0.6 
0 

EMEA 2005 
20/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
†One patient in the alendronate group was dispensed study drug but reported never taking a dose 
The  percentage  of  patients  who  discontinued  due  to  an  adverse  event  was  similar  between  the  two 
treatment groups with approximately one half of the discontinuations being due to events related to the 
upper  gastrointestinal  tract.  (1.9  and  2.5%  in  the  combination  tablet  and  alendronate  groups, 
respectively). 
Table 6: Study: 227 - Number and %age of patients with treatment-related* adverse events reported with 
a frequency ≥ 1% by organ system/disease category 
MedDRA Disease Category Groupings 
Combination tablet N=360  Alendronate 70mg† N=375 
% 
% 
Number of 
patients n 
57 
303 
34 
3 
4 
4 
6 
9 
5 
Number of 
patients n 
57 
300 
37 
4 
8 
3 
8 
9 
2 
15.8 
84.2 
9.4 
0.8 
1.1 
1.1 
1.7 
2.5 
1.4 
≥ one Adverse Event 
No Adverse Events 
Gastrointestinal 
Abdominal pain 
Abdominal pain upper 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Nausea 
General Disorders and Administration site 
Conditions 
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders 
Arthralgia 
Bone Pain 
Myalgia 
Nervous System Disorders 
Headache 
Although a patient may have had 2 or more adverse events, the patient is counted only once within a category. The same patient 
may appear in different categories. 
† one patient in the alendronate group was dispensed study drug but reported never taking a dose 
* classified by the investigator as possibly, probably or definitely drug related 
16.0 
84.0 
10.4 
1.1 
2.2 
0.8 
2.2 
2.5 
0.6 
3.9 
1.4 
1.4 
1.1 
1.1 
1.1 
3.6 
1.4 
0.3 
1.4 
3.1 
2.2 
13 
5 
1 
5 
11 
8 
14 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths were reported in any of the studies.  
• 
In Study 227, serious adverse  events occurred slightly more  frequently in the  combined tablet 
group (4.2%) compared to the alendronate only group (1.9%), but no serious treatment-related 
adverse events (classified as possibly, probably or definitely drug related), were reported, except 
in  one  patient  (0.3%)  in  the  alendronate  group–  i.e.  worsening  of  a  pre-existing  anaemia  of 
unknown  aetiology  which  the  investigator  considered  to  be  possibly  related  to  both  study 
therapy and concomitant warfarin treatment.  
Given  that  irritation  of  the  upper  gastrointestinal  mucosa  is  a  recognised  adverse  effect  of 
bisphosphonates these events were specifically examined. The findings were consistent with those of 
other clinical studies involving alendronate. The exclusion criteria for study 227 included only upper 
gastrointestinal  conditions  contraindicating  bisphosphonate  therapy  e.g.  oesophageal  abnormalities 
including stricture and achalasia and 365 of patients in the study had a history of other gastrointestinal 
disorders.  Overall, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal events was similar in the two groups (14% 
and  16%  in  the  combined  tablet  and  alendronate  groups,  respectively).  Treatment-related  upper 
gastrointestinal  adverse  events  occurred  in  30  patients  (8.3%)  in  the  combined  tablet  group  and  33 
patients (9.2%) in the alendronate group. A total of 16 patients discontinued study drug due to upper 
gastrointestinal  adverse  events.  Two  patients  developed  gastrointestinal  serious  adverse  events  that 
were  not  considered  drug related. Esophageal adverse  events  occurred in less than 1%  of  combined 
tablet and alendronate treated patients.   
21/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
         
      
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Laboratory findings 
With the exception of some decreases in 25-hydroxyvitamin D level, there were overall no differences 
in  laboratory  parameters  between  the  two  groups.  The  majority  of  the  reductions  in  25-
hydroxyvitamin D levels occurred in the alendronate group (13.1% versus 1.1% in the combined tablet 
group). Eight events led to discontinuation in the alendronate group (all due to low 25-hydroxyvitamin 
D). There were no serious laboratory adverse events and drug-related adverse events were infrequent 
(1.1%  and  0.6%  in  the  combination  tablet  and  alendronate  groups,  respectively).  Decreased  25 
hydroxyvitamin D was rated as possibly, probably or definitely related to treatment by the investigator 
in  two  patients  (both  in  the  alendronate  group).  A  review  of  predefined  limits  of  change  for  all 
measured laboratory parameters revealed no between-group differences. 
Laboratory  adverse  events  were  evaluated  specifically  for  signs  of  vitamin  D  toxicity  e.g. 
hypercalcaemia, hypercalciuria. The mean serum Ca++ and urinary Ca++ levels decreased by similar 
amounts  during  treatment  with  both  the  combined  tablet  and  alendronate  -  which  is  attributable  to 
reduced  resorption  of bone Ca++ by  the  action of  alendronate. Hypercalciuria  was  not  reported  and 
changes in 24-hour urinary Ca++ excretion which exceeded the pre-defined limit of >300mg/day, or 
an  increase  >25%,  were  seen  with  the  same  frequency  in  both  groups.  Hypercalcaemia  was  not 
reported  and  no  significant  effect  of  the  combined  tablet  on  serum  Ca++  or  24-hour  urinary  Ca++ 
excretion  was  found.  As  there  is  a  theoretical  risk  that  vitamin  D3  may  exacerbate  hypercalcaemia 
and/or  hypercalciuria  when  administered  to  patients  with  diseases  associated  with  unregulated 
overproduction  of  calcitriol  (1,25  hydroxyvitamin  D)  e.g.  leukaemia,  lymphoma  and  sarcoidosis,  a 
warning  is  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  to  cover  this  along  with  the 
recommendation to monitor urine and serum Ca++ in these patients.  
Post-marketing experience 
There are no post-marketing data available for the alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU tablet. 
Alendronate  alone  (10mg/day)  is  marketed  in  over  90  countries  and  70mg/once  weekly  in  over  75 
countries.  As  of  June  2004  the  cumulative  patient-years  of  experience  exceeds  23  million.  In  post-
marketing  experience, bone, joint, and/or  muscle pain have rarely been severe  and/or incapacitating. 
The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting treatment. Most 
patients  had  relief  of  symptoms  after  stopping.  A  subset  had  recurrence  of  symptoms  when 
rechallenged  with  the  same  medicinal  product  or  another  bisphosphonate.  A  warning  has  been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on development,  manufacture and  control of the  active substances and  finished product 
have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of important product quality  characteristics, and these in turn  lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to 
the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  or  toxicology  studies  have  been  conducted  with  the 
combination of alendronate and vitamin D3. It was considered that the extensive literature for vitamin 
D, the comprehensive preclinical data previously obtained for alendronate, and the clinical experience 
22/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
with the administration of vitamin D3 as a nutrient supplement with alendronate sodium which did not 
result in adverse findings in human, superseded the need for additional animal data. 
The  mode  of  action  of  alendronate  postulates  incorporation  of  the  drug  present  on  the  bone  surface 
into the cytoplasm of the osteoclast. Various animal pharmacodynamic analyses show that vitamin D3 
acts as a prohormone that is readily metabolised to 25-OH vitamin D3 in the liver.  The activating step 
-hydroxylase in the kidney is tightly 
of converting 25-OH vitamin D3 to the active hormone by the 1
controlled by circulating levels of PTH, calcitonin and 1
 25(OH)2 vitamin D3 suggest 
Animal studies of the effects of a combination of bisphosphonate with 1
additive effects on bone.  This suggests that the mechanism of action of either agent is non-redundant.  
The combination of vitamin D3 with alendronate would thus be predicted to have beneficial effects on 
bone homeostasis that extend beyond the effects elicited by alendronate alone. 
α
, 25(OH)2 vitamin D3 itself.   
α
α
The pharmacokinetic properties of alendronate sodium  have been  extensively  evaluated. It is poorly 
absorbed in animals. Systemically available alendronate disappears very rapidly from plasma, and the 
compound is either taken up by bone tissues or excreted by the kidney, which is the only elimination 
pathway.  Vitamin  D3  is  absorbed  by  passive  diffusion  in  the  intestine  as  a  fat-soluble  vitamin,  and 
requires bile salt for optimal absorption.  Vitamin D3 is inactive and requires sequential hydroxylation 
α
,  25  dihydroxyvitamin  D3.    The 
in  the  liver  and  kidney  to  become  the  biologically  active  form,  1
enzymes that mediate the hepatic and renal metabolism of vitamin D3 are the mitochondrial CYP27A1 
and  CYP27B1,  respectively.    The  biologically  active  form  of  vitamin  D3  is  then  metabolically 
inactivated in a mutistep process. The metabolites of vitamin D3 appear to be excreted predominantly 
in bile and subject to enterohepatic recirculation. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity,  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenic  studies  revealed  no  special  hazard  of 
alendronate for humans. Studies in rats have shown that treatment with alendronate during pregnancy 
was  associated  with  dystocia  in  dams  during  parturition  which  was  related  to  hypocalcaemia.    In 
studies, rats given  high  doses showed an increased incidence  of incomplete  foetal  ossification.  The 
relevance to humans is unknown. 
Calcitriol, a synthetic hormonal metabolite of vitamin D3 was not mutagenic or genotoxic. In repeat-
dose  studies  treatment-related  changes  observed  with  high  doses  were  attributed  to  exaggerated 
pharmacologic effect of vitamin D3. At doses far higher than the human therapeutic range,  
reproductive toxicity has been observed in animal studies. 
Efficacy and safety 
No new clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the efficacy of the alendronate component 
in terms of bone-mineral density were conducted. Instead, the applicant confirmed the bioequivalence 
(Study  226),  of  alendronate  in  the  combined  tablet,  compared  to  the  70  mg  marketed  alendronate 
tablet, and this is considered an acceptable bridge to the existing efficacy data for the latter. The data 
showed however that the combination tablet is slightly less bioavailable with regard to vitamin D3. 
In  support  of  the  weekly  oral  regimen  with  the  alendronate  70  mg/  vitamin  D3.2800IU  combination 
tablet, a single clinical study was conducted (Study 227). This multicenter study aimed to evaluate the 
efficacy of alendronate 70mg/vitamin D 2800 IU administered once weekly as a combination tablet to 
reduce  the  proportion  of  patients  with  vitamin  D  insufficiency  (serum  25-hydroxyvitamin  D 
<15ng/ml)  in  682  postmenopause  women  with  osteoporosis,  compared  to  alendronate  70mg  alone 
after 15 weeks of treatment.  
At  week  15,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  serum  25-hydroxyvitamin  D  levels  <15  ng/ml  in  the 
alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  treatment  group  was  significantly  reduced  versus  the  group 
treated with alendronate alone ((11% versus 32%, p<0.001).  
The proportion of patients with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels <9 ng/ml at week 15 was 1% in the 
alendronate 70-mg/vitamin D3 2800-IU group and 13% in the alendronate 70 mg group. The relative 
risk  was  0.09  (95%  CI:  0.03,  0.23)  in  those  who  received  alendronate/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  (relative 
risk reduction = 91%). 
23/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  terms  of  safety,  alendronate  70  mg/  vitamin  D3.2800IU  combination  tablet  was  found  to  be 
generally safe and well-tolerated in the target population, with a safety profile which is consistent with 
that  of  the  marketed  alendronate  70mg  product.  Therefore,  the  contraindications,  warnings  and 
precautions  contained  in  the  current  alendronate  70mg  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  are 
applicable  to  the  proposed  product.  With  regard  to  the  vitamin  D3  component  of  the  combination 
tablet, there was no evidence of vitamin D toxicity.  
The  applicant  committed  to  provide  longer-term  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  the  24-week  double 
blind  extension  with  the  alendronate  70-mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  combination  tablet,  as  a  follow-up 
measure to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall, the clinical data support the conclusions that the combination tablet, compared to alendronate 
alone, administered  once  weekly reduces the  risk  of  vitamin D insufficiency (defined as a serum 25 
hydroxyvitamin D i.e. serum level 9 to <15ng/ml), reduces the risk of vitamin D deficiency (defined as 
a  serum  25  hydroxyvitamin  D  i.e.  serum  level  <9  ng/ml),  causes  an  increase  in  mean  serum  25-
hydroxyvitamin  D  –  the  levels  fall  on  alendronate  alone  -  and  results  in  similar  rates  of  bone 
resorption (NTx), bone formation (BSAP), serum Ca++, serum phosphate and 24 hour urine Ca++ and 
is  associated  with  less  serum  PTH  elevation.    In  terms  of  safety,  alendronate  70  mg/  vitamin 
D3.2800IU combination tablet has a safety profile consistent with that of the marketed alendronate 70 
mg tablet. FOSAVANCE encompassing the advantage of a fixed dose combination of alendronate 70-
mg/vitamin  D3  2800-IU  to  be  taken  once  weekly  has  the  potential  to  simplify  the  treatment  of 
postmenauposal osteoporosis.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered consensus 
that the benefit/risk ratio of FOSAVANCE was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the marketing authorisation for the indication: “Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients 
at risk of vitamin D insufficiency. FOSAVANCE reduces the risk of vertebral and hip fractures”. 
24/24 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
