29 June 2011 
EMA/543432/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Adrovance, Fosavance and Vantavo 
alendronic acid / colecalciferol  
Procedure numbers:   
EMEA/H/C/000759/A20/0012 
EMEA/H/C/000619/A20/0015 
EMEA/H/C/001180/A20/0005 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7051   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 4 
2.2. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 4 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 4 
2.2.2. Clinical safety ................................................................................................. 6 
2.3. Changes to the Product information .................................................................... 12 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment.................................... 14 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................. 14 
5. Communication plan .............................................................................. 15 
6. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation.................................. 15 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Following the addition of a warning about atypical stress fractures of the proximal femoral shaft to the 
product information for alendronic acid containing medicinal products, the Pharmacovigilance Working 
Party (PhVWP) recommended to keep the issue of bisphosphonates and atypical stress fractures under 
close  review,  The  PhVWP  considered  this  issue  again  in  April  2010  and  noted  that  further  data  had 
emerged from both the published literature and post-marketing reports suggesting that atypical stress 
fractures may be a class effect. 
In  view  of  the  above  the  European  Commission  initiated  a  procedure  under  Article  20  of  Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 19 October 2010 to assess the 
above concerns and its impact on the benefit/risk for Adrovance, Fosavance and Vantavo, and to give 
its opinion on measures necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of Adrovance, Fosavance and 
Vantavo, and on whether the marketing authorisations for these product should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or withdrawn. 
The  scope  of  the  review  was  the  class  review  of  the  relation  between  bisphosphonates  and  atypical 
stress fractures. 
After  reviewing  all  the  available  data  submitted  by  the  MAHs  to  address  the  concerns  discussed,  the 
CHMP adopted an opinion on 14 April 2011. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Bisphosphonates  are  medicinal  products  that  are  used  to  treat  and  prevent  bone  disorders  including 
hypercalcaemia  and  the  prevention  of  bone  problems  in  patients  with  cancer,  the  treatment  of 
osteoporosis  and  Paget's  disease.  Bisphosphonate-containing  medicinal  products  include  alendronic 
acid,  clodronic  acid,  etidronic  acid,  ibandronic  acid,  neridronic  acid,pamidronic  acid,  risedronic  acid, 
tiludronic acid. Bisphosphonates have been authorised in the EU via the centralised procedure and also 
through national procedures. 
In 2008, evidence from the published literature suggesting that long-term use of alendronic acid may 
be associated with an increased risk of atypical stress fractures prompted a review of bisphosphonates 
and  atypical  stress  fractures  by  the  CHMP  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  (PhVWP).  The  PhVWP 
concluded  that  the  data  supported  an  association  between  alendronic  acid  and  atypical  stress 
fractures, and a warning about atypical stress fractures of the proximal femoral shaft was subsequently 
added to the product information (PI) for alendronic acid containing medicinal products across Europe. 
With  regard  to  the  other  bisphosphonates,  the  available  data  did  not  provide  evidence  of  a  causal 
association, and no changes to the product information were recommended. However as a class effect 
could not be ruled out, the PhVWP recommended that this issue should be kept under close review. 
In  light  of  the  PhVWP  recommendation  to  keep  the  issue  of  bisphosphonates  and  atypical  stress 
fractures  under  close  review,  the  PhVWP  considered  this  issue  again in April  2010.  The  PhVWP  noted 
that  further  data  had  emerged  from  both  the  published  literature  and  post-marketing  reports, 
suggesting  that  atypical  stress  fractures  may  be  a  class  effect  of  bisphosphonates.  Although  the 
majority  of  case  reports  of  atypical  stress  fracture  had  been  reported  in  association  with  alendronic 
acid use, a number of cases have now also been reported in association with the majority of the other 
bisphosphonates (etidronic acid, ibandronic acid, pamidronic acid, risedronic acid and zoledronate). No 
cases  of  atypical  stress  fractures  have  been  reported  for  clodronic  acid,  neridronic  acid  or  tiludronic 
acid,  although  this  may  be  related  to  the  lower  usage  of  these  products  compared  to  other 
bisphosphonates. It was also the view of the PhVWP that a possible class effect of bisphosphonates and 
atypical stress fractures is supported by the proposed pathophysiological mechanisms of this potential 
adverse reaction, which may apply to all bisphosphonates. 
Further to the PhVWP discussions and the emerging data from both the published literature and post-
marketing reports that suggest that atypical stress fractures may be a class effect of bisphosphonates, 
the, the European Commission initiated a procedure under Art 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for 
bisphosphonate-containing  products  and  referred  the  matter  to  the  CHMP,  to  give  its  opinion  on 
measures necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of these medicinal products and  whether the 
Marketing Authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  currently  available  safety  data  from  non-clinical  and  histological  studies, 
relevant  clinical  trials,  epidemiological  studies,  post-marketing  reports  and  published  literature.  The 
review of the CHMP focussed specifically on the available data mentioned above, the discussion on the 
definition of atypical femoral fracture, risk factors and discussion on the need for further clinical studies 
to be conducted.  
2.1.  Non-clinical aspects 
Although  pre-clinical  studies  have  provided  limited  information  on  the  risk  of  atypical  fractures  with 
bisphosphonates,  some  studies  have  demonstrated  that  suppression  of  bone  turnover  by 
bisphosphonates may increase microdamage accumulation and the accumulation of advanced glycation 
end-products  resulting  in  changes  in  the  biomechanical  properties  of  bone  (Brennan  et  al,  2011, 
Hofstaetter  et  al,  2010,  Mashiba  et  al,  2000,  O’Neal  et  al,  Tang  et  al,  20091).  However  not  all  pre-
clinical studies have found adverse effects of alendronic acid on bone (Burr et al2). 
2.2.  Clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Cases  of  atypical  stress  fractures  in  association  with  bisphosphonates  have  been  described  in  the 
literature  using  a  variety  of  terms  such  as  pathological  fractures,  instability  fractures,  fragility 
fractures, stress fractures, low-energy fractures, and atypical fractures. The main reported fracture site 
is the femur described as proximal femoral shaft, subtrochanteric and diaphyseal fractures. 
The  task  force  of  the  American  Society  for  Bone  and  Mineral  Research  (ASBMR)  on  atypical 
subtrochanteric  and  diaphyseal  femoral  fractures  have  defined  major  and  minor  features  of  atypical 
femoral  fracture  (Shane  et  al,  20103)  and  recommend  that  for  a  case  to  be  considered  an  atypical 
femoral  fracture  all  major  features  need  to  be  present,  whereas  the  minor  features  have  commonly 
been described in cases of atypical femoral fractures, but are not present in all patients. 
1Brennan  O  et  al  The  effects  of  estrogen  deficiency  and  bisphosphonate  treatment  on  tissue  mineralisation  and 
stiffness in an ovine model of osteoporosis. J Biomech 2011; 44:386-90 
Hofstaetter  JG  et  al.  The  effects  of  high-dose,  long-term  alendronate  treatment  on  microarchitecture  and  bone 
mineral density of compact  and trabecular bone in the proximal femur of adult male  rabbits. Arch Orthop Trauma 
Surg 2010; 30: 937-944 
Mashiba  T  et  al  Suppressed  bone  turnover  by  bisphosphonates  increases  microdamage  accumulation  and  reduces 
some biomechanical properties in dog rib. J Bone Miner Res 2000; 15: 613-620 
O’Neal  JM  et  al  One  year  of  alendronate  treatment  lowers  microstructural  stresses  associated  with  trabeclar 
microdamage initiation. Bone 2010; 47: 241-247 
Tang SY et al Changes in non-enzymatic glycation and its association with altered mechanical properties following 
1-year treatment with risedronate or alendronate. Osteoporosis Int 2009; 20: 887-894 
2  Burr  DB  et  al  Effects  of  one  to  three  years  treatment  with  alendronate  on  mechanical  properties  of  the  femoral 
shaft in a canine model: implications for subtrochanteric femoral fracture risk. J Orthop Res 2009; 27: 1288-1292  
3  Shane  E  et  al  Atypical  subtrochanteric  and  diaphyseal  femoral  fractures:  report  of  a  task  force  of  the  American 
Society for Bone and Mineral Research. J Bone Miner Res 2010; 25: 2267-2294  
                                               
Based  on  the  small  number  of  spontaneous  reports  of  comminuted  atypical  femoral  fracture  in 
association with bisphosphonates, one published case report (Schneider, 20064), as well as preliminary 
data presented at the October meeting of the ASBMR (Nitche et al, 20105), the CHMP agreed to adopt 
a modified case definition that lists ‘noncomminuted’ as a minor feature rather than a major feature of 
atypical  femur  femoral  fracture,  as  mentioned  below.  It  was  the  view  of  the  CHMP  that  a  modified 
version  of  the  ASBMR  case  definition  for  atypical  femoral  fracture  as  described  below  should  be  used 
for the purpose of this assessment. 
CHMP agreed definition of atypical fracture of the femur (based on the ASBMR definition of 
Atypical Femoral Fracture): Major and Minor Features 
Major featuresb 
 
 
 
 
Located  anywhere  along  the  femur  from  just  distal  to  the  lesser  trochanter  to  just  proximal  to 
the supracondylar flare 
Associated with no trauma or minimal trauma, as in a fall from a standing height or less 
Transverse or short oblique configuration 
Complete  fractures  extend  through  both  cortices  and  may  be  associated  with  a  medial  spike; 
incomplete fractures involve only the lateral cortex. 
Minor featuresa 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noncomminuted 
Localized periosteal reaction of the lateral cortexc 
Generalized increase in cortical thickness of the diaphysis 
Prodromal symptoms such as dull or aching pain in the groin or thigh 
Bilateral fractures and symptoms 
Delayed healing 
Comorbid conditions (eg, vitamin D deficiency, rheumatoid arthritis, hypophosphatasia)  
Use of pharmaceutical agents (eg, bisphosphonates, glucocortoids, proton pump inhibitors) 
aSpecifically  excluded  are  fractures  of  the  femoral  neck,  intertrochanteric  fractures  with  spiral  subtrochanteric 
extension, pathologic fractures associated with primary or metastatic bone tumors, and periprosthetic fractures. 
bAll major features are required to satisfy the case definition of atypical femoral fracture. None of the minor features 
are required but sometimes have been associated with these fractures. 
cOften referred to in the literature as beaking or flaring. 
The possible underlying pathophysiological mechanism(s) of atypical fractures 
4 Schneider P.  Should bisphosphonates be continued indefinitely? An unusual fracture in a healthy woman on long-
term alendronate. Geriatrics 2006; 61: 31-33  
5  Nitche  J  et  al  Subtrochanteric  femoral  stress  fractures  in  patients  on  chronic  bisphosphonate  therapy:  a  case 
series. J Bone Miner Res 25 (Suppl 1) 2010; Available at  
http://www.asbmr.org/Meetings/AnnualMeeting/AbstractDetail.aspx?aid=223582c5-f5bb-4d66-bd16-
d073267b2a47. Accessed 5 April 2011 
 
 
                                               
 
The mechanism(s) for the development of atypical fractures in patients taking bisphosphonates is not 
known.  However  the  postulated  mechanisms  may  be  applicable  across  the  class  of  bisphosphonates 
although  it  is  possible  some  differences  may  exist  between  individual  bisphosphonates  due  to  their 
different  effects  on  farnesyl  pyrophosphate  synthase  (FPPS)  enzyme  inhibition  and  mineral  binding 
affinity (Russell et al, 20086). 
There  are  2  main  types  of  bisphosphonates:  non-nitrogen  containing  bisphosphonates  and  nitrogen 
containing  bisphosphonates  (Russell  et  al,  2008).  Non-nitrogen  containing  bisphosphonates  (etidronic 
acid,  clodronic  acid  and  tiludronic  acid)  act  by  interacting  with  ATP  in  osteoclasts  forming  ATP 
analogues  that  induce  osteoclast  apoptosis.  Nitrogen-containing  bisphosphonates  inhibit  FPPS,  a  key 
enzyme  in  the  mevalonic  acid  pathway  in  osteoclasts  which  prevents  the  production  of  proteins 
essential  for  their  function  and  survival.  Inhibition  of  this  enzyme  also  leads  to  an  accumulation  of 
isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) which is incorporated into an analogue of ATP that can induce osteoclast 
apoptosis. 
A  number  of  possible  mechanisms  of  atypical  fracture  in  association  with  bisphosphonate  use  have 
been  postulated.  The  main  postulated  mechanism  is  the  suppression  of  bone  turnover  leading 
indirectly  to  ageing  bone  and  the  delay  or  prevention  of  repair  of  naturally  occurring  stress  fractures 
although the evidence is not conclusive. 
The proposed mechanisms may also apply to the development of atypical fractures in association with 
bisphosphonates at sites other than the femur.  
2.2.2.  Clinical safety 
The  main  fracture  site  reported  in  the  vast  majority  of  the  cases  of  atypical  stress  fractures  is  the 
femur, described as proximal femoral shaft, subtrochanteric and diaphyseal fractures. 
However  a  number  of  literature  and  spontaneous  reports  describing  atypical  fractures  at  sites  other 
than  the  femur  in  association  with  alendronic  acid  have  been  received  although  extremely  low  (17 
reports), compared to the high level of reports of atypical fractures in association with alendronic acid 
at the site of the femur (397 reports). The other stress fracture sites reported include the foot, ankle, 
metatarsal, tibia and fibia, most of which are typical sites of stress or osteoporotic fractures, and were 
often reported in association with femoral fracture or reported as multiple stress fractures. The number 
of  post-marketing  reports  of  atypical  fracture  at  sites  other  than  the  femur  in  association  with  other 
bisphosphonates is also low.  
Clinical trials 
Black  et  al  2010  7reviewed  fracture  records  and  available  radiographs  for  all  hip  and  femur  fractures 
from 3 large, randomised bisphosphonate trials for osteoporosis: the Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT) 
of  alendronic  acid  and  its  extension  study,  the  FIT  Long-Term  Extension  (FLEX)  trial,  and  the  Health 
Outcomes and Reduced Incidence with Zoledronic Acid Once Yearly (HORIZON) Pivotal Fracture Trial. 
The  overall  incidence  of  subtrochanteric  or  diaphyseal  femur  fractures  in  these  clinical  trials  was  2.3 
per  10,000  patient  years.  The  risk  of  subtrochanteric  or  diaphyseal  fracture  was  not  significantly 
increased  with  alendronic  acid  compared  to  placebo  in  the  FIT  trial  (HR  1.03  (0.06-16.46))  and  the 
FLEX  trial  (HR  1.33  (0.02-14.67))  or  with  zoledronate  in  the  HORIZON-PFT  trial  (HR  1.50  (0.25-9)) 
although the confidence intervals were wide.  
6 Russell RG et al Mechanisms of action of bisphosphonates: similarities and differences and their potential influence 
on clinical efficacy. Osteoporosis Int 2008; 19:733-759  
7 Black DM et al Bisphosphonates and fractures of the subtrochanteric or diaphyseal femur 
N Eng J Med 2010; 362:1761-1771 
                                               
 
 
This  study  has  a  number  of  limitations  including  the  relatively  short  length  of  bisphosphonate 
treatment  in  the  majority  of  patients  in  the  FIT  and  the  zoledronate  HORIZON  trials,  the  lack  of 
availability of radiographs for all femur fractures and the exclusion of patients taking medicines such as 
corticosteroids which may increase the risk of atypical femoral fractures. 
In  clinical  trials  for  other  bisphosphonates  for  osteoporosis,  Paget’s  disease  and  oncology  indications 
the  number  of  possible  cases  of  atypical  fractures  was  also  low  and  no  increased  risk  was  identified 
compared with placebo. However these clinical trials are also limited by trial duration and also lack of 
radiograph evaluation of fracture sites. 
Epidemiological studies 
 
Cohort studies 
A study in 2 national registry databases in Denmark found that the proportion of patients exposed to 
alendronic acid was similar for subtrochanteric fracture (6.7%), diaphyseal femur fracture (7.1%) and 
hip  fracture  (6.7%)  (Abrahamsen  et  al,  2009 8).  The  use  of  alendronic  acid  was  associated  with  an 
increased risk of both subtrochanteric/diaphyseal femur fracture (HR 1.46 CI 0.91-2.35, p=0.12) and 
hip  fracture  (HR  1.45  CI  1.21-1.74,  p<0.001).  The  ratio  between  hip  and  subtrochanteric/diaphyseal 
femur  fractures  was  the  same  in  alendronic  acid  treated  patients  and  controls  (14  %  and  13% 
subtrochanteric/diaphyseal femur fractures, respectively).  
A  further  larger  study  in  Denmark  by  the  same  authors  found  that  the  risk  of  subtrochanteric  and 
diaphyseal fractures was 13 per 10,000 patient-years in women who were not receiving alendronic acid 
and 31 per 10,000 patient years in patients taking alendronic acid (adjusted hazard ratio 1.88 95% CI 
1.62-2.17)  (Abrahamsen  et  al  2010 9 ).  The  risks  of  the  same  femur  fractures  in  alendronic  acid 
unexposed  and  exposed  men  were  6  and  31  per  10,000  patient-years,  respectively  (adjusted  hazard 
ratio  2.47  95%  CI  2.07-2.95).  The  risks  of  subtrochanteric  and  diaphyseal  fractures  were  similar  in 
patients  who  had  received  almost  9  years  of  treatment  with  alendronic  acid  (31.3/10,000  patient-
years) and patients who only received 3 months treatment (47.3/10,000 patient-years) (P=0.22). 
Another study in the same database examined the risk of femoral shaft and subtrochanteric fractures 
among  users  of  different  bisphosphonates  and  also  raloxifene  (Vestergaard  et  al,  2010 10 ).  An 
increased risk of subtrochanteric and femoral shaft fractures was seen for alendronic acid (HR 2.41, CI 
1.78-3.27), etidronic acid (HR 1.96, CI 1.62-2.36) and clodronic acid (HR 20.0, CI 1.94-205) but not 
raloxifene  (HR  1.06,  CI  0.34-3.32)  however  this  increased  risk  was  also  present  before  the  start  of 
alendronic  acid  (OR  2.36,  CI  2.05-2.72),  etidronic  acid  (OR  3.05,  CI  2.59-3.58),  clodronic  acid  (OR 
10.8,  CI  1.14-103),  raloxifene  (OR  1.90,  CI  1.07-3.40)  and  strontium  (OR  2.97,  CI  1.07-8.27).  The 
increased risk was not associated with bisphosphonate dose or duration.  
The authors of the above studies suggest that subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femur fractures may be 
normal  osteoporotic  fractures  and  that  the  increased  risk  of  these  fractures  in  patients  taking 
bisphosphonates may be due to the use of this drug in patients who are at the greatest risk of fracture 
rather than a causal relationship between this fractures and alendronic acid (Abrahamsen et al, 2009, 
Abrahamsen et al, 2010, Vestergaard et al, 2010). However these studies do not contain information 
8  Abrahamsen  B  et  al  Subtrochanteric  and  diaphyseal  femur  fractures  in  patients  treated  with  alendronate:  a 
register-based national cohort study. J Bone Miner Res 2009; 24: 1095-1102 
9   Abrahamsen  B  et  al  Cumulative  alendronate  dose  and  the  long  term  absolute  risk  of  subtrochanteric  and 
diaphyseal femur fractures: a register-based national cohort analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2010; 95:5258-5265 
10  Vestergaard  P  et  al  Risk  of  femoral  shaft  and  subtrochanteric  fractures  among  users  of  bisphosphonates  and 
raloxifene. Osteoporos Int 2010; DOI 10.1007/s00198-010-1512y 
                                               
 
 
 
about  radiographic  fracture  pattern  and  therefore  do  not  specifically  relate  to  atypical  femoral 
fractures. 
Atypical femur fractures identified from radiograph examination in patients receiving bisphosphonates 
have  been  described  in  a  small  study  in  Sweden  estimating  that  the  incidence  density  of  stress 
fractures  of  the  femoral  shaft  in  patients  receiving  bisphosphonates  in  women  over  55  years  was 
1/1000  per  year  compared  to  0.02/1000  per  year  for  patients  who  were  not  taking  bisphosphonates 
(Schilcher et al 200911). In this study 3,087 women on continuous treatment with bisphosphonates 5 
were  found  to  have  atypical  femoral  stress  fractures  (identified  from  radiograph  examination) 
compared  with  3  cases  of  atypical  femoral  stress  fractures  identified  in  88,869  women  not  receiving 
bisphosphonates. 
Radiographic  findings  were  also  available  from  preliminary  data  in  a  US  health  maintenance 
organisation  database,  which  found  that  the  incidence  of  atypical  femur  fracture  increased  with 
duration of bisphosphonate treatment from 2/100,000 cases per year with 2 years oral bisphosphonate 
treatment to 78/100,000 cases per year with 8 years oral bisphosphonate treatment (Dell et al, 2010). 
This study screened cases of femur fracture and reviewed radiographs to identify subtrochanteric and 
femur  shaft  fracture  cases  with  atypical  features.  Characteristic  radiographic  findings  were  found  in 
102 patients, 97 of whom were on oral bisphosphonates with an average duration of 5.5 years. 
 
Case control studies 
A population-based, nested case-control study in Canada found that long-term oral bisphosphonate use 
was associated with an increased risk of subtrochanteric and femoral shaft fractures in women aged 68 
years or older (Park-Wyllie et al, 201112). Bisphosphonate treatment for 5 years or more significantly 
increased  the  risk  of  subtrochanteric  or  femoral  shaft  fracture  compared  with  bisphosphonate  use  for 
less than 100 days (OR 2.74, CI 1.25-6.02), whereas intermediate (3 to 5 years) and short term (100 
days to 3 years) bisphosphonate treatment did not significantly increase the risk of subtrochanteric or 
femoral  shaft  fracture.  The  risk  of  typical  osteoporotic  fractures  of  the  intertrochanteric  region  or 
femoral neck was reduced with more than 5 years of bisphosphonate therapy (OR 0.76, CI 0.63-0.93). 
In  women  with  5  or  more  years  of  bisphosphonate  use  a  subtrochanteric  or  femoral  shaft  fracture 
occurred  in  0.13  %  within  one  year  and  0.22%  within  2  years.  In  these  patients  64  %  of 
subtrochanteric  or  femoral  shaft  fractures  were  attributable  to  long-term  bisphosphonates  use. 
Although  this  study  excluded  fractures  sustained  with  trauma,  the  radiographic  features  of  these 
patterns could not be determined. 
A  number  of  case-control  studies  including  radiograph  examination  have  also  been  reported.  A 
retrospective  case-control  study  examined  the  x-ray  pattern  low-energy  subtrochanteric  and  femoral 
fractures  in  41  patients  (Lenart  et  al,  2009 13 ).  A  unique  x-ray  pattern  (described  as  a  simple 
transverse or oblique fracture with beaking of the cortex on one side and cortical thickened around the 
site of the fracture) was identified in 10/15 subtrochanteric fractures receiving alendronic acid and in 
3/26  fractures  in  patients  not  receiving  bisphosphonates.  This  pattern  was  associated  with 
bisphosphonates use (OR 15.33, CI 3.06-76.90, P<0.001). 
11 Schilcher J et al Incidence of stress fractures of the femoral shaft in women treated with bisphosphonates. Acta 
Orthopaedica 2009; 80: 413-415 
12  Park-Wyllie  LY  et  al  Bisphosphonate  Use  and  the  Risk  of  Subtrochanteric  or  Femoral  Shaft  Fractures  in  Older 
Women. JAMA 2011; 305:783-789 
13  Lenart  BA  et  al  Association  of  low-energy  femoral  fractures  with  prolonged  bisphosphonate  use:  a  case  control 
study. Osteoporos Int 2009; 20: 1353-1362 
                                               
 
 
 
Another case-control study examined 100 patients with low-energy femoral shaft fractures before and 
after  bisphosphonates  became  available  for  use  (Issacs  et  al,  2010 14 ).  Following  the  review  of 
radiographs, insufficiency femoral fractures were found in 41 patients. These patients had all received 
bisphosphonates  (40  patients  had  received  alendronic  acid  and  one  patient  had  received  risedronic 
acid).  Insufficiency  femoral  fractures  were  not  found  in  the  21  patients  with  low-energy  fractures 
before bisphosphonates became available, however fewer radiographs were available for review during 
this  time  period.  Bisphosphonate  use  was  associated  with  insufficiency  fracture  (OR  >1000)  and  the 
mean  duration  of  bisphosphonate  use  was  longer  in  patients  with  insufficiency  fractures  (7.1  years) 
compared to patients without this type of fracture (3.2 years). 
Case-control  studies  report  a  distinct  radiographic  pattern  and  clinical  features  of  atypical  femoral 
fractures  associated  with  bisphosphonate  use  and  provide  evidence  of  a  causal  relationship  between 
atypical  fractures  and  bisphosphonate  (Lenart  et  al,  2009,  Issacs  et  al,  2010).  Estimates  of  the 
incidence  of  atypical  fractures  in  patients  suggest  that  the  frequency  of  these  fractures  in  patients 
receiving bisphosphonates is rare (Dell et al, 201015). 
Post-marketing reports 
The  number  of  cases  of  atypical  fracture  of  the  femur  in  association  with  alendronic  acid  has  risen 
sharply  since  the  previous  PhVWP  review  in  2008.  A  total  of  397  post-marketing  reports  (including 
both  spontaneous  reports  and  literature  cases)  of  low  energy  subtrochanteric/femoral  shaft  fractures 
with  alendronic  acid  were  received  by  the  innovator  MAH  for  alendronic  acid,  MSD  from  1/7/2008  to 
31/10/2010.  The  number  of  reports  received  during  this  time  period  is  substantially  higher  than  the 
number  of  reports  received  at  the  time  of  the  previous  PhVWP  when  84  reports  of  fracture  of  the 
stress/insufficiency fracture of the femur had been received from July 1993 to June 2008. The increase 
in  the  number  of  reports  is  likely  to  reflect  the  increased  recognition  and  awareness  of  the  risk  of 
atypical  femur  fractures  with  alendronic  acid  among  health  professionals  resulting  in  increased 
reporting of cases in the literature and to the MAH and regulatory authorities. 
Post-marketing reports of possible atypical fracture of the femur have also been received in association 
with  bisphosphonates  for  oncology  indications.  During  the  period  of  the  current  review  (since  the 
PhVWP  review  in  2008),  the  following  number  of  post-marketing  reports  of  possible  cases  of  atypical 
femur  fracture  were  received  by  the  innovator  MAHs  for  bisphosphonates  for  oncology  indications: 
ibandronic  acid  (one  case  of  femur  fracture),  pamidronic  acid  (20  cases  of  femur  fracture)  and 
zoledronate (45 cases of femur fracture). No post-marketing reports of possible atypical fracture of the 
femur  have  been  received  in  association  with  clodronic  acid.  The  post-marketing  reports  in  patients 
with cancer have a number of potential confounding factors such as the presence of bone malignancy, 
high  risk  of  pathological  fracture  in  this  patient  group  and  concurrent  medication  (e.g.  glucocortoids, 
chemotherapy  and  aromatase  inhibitors).  One  post-marketing  report  of  possible  atypical  femoral 
fracture  has  been  received  with  zoledronate  in  a  patient  with  Paget’s  disease.  No  post-marketing 
reports of possible atypical fracture of the femur have been reported in association with tiludronic acid, 
which is indicated for Paget’s disease, or neridronic acid which is indicated for Osteogenesis Imperfecta 
and  Paget’s  disease.  The  very  low  number  of  reports  of  possible  atypical  fracture  reported  in 
association  with  bisphosphonates  indicated  for  Paget’s  disease  and  Ostegenesis  Imperfecta  may  be 
related  to  the  lower  usage  of  bisphosphonates  in  these  indications  compared  with  the  use  of 
14  Isaacs  JD  et  al  Femoral  insufficiency  fractures  associated  with  prolonged  bisphosphonate  therapy.  Clin  Orthop 
Relat Res 2010; 468: 3384-3392 
15 Dell R et al A retrospective analysis of all atypical femur fractures seen in a large California HMO from the years 
2007 to 2009. J Bone Miner Res 25 (Suppl 1) 2010; Available at  
http://www.asbmr.org/Meetings/AnnualMeeting/AbstractDetail.aspx?aid=05caf316-b73e-47b8-a011-bf0766b062c0.  Accessed  15  February 
2011 
                                               
 
 
bisphosphonates in osteoporosis although this finding may also be related to differences in the clinical 
effects  of  bisphosphonates  in  these  populations  such  as  the  distribution  of  bisphosphonate  uptake  or 
dosing regimens.  
Possible risk factors for atypical fracture of the femur in association with bisphosphonates 
A  number  of  possible  risk  factors  have  been  proposed.  These  are  based  mainly  on  the  patient 
characteristics in cases of atypical femoral fracture.  
 
Duration of bisphosphonate exposure 
The  long-term  use  of  bisphosphonates  is  thought  to  be  the  main  risk  factor  for  atypical  femoral 
fractures.  Preliminary  estimates  found  that  the  incidence  of  atypical  femur  fracture  was  almost  40 
times greater with 8 years of bisphosphonate treatment compared with 2 years treatment (Dell et al, 
2010). Case-control studies have also found that the mean duration of bisphosphonate use was longer 
in patients with atypical femoral fractures than in patients without these fractures (Issacs et al, 2010, 
Lenart et al, 2008). Although duration of use appears to increase the risk of atypical fractures, cases 
have also occurred in association with short-term use (Giusti et al, 201016). 
 
Concomitant treatment 
In  the  recently  published  systematic  review  of  cases  by  Giusti  et  al  glucocorticoids  and  proton  pump 
inhibitors  (PPI)  were  identified  as  important  risk  factors  for  atypical  femur  fracture  with  their  use 
occurring  in  25.5  and  38.9  %  of  patients,  respectively  (Giusti  et  al,  2010).  A  study  of  20  cases  of 
atypical  fractures  identified  using  fracture  radiographs  also  found  that  glucocorticoid  treatment  for 
more  than  6  months  was  significantly  associated  with  atypical  femur  fracture  (OR  5.2  CI  1.3-31.0) 
(Girgis  et  al  2010 17 ).  Concomitant  treatment  with  other  anti-resorptive  drugs  such  as  hormone 
replacement  therapy  and  raloxifene  have  also  been  proposed  as  possible  risk  factors  (Compston, 
200918). 
 
Co-morbid conditions 
The study by Girgis et al also found that a history of low-energy fracture (OR 3.2: CI 2.1-17.1), active 
rheumatoid arthritis (OR 16.5 CI 1.4-142.3) and a low level of serum-25-hydroxyvitamin D (OR 3.5 CI 
1.7-18.7) were associated with an increased risk of atypical fracture (P<0.001). Diabetes mellitus has 
also been reported as a possible risk factor (Compston, 2009). The systematic review cases by Giusti 
et  al  found  that  other  than  osteoporosis,  the  most  prevalent  co-morbid  conditions  in  patients  with 
atypical  femur  fracture  were  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  or  asthma  (14.9%),  rheumatoid 
arthritis (10.3%) and diabetes (10.3%) (Giusti et al, 2010). 
 
Ethnicity and genetic factors  
The study by Giusti et al also found patients who developed atypical fractures after 5 years or less of 
treatment were more likely to be of Asian ethnicity than patients treated for more than 5 years (60.0% 
and  14.5  %  of  patients,  respectively  P<0.001)  (Giusti  et  al,  2010).  It  has  also  been  proposed  that 
carriers  of  the  gene  for  hypophosphatasia  may  be  at  increased  risk  of  atypical  femoral  fractures  as 
patients  with  hypophosphatasia  develop  fractures  similar  to  atypical  femur  fractures  observed  in 
patients taking bisphosphonates (Shane et al, 2010). 
16  Giusti  A  et  al  Atypical  fractures  of  the  femur  and  bisphosphonate  therapy.  A  systematic  review  of  case/case 
series studies. Bone 2010; 47: 169-180 
17 Girgis CM et al Atypical femoral fractures and bisphosphonate use. N Eng J Med 2010; 36: 1848-1849 
18 Compston JE Bisphosphonates and atypical femoral fractures: A time for reflection. Maturitas 2009; 65: 3-4 
                                               
 
 
 
Optimal duration of bisphosphonate treatment for osteoporosis 
The  optimal  duration  of  use  of  bisphosphonates  for  osteoporosis  is  not  known,  There  is  currently  no 
robust  evidence  regarding  the  value  of  interrupting  treatment  with  bisphosphonates.  It  has  been 
suggested that bisphosphonate treatment could be limited to 5 years initially followed by an evaluation 
of  the  need  for  continuing  treatment  on  an  individual  patient  basis  and  that  patients  who  remain  at 
high risk of fracture should continue therapy whereas a drug break could be considered in patients at 
lower  risk  of  fracture  (Compston,  200919).  The  Task  Force  of  the  ASBMR  on  atypical  subtrochanteric 
and  diaphyseal  femoral  fractures  also  recommend  that  the  possibility  of  stopping  treatment  with 
bisphosphonates  may  be  considered  after  4  to  5  years,  particularly  in  patients  at  low  or  moderate 
fracture risk who are also taking glucocorticoids, PPIs, oestrogen or tamoxifen which may be possible 
risk factors for atypical femur fractures (Shane et al, 201020). 
Since the optimal duration of use of bisphosphonates for osteoporosis is not known, the CHMP agreed 
that advice about the need to periodically evaluate the need for continuing bisphosphonate treatment, 
particularly  after  5  years  of  treatment,  on  an individual  patient basis  should be  added  to  the  product 
information for bisphosphonates for osteoporosis.  
Discussion and conclusion on safety 
The CHMP has reviewed the data regarding atypical fracture (both at the site of the femur and other 
sites)  from  pre-clinical  studies,  clinical  trials,  epidemiological  studies,  post-marketing  reports  and  the 
published  literature  that  has  become  available  since  the  time  of  the  previous  PhVWP  review  of  this 
issue in 2008. 
For  the  purpose  of  the  assessment,  the  CHMP  agreed  a  modified  version  of  the  case  definition  of 
atypical femoral fracture recommended by the task force of the ASBMR on atypical subtrochanteric and 
diaphyseal  femoral  fractures  (Shane  et  al,  2010).  The  CHMP  adopted  case  definition  lists 
noncomminuted as a minor feature rather than a major feature of atypical femur femoral fracture. 
The mechanism(s) for the development of atypical fractures in patients taking bisphosphonates is not 
known.  The  main  postulated  mechanism  is  the  suppression  of  bone  turnover  leading  indirectly  to 
ageing bone and the delay or prevention of repair of naturally occurring stress fractures, although the 
evidence is not conclusive. Other possible mechanisms have been proposed.  
Although  the  highest  number  of  possible  atypical  femoral  fracture  by  far  continue  to  be  reported  in 
association  with  alendronic  acid  for  osteoporosis,  post-marketing  reports  have  also  been  reported  for 
other bisphosphonates for osteoporosis (etidronic acid, ibandronic acid, risedronic acid and zoledronate) 
and  also  for  Paget’s  disease  (zoledronate)  and  oncology  indications  (ibandronic  acid,  pamidronic  acid 
and  zoledronate).  The  lack  of  reports  with  some  bisphosphonates,  clodronic  acid,  neridronic  acid  and 
tiludronic  acid  may  be  related  to  the  lower  exposure  of  the  drugs  compared  with  other 
bisphosphonates, and a lack of an association can not be excluded. 
At  the  present  time  there  is  little  evidence  from  literature  and  spontaneous  reports  to  support  an 
association between bisphosphonates and atypical fracture at sites other than the femur. The potential 
risk of atypical fractures at sites other than the femur should be kept under review.  
The  main  proposed  possible  risk  factor  is  long-term  bisphosphonate  treatment,  however  cases  have 
been  observed  after  short  term  use.  Other  possible  risk  factors  proposed  include  concomitant 
19 Compston JE Bisphosphonates and atypical femoral fractures: A time for reflection. Maturitas 2009; 65: 3-4 
 
 
                                               
 
 
treatment,  particularly  with  glucocorticoids  and  PPIs,  co-morbid  conditions  including  diabetes  and 
rheumatoid arthritis, and possible genetic factors.  
The  available  data  suggests  that  atypical  femoral  fracture  is  a  class  effect  of  bisphosphonates.  
Therefore the CHMP agreed that a warning regarding this risk is added to the product information (PI) 
for all bisphosphonates and that atypical femoral fracture is added to section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) 
of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  accompanied  by  a  statement  that  this  adverse 
effect is a class attribution of bisphosphonates.  
The MAH for Adrovance, Fosavance and Vantavo is requested to update their Risk Management Plans 
to reflect "atypical femoral fractures" as a potential risk.  
In addition, given the lack of evidence regarding the optimal duration of bisphosphonate treatment for 
osteoporosis, and considering that duration of treatment is a risk factor for atypical femoral fractures, 
the  CHMP  also  recommended  that  information  should  be  added  to  section  4.2.  of  the  product 
information  for  bisphosphonates  authorised  for  osteoporosis,  about  the  need  to  periodically  evaluate 
the  need  for  continuing  bisphosphonate  treatment,  particularly  after  5  years  of  treatment,  on  an 
individual patient basis.  
2.3.  Changes to the Product information 
Since  the  PhVWP  recommendation  in  2008  to  include  a  warning  about  the  risk  of  atypical  fracture  of 
the proximal and mid femoral shaft in the PI for all alendronic acid products, further data has become 
available and the evidence now suggests that atypical fractures of the femur may be a class effect of 
bisphosphonates.  
The  CHMP  therefore  agreed  that  a  warning  should  be  added  to  the  product  information  for  all 
bisphosphonates. The proposed wording for section 4.4 of the SmPC (Special warnings and precautions 
for  use)  is  based  on  wording  implemented  for  alendronic  acid  in  2008  which  has  been  updated  to 
reflect the currently available information. 
The  MAH’s  were  informed  of  the  CHMP  proposed  wording  for  sections  4.4,  4.8  and  4.2  of  the  SmPC, 
and the corresponding package leaflet (PL) in the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues (LoOI) adopted in 
March  2011.  The  majority  of  the  responses  received  from  the  MAHs  confirmed  their  agreement  to 
update  the  SmPC  and  PL  in  accordance  with  the  wording  provided  in  the  LoOI.  Some  other  MAHs 
agreed  to  update  the  product  information  to  include  atypical  femoral  fractures  but  with  proposed 
changes to the wording.  
In particular it was proposed by the MAHs that ‘non-comminuted’ should not be included in the wording 
of  section  4.4,  as  reports  of  comminution  have  been  described  in  cases  of  atypical  femoral  fracture 
(Schneider, 200621, Nitche et al, 201022). Due to the small number of cases describing comminution in 
atypical  femoral  fracture,  it  was  therefore  considered  appropriate  to  remove  ‘non-comminuted’  from 
the  SmPC  wording.  The  MAH’s  argument  to  include  imaging  features  of  stress  fractures  was  also 
accepted as this wording is included in the current alendronic acid SmPC wording, and the ASBMR task 
force report states that the radiologic presentation of atypical femoral fractures is strikingly similar to 
that  of  stress  fractures.  The  MAH  also  suggested  changing  the  wording  regarding  the  evaluation  of 
21 Schneider P. Should bisphosphonates be continued indefinitely? An unusual fracture in a healthy woman on long-
term alendronate. Geriatrics 2006; 61: 31-33  
22  Nitche  J  et  al  Subtrochanteric  femoral  stress  fractures  in  patients  on  chronic  bisphosphonate  therapy:  a  case 
series. J Bone Miner Res 25 (Suppl 1) 2010; Available at  
http://www.asbmr.org/Meetings/AnnualMeeting/AbstractDetail.aspx?aid=223582c5-f5bb-4d66-bd16-
d073267b2a47. Accessed 5 April 2011 
                                               
 
 
patients  with  symptoms  from  ‘possible  fracture’  to  ‘an  incomplete’  fracture  in  order  to  ensure  that 
physicians  link  the  pain  syndrome  to  the  need  to  rule-out  incomplete  fractures  of  the  femur  before 
they  evolve  into  a  completed  femur  fracture.  This  change  was  also  considered  to  be  acceptable,  and 
the CHMP proposed wording for section 4.4 of the SmPC was updated to reflect all these changes. 
Since it was considered appropriate to remove ‘non-comminuted’ from the SmPC wording, given that a 
small  number  of  cases  describing  comminution  in  atypical  femoral  fracture  have  been  reported,  a 
modified  case  definition  for  atypical  femoral  fracture  was  agreed  by  the  CHMP,  listing  ‘non-
comminuted’ as a minor feature rather than a major feature of atypical femur femoral fracture. 
Some  other  MAHs  proposed  additional  statements  to  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  eg.  that  a  causal 
relationship has not been established, that atypical femoral fractures occur in patients in patients who 
have  not  been  treated  with  bisphosphonates,  that  no  increased  risk  of  atypical  subtrochanteric 
fractures  was  noted  in  certain  product-related  clinical  trials,  changing  the  frequency  to  very  rare, 
listing  glucocorticoid  as  one  of  the  risk  factors,  and  also  that  updates  are  not  necessary  for  those 
bisphosphonates  such  as  clodronic  acid  and  tiludronic  acid,  where  atypical  stress  fractures  have  not 
been observed so far. These proposals were not considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
The CHMP agreed on the following amendments to the SmPC and PL for all bisphosphonates: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Atypical fractures of the femur 
Atypical  subtrochanteric  and  diaphyseal  femoral  fractures  have  been  reported  with  bisphosphonate 
therapy,  primarily  in  patients  receiving  long-term  treatment  for  osteoporosis.  These  transverse  or 
short  oblique  fractures  can  occur  anywhere  along  the  femur  from  just  below  the  lesser  trochanter  to 
just  above  the  supracondylar  flare.  These  fractures  occur  after  minimal  or  no  trauma  and  some 
patients  experience  thigh  or  groin  pain,  often  associated  with  imaging  features  of  stress  fractures, 
weeks  to  months  before  presenting  with  a  completed  femoral  fracture.  Fractures  are  often  bilateral; 
therefore  the  contralateral  femur  should  be  examined  in  bisphosphonate-treated  patients  who  have 
sustained  a  femoral  shaft  fracture.  Poor  healing  of  these  fractures  has  also  been  reported. 
Discontinuation  of  bisphosphonate  therapy  in  patients  suspected  to  have  an  atypical  femur  fracture 
should be considered pending evaluation of the patient, based on an individual benefit risk assessment. 
During bisphosphonate treatment patients should be advised to report any thigh, hip or groin pain and 
any patient presenting with such symptoms should be evaluated for an incomplete femur fracture. 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
During post-marketing experience the following reactions have been reported (frequency rare): 
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures (bisphosphonate class adverse reaction) 
Package Leaflet 
Section 4. Possible side effects 
Unusual fracture of the thigh bone particularly in patients on long-term treatment for osteoporosis may 
occur rarely. Contact your doctor if you experience pain, weakness or discomfort in your thigh, hip or 
groin as this may be an early indication of a possible fracture of the thigh bone.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  also  agreed  that  for  bisphosphonates  indicated  for  osteoporosis,  advice  is  included  in  4.2 
(Posology)  of  the  SmPC,  about  the  need  to  periodically  evaluate  the  need  for  continuing 
bisphosphonate treatment, particularly after 5 years of treatment, on an individual patient basis. 
The  CHMP  agreed  on  the  following  additional  amendment  to  the  SmPC  for  bisphosphonates  indicated 
for osteoporosis: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
The optimal duration of bisphosphonate treatment for osteoporosis has not been established. The need 
for continued treatment should be re-evaluated periodically based on the benefits and potential risks of 
<Adrovance>  <Fosavance>  <Vantavo>  on  an  individual  patient  basis,  particularly  after  5  or  more 
years of use.  
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Safety 
Having  considered  the  overall  submitted  data,  the  CHMP  concluded  the  available  data  suggests  that 
atypical femoral fracture is likely to be a class effect of bisphosphonates.   
At  the  present  time  there  is  little  evidence  from  literature  and  spontaneous  reports  to  support  an 
association between bisphosphonates and atypical fracture at sites other than the femur. The potential 
risk of atypical fractures at sites other than the femur should be kept under review.  
The  MAH  for  Adrovance,  Fosavance  and  Vantavo  is  requested  update  the  Risk  Management  Plans  to 
reflect "atypical femoral fractures" as a potential risk.  
Taking  into  account  all  the  available  evidence,  the CHMP  agreed  that  a  warning  regarding  the  risk  of 
atypical femoral fracture is added to the product information for all bisphosphonates in section 4.4 of 
the  SmPC  (Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use),  and  that  atypical  femoral  fracture  is  added  to 
section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) of the SmPC accompanied by a statement that this adverse effect is a 
class attribution of bisphosphonates.  
Given  the  lack  of  evidence  regarding  the  optimal  duration  of  bisphosphonate  treatment  for 
osteoporosis, the CHMP also supports the view that advice should be added to the product information 
for bisphosphonates authorised for osteoporosis, about the need to periodically evaluate the need for 
continuing bisphosphonate treatment, particularly after 5 years of treatment, on an individual patient 
basis.  The  CHMP  also  agreed  that  this  advice  regarding  the  duration  of  bisphosphonate  therapy  for 
osteoporosis is included in section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
Benefit/risk balance 
The  findings  of  this  review  do  not  change  the  overall  balance  of  risks  and  benefits  of  Adrovance, 
Fosavance and Vantavo in their authorised indications, which remain favourable. 
4.  Overall conclusion 
The  CHMP  recommended  the  amendment  to  the  terms of  the  marketing  authorisation for  Adrovance, 
Fosavance  and  Vantavo  for  which  the  revised  summary  of  product  characteristics,  annex  II  and 
package leaflet are set out respectively in annexes I, II and IIIB of the opinion. 
The  scientific  conclusions  and  the  grounds  for  the  amendment  of  the  SPC,  annex  II,  and  package 
leaflet are set out in annex IV of the opinion. 
 
 
 
5.  Communication plan 
As part of this referral procedure, the CHMP agreed the wording of a Key Message document   intended 
to  inform  healthcare  professionals,  professional  and  patient  groups  of  the  risk  of  atypical  femoral 
fractures  with  the  use  of  bisphosphonates,  primarily  in  patients  receiving  long-term  treatment  for 
osteoporosis.  
The National Competent Authorities will disseminate the Key Message document on 18 April 2011 to all 
healthcare professionals, professional and patient groups via national mechanisms (bulletins, websites) 
by the National Competent Authorities, as agreed in the parallel Article 31 referral procedure.  
6.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
 
 
The  Committee  considered  the  procedures  under  Article  20  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004,  for 
Adrovance, Fosavance and Vantavo initiated by the European Commission. 
The  Committee  considered  all  the  available  data  submitted  (pre-clinical,  clinical,  epidemiological 
studies,  post-marketing  reports,  published  literature)  in  relation  to  the  risk  of  atypical  femoral 
fractures with biphosphonates. 
  On  the  basis  of  the  available  evidence,  mainly  from  epidemiological  studies  and  post-marketing 
reports, the Committee concluded that use of bisphosphonates may be associated with the risk of 
atypical  femoral  fractures.    The  CHMP  also  concluded  that  main  risk  factor  associated  with  these 
fractures appears to be long-term bisphosphonate treatment.  
 
The  Committee  concluded  that  the  Product  Information  of  all  bisphopshonates  should  include  a 
warning  in  section  4.4  on  the  risk  of  atypical  fractures  of  the  femur  and  this  adverse  reaction 
should  also  be  listed  in  section  4.8  of  the  SPCs.  The  Committee  also  concluded  that  information 
should  be  added  to  section  4.2.  of  the  product  information  for  bisphosphonates  authorised  for 
osteoporosis,  about  the  need  to  periodically  evaluate  the  need  for  continuing  bisphosphonate 
treatment, particularly after 5 years of treatment, on an individual patient basis.  
The  CHMP  has  recommended  the  variation  of  the  Marketing  Authorisations  for  Adrovance,  Fosavance 
and Vantavo (see Annex A), for which the relevant sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics 
and Package Leaflets are set out in Annex I and III and subject to the conditions set out in Annex II of 
this Opinion. 
