ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Foscan 1 mg/ml solution for injection  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml contains 1 mg of temoporfin.  
Excipients with known effect 
Each ml contains 376 mg of ethanol anhydrous and 560 mg of propylene glycol.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection 
Dark purple solution 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Foscan is indicated for the palliative treatment of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma failing prior therapies and unsuitable for radiotherapy, surgery or systemic chemotherapy.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Foscan photodynamic therapy must only be administered in specialist oncology centres in which a 
multidisciplinary team assesses patient treatment and under the supervision of physicians experienced 
in photodynamic therapy.  
Posology 
The dose is 0.15 mg/kg body weight.  
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Foscan in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration 
Foscan is administered via an in-dwelling intravenous cannula in a large proximal limb vein, 
preferably in the antecubital fossa, as a single slow intravenous injection over not less than 6 minutes. 
The patency of the in-dwelling cannula should be tested before injection and every precaution taken 
against extravasation (see section 4.4).  
The dark purple colour of the solution, together with the amber vials makes a visual check for 
particulates impossible. Thus, an in-line filter must be used as a precautionary measure and is provided 
in the package. Foscan shall not be diluted nor flushed with sodium chloride or any other aqueous 
solution. 
The required dose of Foscan is administered by slow intravenous injection, over not less than 6 
minutes. 96 hours after the administration of Foscan, the treatment site is to be illuminated with light 
at 652 nm from an approved laser source. Light must be delivered to the entire surface of the tumour 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
using an approved microlens fibre-optic. Wherever possible, the illuminated area must extend beyond 
the tumour margin by a distance of 0.5 cm. 
Light must be administered not less than 90 hours and not more than 110 hours after Foscan injection.  
The incident light dose is 20 J/cm2, delivered at an irradiance of 100 mW/cm2 to the tumour surface, 
implying an illumination time of approximately 200 seconds. 
Each field is to be illuminated once only at each treatment. Multiple non-overlapping fields may be 
illuminated. Care must be taken to ensure that no area of tissue receives more than the specified light 
dose. Tissue outside the target area must be shielded completely to avoid photoactivation by scattered 
or reflected light. 
A second course of treatment may be given at the discretion of the treating physician in patients where 
additional tumour necrosis and removal is deemed appropriate, with a recommended minimum 
interval of 4 weeks between treatments.  
4.3  Contraindications 
  Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
  Porphyria or other diseases exacerbated by light.  
  Hypersensitivity to porphyrins. 
  Tumours known to be eroding into a major blood vessel in or adjacent to the illumination site. 
  A planned surgical procedure within the next 30 days. 
  Co-existing ophthalmic disease likely to require slit-lamp examination within the next 30 days. 
  Existing therapy with a photosensitizing agent. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
All patients who receive Foscan will become temporarily photosensitive. Precautions must be taken to 
avoid exposure of skin and eyes to direct sunlight or bright indoor light during the first 15 days after 
injection. Skin photosensitivity reactions are caused by visible light; therefore ultraviolet sunscreens 
provide no protection. It is important that patients are re-introduced to normal light gradually (see the 
light protection guidelines for patients at the end of this section). 
For 6 months following Foscan treatment prolonged direct sunlight exposure of the injection site arm 
shall be avoided. As a precautionary measure, if prolonged outdoor activity is planned, the injection 
arm should be protected by wearing a long sleeved, coloured shirt.  
Clinicians should be aware that most of the toxicities associated with photodynamic therapy are local 
effects seen as consequence of photoactivation. Photoactivation induces local tissue damage resulting 
in acute inflammatory response. This response is commonly associated with oedema and pain, 
followed by necrosis. The photodynamic effect may also lead to damage of the surrounding tissue that 
may cause fistula, perforation, or vascular rupture as well as infection and subsequent sepsis. It is 
therefore important that during photoactivation by laser illumination care should be taken to protect 
normal tissue surrounding the tumour from photoactivation by proper illumination and shielding 
techniques. Proactively managing the local effects and diminishing photoactivation in non-tumour 
areas is important to manage the risks. 
Special care must be taken to prevent extravasation at the injection site. If extravasation occurs, 
protect the area from light for at least 3 months. There is no known benefit from injecting the 
extravasation site with another substance. 
Adverse reactions, including cholangitis, cholecystitis, liver abscess and oesophageal perforation have 
been reported after unapproved use in the treatment of malignant biliary strictures and mesothelioma. 
There is a risk of damage of the surrounding area following photoactivation. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unplanned or emergency surgical procedures where Foscan has been administered within the previous 
30 days must be undertaken only if absolutely necessary and the potential benefits outweigh the risk to 
the patient. All precautions must be taken to avoid direct illumination of the patient with surgical 
lamps during these procedures. The use of headlamps is recommended instead. 
Some pulse oximeters may produce light of a wavelength close to that used for the photoactivation of 
Foscan. Oximeters must be repositioned at least every 10-15 minutes to avoid the risk of local skin 
burns. 
Pain, other than injection site pain, listed in section 4.8 may require the use of NSAIDs or opiate 
analgesics for a short time following treatment. Pain occurs the day after illumination and usually lasts 
2 to 4 weeks. 
Illumination of airways may lead to local inflammation and oedema. The resulting complications (i.e. 
dyspnoea or even airway obstruction leading to, for instance, intubation or tracheotomy) should be 
anticipated. Prophylactic treatment with corticosteroids should be considered. 
Clinicians must counsel patients to observe the following precautions that are provided in the Package 
Leaflet. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time after  
Foscan Injection 
Day 1 (0-24 
hours) 
What should I do to prevent burns? 
Stay indoors in a darkened room. Keep the curtains drawn and use light bulbs of 
60 W or less. 
Avoid exposure to direct sunlight. 
Days 2-7 
You can gradually return to normal indoor lighting. Remember to avoid direct 
sunlight coming through the window or direct light from household 
appliances such as reading lamps. You may watch television.  
You can go outdoors after dusk. 
If it is absolutely necessary to go outdoors during the hours of daylight, you 
must be careful to cover up all your skin including your face and hands and 
wear dark glasses.  
The type of clothes you must wear are: 
  Wide-brimmed hat: for head, neck, nose and ears. 
  Scarf: for head and neck. 
  Sunglasses with side panels: for eyes and skin around eyes. 
  Long sleeved top: for upper body/arms. 
  Long trousers: for lower body/legs. 
  Gloves: for hands, wrist and fingers. 
  Socks: for feet and ankles. 
  Closed shoes: for feet. 
  Do not wear very thin clothing because it will not protect you from 
 
strong light. Wear dark, closely woven clothing. 
If you expose yourself to light by mistake, you may get a prickly or 
burning feeling on the skin. You must get out of the light immediately. 
Your eyes may be very sensitive to bright lights during this week. You may get 
eye pain or headache when lights are switched on. If you have this problem, 
wear dark glasses. 
Days 8-14 
You can now begin to go outside during daylight hours. Stay in shaded areas or 
go out when it is cloudy. Continue to wear dark, closely woven clothing. 
Start on Day 8 with 10-15 minutes outdoors. If you do not see any skin redness 
in the next 24 hours, you can gradually increase your time outdoors during the 
week. 
Avoid direct sunlight or strong indoor lighting. Stay in the shade. 
Day 15 onward 
Your sensitivity to light is gradually getting back to normal.  
You must test this carefully by exposing the back of your hand to the sun for 
5 minutes. Wait 24 hours to see if there is any redness. If there is redness, you 
should avoid direct sunlight for another 24 hours. You can then repeat the test. 
If there is no redness, you can gradually increase your exposure to sunlight day 
by day. Do not stay in the sunlight for more than 15 minutes the first time. Most 
people will be able to go back to their normal routine by Day 22.  
On the first day after the skin test, you can stay in direct sunlight for 15 
minutes. You can increase your exposure by another 15 minutes each day i.e. 
second day 30 minutes, third day 45 minutes, fourth day 60 minutes and so on. 
If at any time you notice a prickly or burning feeling or see skin reddening after 
exposure to sun, wait until this disappears before exposing your skin to light for 
this length of time again. 
For 30 days following Foscan treatment, avoid eye tests that use bright lights. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 3 months following Foscan treatment, avoid UV tanning beds. Do not 
sunbathe. 
For 6 months following Foscan treatment, care should be taken to avoid direct 
prolonged sunlight exposure of the arm used for Foscan injection. As a 
precautionary measure, if prolonged outdoor activity is planned, the injection 
arm should be protected by wearing long sleeved, coloured clothing. 
This medicinal product contains 48 vol % ethanol (alcohol), i.e up to 4.2 g per dose, equivalent to 84 
ml of beer, 35 ml wine per dose. Harmful for those suffering from alcoholism. To be taken into 
account in pregnant or breast-feeding women, children and high-risk groups such as patients with liver 
disease or epilepsy.The amount of alcohol in this medicinal product may alter the effects of other 
medicines.The amount of alcohol in this medicinal product may impair the ability to drive or use 
machines. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
There is potential for exacerbation of skin photosensitivity if temoporfin is used with other 
photosensitising active substances. Such a reaction has been reported with topical 5-fluorouracil. 
No other interactions have been observed. An in vitro study with human liver tissue has shown no 
potential for drug interaction through inhibition of cytochrome P-450 enzymes by temoporfin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of temoporfin in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Foscan should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical 
condition of the woman requires treatment with temoporfin. 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during and up 3 months after 
treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether temoporfin/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued for at least one month 
following injection of Foscan. 
Fertility 
The effects of Foscan on fertility in humans have not been studied. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
The amount of alcohol in this medicinal product may impair the ability to drive or use machines. 
On the basis of the pharmacodynamic profile, temoporfin is presumed to be safe or unlikely to 
produce an effect. To avoid photosensitivity problems, it is advised not to drive during the first  
15 days after injection, and to use machines only if it is practical to do so under subdued lighting 
conditions according to the recommended lighting precautions (see section 4.4). Driving and use of 
machines may resume under normal lighting or daylight conditions once photosensitivity has been 
shown to have subsided. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
All patients who receive Foscan will become temporarily photosensitive and must be instructed to 
observe precautions to avoid sunlight and bright indoor light. Regarding the tabulated adverse 
reactions gastrointestinal disorders, adverse skin reactions and general disorders and administration 
site conditions are the most frequently observed adverse reactions. 
Most  of  the  toxicities  associated  with  photodynamic  therapy  are  local  effects  seen  in  the  region  of 
illumination and occasionally in surrounding tissues. The local adverse reactions are characteristic of 
an acute tissue inflammatory response induced by photoactivation and commonly include oedema and 
pain followed by necrosis (see section 4.4). 
Photosensitivity  reactions  may  occur,  however,  complying  with  the  light  protection  guidelines  (see 
above section 4.4) and avoiding unnecessary indoor light during illumination reduces this risk. 
The  low  number  of  treated  patients  did  not  allow  identification  of  adverse  reactions,  which  may  be 
categorised as uncommon and rare. Injection site pain is transient and can be reduced by slowing the 
injection rate. For treatment of other types of pain listed in this section, please see section 4.4. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
System Organ Class 
Undesirable effects 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone 
disorders 
Common: 
Localised infection in the area of photoactivation, 
e.g. pharyngitis, stomatitis 
Unknown: 
Sepsis1 
Common:  
Anaemia 
Common:  
Dizziness, burning sensation 
Very common:  
Haemorrhage 
Unknown: 
Vascular rupture: see section 4.3 
Unknown:  
Airway obstruction3 
Very common:  
Constipation, stomatitis necrotising, dysphagia 
Common:  
Vomiting, nausea, mouth ulceration 
Common:  
Blister, erythema, skin hyperpigmentations, 
photosensitivity reaction, skin necrosis2 
Common:  
Trismus3 
Unknown: 
Fistula2 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
1 As a consequence of local infection 
2 In the photoactivated area 
3 As a consequence of local oedema 
Very common:  
Pain in the photoactivated area, e.g. facial pain, 
headache, injection site pain, oedema in the 
photoactivated area, e.g. face oedema, tongue 
oedema 
Common: 
Pyrexia, injection site reaction, oedema 
Very common:  
Scar2 
Common:  
Thermal burn, sunburn2 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
In the event of an overdose, laser treatment would result in deeper tumour necrosis than would be 
expected with the recommended dose. Illumination of the tumour should only be carried out if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk of excessive necrosis. If the tumour is not illuminated, a 
period of at least 4 weeks between overdose and re-administration of Foscan must be allowed. 
The adverse reactions associated with overdose would be expected to be limited to photosensitivity 
reactions. Exposure to ambient light after overdose carries an increased risk of photosensitivity 
reactions. Published clinical research has shown that the duration and intensity of photosensitivity at 
the recommended dose of 0.15 mg/kg were reduced by one third relative to a dose of 0.3 mg/kg. 
Animal studies have shown some haematological and blood chemistry changes (decreased platelets, 
erythrocytes and haemoglobin, increased neutrophils, fibrinogen, bilirubin, triglyceride and 
cholesterol).  
Strict observance of the reduced light regime is required. A skin photosensitivity test must be carried 
out before the patient returns to normal light conditions. 
No specific systemic symptoms are known to be associated with overdose. Treatment should be 
supportive. 
Limited information is available on the effects of overexposure to laser light during treatment. 
Increased damage to tissue was noted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XD05. 
Temoporfin is a photosensitising agent used in the photodynamic therapy of tumours.  
The pharmacological activity is initiated by photoactivation of temoporfin with non-thermal light at 
652 nm following intravenous administration. The therapeutic effect is mediated through the 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
generation of highly reactive oxygen species, a process dependent on the intracellular interaction of 
temoporfin with light and oxygen. 
In a clinical trial of 147 patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, tumour 
response, defined as a reduction of a minimum of 50 % of the tumour mass for a minimum of four 
weeks, was observed in 25 % after a single treatment. A WHO local complete response was observed 
in 14 % of patients. Tumour responses are enhanced in patients with fully illuminated lesions of 
10 mm or less in depth.  
The median observed duration of tumour response for all patients was 57 days for overall response and 
84 days for complete response.  
Thirty-seven patients received at least 2 treatments with Foscan. Ten patients achieved a tumour 
response due to re-treatment. Of these, 6 had a complete local response according to WHO criteria. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Temoporfin is a low clearance substance with a terminal plasma half-life of 65 hours in patients. Peak 
plasma levels occur at 2-4 hours post-injection thereafter plasma levels decline in a bi-exponential 
manner. An extensive volume of distribution is observed that is intermediate between total and 
extracellular body water. Temoporfin does not concentrate in the tissues. Plasma protein binding is at 
85-87 %. Temoporfin is bound to plasma lipoproteins and high density proteins such as albumin in the 
blood. By 15 days post-infusion, temoporfin plasma concentration has declined to background such 
that patients are generally able to begin a gradual return to normal outdoor lighting conditions. 
Limited data are available on the elimination of temoporfin in humans. Animal data show temoporfin 
is exclusively eliminated by the liver into the bile and excreted in the faeces. Two major metabolites of 
temoporfin are eliminated into the bile. There is no enterohepatic recirculation of these metabolites. 
Both these metabolites show conjugated character. No metabolites are seen in the systemic circulation. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, the main undesirable effects of temoporfin were 
phototoxicity and adverse injection site reactions. Local irritancy of Foscan solution for injection after 
intravenous administration occurred with all doses. High rates of administration caused death in dogs 
and rabbits. No other signs of toxicity were found, however, in dogs treated with the recommended 
therapeutic dose, systemic exposure exceeded that of humans. 
The genotoxicity of temoporfin has been investigated to a limited extent. Due to the generation of 
reactive oxygen species, temoporfin poses a minor risk of mutagenicity. This risk can be controlled in 
the clinical situation by minimising direct exposure to light (see section 4.4). 
In developmental toxicity studies in rabbits, temoporfin, at systemic exposures equal to those obtained 
in humans with the recommended therapeutic dose, caused an increase in early post-implantation loss. 
Although no other developmental effects were observed, the applied doses were not sufficiently in 
excess of the human therapeutic dose to provide an adequate margin of safety. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ethanol, anhydrous (E1510) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
Foscan must not be diluted with aqueous solutions. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years 
Once opened, the solution must be used immediately. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25 oC. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I amber glass vials with a bromobutyl elastomer stopper and aluminium seal containing either 
1 ml or 3 ml or 6 ml of solution for injection.   
Each pack contains 1 vial and a filter with Luer lock connections for syringe and cannula. Not all pack 
sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Appropriate precaution must be taken when handling this medicinal product. Studies have shown that 
Foscan is non-irritant. Each vial represents a single dose and any unused solution must be discarded. 
Foscan is photosensitive. Once removed from its packaging it must be administered immediately. 
Where delay is unavoidable, the solution must be protected from light. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
biolitec Pharma Ltd. 
Otto-Schott-Str. 15 
07745 Jena 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/01/197/003 
EU/1/01/197/004 
EU/1/01/197/005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 24 October 2001 
Date of latest renewal: 22 September 2011 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
biolitec Pharma Ltd. 
Otto-Schott-Str. 15 
07745 Jena 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP)  
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP.  
An updated RMP should be submitted:  
•At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON OF 1 MG/ML 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Foscan 1 mg/ml solution for injection 
Temoporfin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 1 mg of temoporfin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Ethanol anhydrous and propylene glycol (see package leaflet for further information)  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 1 mg/1 ml 
Solution for injection 3 mg/3 ml 
Solution for injection 6 mg/6 ml 
Sterile filter 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Single dose. Discard the remainder after use. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25 oC. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
biolitec Pharma Ltd. 
Otto-Schott-Str. 15 
07745 Jena 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/01/197/003 (1 ml) 
EU/1/01/197/004 (3 ml) 
EU/1/01/197/005 (6 ml) 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL OF 1 MG/ML 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Foscan 1 mg/ml solution for injection 
Temoporfin 
Intravenous use 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 mg/1 ml 
3 mg/3 ml 
6 mg/6 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Foscan 1 mg/ml solution for injection 
Temoporfin 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Foscan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Foscan  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information 
How to use Foscan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Foscan 
1.  What Foscan is and what it is used for 
The active ingredient in Foscan is temoporfin.  
Foscan is a porphyrin photosensitising medicine, which increases your sensitivity to light and is 
activated by light from a laser in a treatment called photodynamic therapy. 
Foscan is used for the treatment of head and neck cancer in patients who cannot be treated with other 
therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Foscan 
Do not use Foscan 
- 
if you are allergic to temoporfin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6), 
if you are hypersensitive (allergic) to porphyrins, 
if you have porphyria, or any other disease that is made worse by light, 
if the tumour being treated goes through a large blood vessel, 
if you are going to have an operation in the next 30 days, 
if you have an eye disease which needs examination with bright light in the next 30 days, 
if you are already being treated with a photosensitising agent. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
  Foscan will make you sensitive to light for about 15 days after your injection. This means that 
normal daylight or bright indoor lighting could give you skin burns. To stop this, you  must 
follow  carefully  the instructions for  gradual  exposure  to increasing  light  levels  indoors  over 
the first week and outdoor, shaded light during the second week after treatment (please see the 
table at the end of this leaflet).  
  Please speak to your doctor about this before you go home after being injected with Foscan.  
  Sunscreen creams will not prevent this sensitivity.  
  You will gradually become less sensitive to light. Normally, people are able to begin to return 
to normal outdoor lighting after 15 days.  
  Do  not  let  an  optician  or  ophthalmologist  examine  your  eyes  with  bright  lights  for  30  days 
after Foscan injection. 
  Do not use UV sunbeds or sunbathe for 3 months after Foscan injection. 
  For  6  months  following  Foscan  treatment,  avoid  prolonged  direct  sunlight  exposure  of  the 
injection  site  arm.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  if  prolonged  outdoor  activity  is  planned, 
protect your injection arm by wearing long sleeved, coloured clothing. 
The table of instructions tells you what to do to prevent skin burns. You must follow these 
instructions carefully.  
Please ask your doctor or nurse if you are not sure about anything. 
Time after  
Foscan Injection 
Day 1 (0-24 
hours) 
What should I do to prevent burns? 
Stay indoors in a darkened room. Keep the curtains drawn and use light bulbs of 
60 W or less. 
Avoid exposure to direct sunlight. 
Days 2-7 
You can gradually return to normal indoor lighting. Remember to avoid direct 
sunlight  coming  through  the  window  or  direct  light  from  household 
appliances such as reading lamps. You may watch television.  
You can go outdoors after dusk. 
If  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  go  outdoors  during  the  hours  of  daylight,  you 
must be careful to cover up all your skin including your face and hands and 
wear dark glasses.  
The type of clothes you must wear are: 
  Wide-brimmed hat: for head, neck, nose and ears. 
  Scarf: for head and neck. 
  Sunglasses with side panels: for eyes and skin around eyes. 
  Long sleeved top: for upper body/arms. 
  Long trousers: for lower body/legs. 
  Gloves: for hands, wrist and fingers. 
  Socks: for feet and ankles. 
  Closed shoes: for feet. 
  Do  not  wear  very  thin  clothing  because  it  will  not  protect  you  from 
 
strong light. Wear dark, closely woven clothing. 
If  you  expose  yourself  to  light  by  mistake,  you  may  get  a  prickly  or 
burning feeling on the skin. You must get out of the light immediately. 
Your eyes may be very sensitive to bright lights during this week. You may get 
eye  pain  or  headache  when  lights  are  switched  on.  If  you  have  this  problem, 
wear dark glasses. 
Days 8-14 
You can now begin to go outside during daylight hours. Stay in shaded areas or 
go out when it is cloudy. Continue to wear dark, closely woven clothing. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Start on Day 8 with 10-15 minutes outdoors. If you do not see any skin redness 
in the next 24 hours, you can gradually increase your time outdoors during the 
week. 
Avoid direct sunlight or strong indoor lighting. Stay in the shade. 
Day 15 onward 
Your sensitivity to light is gradually getting back to normal.  
You must test this carefully by exposing the back of your hand to the sun for 
5 minutes. Wait 24 hours to see if there is any redness. If there is redness, you 
should avoid direct sunlight for another 24 hours. You can then repeat the test. 
If there is no redness, you can gradually increase your exposure to sunlight day 
by day. Do not stay in the sunlight for more than 15 minutes the first time. Most 
people will be able to go back to their normal routine by Day 22.  
On  the  first  day  after  the  skin  test,  you  can  stay  in  direct  sunlight  for  15 
minutes.  You  can  increase  your  exposure by  another  15  minutes each  day  i.e. 
second day 30 minutes, third day 45 minutes, fourth day 60 minutes and so on. 
If at any time you notice a prickly or burning feeling or see skin reddening after 
exposure to sun, wait until this disappears before exposing your skin to light for 
this length of time again. 
For 30 days following Foscan treatment, avoid eye tests that use bright lights. 
For  3  months  following  Foscan  treatment,  avoid  UV  tanning  beds.  Do  not 
sunbathe. 
For 6 months following Foscan treatment, care should be taken to avoid direct 
prolonged  sunlight  exposure  of  the  arm  used  for  Foscan  injection.  As  a 
precautionary  measure,  if  prolonged  outdoor  activity  is  planned,  the  injection 
arm should be protected by wearing long sleeved, coloured clothing. 
Other medicines and Foscan 
Tell your doctor if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
  You must avoid becoming pregnant for 3 months after Foscan treatment. 
  Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine if you are pregnant. 
Do not breast-feed for at least 1 month after Foscan injection. 
Driving and using machines 
  The amount of alcohol in this medicine may impair your ability to drive or use machines for a 
 
few hours after injection.  
It is not recommended to drive or operate machines for the first 15 days after Foscan injection, 
because of the recommended light exposure restrictions 
Foscan contains ethanol (alcohol): 
  This product contains 48 vol % ethanol (alcohol), i.e up to 4.2 g per dose, equivalent to 84 ml 
of beer, 35 ml wine per dose. This product is also harmful for those suffering from alcoholism. 
Pregnant  or  breast-feeding  women,  children  and  high-risk  groups  such  as  patients  with  liver 
disease or epilepsy are also at risk. 
The amount of alcohol in this product may alter the effects of other medicines. 
3. 
How to use Foscan 
  Your doctor or nurse will give you Foscan by a slow injection into a vein, which will take 
approximately 6 minutes. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Four days after your injection, your doctor will treat your cancer with laser light. Your doctor 
will cover the normal tissue surrounding your cancer and then shine the laser light directly at 
the cancer for about 5 minutes. The laser light is not hot and will not burn. 
If you are given more Foscan than you should 
  You may not be given the laser treatment.  
  You may be sensitive to light for more than 15 days.  
You must follow carefully the instructions on preventing skin burns. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Foscan can cause side effects.  
  Everyone who takes Foscan will become sensitive to light for about 15 days after injection. 
  You must follow the instructions given to you to avoid sunlight and bright indoor light.  
  These instructions are written in this leaflet. Your doctor will also tell you what to do.  
If  you  do  not  follow  these  instructions,  you  may  get  severe  sunburn  that  leads  to  permanent 
scarring. 
Most of the side effects related with photodynamic therapy are local effects seen as consequence of 
triggering the Foscan with the laser. You may feel pain after the laser treatment. This pain will be 
controlled with painkillers. Please let your doctor or nurse know if you have pain or if the painkillers 
you have been given are not taking the pain away. Furthermore you will probably notice swelling and 
reddening around the area that has been treated. You may be given some medicine to reduce the 
swelling. After 2 to 4 days, the treated area will turn black. This blackness is caused by dead cancer 
cells (necrosis). Foscan may also damage the tissue that is surrounding the tumour. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
  You may feel some pain when Foscan is injected.  
  After  the  laser  treatment,  you  may  feel  pain  in  the  treated  area,  e.g.  pain  in  your  face  or 
headache. 
  There may also be bleeding, ulcers, swelling in the treated area like swelling of your face or 
tongue, and scarring. 
  You may get constipation. 
These effects may make it difficult to eat and drink.  
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
  There may be some irritation, a burning sensation or skin damage where Foscan is injected, 
but this will not last long.  
  You may also get ulcers, blisters, skin redness, or skin darkening.  
  Vomiting 
  Fever 
  Nausea 
  Anaemia 
  Light sensitivity 
  Sunburn 
  Burns 
  Difficulty with swallowing 
  Giddiness  
  There may be swelling or you may have a stiff jaw. Some people may get an infection in the 
treated area, e.g. inflammation of the throat or mouth. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Events occurring at a frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available 
data): 
  Airway blocking as consequence of swelling in the treated area 
  Fistula in the treated area 
  Sepsis 
  Vascular rupture 
Serious side effects such as inflammation of bile duct or gallbladder, liver abscess or perforation in the 
treated area have been reported when used in other cancer than head and neck. Talk to your doctor for 
more information. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Foscan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Foscan will be stored at the hospital pharmacy. 
Do not store above 25 oC. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. Once removed from its package, this 
medicine must be used immediately. 
Each vial is a single dose and any unused medicine must be discarded. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Foscan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is temoporfin. Each ml contains 1 mg of temoporfin. 
The other ingredients are ethanol anhydrous (E1510) and propylene glycol (E1520). 
What Foscan looks like and contents of the pack 
Foscan solution for injection is a dark purple solution in an amber glass vial, containing 1 ml, 3 ml or 
6 ml of solution.  
Each pack contains 1 glass vial and a filter. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
biolitec Pharma Ltd. 
Otto-Schott-Str. 15 
07745 Jena 
Germany 
Tel.: +49 3641 5195330 
Fax: +49 3641 5195331 
This leaflet was last revised in  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
25 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only 
Foscan 1 mg/ml solution for injection 
Temoporfin  
1. 
PACK CONTENTS 
The active substance is temoporfin. Each ml of solution contains 1 mg of temoporfin. The excipients 
are  ethanol  anhydrous  and  propylene  glycol.  A  filter  with  Luer  lock  connections  for  syringe  and 
cannula is provided. 
Each pack provides 1 vial containing 1 ml, 3 ml or 6 ml solution for injection. 
Each vial represents a single dose and any unused solution must be discarded. 
2. 
CALCULATION OF DOSE 
Calculate  the  required  dose  of  Foscan  according  to  the  bodyweight  of  the  patient.  The  dose  is  
0.15 mg/kg bodyweight. 
3. 
ADMINISTRATION OF FOSCAN (96 hours prior to laser illumination of treatment site) 
Foscan must be administered intravenously via an in-dwelling cannula in a large proximal limb vein, 
preferably  in  the  antecubital  fossa.  The  patency  of  the  in-dwelling  cannula  should  be  tested  before 
injection. 
The  dark  purple  colour  of  the  solution  together  with  the  amber  vial  makes  a  visual  check  for 
particulates impossible. Thus, an in-line filter must be used as a precautionary measure and is provided 
in the package. 
Draw up the entire contents of the vial containing Foscan into a syringe and expel air (Figure 1). 
Figure 1 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attach the filter to the syringe (Figure 2). 
Figure 2 
Press the syringe plunger to fill all dead space within the filter. Continue pressing the plunger to expel 
excess  Foscan  until  the  required  volume  is  left in  the  syringe,  allowing  sufficient  to  cover the  dead 
space in the intravenous cannula (Figure 3). 
Figure 3 
Attach  the  syringe  and  filter  to  the  cannula.  Administer  the  required  dose  of  Foscan  by  slow 
intravenous injection, over not less than 6 minutes (Figure 4). 
Figure 4 
Remove  the  intravenous  cannula  immediately  following  the  injection.  Do  NOT  flush  with 
aqueous solutions such as  sodium chloride  9 mg/ml  (0.9 %) solution for injection or water for 
injections. 
Special  care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  extravasation  at  the  injection  site.  If  extravasation  occurs, 
protect  the  area  from  light  for  at  least  3  months.  There  is  no  known  benefit  from  injecting  the 
extravasation site with another substance. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foscan  is  photosensitive.  Once  removed  from  its  packaging  it  should  be  administered  immediately. 
Where delay is unavoidable, the solution must be protected from light. 
4. 
LASER ILLUMINATION OF TREATMENT SITE 
Please refer to the laser user manual, and to the microlens fibre-optic user leaflet. 
96 hours after the administration of Foscan, the treatment site is to be illuminated with light at 652 nm 
from an approved laser source. Light must be delivered to the entire surface of the tumour using an 
approved microlens fibre-optic. Wherever possible, the illuminated area must extend beyond the 
tumour margin by a distance of 0.5 cm. 
Light must be administered not less than 90 hours and not more than 110 hours after Foscan injection.  
The incident light dose is 20 J/cm2, delivered by the microlens fibre-optic in a circular field to the 
tumour surface at an irradiance of 100 mW/cm2, implying an illumination time of 200 seconds. 
Each field is to be illuminated once only at each treatment. Multiple non-overlapping fields may be 
illuminated. Care must be taken to ensure that no area of tissue receives more than the specified light 
dose. Tissue outside the target area must be shielded completely to avoid photoactivation by scattered 
or reflected light. 
5. 
SAFETY INFORMATION 
Foscan is non-irritant. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
