EMA/427397/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004131 
EPAR summary for the public 
Fotivda 
tivozanib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Fotivda. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Fotivda. 
For practical information about using Fotivda, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Fotivda and what is it used for? 
Fotivda is a medicine for treating adults with advanced renal cell carcinoma (a kidney cancer).  
Fotivda may be used in previously untreated patients or in those whose disease has got worse despite 
treatment with another medicine working in a different way. 
It contains the active substance tivozanib. 
How is Fotivda used? 
Fotivda is available as capsules (890 and 1,340 micrograms). The usual dose is one 1,340-microgram 
capsule once a day for three weeks, followed by a week when the patient does not take any capsules. 
The patients should continue repeating this 4-week course for as long as the disease does not get 
worse or until side effects become unacceptable. If the patient has troublesome side effects, the doctor 
may decide to switch to the lower-strength 890-microgram capsules or interrupt treatment. 
Fotivda can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be supervised by a doctor with 
experience of treating cancers. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Fotivda work? 
The active substance in Fotivda, tivozanib, works by blocking the activity of proteins known as VEGF, 
which stimulate the formation of new blood vessels. By blocking this protein, tivozanib stops the 
formation of new blood vessels that the tumour needs, thereby cutting off its blood supply and 
reducing the growth of the cancer. 
What benefits of Fotivda have been shown in studies? 
A main study of 517 patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma that had either come back or spread 
to other parts of the body has shown that Fotivda can help stop the disease from getting worse. In this 
study, patients taking Fotivda lived for longer without their disease worsening (12 months) than those 
given another approved medicine sorafenib (9 months). 
What are the risks associated with Fotivda? 
The most important serious side effect with Fotivda is high blood pressure. The most common side 
effects are high blood pressure (which occurs in almost half of patients) and voice changes, tiredness 
and diarrhoea (which occur in about a quarter of patients). For the full list of all side effects, see the 
package leaflet. 
Patients must not take St John’s wort (a herbal remedy for depression) during treatment with Fotivda. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Fotivda approved? 
A main study showed that Fotivda increased the time it took for the disease to get worse by almost 3 
months when compared with another approved medicine sorafenib. The most common side effects with 
Fotivda are considered manageable, although they may affect the patient’s quality of life. On the 
whole, its side effects are in line with what is expected of a medicine of its class (VEGF inhibitors). 
The European Medicines Agency therefore concluded that the benefits of Fotivda outweighed its risk 
and recommended that it be granted authorisation in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fotivda? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fotivda have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Fotivda 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Fotivda on 24 August 2017. 
The full EPAR for Fotivda can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Fotivda, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2017. 
Fotivda  
EMA/427397/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
