EMA/653833/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004915 
Fulphila (pegfilgrastim) 
An overview of Fulphila and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Fulphila and what is it used for? 
Fulphila is a medicine used in cancer patients to help with neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a 
type of white blood cell), which is a common side effect of cancer treatment and can leave patients 
vulnerable to infections. 
It is given specifically to reduce the duration of neutropenia and prevent febrile neutropenia (when 
neutropenia is accompanied by fever).  
Fulphila is not intended for use in patients with the blood cancer chronic myeloid leukaemia or with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which large numbers of abnormal blood cells are produced, 
which can develop into leukaemia). 
Fulphila is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Fulphila is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Fulphila is Neulasta. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Fulphila used? 
Fulphila can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of cancer or blood disorders. It is available as a prefilled 
syringe containing a solution for injection under the skin. Fulphila is given as a single dose of 6 mg 
injected under the skin at least 24 hours after the end of each cycle of chemotherapy (treatment with 
cancer medicines). Patients can inject themselves if they have been trained appropriately. 
For more information about using Fulphila, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Fulphila work? 
The active substance in Fulphila, pegfilgrastim, is a form of filgrastim, which is very similar to a human 
protein called granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Filgrastim works by encouraging the 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
bone marrow to produce more white blood cells, increasing white blood cell counts and so treating 
neutropenia. 
Filgrastim has been available in other medicines in the European Union (EU) for a number of years. In 
Fulphila, filgrastim has been ‘pegylated’ (attached to a chemical called polyethylene glycol). This slows 
down the removal of filgrastim from the body, allowing the medicine to be given less often. 
What benefits of Fulphila have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Fulphila with Neulasta have shown that the active substance in Fulphila 
is highly similar to that in Neulasta in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have 
also shown that giving Fulphila produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
Neulasta. 
In addition, a study involving 194 patients who had chemotherapy before or after surgery for breast 
cancer showed that Fulphila was as effective as Neulasta in reducing the duration of neutropenia. 
Neutropenia lasted 1 day on average with both medicines. 
Because Fulphila is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of pegfilgrastim 
carried out with Neulasta do not all need to be repeated for Fulphila. 
What are the risks associated with Fulphila? 
The safety of Fulphila has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Neulasta. 
The most common side effect with Fulphila (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is pain in the 
bones. Pain in muscles is also common. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Fulphila, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Fulphila authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Fulphila has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Neulasta and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in breast cancer patients undergoing 
chemotherapy have shown that the effectiveness of Fulphila is equivalent to that of Neulasta in 
reducing the duration of neutropenia. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Fulphila will behave in the same way as 
Neulasta in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Neulasta, the benefit of Fulphila outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fulphila? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fulphila have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Fulphila are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Fulphila are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Fulphila (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/653833/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Fulphila 
Fulphila received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 November 2018. 
Further information on Fulphila can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/fulphila.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Fulphila (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/653833/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
