EMA/754074/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004649 
EPAR summary for the public 
Fulvestrant Mylan 
fulvestrant 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Fulvestrant Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Fulvestrant Mylan. 
For practical information about using Fulvestrant Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Fulvestrant Mylan and what is it used for? 
Fulvestrant Mylan is an anti-oestrogen medicine used to treat advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
(cancer that has spread to other parts of the body) in postmenopausal women with a type of breast 
cancer known as ‘oestrogen-receptor positive cancer’ who have not previously had hormonal 
treatment, or whose cancer had come back after treatment with another anti-oestrogen. 
Fulvestrant Mylan contains the active substance fulvestrant. 
Fulvestrant Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Fulvestrant Mylan contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European 
Union (EU) called Faslodex. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer 
document here. 
How is Fulvestrant Mylan used? 
Fulvestrant Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as a solution for injection in 
prefilled syringes (250 mg). The recommended dose is 500 mg given once a month, with an additional 
500-mg dose given two weeks after the first dose. The dose is given as two injections, each given into 
the muscle of one buttock over one to two minutes. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Fulvestrant Mylan work? 
Most types of breast cancer are stimulated to grow when the hormone oestrogen attaches to targets 
(receptors) on cancer cells. The active substance in Fulvestrant Mylan, fulvestrant, is an anti-
oestrogen. It blocks the receptors for oestrogen on cells and causes the number of oestrogen receptors 
to fall. As a result, the cancer cells are not stimulated to grow by oestrogen and this slows down the 
growth of the tumour. 
How has Fulvestrant Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Faslodex, and do not need to be repeated for Fulvestrant 
Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Fulvestrant Mylan. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Fulvestrant Mylan is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because the 
composition of Fulvestrant Mylan is the same as the reference medicine and when given by injection 
into the muscle, the active substance in both products is expected to be absorbed in the same way. 
What are the benefits and risks of Fulvestrant Mylan? 
Because Fulvestrant Mylan is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Fulvestrant Mylan approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Fulvestrant 
Mylan has been shown to be comparable to Faslodex. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Faslodex, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended that Fulvestrant Mylan 
be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Fulvestrant Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Fulvestrant Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Fulvestrant Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Fulvestrant Mylan on 8 January 2018. 
The full EPAR for Fulvestrant Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Fulvestrant Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2018. 
Fulvestrant Mylan  
EMA/754074/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
