European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/H/C/514 
EUROPEAN PUBLIC ASSESSMENT REPORT (EPAR) 
FUZEON 
EPAR summary for the public 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Fuzeon? 
Fuzeon is a powder that is made up into a solution for injection. It contains the active substance 
enfuvirtide (90 mg/ml). 
What is Fuzeon used for? 
Fuzeon is an antiviral medicine. It is used in combination with other antiviral medicines for the 
treatment of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is for use in patients who have stopped responding 
to, or cannot take, other antiviral medicines. These must include at least one medicine from each of the 
following classes of medicine used to treat HIV infection: protease inhibitors; non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors; and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
Doctors should only prescribe Fuzeon once they have looked at the antiviral medicines the patient has 
taken before and the likelihood that the virus will respond to the medicine. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Fuzeon used? 
Fuzeon should be prescribed by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of HIV infection. In 
adults, it is given as one 90-mg injection twice a day, injected under the skin of the upper arm, upper 
thigh or abdomen (tummy). The dose for children aged six to 16 years depends on body weight. 
Fuzeon is not recommended for use in children under six years of age. 
Fuzeon can be injected by the patient or by a carer, provided that the person giving the injection 
follows the detailed instructions given in the Package Leaflet. The site of injection must be changed 
for each injection. 
How does Fuzeon work? 
The active substance in Fuzeon, enfuvirtide, is a fusion inhibitor. Fuzeon binds to a protein on the 
surface of HIV. This prevents the virus from attaching to the surface of human cells and infecting 
them. As HIV can only reproduce itself within cells, Fuzeon, taken in combination with other antiviral 
medicines, reduces the level of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Fuzeon does not cure HIV 
infection or AIDS, but it may delay the damage to the immune system and the development of 
infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How has Fuzeon been studied? 
The two main studies of Fuzeon included 1,013 patients aged 16 years or over who were infected with 
HIV and had taken, or were not responding to, other antiviral medicines. On average, the patients had 
been given an average of 12 antiviral medicines over a seven-year period. Both studies compared the 
effects of Fuzeon, in combination with ‘optimised background therapy’ (a combination of other 
antiviral medicines chosen for each patient as they had the best chances of reducing the levels of HIV 
in the blood), compared with optimised background therapy without Fuzeon. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the change in the levels of HIV in the blood (viral load) after 48 weeks of treatment. 
Fuzeon has also been studied in 39 children aged between three and 16 years. The studies were still 
ongoing at the time of the medicine’s assessment. 
What benefit has Fuzeon shown during the studies? 
Taking Fuzeon with optimised background therapy was more effective at reducing viral loads than 
optimised background therapy alone. In the first study, viral loads fell by an average of 98% in the 
patients taking Fuzeon, compared with 83% in the patients not taking Fuzeon. The values in the 
second study were 96 and 78%, respectively. The approved dose of Fuzeon in children brings about 
similar levels of the active substance in the blood to the approved dose in adults. 
What is the risk associated with Fuzeon? 
The most common side effects with Fuzeon (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are injection site 
reactions (pain and inflammation at the site of injection), peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves 
in the extremities causing tingling or numbness in the hands and feet) and weight loss. In clinical 
studies, injection site reactions have been reported in 98% of patients, mostly occurring within the first 
week of treatment. It caused mild to moderate pain or discomfort, which did not increase during 
treatment. For the full list of all side effects reported with Fuzeon, see the Package Leaflet. 
Fuzeon should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to enfuvirtide or any of the 
other ingredients. 
As with all other anti-HIV medicines, patients taking Fuzeon may be at risk of osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue) or immune reactivation syndrome (symptoms of infection caused by the recovering 
immune system). Patients who have problems with their liver may be at an elevated risk of liver 
damage when taking treatment for HIV infection. 
Why has Fuzeon been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Fuzeon’s benefits are 
greater than its risks in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of 
HIV-1 infected patients who have received treatment with and failed on regimens containing at least 
one medicinal product from each of the following classes, protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, or who have intolerance to 
previous antiretroviral regimens. The Committee recommended that Fuzeon be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Fuzeon was originally authorised under ‘Exceptional Circumstances’, because for scientific reasons it 
had not been possible to obtain complete information on the medicine. As the company had supplied 
the additional information requested, the ‘Exceptional Circumstances’ ended on 8 July 2008. 2008. 
Other information about Fuzeon: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Fuzeon to Roche Registration Limited on 27 May 2003. The marketing authorisation was renewed 
on 27 May 2008. 
The full EPAR for Fuzeon can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2008. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
