SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Fuzeon.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  November  2004.  For  information  on  changes  after  approval, 
please refer to module 8b. 
1. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Fuzeon is presented as a powder for solution for injection and a powder and solvent for solution for 
injection  containing  90  mg  of  enfuvirtide,  as  active  substance.  It  is  intended  for  single-dose 
subcutaneous administration following reconstitution with water for injections.   
The other ingredients include sodium carbonate anhydrous, mannitol, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric 
acid (and water for injections).  
Fuzeon is supplied in type I glass vials. The closure system consists of a rubber stopper and a seal with 
a flip-off cap. It is available in three presentations, one including only powder  vials, the second one 
including  powder  vials  and  solvent  vials  and  the  third  one  including  powder  vials,  solvent  vials, 
syringes with safety features of 1 ml and 3 ml and alcohol swabs. 
Active substance  
Enfuvirtide is a chemically synthesised 36-amino acid peptide. Its sequence is derived from the HIV-1 
glycoprotein gp41.     
The  active  substance  is  insoluble  in  pure  water  and  its  solubility  is  pH  dependent.  It  is  insoluble  to 
very slightly soluble in most organic solvents. 
Enfurvitide  is  a  chiral  molecule  composed  of  naturally  occurring  L-amino  acid  residues. 
Diastereoisomers  and  epimers  produced  during  the  synthesis  are  considered  as  impurities.  The 
enantiomer  consisting  of  solely  D-amino  acids  is  unlikely  because  of  the  nature  of  the  synthesis 
process in which the enantiomeric purity is part of the acceptance criteria for the amino acids starting 
materials.  
Enfuvirtide  can  exist  in  four  solid  amorphous  forms,  but  only  the  intended  commercial  synthesis 
process has produced two of them. 
Concerning  aggregation, 
the  enfuvirtide,  sodium  chloride  and  buffer 
concentrations. It aggregates more at lower pH than at higher pH. However the nature of aggregation 
was reversible in all cases. The effect of mannitol on aggregation is minimal.  
increases  with 
this 
Enfuvirtide is synthesised using a standard Fmoc (Fluorenyl-methoxycarbonyl) solid phase synthesis 
of  three  main  fragments,  followed  by  a  solution  phase  condensation  of  these  fragments  and 
purification  of  the  deprotected  crude  enfuvirtide  by  chromatography  and  precipitation.  Satisfactory 
specifications and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials. 
During the development phase, the route of synthesis was modified due to demand on capacity from a 
conventional linear solid-phase peptide synthesis to a process involving fragments condensation. The 
active substance used for phase II and III clinical trials was synthesised by this latter process. In a third 
step the purification has been optimised.  
The new route of synthesis was accompanied by a slight increase in related impurities. However, all 
impurity limits in the specification have been justified by toxicology studies and the impurity profile is 
similar in the toxicological/clinical batches and full-scale commercial batches. 
The  other  impurities  include  residual  solvents  and  reagents  and  have  also  been  qualified  with 
reference to EU guidelines. 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 17 pilot scale batches (9 registration batches and 8 clinical 
batches)  and  three  full-scale  validation  batches  synthesised  using  the  commercial  synthesis  process.  
1/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  confirmed  satisfactory  compliance  and  uniformity  with  the  proposed  specification  and 
demonstrates  that  the  impurity  profile  is  homogenous.  Data  from  5  development  batches  have  also 
been provided for comparison. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes test for appearance, identity (HPLC and peptide mapping), 
solution  test,  water  content,  heavy  metals  (Ph.  Eur),  residual  solvents,  residual  acetate,  residual 
trifluroacetate,  assay  (HPLC,  min.  90.0%),  peptide  content,  purity  (HPLC,  min  90%),  impurities 
(HPLC), amino acids analysis (hydrolysis and HPLC), endotoxin content and specific optical rotation. 
The analytical methods used in routine controls are suitably described and validated.   
The specification limit for the purity has been adequately justified (see other paragraphs).  
Stability 
Stability data were provided for three pilot batches synthesised at the commercial synthesis site.  12 
months  data  are  available  under 
for 
long-term  conditions 
commercialisation).  Under  accelerated  conditions,  studies  have  been  performed  during  3  months 
(40ºC/75%  R.H.  –  packaging  intended  for  commercialisation)  and  6  months  (25ºC/60%  R.H.  – 
packaging intended for commercialisation).  
Stability  studies  under stressed conditions  have also  been  performed in solution (pH, heat, light and 
chemical oxidation) and in the solid state (heat, humidity and light). 
(4ºC  –  packaging 
intended 
The  results  obtained  support  the  proposed  retest  period  of  12  months  under  refrigerated  conditions 
(periods of higher temperature over 8°C and below or equal 25°C may occur for logistic reasons and 
should not exceed 10 days) in double polyethylene bags sealed and placed into tightly closed HDPE 
container.  
Other ingredients 
All the excipients comply with the Ph. Eur. requirements.  
Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  Fuzeon  includes  no  component  of  ruminant  origin.  The  conventional  viral 
safety risk has been satisfactorily addressed. 
The syringes are CE marked and approved for the intended use.  
The type I glass vials and the butyl rubber cap used as primary packaging material for the powder and 
the solvent vials meet the general Ph. Eur. requirements.  
Product development and finished product 
Because of the long-term instability of the liquid dosage forms tested, Fuzeon has been developed as a 
single dose lyophilised powder to be reconstituted extemporaneously with water for injections.  The 
stability of enfuvirtide formulated using a carbonate buffer in the pH 9-9.5 range is adequate to permit 
enough time for solution manufacture and lyophilisation, and for use after reconstitution. 
The  choice  of  the  excipients was  based  on compatibility test  results  and previous experience gained 
from  similar  products.  The  solid-state  compatibility  of  the  peptide  with  the  excipients  in  the 
formulation  is  being  assessed  as  part  of  the  on-going  stability  studies.  No  incompatibility  has  been 
shown.  
The overfills of 20% for the powder vials and of 0.2ml for the solvent vials are suitable to allow the 
withdrawal of the nominal volume of solvent and of reconstituted solution.  
The  reconstitution  time  has  not  been  considered  as  a  critical  parameter  during  the  development  and 
this is reflected by an unusual reconstitution time of up to 45 minutes.  
Bioequivalence has been established between a 50 mg/ml formulation used in early phase II studies, 
and I and the 100 mg/ml formulation used in phase III studies, which is intended for marketing. 
The manufacturing process of the powder vials consists of four steps: preparation of the bulk solution, 
prefiltration  and  first  sterile  filtration,  sterilisation  of  primary  packaging  materials,  final  sterile 
filtration and filling into vials, freeze-drying and capping of vials.  
2/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terminal sterilisation of the product is not possible. The aseptic processing is controlled by bioburden 
determination on samples before sterile filtrations and the sterility test is part of the release testing.  
The  entire  manufacturing  process,  including  the  aseptic  manufacturing  and  lyophilisation,  has  been 
satisfactorily validated at commercial scale.  
The manufacture of the solvent vials is carried out according to established manufacturing procedures 
commonly used for the manufacture of sterile products by terminal sterilisation. 
Batch analysis data provided for 3 registration batches produced at the commercial manufacturing site 
comply with the specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
Specification 
The finished product specification includes test for container, appearance and coloration, reconstituted 
solution  (reconstitution  time,  appearance  and  degree  of  coloration  (Ph.  Eur.),  pH,  particulate  matter 
(Ph. Eur.)), water content (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of mass (Ph. Eur.), identity (HPLC and UV or SDS-
PAGE),  assay  (HPLC  -  93-105%  release  and  90-105%  shelf  life),  degradation  products  (HPLC), 
bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and sterility (Ph. Eur.). 
Stability 
Stability of the product before reconstitution 
Long  term  and  accelerated  stability  studies  were  conducted  on  three  batches  manufactured  at  the 
intended  manufacturing  site.  Twelve  months  data  are  available  for  batches  stored  under  long-term 
storage conditions (5ºC and 25ºC/60% R.H., inverted and upright position). The data from accelerated 
storage  conditions  cover  12  months  at  30ºC/75%  R.H.  and  6  months  at  40ºC/75%  R.H.  A 
photostability study was also performed.  
The methods used for product stability have been validated, and shown to be stability indicating. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
In-use stability of the reconstituted solution 
In  use  stability  of  the  reconstituted  solution  was  tested  during  48  hours  at  5°C  and  at  room 
temperature, in upright and inverted position and also for light stability. A microbiological challenge 
testing by inoculation was also performed at refrigerated conditions and at room temperature.  
The reconstituted solution is physically and chemically stable for up to 48 hours at 2-8°C and up to 24 
hours at room temperature. Light sensitivity was detected. Microbiological challenge indicated a static 
behavior only under refrigerated conditions. 
The methods used for drug product stability have been validated, and shown to be stability indicating. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. It is noted that the product has an unusually long reconstitution time. 
2. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics  
• 
Mechanism of action 
The replication of HIV is initiated by the attachment of the virus to the membrane of the target cell. 
The receptors on the cell surface include the CD4 –receptor and two co-receptors (CXCR4 or CCR5). 
The  viral  structure  gp120  is  the  attachment  site  and  another  viral  structure,  gp41,  is  the  anchor 
3/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between the gp120 structure and the viral trans-membrane attachment. Fusion between gp120 and the 
cell membrane enables the viral RNA to enter into the target cell. 
Gp41 has three main regions: a fusion peptide at the N terminal and two heptad repeat regions (HR1 
and  HR2).  At  attachment  between  the  CD4  receptor  of  the  target  cell  and  gp120,  a  conformational 
change  in  gp120  is  evoked,  which  opens  up  for  a  high-affinity  binding  site  to  the  co-receptor.  The 
interaction between gp120 and the co-receptor  results in further conformational changes that lead to 
the exposure of the fusion domain of gp41. A conformational change in gp41 leads to an attachment 
between the two HR regions, after which the virus-to-host cell membrane fusion can take place. The 
primary sequence of enfuvirtide derives from the sequence of amino acid residues 638-673 of the env 
gene, equivalent to residues 127-162 of the ectodomain of gp41 of the HIV1LAI clade. This sequence 
of  amino  acid  is  claimed  to  closely  mimic  the  HR2  region  of  gp41  and  to  bind  to  the  HR1  region, 
thereby preventing the intra-molecular protein-protein interactions between the HR1-HR2 domains of 
gp41 that are necessary for virus-to-host cell membrane fusion. Thus, the blocking of the HR1 region 
of gp41 prevents viral-target cell membrane fusion. 
The antiviral activity of enfuvirtide was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. 
• 
In vitro studies  
The  anti-HIV  activity  of  enfuvirtide  was  initially  noted  for  its  potency  in  inhibiting  HIV-1  gp41 
induced  cell-cell  fusion.  In  a  series  of  experiments  in  different  assays  for  cell-cell  confirmed,  IC50 
values  for  enfuvirtide  against  HIV1  isolates  ranged  from  0.11nM  to  5.56nM  and  IC90  values  from 
0.31nM to 111nM. However, the activity against HIV-2 was about 1000 fold lower.   
Enfuvirtide inhibited infection with cell-free virus at concentrations 10 to 100 times higher than those 
needed for inhibition of cell-cell fusion. A variety of assay protocols confirmed the antiviral potency 
of enfuvirtide against acute infection with HIV-1 of human lymphoblastoid cell lines, peripheral blood 
mononuclear  cells  and  monocyte/macrophage  cells,  giving  IC50  values  in  the  range  of  0.089 nM  to 
620 nM and IC90 values in the range of 17.8 nM to 1182 nM. 
These  antiviral  potency  values  include  data  for  experiments  using  different  clades  of  HIV-1  (A 
through G) and virus with different co-receptor specificities.  
There is no evidence for cytotoxic activity of enfuvirtide at concentrations considerably in excess of 
those at which antiviral activity is seen. 
• 
In vivo studies  
Antiviral  activity  in  vivo  was  studied  in  the  HuPBMC-SCID  mouse  model  of  HIV-1  infection. 
Enfuvirtide,  at  doses  of  67  mg/kg/day  or  higher  administered  intraperitonally,  completely  blocked 
recovery  of  infectious  virus  from  all  tissues  tested  and  dramatically  reduced  viral  DNA  load  by  as 
much as 6 logs10 or more. Inhibition of HIV infection was dose-dependent. At a daily intraperitonal 
dose  of  2  mg/kg  in  SCID  mice,  antiviral  activity  was  seen  only  in  some  of  the  experiments,  and  in 
those cases only in some of the studied compartments. This dose gives an exposure approximately half 
of that given by the recommended dose in human. This issue and the implications on the dose selected 
for clinical use will be addressed as follow-up measure to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
• 
Viral resistance 
Enfuvirtide,  binds  to  a  different  target  than  reverse  transcriptase  and  protease  inhibitors  retained 
activity against virus isolates and recombinant virus constructs carrying resistance mutations to some 
or all of the three classes of current antiretroviral agents suggesting the lack of cross resistance.  
Enfuvirtide resistant viruses could be selected in vitro. Five virus passages over 5 or 6 weeks selected 
enfuvirtide  resistant  virus.  Resistance  was  accompanied  by  genotypic  change(s)  in  the  gp41  gene, 
mapping  to  amino  acid  region  36-38.  Studies  on  site-directed  mutant  viruses  demonstrated  that 
substitutions at other parts of gp41 (within aa 36-41) may decrease the sensitivity to enfuvirtide. 
4/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appearance  of  enfuvirtide  resistant  virus  was  also  shown  in  the  clinic  as  further  discussed  in  the 
clinical part of this document. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
It has additionally been shown that enfuvirtide can act as an agonist on a cell surface receptor on host 
cells  formyl  peptide  receptor  (FPR)  with  a  constant  of  affinity  of  1200  nM  (5.4  µg/ml).  FPR  is 
involved  in  innate  immune  functions,  initiating  an  inflammatory  response  at  a  site  of  bacterial 
infection by recruiting phagocytic cells, primarily neutrophils and monocytes. The full picture of the 
biology of FPR and its homologues is not yet known and other functions are believed to be associated 
with this family of receptors.  
The interaction between enfuvirtide and FPR was shown to result in chemoattraction of monocytes 
and neutrophils and inhibition of IL-12 production by monocytes, but not dendritic cells. 
No  studies  have  addressed  the  activity  of  enfuvirtide  on  FPR  in  vivo  and  the  consequences  of  such 
activity  for  the  clinical  use  remain  to  be  defined.  The  applicant  undertook  to  further  explore  this 
finding as part of the specific obligations to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
A  series  of  close  analogues  of  enfuvirtide  were  studied  for  antiviral  activity  but  none  of  them  had 
significantly better activity than enfuvirtide. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
In vitro enfuvirtide acts additively to synergistically in combination with representatives of the three 
classes of current antiretroviral agents. No evidence of antagonism was found. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Enfuvirtide  did  not  affect  the  spontaneous  locomotor  activity  nor  the  general  behaviour  and 
physiological status in male mice receiving subcutaneous doses up to 50 mg/kg. The conclusions are 
hampered  by  the  lack  of  pharmacokinetics  data  in  this  species.  However,  as  discussed  in  the 
pharmacokinetics section, enfuvirtide penetrated the central nervous system to a small extent. 
In beagle dogs, there was no evidence of effect on the cardiovascular and respiratory functions, after 
intravenous doses of 5 mg/kg enfuvirtide. Transient reductions in QRS amplitude were observed at 15 
and 50 mg/kg. The S-T segment was transiently elevated in  one animal at 50 mg/kg. There were no 
effects on the QT or QTc intervals. 
Pharmacokinetics 
in  humans  although 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  enfuvirtide  was  evaluated  in  the  rat  and  monkey,  species  used  for 
toxicology studies. Enfuvirtide was mainly administered subcutaneously, which is the intended route 
intramuscular 
for  administration 
administration have also been used in some studies. Most of the studies used the formulation intended 
for marketing. 
Enfuvirtide was measured in biological samples by various immunoassay techniques between different 
studies. Later in the development programme an LC/MS/MS method was introduced. These methods 
were  in  most  cases  not  validated  but  considered  suitable  by  the  performance  of  the  calibration 
standards, weakening the confidence in the data and rendering comparisons between different studies 
difficult. 
intravenous,  continuous 
infusion  and 
Absorption 
After subcutaneous injection  of  low  doses to  rats, enfuvirtide was rapidly absorbed (Tmax 1-2 hours) 
but  the  extent  decreased  with  increasing  the  dose  as  evidenced  by  less  than  anticipated  increases  in 
Cmax. The bioavailability was dose-dependent (ranging from 36 % at a dose of 3.2 mg/kg to as low as 
2.4 % at the highest dose of approximately 400 mg/kg), limiting the possibility to achieve high plasma 
concentrations.  This  limits  the  value  of  the  rat  for  toxicological  evaluations.  However,  toxicokinetic 
data  from  an  embryotoxicity  study  in  rats,  further  discussed  in  the  toxicology  section,  showed  that 
reasonable exposure could be achieved by injections of high doses of enfuvirtide.  
5/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  monkey,  enfuvirtide  was  readily  absorbed  after  a  subcutaneous  injection  with  a  peak 
concentration occurring within 1-3 hours after dosing. Cmax and AUC values increased approximately 
proportionally  to  the  dose.  The  absolute  bioavailability  was  high  (58  to  133  %  over  doses  ranging 
from 0.4 to 6.7 mg/kg) and relatively dose-independent.  
The calculated apparent clearances for enfuvirtide ranged from 0.029 to 0.058 l/hr/kg and appeared to 
be independent of dose administered, and half-life values ranged from 3-4 hours. 
The intravenous pharmacokinetic profiles of enfuvirtide were comparable between rats, monkeys and 
humans,  characterised  by  small  volumes  of  distribution,  low  systemic  clearances  and  short  terminal 
half-lives. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile 
intramuscular  or  subcutaneous 
in  monkeys  was  similar  after 
administration  with  a peak concentrations occurring within 1-3 hours and  absolute  bioavailability of 
approximately 80 %. 
Distribution 
There is no data on the protein binding in animals but the applicant undertook to provide further data 
post-authorisation and discuss the importance in relation to enfuvirtide activity.  
Distribution  of  enfuvirtide  was evaluated  using  Quantitative  Whole Body  Autoluminography,  which 
could  not  discriminate  between  intact  enfuvirtide  and  peptide  fragments  or  free  amino  acids.  High 
amounts of radioactivity were found in well-perfused tissues. Enfuvirtide showed poor penetration to 
the central nervous system.  
Enfuvirtide showed equal distribution between lymph and plasma. The presence in lymph nodes was 
demonstrated  with  an  immuno-histochemical  method,  but  enfuvirtide  could  not  be  detected  with 
LC/MS/MS. Lymph nodes are important reservoirs of HIV and the levels of enfuvirtide in this tissue 
are likely important for the clinical efficacy. 
Placental  transport and transport  to  milk  was studied in  rats  using  3H-enfuvirtide. The transport was 
stated  to  be  minimal  (about  3  %  of  the  administered  radioactivity  was  secreted  into  milk  after  48 
hours). However,  the  actual numbers  suggest that reasonable  amounts  of  radioactivity reached  these 
compartments.  The  appearance  of  radioactivity  was  delayed  in  these  compartments,  and  it  is  not 
possible to conclude about the amount of intact peptide. 
Metabolism 
As  a  synthetic  peptide  consisting  of  naturally  occurring  amino  acids,  degradation  of  enfuvirtide  to 
smaller peptides and free amino acids occur through the action of peptidases/proteinases primarily in 
the liver and the kidney. 
Ro  50-6343  was  identified  as  a  major  metabolite  in  rat  plasma.  This  metabolite  represents  a  minor 
change to enfuvirtide. Ro 50-6343 was  shown to be present at relatively low levels in monkeys and 
human  plasma  (AUC  ratio  0.08  –  0.31  and  0.05-0.15  respectively)  as  compared  in  rats  where  AUC 
values  for  Ro  50-6343  were  equal  or  higher  than  those  of  enfuvirtide.  The  antiviral  potency  of  the 
metabolite is approximately 20 % of that of enfuvirtide. The applicant undertook to clarify whether the 
immunoassays  could  discriminate  between  the  metabolites  and  enfuvirtide  and  address  the  risk  of 
overestimating exposure in the toxicity studies.  
Excretion 
Following subcutaneous of 3H-enfuvirtide in rats (202 mg/kg), radioactivity was slowly eliminated at 
a  constant  rate.  The  apparent  clearance  for  enfuvirtide  ranged  from  0.023  l/hr/kg  to  0.058  and 
appeared to be independent of the dose administered. 
The  mean total radioactivity collected over 168 h was approximately 92 %. The recoveries in urine, 
faeces and expired air were approximately 6 %, 14 % and 12 % respectively. A significant portion of 
enfuvirtide catabolites (approximately 2/3) remained to be excreted seven days after dosing suggesting 
6/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that the radiolabel was incorporated into intermediary pathways as either peptide fragment or amino 
acid. 
Interactions 
In vivo data demonstrated a low potential for enfuvirtide to influence cytochrome P450 isozymes. 
Repeated cutaneous injections of enfuvirtide to rats did not induce hepatic metabolism as assessed by 
increases in liver weight, or the content or activities of CYP1A2, 2B1/2 or 3A1/2. The potential for 
metabolic interactions with enfuvirtide is therefore low. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  programme  included  single  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats,  repeated  dose  toxicity 
studies  in  rats  and  monkeys,  genotoxicity,  reproduction  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  local 
tolerance and ecotoxicity. 
Enfuvirtide  was  initially  considered  for  intravenous  injection  but  this  was  later  changed  to  the 
subcutaneous  route.  This  is  reflected  in  the  toxicity  studies  where  both  routes  were  used.  The  main 
repeated dose toxicity studies were a 6-month study in the rat and a 9-month study in the cynomolgus 
monkey, both using the clinical protocol of subcutaneous injections twice daily.  
The pivotal toxicity studies were performed in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices, however 
with exceptions.  
Single dose toxicity 
Enfuvirtide  was  lethal  after  a  single  intravenous  injection  of  100  mg/kg  in  rats.  The  cause  of  death 
appeared to be lung damage. Macroscopic and microscopic changes of the lungs were seen at doses 
≥ 20 mg/kg. Mild signs of possible intolerance were seen in female monkeys receiving 50 mg/kg. 
Repeated dose toxicity  
The repeated dose toxicity was evaluated in rats after intravenous injection (28 days) or subcutaneous 
injection (6-months) and monkeys after intravenous injection (28-days) or subcutaneous (28-days and 
9 months). 
Microscopic  changes  in  the  lung  were  also  seen  in  rats  after  intravenous  injection.  These  changes 
(microgranuloma  and  inflammatory  loci)  were  not  considered  treatment  related  by  the  pathologist. 
However,  the  increased  frequency  in  the  high-dose  group  (10  mg/kg)  and  similar  findings  in  the 
single-dose toxicity study could suggest a relation. This applicant undertook to further investigate this 
finding post-authorisation. There were slight decreases in leucocytes at the end of  the  treatment and 
minor  changes  in  red  cells  parameters  at  the  end  of  the  recovery  period  in  males  treated  with  
10 mg/kg. Small reversible increases in absolute and relative thyroid/parathyroid weights were seen in 
both gender at 10 mg/kg.  
The chronic 6-month repeated dose study in rats receiving twice daily subcutaneous injections (up to 
34.5 mg/kg/day for the 1st month and up to 30 mg/kg/day for the following 5 months) resulted in an 
exposure to enfuvirtide which was only 70% of the expected therapeutic exposure. The only reported 
adverse  effect  was 
  (subdermal  haemorrhages,  subdermal  chronic 
inflammation/fibrosis and degeneration of the cutaneous muscle on the injection sites in males). There 
were  very  low  amounts  of  anti-enfuvirtide  antibodies.  Later  studies  in  the  rat  with  higher  doses 
showed  that  higher  exposures  were  attainable.  A  study  on  pregnant  rats  showed  an  exposure  to 
enfuvirtide 8.9-fold higher than the therapeutic exposure. 
injection  site  reactions 
The  chronic  9-month  repeated  dose  study  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  (twice  daily  subcutaneous 
injections with doses up to 10 mg/kg/dose) resulted in an exposure 2.8 times higher than therapeutic 
exposure.  The  only  reported  adverse  effect  was  injection  site  reactions  (haemorrhage,  oedema  and 
inflammatory  infiltrate  with  plasma  cells  and  eosinophile).  Other  changes  were  an  increased 
prominence  of  splenic  follicular  germinal  centers  in  all  animals  treated  with  20 mg/kg/day,  and 
depletion  of  cortical  lymphocytes  in  the  thymus.  The  spleen  effect  was  considered  related  to  an 
ongoing  immune  response  to  enfuvirtide,  whereas  the  thymus  effect  was  considered  related  to 
7/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
experimental  stress.  However,  there  was  a  higher  frequency  of  thymic  lymphocyte  depletion  in  the 
animals  treated  with  enfuvirtide.  The  applicant  undertook  to  further  address  this  issue  post-
authorisation. 
The  exposure  in  rats  is  below  the  expected  clinical  exposure.  The  exposure  in  the  monkey  study  is 
above  the  expected  clinical  exposure  but  the  safety  margin  is  narrow.  The  applicant  undertook  to 
further address this issue as part of the special obligation to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Genotoxicity 
The  genotoxic  potential  of  enfuvirtide  was  evaluated  in  a  battery  of  in  vitro  tests  (reverse  gene 
mutation assay in bacteria and forward gene mutation in Chinese hamster ovary cells without and with 
metabolic  activation)  and  in vivo  micronucleusassay  in  mice.  No  genotoxic  activity  was  found.  The 
clastogenicity study was not conducted as recommended in applicable guidelines. However, the ICH 
guideline  on  preclinical  safety  evaluation  of  biotechnology  products  is  applicable  to  synthetic 
peptides, and for these products genotoxicity testing is not needed. 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been performed, but the CPMP considered the justification provided 
by the applicant insufficient. A host activity of enfuvirtide could be postulated from the finding that 
enfuvirtide  acts  as  an  N-formyl  peptide  receptor  (FPR)  agonist  in  vitro  and  an  interaction  of 
enfuvirtide with formyl peptide receptors in vivo cannot be excluded. A host activity of enfuvirtide is 
also  suggested  by  the  injection  site  reactions  and  the  lung  injury  after  intravenous  injection  of 
enfuvirtide  in  rats.  Thus,  the  applicant  undertook  to  conduct  carcinogenicity  studies,  the  results  of 
which will be provided post-authorisation.  
Reproduction toxicity 
Enfuvirtide  administered  subcutaneously  in  rats  with  doses  up  to  30  mg/kg/day  did  not  affect  the 
fertility or the embryo-foetal development but in the absence of toxicokinetic data, these results are of 
limited value. 
In one rat study performed with higher doses (up to 500 mg/kg), enfuvirtide was not embryotoxic nor 
teratogenic. The toxicokinetic analysis demonstrated that plasma concentrations and plasma exposure 
at the highest dose was approximately 8.9 times greater than the expected therapeutic exposure. 
As  for  the  rats,  the  study  in  rabbit  showed  that  treatment  starting  on  Gestation  day  6  study  did  not 
result  in  any  embryotoxic  or  teratogenic  effects  with  doses  resulting  in  an  exposure  3.2-4.4  times 
higher than the expected therapeutic exposure. 
Efuvirtide administered subcutaneously in rats with doses up to 30 mg/kg/day did not affect the peri or 
post-natal development off the offspring but in the absence of toxicokinetic data, these results are of 
limited value. 
Thus no firm conclusions can be made regarding the effect of enfuvirtide on fertility, early embryonic 
or  post-natal  development.  Enfuvirtide  should  therefore  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  the 
potential  benefit  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the  foetus  as  mentioned  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and the applicant undertook to further evaluate the reproduction toxicity as part of the 
special obligation to be fulfilled post-authorisation.  
Local tolerance 
Inflammatory  reactions  were  seen  at  the  injection  site  in  the  subcutaneous  repeated  dose  studies  as 
already  highlighted.  Local  reactions  were  commonly  seen  in  control  animals  but  tended  to  be  more 
severe in enfuvirtide treated animals. The reports did not clearly describe the kinetics of the reactions 
and in most cases the analysis of the reaction site was performed after a long period of treatment. A 
72-hr  study  was  performed  with  subcutaneous  infusion  of  enfuvirtide.  An  inflammatory  response  at 
the infusion site was evident within this time period. 
The  injection  site  reaction  was  further  characterised  in  2  weeks  study  in  mini-pigs  receiving 
subcutaneous  injections  of  two  different  strengths  (50  and  100  mg/ml).  Subcutaneous  masses  were 
8/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evident  from  day  8  in  one  study  and  day  4  in  a  second  study.  Microscopic  findings  in  the  repeated 
dose toxicity  studies  and the  mini-pig studies were similar,  although  more severe in the latter. They 
consisted  of  non-specific  changes  (haemorrhage,  oedema,  necrosis  and  fibrosis,  cutaneous  muscle 
degeneration) and a mixed inflammatory infiltrate composed of macrophages, lymphocytes and other 
cell types. In more severe cases, granulomas were found, characterised by a necrotic centre surrounded 
by multinucleated giant cells and foamy macrophages with distended cytoplasm. 
The mechanism for the local inflammation and granuloma formation has not been elucidated yet but 
the applicant undertook to further explore this finding post-authorisation. 
The  guinea  pig  maximisation  test  showed  a  skin  sensitisation  response  indicative  of  a  potential  for 
causing delayed type hypersensitivity. 
Other studies 
Antigenicity 
Methods  for  antibody  analysis  did  not  allow  quantitative  measurements.  Antibodies  were  readily 
detected  in  monkeys  treated  with  enfuvirtide  intravenously  or  subcutaneously.  Only  very  low  titres 
were seen in  the rat. No  studies  allowed  determination  of the  neutralising  activity of the  antibodies. 
Thus, the possible influence of neutralising antibodies on the outcome of the toxicity studies cannot be 
assessed.  However,  antibodies  to  enfuvirtide  are  commonly  seen  in  patients  treated  with  enfuvirtide 
and do not appear to affect efficacy or safety. There was no change in the pharmacokinetic parameters 
over time, suggesting that the antibodies did not alter systemic clearance or elimination of enfuvirtide. 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicity  of  enfuvirtide  was  not  specifically  addressed.  Studies  on  immune  parameters  were 
limited  to  haematology  and  histopathology  in  the  repeated  dose  studies  where  no  major  changes 
associated  to  the  immune  system  were  seen.  However,  there  were  findings  in  the  toxicity  studies, 
which could suggest a potential immunotoxicity of enfuvirtide. Therefore, the applicant undertook to 
further investigate the immunotoxicity potential of enfuvirtide as part of the specifique obligations to 
be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Impurities 
Most  of  the  impurities  have  been  toxicologically  qualified.  For  the  others  based  on  the  peptide 
structure and the low level for individual impurities/degradants the lack of qualification data was not 
considered as a safety concern. 
Environmental risk assessment 
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  performed  and  no  significant  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of enfuvirtide is anticipated. 
3. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical programme consists of:  
− 
− 
− 
8 completed phase I and clinical pharmacology studies 
3 completed phase II studies 
2 ongoing confirmatory phase III studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of enfuvirtide in 
combination with an optimised background regimen in HIV-1 infected patients with prior 
experience and/or documented resistance/intolerance to each of the 3 classes of approved 
antiretroviral medicinal products.  
In addition there are three ongoing access studies including patients who have participated in previous 
studies with enfuvirtide or another fusion inhibitor in development and one ongoing open-label safety 
study  in  patients  unable  to  construct  a  viable  antiretroviral  regimen  among  approved  agents.  The 
clinical programme includes also two ongoing studies in paediatric patients aged from 3 to 16 years. 
9/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of the cut-off date for the submission of the application, a total of 1,537 patients had been included. 
All studies were performed in HIV-1 infected patients since administration to healthy volunteers may 
induce anti-enfuvirtide antibodies that cross react with HIV gp41. This may result in a false positive 
HIV test with the anti HIV Elisa test. 
All studies were claimed by the applicant to be performed according to Good Clinical Practices.  
An overview of these studies is displayed in table 1. 
Table 1: Overview of clinical studies 
Protocol Number 
Study Design 
Absorption/Bioavailability 
Studies 
NP16370/T20-506 
NV16059/T20-208  
NP16220/T20-501  
Pharmacokinetic/ 
Tolerability Studies 
TRI-001 
TRI-003  
Interaction Studies 
NP16221/T20-502  
NP16324  
NP16325/T20-504  
Influence of subcutaneous (SC) injection site (arm, abdomen, 
thigh). Cross-over design 
Comparison carbonate formulations 
Sequential cross-over design 
PK of subcutaneous (SC) and intravenous (IV) administration 
4-way cross-over, single dose 
Single and multiple dose PK, IV administration 
Parallel group study (n=4/group). 
PK of continuous subcutaneous infusion or subcutaneous 
injection. Single and multiple dose, parallel group study 
(n=13/group) 
Influence of enfuvirtide on the metabolic activities of cytochrome 
P450 isozymes  
Influence of saquinavir (soft capsules) + ritonavir on PK of 
enfuvirtide 
Influence of ritonavir on the PK of enfuvirtide. 
NP16334/T20-505  
Influence of rifampicin on the PK of enfuvirtide. 
Dose and 
duration 
Number of 
subjects/ 
patients 
90 mg bid  
7 days 
90 mg bid 
14 days 
SC : 45, 
 90, 180 mg 
IV  90 mg 
3, 10, 30, 100 
mg bid 
14 days 
12.5-100 mg 
bid 
4 weeks 
90 mg bid 
7 days 
90 mg bid 
7 days 
90 mg bid 
7 days 
90 mg bid 
7 days 
2 mg/mg 
12 
19 
12 
17 
78 
12 
12 
12 
12 
20 
15, 30, 60 
mg/kg 
12+12 
Pediatric Studies 
NV16056/T20-310  
NV16060/T20-204 
Patient Studies in HIV-1  
Positive Adults 
T20-206  
T20-205  
Main studies 
T20-301 
T20-302 
A Phase I/II PK and safety study of enfuvirtide in combination 
with an optimized background in HIV-infected children and 
adolescents. 
A Phase I/II study of enfuvirtide, a fusion inhibitor, in HIV-1-
infected children. 
A controlled Phase II trial assessing three doses of enfuvirtide in 
combination with abacavir, amprenavir, ritonavir, and efavirenz 
in HIV-infected-adults.  
PK profile at week 4 and trough values up to week 48 
A Phase II roll-over protocol for HIV-infected adults with prior 
enfuvirtide treatment.  
PK profile at week 4 and trough values up to week 96 
50, 75 and 
100 mg bid  
48 weeks 
50 mg bid 
96 weeks 
45 
70 
Open-label, randomized, Phase III assessing enfuvirtide in 
combination with optimized background treatment (OB) versus 
OB treatment in HIV-1 infected patients with prior experience 
and/or prior documented resistance or intolerance to each of the 3 
classes of antiretrovirals. 
Open-label, randomized, Phase III assessing enfuvirtide in 
combination with OB treatment versus OB treatment in HIV-1 
infected patients with prior experience and/or prior documented 
resistance or intolerance to each of the 3 classes of antiretrovirals. 
90 mg bid 
491 
48 weeks  
(24 weeks 
reported) 
90 mg bid 
504 
48 weeks  
(24 weeks 
reported) 
10/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
As presented in the pre-clinical section of this document, enfuvirtide acts through selective inhibition 
of  fusion  of  the  virus  with  CD4  expressing  cells,  thus  preventing  the  entry  of  HIV-RNA  into  target 
cells and precluding the initiation of the reverse transcription process and the replication cycle of the 
virus. 
Dynamic studies 
The relation between dose and antiviral effect was evaluated in two phase I/II short term monotherapy 
studies  (TR-001-TR003)  and  in  two  phase  II  combination  studies  (T20-206  and  T20-208).  These 
studies are presented in the clinical efficacy section of this document, under dose response studies. 
Viral resistance 
The viral target for binding of enfuvirtide is the HR1 region of gp41, hence mutations in that region 
might lead to enfuvirtide resistance. Results from in vitro and phase II studies showed that: 
• 
• 
HIV-1 gp41 aa 36-45 are highly conserved in virus from enfuvirtide naïve patients. 
Specific  mutations  in  the  HIV  gp41  aa  36-45  have  been  shown  by in  vitro  selection  and  site-
directed mutagenesis to cause resistance/reduced susceptibility to enfuvirtide. 
Mutations in HIV-1 aa 36-45 ectodomain giving resistance to enfuvirtide are selected in vivo. 
The incidence with which aa 36-45 mutations are selected is influenced by the efficacy of the 
total antiretroviral treatment regimen. 
• 
• 
Only  post-treatment  plasma  samples  from  patients  experiencing  virological  failure  up  to  24  weeks 
have been analysed so far. 
Analyses  of  pooled  data  from  study  T20-301  and  T20-302,  after  24  weeks  of  therapy,  showed  that 
among patients with paired genotype and  phenotype  data  from  baseline and  with virological failure, 
the large majority showed greater than 4-fold increase in pEC50 (EC50 of patient viral Env to inhibition 
by T-20) at virological failure (187/204, 91.7%). At genotypic evaluation, almost all (185/187, 99 %) 
had substitutions in gp41 aa 36-45.  
The  most  common  mutations  were  V38A,  N43D,  N42T,  V38V/A,  G36D,  G36V,  V38M,  Q40H, 
N/S42T,  and  L45M.  Many  of  these  occurred  in  mixed  populations  with  wild-type  virus.  
Combinations  of  more  than  one  mutation  were  seen  in  viruses  from  93  (42.7%)  patients,  but  only 
Q40H  plus  L45M  occurred  as  a  relatively  frequent  combination  (10  cases,  4.6%,  including  mixed 
populations  with  wild-type  or  with  other  substitutions).  It  is  unclear  whether  multiple  substitutions 
correlate  to  higher  EC50  values.  Specific  mutations  associated  with  high  degree  resistance  have  not 
been identified.  
Further data are needed to attempt to correlate specific mutation patterns with high degree phenotypic 
resistance  and  in  vivo  kinetics.  In  addition  mutation  in  the  HR2  region  should  be  analysed.  The 
applicant undertook to explore these issues post-authorisation. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of enfuvirtide has been determined in 186 adult HIV patients included in phase 
I/II studies and in 115 adult HIV patients included in phase II studies. Pharmacokinetic data are also 
available  in  32  children.  No  specific  studies  have  been  performed  in  special  populations.  The 
influence of demographic factors on pharmacokinetics was evaluated in a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis, involving data from 628 patients enrolled in the confirmatory phase III studies. Enfuvirtide 
plasma  concentrations  have  been  determined  using  several  validated  analytical  methods,  of  which 
LC/MS/MS was used in the majority of studies.  
11/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption and distribution 
Enfuvirtide 
is  absorbed  slowly  after  subcutaneous  administration,  with  maximum  plasma 
concentration reached after on average 5-7 hours. The mean absorption time increased with dose from 
a mean value of 7.26 hours for a 45 mg dose to a mean of 9.79 hours for a 180 mg dose. At steady-
state the plasma-concentration time profile presents low fluctuation. 
The absolute bioavailability is 84% for the 90 mg dose administered subcutaneously.  
The  effect  of  injection  site  location  (abdomen,  thigh  and  arm)  on  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of 
enfuvirtide was evaluated in study T20-506. Compared with the abdomen, the relative bioavailability 
of enfuvirtide was similar from the thigh but higher (17%) from the arm. The difference in absorption 
is unlikely to be clinically relevant. Enfuvirtide can therefore be injected at any of these sites and no 
dose adjustment is required for rotation of injection sites as recommended in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Bioequivalence has been established between the formulation used in early phase I and II studies, and 
the formulation used in the confirmatory phase III studies, which is intended to be marketed.  
Enfuvirtide  has  a  low  volume  of  distribution.  The  mean  steady  state  volume  of  distribution  after 
administration  of  90  mg  of  enfuvirtide  intravenously  was  5.5  ±  1.2 l.  The  protein  binding  of 
enfuvirtide is about 92 % in plasma of HIV infected patients. Enfuvirtide is bound predominantly to 
albumin  and  to  a  lower  extent  to  α-1  acid  glycoprotein.  In  vitro  studies  showed  that  50-75  %  of 
enfuvirtide was associated with the red cells. 
The potential distribution of enfuvirtide to other tissue and fluid is unknown. 
After subcutaneous administration, the pharmacokinetics of enfuvirtide are dose-proportional over the 
range of 45 to 180 mg and time-independent.  
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, the inter and intra-individual variability in CL/F is 
about 30% and in V/F about 55%. 
In the population pharmacokinetics the overall mean predicted Ctrough value in the target population is 
3.0 µg/ml and the overall mean predicted AUC12h value is 54 µg⋅h/ml, which are comparable with the 
actual overall values determined in the various studies. 
Metabolism and elimination 
Like most peptides, the metabolism of enfuvirtide is unknown and, for technical and safety reasons, it 
has not been examined using traditional radio-label studies. In vitro three metabolites were detected, 
one  of  which  has  also  been  identified  in  vivo  at  concentrations  much  lower  than  parent  compound 
(AUC ranging from 2.4 to 15 % of the enfuvirtide AUC). The lack of documentation regarding in vivo 
metabolism/catabolism  is  acceptable,  given  that  enfuvirtide  is  a  peptide  composed  of  36  naturally 
occurring  L-amino  acid  residues.    Enfuvirtide  is  likely  to  be  subject  to  catabolism  by  peptidases, 
proteinases, and other enzymes.  
Enfuvirtide  being  a  polypeptide  is  not  expected  to  be  excreted  in  urine  but  following  filtration  is 
expected to be catabolised to constituent amino acids which are reabsorbed. The applicant undertook, 
however, to provide urinary excretion data post-authorisation. 
After intravenous administration, the systemic clearance of enfuvirtide was low, 1.4 ± 0.28 l/h and the 
elimination half-life was 3.2 hours. 
After  single  dose  of  90  mg  administered  subcutaneously,  the  mean  elimination  half-life  was 
approximately 3.8 h, suggesting absorption rate limited elimination.  
Special population 
The  influence  of  age,  gender,  weight,  race,  renal  and  hepatic  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
enfuvirtide was evaluated in a population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
12/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body weight  and gender were identified as covariates affecting inter-patient variability in clearance. 
The apparent clearance of enfuvirtide was 20% lower in female than in male patients irrespective of 
weight and was increased with increased body weight, irrespective of gender (20 % higher in a 100 kg 
and 20 % lower in a 40 kg body weight relative to a 70 kg reference patient). These effects of limited 
clinical relevance do not warrant any dose adjustment.  
Race and age (up to 67 years) do not seem to influence the pharmacokinetics of enfuvirtide nor did the 
presence of circulating gp41 antibodies that cross-react with enfuvirtide.  
There are no data in patients with hepatic impairment, and therefore enfuvirtide should be used with 
caution in these patients. Few patients in the confirmatory studies were co-infected with hepatitis B/C. 
The addition of enfuvirtide did not increase the incidence of hepatic events. However a warning on the 
increased risk for severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse events in patients with chronic hepatitis 
B/C treated with antiretroviral therapy has been added in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Limited data showed that in patients with creatinine clearance > 35 ml/min, the pharmacokinetics of 
enfuvirtide  was  not  altered  to  a  clinically  relevant  extent  and  therefore  no  dose  adjustment  is 
warranted. There are no data for patients with creatinine clearance below 35 ml/min or those receiving 
dialysis and therefore enfuvirtide should be used with caution as reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics.   
Studies  in  children  are  ongoing  and  only  limited  data  are  available  in  32  paediatric  patients  aged  3 
through 16 years with doses ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 mg/kg. A dose of 2 mg/kg bid (maximum 90 mg 
bid) provided enfuvirtide plasma concentrations similar to those obtained in adult patients receiving 90 
mg bid dosage. In 20 paediatric patients ranging in age from 5 to 16 years and receiving the 2 mg/kg 
bid dose into the upper arm, anterior thigh or abdomen, the mean steady-state AUC was 51.4 ± 22.8 
µg*h/ml, Cmax was 5.81 ± 2.35 µg/ml, and Ctrough was 2.82 ± 1.46 µg/ml. Pharmacokinetic data is very 
limited for paediatric patients under the age of six years. 
Pharmacokinetic data are not available in the elderly. 
Interaction studies 
The potential for enfuvirtide to inhibit cytochrome P450, evaluated both in vitro and in vivo, showed a 
low potential for enfuvirtide to interact with concomitantly administered medicinal products, requiring 
no dose adjustment as mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
In  an  open-label,  sequential,  crossover  study  conducted  in  Thailand  on  the  effect  of  rifampicin  on 
enfuvirtide  pharmacokinetics,  Cmax  and  AUCτ  were  unchanged  while  Ctrough  was  15%  lower  with 
compared to without rifampicin. 
In an open-label, sequential, crossover study the mean steady-state enfuvirtide plasma concentration-
time profile after a 4-day treatment with a booster dose of ritonavir was higher than the control profile, 
an  effect  which  was  most  prominent  during  the  first  half  of  the  sampling  period.  Cmax,  Ctrough  and 
AUCτ   were  increased  24,  14  and  22%,  respectively.  The  mechanism  of  interaction  is  unknown  but 
these changes were not considered clinically relevant. 
in  enfuvirtide 
In  an  open-label,  sequential,  crossover  study, 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  during  concomitant  administration  of  saquinavir+  low  dose  of  ritonavir 
(day 7). Cmax, Ctrough and AUCτ  were increased 7, 26 and 14%, respectively. These changes were not 
considered clinically relevant. 
there  was  a  slight 
increase 
The  enfuvirtide  AUC  data  from  studies  which  allowed  protease  inhibitors  (PIs)  and  non-nucleoside 
reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NNRTIs)  were  summarised  and  compared  with  AUC  data  from 
studies which did not allow PIs and NNRTIs. The AUC values of enfuvirtide were unaffected by co-
administration with PIs and NNRTIs.  
13/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
The  relationship  between  the  dose  and  the  antiviral  effect  of  enfuvirtide  was  investigated  in  two 
monotherapy  studies  (TRI-001  and  TRI-003).  The  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  reduction  was  evident  and 
similar  between  the  two  studies  after  two  weeks  treatment.  The  maximal  decrease  in  viral  load  (1.5 
log10  copies/ml)  was  achieved  within  7-14  days  of  treatment  with  100  mg  bid  administered 
intravenously or subcutaneously.  
The antiviral effect of enfurvirtide in the combination therapy setting was examined in two Phase II 
studies  (T20-206  and  T20-208).  In  the  T20-206  study,  patients  were  NNRTIs  naive  and  received  a 
fixed  background  of  antiretroviral  (ARV)  medicinal  products  consisting  of  efavirenz  (600  mg  QD), 
amprenavir (1200 mg bid), abacavir (300 mg bid), and ritonavir (200 mg bid) without and with 50, 75, 
or 100 mg bid doses of enfuvirtide. In the T20-208 study, patients were triple-class experienced and 
received an optimised regimen of ARVs, chosen by the investigator or patient, based on patient’s prior 
history and genotypic resistance assessment, and 75 or 100 mg bid doses of enfuvirtide. Both studies 
were designed to identify dose related response trends. The increase in antiviral response was minimal 
in each of the doses ≥ 75 mg bid, suggesting that the 90 mg bid dose is approaching the upper portion 
of the enfuvirtide dose response curve. In spite of differences in the patient population and background 
ARV regimen, the magnitude of effect was consistent between the two studies. At week 16, viral load 
declined by approximately 2 to 2.5 log10 copies/ml, regardless of the dose.  
The maximally effective dose has not been established as no more than 100 mg could be dissolved in 
1 ml of buffer considered the maximal practical injection volume for chronic subcutaneous use (100 
mg bid equivalent to 90 mg delivered). The applicant undertook to discuss the possibility to increase 
the daily dose as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
No  plasma  concentration-effect  studies  have  been  performed  but  the  applicant  undertook  to  further 
address this issue as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
In the analysis of antibody status at baseline and during exposure, most HIV infected patients showed 
a weak antibody response to gp41, but the presence of circulating gp41 antibodies that cross-react with 
enfuvirtide did not appear to influence the kinetics nor the activity of enfuvirtide.  Enfuvirtide is also 
poor  antigen  in  the  dosages  used  in  the  clinical  studies  and  until  now  no  neutralising  antibody 
response  has  been  documented.  As  for  other  efficient  antiretroviral  regimens  the  anti  gp41  antibody 
titre seems to decline over time also in patients treated with enfuvirtide. The database is still limited 
and the applicant undertook to provide further data on anti-enfuvirtide reactive antibody as part of the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Main studies: T20-301 and T20-302 in heavily pretreated patients 
1. Description of the studies 
These  ongoing  studies  are  randomised,  open-label,  active-controlled,  parallel-group,  multicentre 
performed in America and Europe/Australia designed to assess the efficacy and safety of enfuvirtide 
(90 mg  bid  subcutaneous)  in  combination  with  an  optimised  background  regimen  of  antiretroviral 
agents. The study duration is 48 weeks, but after this treatment phase, an optional 48-week Treatment 
Extension Phase, and a 4-week Follow-up Phase for safety are planned. For this application, efficacy 
analyses at 24 weeks are presented substantiated by preliminary results at 48 weeks. 
The studies are open-labelled as dermal reactions at the injection site were likely to be prevalent in the 
treatment  group  and  it  was  considered  unethical  to  give  patients  in  the  control  group  a  substance 
without  antiretroviral  activity  but  giving  raise  to  prominent  injection  site  reactions.  These 
considerations discussed at CPMP scientific advice were considered acceptable.  
14/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were eligible to enter in these studies if they met the following inclusion criteria: 
1. 
2. 
At least 16 years of age. 
Prior  experience  and/or  documented  resistance  to  each  of  the  three  classes  of  approved 
antiretroviral agents 
On  current,  stable  pre-study  antiretroviral  regimen  (unchanged  medication  and  doses)  for 
≥ 4 weeks. 
Non-decreasing viral load, defined as: 
Plasma HIV-1 RNA measured at screen 1 of ≥ 5000 copies/ml. 
Plasma HIV-1 RNA measured at screen 2 of ≥ 5000 copies/ml and not decreased since screen 
1 measurement by more than 1.0 log10. 
3. 
4. 
• 
• 
Both studies have the same design allowing for  meta-analyses. Differences in entry criteria between 
the two studies include prior duration of antiretroviral exposure (at least 6 months in T20-301 and at 
least 3 months in T20-302) and the number of previous protease inhibitors (at least 2 in T20-301 and 
at least 1 in T20-302). 
Qualifying  patients  were  randomised  to  one  of  two  treatment  groups:  OB  (optimal  background 
therapy) or enfuvirtide + OB in a 1:2 ratio (OB: 175 patients and T-20+OB: 350 patients in each of the 
two  main  studies).  The  randomisation  was  stratified  by  screening  viral  load  (<  40  000  copies/ml  or  
≥  40  000  copies/ml)  and  by  whether 
included  newly 
approved/investigational  antiretrovirals.  The  choice  of  OB  regimen  was  individualised  by  the 
investigator and the patient prior to randomisation, based on the patient’s prior treatment history, viral 
genotypic and phenotypic resistance testing results if available.  
the  patient´s  OB 
regimen 
2. Objectives/Endpoints  
The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change in viral load from baseline to week 24 as assessed 
by log10 transformed plasma-HIV RNA levels. The objective of the studies was to demonstrate that a 
deliverable  dose  of  90  mg  bid  of  enfuvirtide  given  subcutaneously  and  added  to  an  OB  regimen 
provides an additional drop in plasma HIV-1 RNA of at least 0.5 log10 copies/ml (as measured by least 
squares mean, LSM) compared with the OB regimen alone at week 24, as measured by the difference 
between the two treatment arms in the  mean  changes from  baseline  value  in  plasma HIV-1 RNA at 
week 24. 
Different categorical responder analyses were included as secondary efficacy endpoints: 
- 
- 
- 
percentage of patients achieving at least 1 log10 decrease from baseline in HIV-RNA but > 400 
copies/ml 
percentage of patients achieving < 400 copies/ml  
percentage of patients achieving < 50 copies/ml 
Additional  secondary  efficacy  parameters  included  change  from  baseline  in  CD4  cell  counts, 
virological  failure  rate,  time  to  virological  failure,  change  from  baseline  in  physical  function  and 
mental health scales of MOS-HIV questionnaire, and percentage of patients who had either an AIDS 
defining events or died.  
The criteria for virological failure were: 
1) 
2) 
<0.5 log10 copies/ml decrease from baseline either on two consecutive measurements ≥ 14 days 
between the first and the third measurements, starting at week 6 and 8 or any time after week 8. 
< 1.0 log10 copies/ml decrease from baseline on consecutive measurements starting at week 14 
or 16 or any time after week 16. 
This criterion consisted of two parts; patients achieved ≥ 2.0 log10 copies/ml decrease from baseline on 
consecutive measurements and had HIV-1 RNA rebound from the average of the two lowest values by 
> 1.0 log10 copies/ml on consecutive measurements starting at week 6 or 8. 
Patients  in  the  OB  group  who  experienced  virological  failure  were  allowed  to  switch  to 
enfuvirtide+OB  (revised)  no  earlier  than  after  8  weeks  of  OB  treatment.  Patients  in  the 
15/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enfuvirtide+OB  treatment  with  virological  failure  after  week  8  were  allowed  to  change  their  OB 
regimen. Patients with virological failure who chose not to switch or continue with T20 + OB could 
remain on study for up to 1 month. 
3. Statistical analysis 
Efficacy data were analysed for two populations:  
− 
− 
Intent-to-Treat  (ITT,  all  randomised  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medications and who had at least one post-treatment viral load measurement) 
Restricted  Treated  (RT,  all  patients  in  the  ITT  population  who  had  self  reported  adherence  ≥ 
85% to OB regimen during the treatment period and who had no major protocol violations).  
Missing data were handling using the Last-Observation Carried Forward (LOCF) method. For patients 
who met switch criteria for virological failure or rebound, their last two (failure/rebound) observations 
were carried forward to the planned analysis time point. All primary efficacy analyses were performed 
based on the original randomised treatment regimen.  
Separate analyses were conducted for patients who switched from OB to enfuvirtide +OB. An analysis 
of covariance model was used to analyze the viral load data. The model included the following terms: 
stratum (four combinations of baseline viral load category and use of other experimental antiretroviral 
drugs),  treatment,  treatment  by  stratum  interaction,  and  covariate  (genotypic/phenotypic  sensitivity 
score). 
To  confirm  the  robustness  of  the  conclusions  drawn  from  the  primary  analysis,  sensitivity  analyses 
were performed on changes in log10 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml as follows:  
1. Modified last observation carried forward (LOCF) for premature withdrawals (pre-planned) 
2. Treat premature withdrawals and virological failures as failure (post hoc) 
3. Use of LOCF for premature withdrawals and OB switch patients only (post hoc). 
The  studies  were  powered  (80  %)  to  demonstrate  a  treatment  effect  in  terms  of  a  standard  HIV-1 
efficacy assessment criterion, the percentage of patients with a HIV-1 RNA level < 400 copies/ml at 
week 24. The expected minimum treatment difference between OB and T20+OB in this variable was a 
15% absolute difference. 
RESULTS 
Efficacy results at 24 weeks are presented substantiated by preliminary results at 48 weeks. 
4. Study populations/accountability of patients 
Patients included were heavily pretreated with antiretroviral agents and most patients harboured virus 
resistant to many of these. Most patients had an advanced HIV infection with low CD4+ cell counts. 
The demographic and baseline characteristics are displayed in tables 2 and 3. 
16/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Number of patients 
Number of prior 
ARVs  (mean) 
Median  
(min:max) 
Table 2.  Demographic baseline data 
Study 
Number of patients 
Sex 
Race 
Ethnicity 
Age  (years) 
Weight  (Kg) 
Height  (cm) 
BMI  (Kg/m2) 
Baseline viral load (log 
10 copies/ml) 
Baseline CD4 count 
(cells/µl) 
Previous AIDS 
defining events 
Genotypic Sensitivity 
Score (N,%) 
Phenotypic sensitivity 
score (N, %) 
Female 
Male 
White 
Black 
Other 
Hispanic 
Non-Hispanic 
Mean 
Mean 
Mean 
Mean 
Mean 
Mean 
Yes 
Mean 
Mean 
                    T20-301 
   T20+OB 
326 
25  (7.7%) 
301  (92.3%) 
274  (84.0%) 
39  (12.0%) 
13  (4.0%) 
45  (13.8%) 
281  (86.2%) 
42.6 
75.6 
176.4 
24.2 
5.1 
         OB 
165 
13  (7.9%) 
152  (92.1%) 
135  (81.8%) 
20  (12.1%) 
10  (6.1%) 
21  (12.7%) 
144  (87.3%) 
42.1 
76.5 
175.7 
24.8 
5.1 
121.3 
108.9 
                     T20-302 
   T20+OB 
335 
43  (12.8%) 
292  (87.2%) 
316  (94.3%) 
14  (4.2%) 
5  (1.5%) 
          OB 
169 
21  (12.4%) 
148 (87.6%) 
161  (95.3%) 
4  (2.4%) 
4  (2.4%) 
42.1 
68.9 
175.2 
22.4 
5.1 
150.6 
43.2 
68.8 
174.6 
22.5 
5.1 
146.2 
273 (83.7%) 
148 (89.7%) 
250 (74.6%) 
138 (81.7%) 
1.9 
1.7 
1.9 
1.8 
1.6 
1.4 
1.7 
1.4 
Table 3.   Summary of prior Triple Class Experience-ITT population 
                   Study T20-301 
T-20+OB 
326 
12.29 
OB 
165 
11.90 
                   Study T20-302 
T-20+OB 
335 
12.06 
OB 
169 
12.01 
12.00 
(6.00 : 17.00) 
12.00 
(6.00 :  17.00) 
12.00 
(6.00 : 19.00) 
12.00 
(6.00 : 16.00) 
Duration (years) 
Mean 
Median  
(min:max) 
7.11 
7.30 
7.59 
7.65 
6.65  
(1.13 : 15.74) 
6.8 
(1.11 : 13.94) 
7.39 
(1.62 : 15.26) 
7.44  
(1.97 : 14.09) 
There  were  no  significant  differences  for  the  baseline  and  demographic  characteristics  between 
treatment groups as well as for clinical, virological and immunological variables. Distribution of OB 
treatment  was  also  quite  similar  between  groups,  as  well  as  mutations  associated  with  resistance  to 
currently approved antiretroviral agents. 
The number and disposition of patients analysed are displayed in table 4. 
Table 4: Disposition of patients 
Number of 
Patients 
Planned 
Randomised 
Treated 
In ITT population 
In RT population 
Protocol T20-301 
Total 
525 
501 
495 
491 
420 
T20+OB 
350 
332 
328 
326 
276 
OB 
175 
169 
167 
165 
144 
  Protocol T20-302 
  Total 
  525 
  512 
  508 
  504 
  413 
T20+OB 
350 
341 
338 
335 
279 
OB 
175 
171 
170 
169 
134 
A significant number of patients remained on original randomised treatment. The rate and the reasons 
for discontinuation, mainly for safety, were similar for both groups. 
When both studies are combined, a total of 537 out of 995 ITT patients met the criteria for virological 
failure (301 out of 661 patients in the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group and 236 out of 334 patients in 
the OB treatment group). Out of the 236 patients experiencing virological failure in the OB treatment 
group,  195  switched  to  enfuvirtide+OB  treatment  group  (these  patients  were  not  included  in  the 
efficacy results). 
17/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Efficacy results 
The main efficacy results obtained after 24 weeks of treatment are presented in tables 5 (study T20-
301) and 6 (study T20-302). 
Table 5.  Change in log10 HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ T cell count from baseline to week 24; ITT population 
(LOCF), study T20-301 
N 
Treatment 
Week 24 change from baseline in log10 HIV-1 RNA 
T20+OB 
OB 
-1.696 
-0.764 
326 
165 
LSM* 
Week 24 change from baseline in CD4+ T cell count 
T20+OB 
OB 
* LSM = least squares mean 
76.224 
32.086 
320 
163 
Treatment difference (T20+OB – OB) 
LSM 
95% CI 
p-value 
-0.933 
(-1.271; -0.594) 
<0.0001 
44.1 
(22.5; 65.8) 
0.0001 
Table 6.  Change in log10 HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ T cell count from baseline to week 24, ITT population 
(LOCF), study T20-302 
N 
Treatment 
Week 24 change from baseline in log10 HIV-1 RNA 
T20+OB 
OB 
-1.429 
-0.648 
335 
169 
LSM 
Week 24 change from baseline in CD4+ T cell count 
T20+OB 
OB 
65.489 
38.005 
332 
165 
Treatment difference (T20+OB – OB) 
LSM 
95% CI 
p-value 
-0.781 
(-1.072; -0.491) 
<0.0001 
27.5 
(3.7; 51.3) 
0.0236 
Substantial suppression of HIV-1 RNA was evident in both treatment groups during the first 24 weeks 
of treatment, but the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group had a statistically significant greater decrease at 
week  24  (LSM  difference  of  –0.93  log10  copies/ml  and  0.78  log10  copies/ml  in  the  two  studies 
respectively, both p-values <0.0001). These findings were confirmed by the sensitivity analyses pre-
specified in the protocol and also by the post hoc analyses previously mentioned. 
Exploratory analysis performed across trials (meta-analysis of studies T20-301 and T20-302.). 
The percentage of patients responding in each response category at week 24 is presented in table 7.  
Table 7: Summary of Meta-Analysis Results of the Main Efficacy Endpoints (ITT population). 
Efficacy endpoints 
HIV-1 RNA (log10copies/ml) 
LSM difference 
T-20+OB 
NA 
15.9 
32.7 
47.2 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml 
Percent responders 
HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/ml 
Percent responders 
HIV-1 RNA≥1.0 log10 decrease 
from Baseline 
Percent responders 
CD4+ T cell count (cells/µl) 
LSM difference 
OB 
NA 
6.3 
15.0 
24.9 
Treatment Diff. 
-0.846 
95% CI 
-1.066; -0.626 
p-value 
< 0.0001 
2.99* 
1.81; 4.93 
< 0.0001 
2.97* 
2.08; 4.23 
< 0.0001 
2.80* 
2.08; 3.77 
< 0.0001 
NA 
NA 
36.6 
20.7; 52.6 
< 0.0001 
*= od               Note that 2 visits were required for confirmation of virological response 
With  respect  to  quality  of  life  no  differences  were  seen  at  24  weeks  in  the  MOS-HIV  physical  and 
mental health scores between groups. Adherence to each treatment was good and similar between both 
treatments as further explained in the safety section of this document. 
18/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to Virological Response/failure  
The Kaplan-Meier curves of the time to reach virological response (< 50 copies/ml, < 400 copies/ml 
and  ≥  1.0  log10 below  baseline) show that the response was greater in  the enfuvirtide+OB treatment 
group than in the OB treatment for the proportion of responders over time (p<0.0001, log-rank test). 
The median time to at least a 1.0 log10 decrease from baseline in HIV-1 RNA was estimated to be 8 
days in the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group and 92 days in the OB treatment group. 
The percentage of patients with virological failure at week 8 (before patients in the OB regimen were 
allowed  to  switch  to  enfuvirtide+OB)  was  twice  as  great  in  the  OB  group  (36.8%)  as  in  the 
enfuvirtide+OB  group  (17.5%).  Kaplan-Meier  estimates  of  the  median  time  to  virological  failure  in 
the OB treatment group was approximately 76.5 days, whereas the median time to treatment failure in 
the enfuvirtide+OB could not be estimated.  
However, it was noted that only 15.9% versus 6.3% of the patients in the enfuvirtide + OB and OB 
treatment groups respectively had undetectable HIV-RNA levels (< 50 copies/mL) after 24 weeks of 
treatment. In addition, the proportion of patients with virological failure after 24 weeks of treatment is 
also  substantial  (45.5%)  but  lower  than  in  the  control  group  (77%).    Early  virological  failure  (<0.5 
log10  copies/ml  decrease  at  week  8)  were  seen  in  17.5  %  versus  36.8  %  of  the  patients  in  the 
enfuvirtide + OB and OB treatment groups respectively.  
Additional analyses  
Both  strata  of  patients,  dichotomised  by  baseline  HIV-RNA  level  (cut-off=40  000  copies/ml),  had  a 
significant decrease in HIV-RNA level when enfuvirtide was added. Patients with baseline CD4 count 
less than 100 cells/µl also had a significant decrease in HIV-RNA level when treated with enfuvirtide 
and  OB,  compared  with  patients  treated  with  OB  only.  The  same  result  holds  true  for  patients  with 
CD4 cell count > 100 cells/µl. 
Most  patients  with  the  genotypic  sensitivity  score  (GSS)  of  0,  1  or  2  have  primary  mutations  to  all 
existing classes of antiretroviral products. These patients have no or few drugs in their OB regimen to 
which the virus is sensitive and it is therefore not surprising that there is a high rate of protocol defined 
virological failure. However regardless of GSS subgroup, the change in HIV RNA from baseline and 
the  proportion  of  patients  with  HIV  RNA  < 400  copies/ml  at  week  24  was  greater  on  the 
enfuvirtide+OB arm than OB treatment arm (table 8). 
Table 8:  Percentage of responders related to number of active ARVs in background regimen at 
24 weeks 
HIV-1 RNA <400 copies/ml 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/ml 
FUZEON + OB 
% 
No. of active 
ARVs 
0 
1 
≥2 
*p-value for the difference between the treatment arms <0.05 
0.0* 
7.4* 
23.0* 
8.9 
29.9 
41.6 
OB 
% 
3.6 
13.9 
20.6 
FUZEON + OB 
% 
OB 
% 
0.0 
4.2* 
9.3* 
Durability of response (48 week data) 
Following  a  CPMP  concern  raised  on  the  durability  of  the  response,  the  applicant  submitted 
preliminary  longer-term  results.  After  48  weeks  of  treatment,  18.3%  of  the  patients  had  a  complete 
response,  defined  as  viral  load  <  50  copies/ml,  which  is  higher  than  after  24  weeks  of  treatment 
(15.9%). The median time to virological failure was 278 days for enfuvirtide+OB versus 77 days for 
19/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OB  alone.  Patients  meeting  the  virological  failure  criteria  were  52.3%  and  77.8%  respectively  for 
enfuvirtide+OB and OB alone respectively (table 9 and figure 1).  
Table 9: Number and Percent of Virological Responders by Status at Week 48 (ITT population,  
  pooled analysis, 17 January 2003) 
HIV-RNA Response Category 
At Week 48 
<50 copies/ml at week 48 
    Maintained week 24 response 
    New response 
Response at week 24 
< 400 copies/ml at week 48 
    Maintained week 24 response 
    New response 
Response at week 24 
 ≥ 1.0  log drop from baseline at week 48 
    Maintained week 24 response 
New response 
Response at week 24 
ENF+OB 
N= 661 
121 (18.3%) 
69 (10.4%) 
52  ( 7.9%) 
105 (15.9%) 
201 (30.4%) 
173 (26.2%) 
28  (4.2%) 
216 (32.7%) 
247 (37.4%) 
240 (36.3%) 
7 (1.1%) 
312 (47.2) 
OB 
N= 334 
26 (7.8%) 
15 (4.5%) 
11(3.3%) 
21 (6.3%) 
40 (12.0%) 
34 (10.2%) 
6 (1.8%) 
50 (15%) 
57 (17.1%) 
54 (16.2 %) 
3 (0.9%) 
83 (24.9%) 
Premature withdrawals and virological failures prior to Week 48 were considered to  
be non-responders (i.e., dropouts or virological failures = failure). 
Figure 1 Percent Responders at Week 48 (17 January 2003, ITT population, pooled  
analysis, dropouts and virological failures=failure) 
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
%
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 
ENF + OB  OB
N=661 
N=334
P<0.0001 
P<0.0001
P<0.0001 
37.4 
17.1 
30.4 
12
18.3 
7.8 
>= 1 log decrease 
from BL 
2 visits required to confirm viral load response
< 400 copies/ml 
< 50 copies/ml
AIDS-defining events 
The overall incidence of AIDS defining events in ITT populations after 24 weeks of therapy was 6.8% 
in the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group versus 4.8% in the OB group and no beneficial effects on AIDS 
defining events were observed.  
Preliminary  data  showed  that  the  percentage  of  patients  with  a  confirmed  AIDS  defining  event  by 
week 48 was 8.9 % (59/661) in the enfuvirtide + OB group and 5.4 % (18/334) in the OB group (table 
8). Adjusting for exposure, this represents 10.6 and 11.1 events per 100 patients years respectively and 
there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatment  groups.  However,  in  the  switch 
group  (from  OB  to  enfuvirtide+OB),  AIDS  defining  events  were  more  common  (exposure  adjusted 
incidence 17.6 per 100 patient years) but this group also had the lowest CD4+ count.  
20/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Exposure-adjusted Incidence of Confirmed AIDS Defining Events by Body System and 
Trial Treatment, 48 weeks, 11 February 2003 
exposure to study drug 
all body systems 
total pts with at least one AE 
viral infection 
total pts with at least one AE 
cytomegalovirus 
herpes zoster 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  
herpes simplex virus 
fungal infections 
total pts with at least one AE 
candidiasis 
cryptococcosis 
histoplasmosis 
coccidioidomycosis 
neoplastic diseases 
total pts with at least one AE 
non-hodgkin's lymphoma 
kaposi's sarcoma   
lymphoma of the brain 
bacterial infections 
total pts with at least one AE 
mycobacterium avium intracellulare 
mycobacterium kansasii mycobacterium 
scrofulaceum and other atypical mycobacteria 
mycobacterium tuberculosis 
mycobacterium unidentified species 
salmonella bacteremia 
other conditions 
total pts with at least one AE 
slim disease or HIV wasting syndrome 
recurrent pneumonia 
cervical carcinoma 
HIV dementia 
visceral leishmaniasis 
parasitic infections 
total pts with at least one AE 
pneumocystis carinii  
toxoplasmosis 
cryptosporidiosis 
isosporiasis 
no. pts with event/100 pt-yrs 
ENF + OB (n=661) 
555.85 Pt.-yrs 
Switch (n=222) 
119.50 Pt.-Yrs 
OB (n=334) 
162.23 Pt.-Yrs 
10.6 
17.6 
11.1 
3.8 
2.0 
1.6 
0.2 
- 
3.6 
2.3 
0.4 
- 
- 
1.6 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
1.1 
0.9 
0.2 
- 
- 
- 
0.7 
0.2 
0.2 
- 
0.4 
- 
0.9 
0.5 
- 
0.4 
- 
5.0 
2.5 
2.5 
- 
- 
5.0 
1.7 
- 
- 
- 
4.2 
1.7 
0.8 
1.7 
2.5 
2.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.8 
0.8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3.3 
0.8 
0.8 
1.7 
- 
3.7 
0.6 
1.8 
0.6 
0.6 
3.1 
2.5 
- 
- 
- 
1.2 
1.2 
- 
- 
1.2 
1.2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.8 
1.2 
0.6 
- 
- 
- 
1.2 
- 
0.6 
0.6 
- 
NOTES:  ENF+OB virological failures who remained on ENF+OB are included in ENF+OB exposure.  OB virological failures who did not 
remain on OB are excluded from OB exposure (censored from time of failure.  OB virological failures who switched to ENF+OB comprise 
the exposure to Switch.  Multiple occurrences of the same adverse event in one individual counted only once 
The incidences of AIDS defining infections, including recurrent pneumonia, and tumours were low in 
each treatment group. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease had a higher incidence in enfuvirtide treated 
patients than in OB treated patients but the absolute numbers are small and  most of the patients had 
had signs and symptoms of CMV disease prior to study entry. 
The final results of the studies  were provided as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-
authorisation.    They  confirmed  the  preliminary  48-week  data  submitted  to  obtain  the  Marketing 
Authorisation. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The  antiviral  effect  of  enfuvirtide  in  children  is  investigated  in  an  ongoing,  open  label,  single-arm 
study  (T20-310)  and  in  study  T20-204.  T-20  is  given  at  the  dose  of  2mg/kg  subcutaneously  bid  in 
combination with optimised antiviral therapy for 48 weeks. Thirty-nine children have been exposed to 
enfuvirtide. Children included are 3-16 years old and HIV-1 positive. Results will be submitted as part 
of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
21/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
• 
• 
• 
trials 
24-week  data  from  main  phase 
to 
enfuvirtide+OB, 195 switches from OB) exposed to at least one dose of enfuvirtide as add-on to 
OB. 
Supportive data from 295 additional patients treated with enfuvirtide in other trials (167 at the 
recommended dose). 
Data for 39 paediatric patients 
involving  858  patients  (663  randomised 
After 24 weeks of treatment in the main trials and due to the design of these trials, the total number of 
patient years of exposure to the randomised treatment regimen was approximately 2.6 times higher in 
the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group than in the OB group. 
The safety data for enfuvirtide were updated in the beginning of December 2002 and altogether 1,541 
patients  were  included,  of  whom  1,401  had  received  the  proposed  dose  of  enfuvirtide.  Of  these 
patients, 913 have received enfuvirtide for 24 weeks and 569 have received enfuvirtide for 48 weeks. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
In the overall summary, 81.1 % of patients treated with enfuvirtide+OB and 71.9% of patients treated 
with OB alone had adverse events that were considered related to the medications given. Besides local 
injection  site  reactions  and  eosinophilia,  the  adverse  event  profiles  of  the  enfuvirtide+OB  and  OB 
treatment  groups  were  similar  in  the  phase  III  studies.  The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events 
were  diarrhoea  (26.8%  and  33.5%  for  enfuvirtide+OB  and  OB  groups  respectively),  nausea  (20.1% 
and 23.7%), fatigue (16.1% and 17.4%), and headache (11.8% and 11.1%). 
A summary of events reported at higher incidences with T-20+OB vs. OB is given in Table 11. 
Table 11  Adverse Events reported by more patients on T20+OB than on OB alone before and after 
adjustment for exposure. Randomised population. 
                         N  (%) 
T20+OB (N=663) 
OB (N=334) 
       No. Patients with Event/100 Patient-years 
T20+OB (N=663) 
OB (N=334) 
89  (13.4) 
57  (8.6) 
50  (7.5) 
38  (5.7) 
36  (5.4) 
32  (4.8) 
23  (3.5) 
22  (3.3) 
22  (3.3) 
17  (2.6) 
19  (2.9) 
15  (2.3) 
Adverse events 
Peripheral neuropathy  
Sinusitis 
Appetite decrease 
Skin papilloma 
Myalgia 
Lymphadenopathy 
Pneumonia 
Conjungtivitis 
Pancreatitis 
Hypoaesthesia 
Vertigo 
Weakness 
Special interest adverse events 
Peripheral neuropathies 
Hepatic toxicity clinical 
Diabetes mellitus and 
hyperglycaemia 
Bronchospasm and obstruction  13  (2.0) 
10  (1.5) 
Bone pathology 
7  (1.1) 
Thrombosis or phlebitis 
93  (14.0) 
15  (2.3) 
27  (4.1) 
21  (6.3) 
8  (2.4) 
8  (2.4) 
4  (1.2) 
8  (2.4) 
2  (0.6) 
1  (0.3) 
4  (1.2) 
4  (1.2) 
2  (0.6) 
1  (0.3) 
1  (0.3) 
23  (6.9) 
2  (0.6) 
5  (1.5) 
2  (0.6) 
2  (0.6) 
1  (0.3) 
13.9 
8.9 
7.8 
5.9 
5.6 
5.0 
3.6 
3.4 
3.4 
2.7 
3.0  
2.3 
14.5 
2.3 
4.2 
2.0 
1.6 
1.1 
12.8 
4.9 
4.9 
2.4 
4.9 
1.2 
0.6 
2.4 
2.4 
1.2 
0.6 
0.6 
14.1 
1.2 
3.1 
1.2 
1.2 
0.6 
When adjusted for treatment duration, modestly higher incidences in the enfuvirtide treatment group 
were  seen  for  peripheral  neuropathies  (14.5  versus  14.1  patients/100  patient-years),  hepatic  toxicity 
clinical (2.3  versus 1.2 patients/100 patient-years) and diabetes  mellitus with hyperglycaemia (0.042 
versus 0.031 patients/100 patient-years). 
22/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pooled studies T30-301 and 302, 10.0% of patients in the enfuvirtide+OB treatment group had a 
serious adverse event related to treatment. 
The  most  frequently  reported  serious  adverse  events  in  the  enfuvirtide+OB  treatment  group  were 
increased  creatine  phosphokinase,  increased  GGT  and  pancreatitis/pancreatitis  acute,  all  with 
frequency of < 3% and in the same range as in the OB treatment group.  
Deaths have been reported in 28 patients (22 in the enfuvirtide+OB group and 6 in the OB group). The 
causes of death were varied and none of the events were uncommon for an HIV infected population. 
One death (suicide) was related to enfuvirtide and considered caused by the patient’s inability to self 
inject enfuvirtide rather than caused by its pharmacological effects. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Adverse  events  leading  to  withdrawal  from  treatment  occurred  throughout  the  first  24  weeks  of  the 
studies. No specific pattern with respect to the timing of withdrawals was observed. 
Overall,  28.5%  and  41.7%  of  the  patients  in  the  enfuvirtide+OB  and  OB  treatment  groups, 
respectively,  discontinued  the  studies.  The  withdrawal  rates  adjusted  for  exposure  were  9.8  and  6.7 
patients/100 patient-years, in the enfuvirtide+OB and OB groups, respectively. 
The most frequent adverse event causing withdrawal was gastrointestinal disorders affecting 2% and 
depression (1%) in each treatment group. 
Infectious events 
A summary of the exposure-related incidences of bacterial infection showed that the overall incidence 
of  bacterial  infections  was  comparable  between  treatment  groups.  However,  some  infections  were 
more  prevalent  in  enfuvirtide  treated  patients  as  shown  in  Table  10,  in  particular  for  pneumonia  for 
which  the  difference  between  the  enfuvirtide+  OB  arm  and  the  OB  arm  was  statistically  significant  
(p  =  0.02).  During  the  oral  explanation,  an  analysis  of  time  to  event  for  pneumonia  was  presented 
which did not identify a specific pattern. 
Table 12: 
Rates of adverse events related to bacterial infections in pooled studies T20-301 
and T20-302: January 17, 2003 preliminary data. 
Adverse event 
ENF+OB 
(813.47 Pt.-Yrs) 
Bacterial infections 
Pneumonia 
Skin infection (not at injection site) 
Sinusitis 
Sepsis 
17.1 
4.9 
5.5 
5.0 
1.6 
Switch 
(213.82 Pt.-Yrs) 
20.6 
4.7 
7.0 
8.9 
1.4 
OB 
(163.41 Pt.-Yrs) 
18.4 
0.6 
3.1 
1.2 
1.2 
Injection site reactions 
The overall most common adverse event was injection site reaction, affecting almost every patient on 
enfuvirtide (98.3%) and seen mainly during the first treatment week (85.6%). There was no evidence 
of  an  increase  in  severity  over  time  for  either  overall  pain  and  discomfort  or  any  of  the  signs  and 
symptoms  of  a  local  injection  site.  The  most  frequent  signs  were  erythema  (91.7%),  induration 
(90.6%),  nodules  and  cysts  (81.4%).  Overall,  96.1%  of  the  patients  experienced  some  pain  or 
discomfort and 11.5% had injection site reactions that required analgesics or limited usual activities. 
Most  patients  had  grade  1-2  (90.6%)  injection  site  reactions.  The  remaining  patients  had  grade  3 
reactions and none had grade 4 reactions. Few patients (4.1%) discontinued treatment due to injection 
site reactions.  
These results were confirmed at week 48 – final data, submitted post-authorisation (Table 13). 
23/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13:  Summary of Individual Signs/Symptoms Characterising Local Injection Site 
Reactions in studies TORO 1 and TORO 2 combined (% of patients) 
Withdrawal Rate due to ISRs 
Event Category 
n=663 
4% 
% of Event 
comprising 
Grade 3 reactions 
11.0%b 
23.8%c 
43.5%d 
29.1%e 
3.9%f 
8.7%g 
% of Event 
comprising 
Grade 4 reactions 
0%b 
10.5%c 
19.4%d 
0.2%e 
NA 
4.7%g 
FUZEON 
+Optimised 
backgrounda 
96.1% 
90.8% 
90.2% 
80.4% 
65.2% 
51.9% 
Pain / discomfort 
Erythema 
Induration 
Nodules and cysts 
Pruritus 
Ecchymosis 
aAny severity grade 
bGrade 3= severe pain requiring analgesics (or narcotic analgesics for ≤ 72 hours) and/or limiting usual activities; Grade 4= severe pain 
requiring hospitalisation or prolongation of hospitalisation, resulting in death, or persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or life-
threatening, or medically significant. 
cGrade 3= ≥ 50 mm but < 85 mm average diameter; Grade 4= ≥ 85 mm average diameter. 
dGrade 3= ≥ 25 mm but < 50 mm average diameter; Grade 4= ≥ 50 mm average diameter. 
 eGrade 3= ≥ 3 cm; Grade 4= If draining. 
fGrade 3= refractory to topical treatment or requiring oral or parenteral treatment; Grade 4= not defined.  
gGrade 3= > 3 cm but ≤ 5 cm; Grade 4= > 5 cm. 
The pathology of injection site reactions was investigated in biopsies from seven patients. All biopsies 
showed  pathological  changes,  also  in  one  patient  lacking  clinical  reaction.  All  biopsies  showed 
inflammatory infiltrate consistent with hypersensitivity reaction, with eosinophils, histocytes and rare 
lymphocytes.  Vasculitis  was  not  seen.  All  cases  were  positive  for  enfuvirtide  immuneperoxidase 
staining, with increased positivity where the inflammation was greatest, but also along collagen fibres. 
No correlation between clinical picture and inflammatory response could be seen. 
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions 
Five  serious  adverse  events  suggestive  of  systemic  hypersensitivity  reactions  (rash,  fever,  vomiting, 
nausea,  chills,  rigors,  low  blood  pressure  and  elevated  serum  liver  transaminases  in  various 
combinations, and possibly immune complex reaction, respiratory distress and glomerulonephritis) to 
enfuvirtide have been reported across the clinical trials. The reactions included allergic reactions and 
glomerulonephretis. The reactions started 7 to 56 days after initiation of enfuvirtide. Rash and fever 
were  the  most  prevalent  symptoms.  Three  of  these  cases  had  a  positive  re-challenge  reaction  to 
enfuvirtide. Risk factors that may predict the occurrence or severity of hypersensitivity to enfuvirtide 
have  not  been  identified.  A  warning  to  discontinue  in  patients  developing  signs/symptoms  of  a 
systemic  hypersensitivity  reaction 
the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  
treatment  has  been  added 
in 
Laboratory findings 
In  general,  at  week  24,  there  were  no  major  differences  in  laboratory  findings  between  the  two 
treatment  groups.  However  treatment-emergent  grade  3  or  4  increase  in  amylase  (7.1  %  in 
enfuvirtide+OB and 4.2 % in OB) and lipase (8.2 % in the enfuvirtide+OB versus 5.4 % in OB) were 
reported at higher rates in the enfuvirtide+OB group.  
Treatment-emergent eosiphilia was more prevalent in the enfuvirtide+ OB group (10.1%) compared to 
the  OB  group  (2.4  %).  Through  week  48,  treatment-emergent  eosinophilia  [greater  than  the  Upper 
Limit  of  Normal  (ULN)  of  >  0.7  x  109/l]  occurred  at  a  higher  rate  amongst  patients  in  the  Fuzeon 
containing group (12.4 per 100 patient years) compared with OB alone regimen (5.6 per 100 patient 
years). When using a  higher threshold for  eosinophilia (>1.4 x  109/L),  the  patient exposure  adjusted 
rate of eosinophilia is equal in both groups (1.8 patients with event per 100 patient-years). 
Table 14 shows the treatment emergent laboratory abnormalities that occurred at a rate of at least 2 
patients per 100 patient-years of exposure and that occurred more frequently (either as a grade 3 or 4 
24/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
laboratory abnormality) among patients receiving Fuzeon+OB regimen than among patients on the OB 
alone regimen to week 48 of the pooled studies TORO 1 and TORO 2 (final data). 
• 
Table 14: Exposure adjusted Grade 3 & 4 laboratory abnormalities among patients on Fuzeon+OB 
and OB alone regimens, reported at more than 2 patients with event per 100 patient years 
Laboratory Parameters 
Grading 
Total Exposure (patient years) 
ALAT 
Gr. 3 (>5-10 x ULN) 
Gr. 4 (>10 x ULN) 
Hemoglobin 
Gr. 3 (6.5-7.9 g/dL) 
Gr. 4 (<6.5 g/dL) 
Creatinine phosphokinase 
Gr. 3 (>5-10 x ULN) 
Gr. 4 (>10 x ULN) 
Fuzeon+OB regimen 
per 100 patient years 
557.0 
OB alone regimen 
per 100 patient years 
162.1 
4.8 
1.4 
2.0 
0.7 
8.3 
3.1 
4.3 
1.2 
1.9 
1.2 
8.0 
8.6 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
More than 20 % of patients with neuropathy in the enfuvirtide+OB treatment arm did not receive any 
NRTIs associated with neuropathy. 
Safety in special populations 
Few patients included in the phase III studies were co-infected with hepatitis B (8%, 55/661), C (11%, 
70/661)  or  both  (0.6%,  4/661).  In  these  patients  the  addition  of  enfuvirtide  did  not  increase  the 
incidence of hepatic events, serious adverse events or grade 3 or 4 liver function abnormalities. 
Preliminary data in less than 50 children treated with enfuvirtide suggest that the adverse event profile 
is similar to that in adults. 
Quality of life 
The  quality  of  life  was  assessed  in  patients  treated  with  enfuvirtide  according  to  a  Subcutanous 
Injection  Survey  (SIS)  protocol.  SIS  comprises  a  questionnaire  of  18  items  measuring  the  patient’s 
assessment of self-injection in HIV clinical trails. Patients were assessed according to the protocol on 
two occasions, at 8 and 24 weeks of treatment.  
The  majority  of  patients,  highly  motivated,  had  no  difficulties  in  handling  and  coping  with  the 
subcutaneous injections. 
Adherence to treatment has been registered continuously during the first 24 weeks of studies. Patients 
in both arms had a high degree of adherence, 93.3 % (enfuvirtide only), 88.5 % (enfuvirtide+OB) and 
88 % (OB only).  
4.       Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. The active substance is well characterised and documented. The pharmaceutical 
form selected is adequate taking into account the properties and stability of the active substance. The 
excipients  are  commonly  used  in  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well 
documented. The validation of the manufacturing process also ensures reproducibility of the product. 
25/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Stability tests under ICH conditions 
indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life. At the time of the CPMP opinion there 
were some outstanding quality issues which had no impact on the benefit/risk profile. The applicant 
undertook  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up  measures  within  an  agreed  timeframe, 
and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of this additional information. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Enfuvirtide presents an antiviral activity both in vitro and in vivo compatible with a potential clinical 
use for the treatment of HIV infection against a large number of different HIV-1 strains, with no major 
influence of clade or co-receptor specificity.  
The primary mode of antiviral action of enfuvirtide by binding to gp41 HR1 preventing the subsequent 
binding of gp41 HR2 and gp41 refolding. This in turn inhibits membrane fusion. HIV-1 with reduced 
sensitivity  to  enfuvirtide  has  been  selected  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  Genotypic  changes  related  to 
enfuvirtide resistance appear to map to the aa 36 to 41 region of the HR1 domain of gp41. No cross-
resistance  with  the  three  currently  approved  classes  of  antiretroviral  medicinal  products  was 
evidenced. 
The pharmacokinetic, absorption, disposition and metabolism of enfuvirtide has been characterised in 
rats  and  monkeys,  but  in  some  aspects  the  characterisation  is  limited  or  suboptimal  since  classical 
approaches are not readily or generally applicable to a synthetic polypeptide. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of enfuvirtide following intravenous injection are generally similar in 
rat, monkey and human, characterised by small volumes of distribution, low systemic clearances, and 
short  terminal  half-lives.  Enfuvirtide  bioavailability  after  subcutaneous  injection  is  similarly  high  in 
primates  and  humans,  but  dose-dependent  in  the  rat,  as  a  decreasing  fraction  is  absorbed  with 
increases in dose. As a synthetic peptide consisting of naturally occurring amino acids, degradation of 
enfuvirtide to smaller peptides and free amino acids occur through the action of peptidases/proteinases 
primarily  in  the  liver  and  the  kidney.  Enfuvirtide  does  not  inhibit  the  activity  of  cytochrome  P450 
isozymes in human hepatic microsomes, and therefore the potential for interactions between medicinal 
products and enfuvirtide is low. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  outstanding  issues  which  had  no  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk  profile  and  for  which  the  applicant  undertook  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
It  was  predicted  that  enfuvirtide  would  show  a  low  order  of  toxicity,  based  on  its  virus-specific 
mechanism of action, and its molecular structure of a synthetic peptide of naturally-occurring L-amino 
acids. This view is reflected in the toxicology program. Although no major safety concerns could be 
identified  in  the  toxicity  studies,  the  performance  of  the  studies  was  in  most  cases  suboptimal  with 
respect to exposure. Data do suggest however that enfuvirtide may have host activity on cells in the 
immune  system  through  the  formyl  peptide  receptor  complex,  which  could  have  consequences  for 
safety  and  efficacy.  The  applicant  therefore  undertook  to  further  address  the  effect  on  immune 
functions, the potential to activate the formyl peptide receptor in vivo as well as carcinogenicity as part 
of  the  special  obligations  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation.  Enfuvirtide  was  not  embryotoxic  nor 
teratogenic  in  rats  or  rabbits.  However,  no  firm  conclusions  can  be  made  regarding  the  effect  of 
enfuvirtide  on  fertility,  early  embryonic  development  or  on  post-natal  development  due  to  low 
exposure  compared  to  expected  therapeutic  exposure.  Enfuvirtide  was  not  genotoxic.  At  the  time  of 
the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding issues which had no impact on the benefit/risk profile 
and for which the applicant undertook to provide the necessary information to further characterise the 
toxicity  profile  of  enfuvirtide  as  specific  obligations  and  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation 
Efficacy 
The relationship between dose and antiviral effect of enfuvirtide was investigated in two monotherapy 
studies.  The  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  reduction  was  evident  and  similar  between  the  two  studies  after  2 
weeks of treatment (1.5 log10 copies/ml in the 100 mg treatment group). Further investigations in the 
26/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
two  phase  II  studies  where  enfuvirtide  was  combined  with  antiretroviral  treatment  confirmed  the 
efficacy  of  enfuvirtide  75 mg  –  100 mg  in  further  reducing  HIV-1  RNA  levels  by  1 - 1.5 
log10 copies/ml after 16 weeks of combination therapy. 
The dose of enfuvirtide selected for confirmatory trials, 90 mg bid by subcutaneous injection has been 
reasonably  justified.  It  has  not  been  shown  to  be  the  maximally  effective  dose  however  it  is  rather 
limited by product solubility and tolerable injection volume and preclinical and clinical data suggest 
that  the  dose  may  be  suboptimal.  Therefore  the  applicant  undertook  to  discuss  the  possibility  to 
increase  the  daily  doses  of  enfuvirtide  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Analyses  of  pooled  data  from  the  main  studies  T20-301  and  302  showed  that  after  24  weeks  of 
treatment  more  than  90%  of  patients  with  virological  failure  harboured  viruses  with  reduced 
enfuvirtide susceptibility and mutations in the area aa 36 – 45 of gp41 were identified in over 90% of 
the  viruses  with  phenotypic  resistance.  Further  discussion  on  resistance  development  to  enfuvirtide 
will be provided with the 48-week results of these studies. 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  enfuvirtide  was  characterised  in  HIV  infected  patients.  After 
subcutaneous  administration  enfuvirtide  is  slowly  absorbed  and  the  absolute  bioavailability  is  84% 
after 90 mg dose. The absorption is comparable after injection at different sites (abdomen, thigh, arm). 
Enfuvirtide has a low volume of distribution, is bound to protein (92%). There are no in vivo data on 
the  metabolism  but  considering  that  enfuvirtide  is  a  peptide  composed  of  36  naturally  occurring  L-
aminoacid residues, it is likely to be catabolised by peptidases, proteinases and other enzymes. Data 
on  urinary  excretion  will  be  provided  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. No dose adjustment is required for patients with creatinine clearance above 35 ml/min. 
There is no data in patients with impaired hepatic function, severe renal impairment and only limited 
in  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment.  Limited  data  in  children  suggest  that  administration  of 
2 mg/kg  bid  will  give  similar  exposure  as  in  adults.  The  pharmacokinetic  documentation  was 
considered satisfactory and information in the Summary of Product Characteristics adequately reflects 
the data. 
The  clinical  efficacy  of  enfuvirtide  is  based  on  the  results  of  two  main  ongoing,  randomised,  open 
label  studies  (T20-301  and  T20-302)  on  heavily  pre-treated  patients  comparing  enfuvirtide  in 
combination with optimised background regimen (OB) versus OB alone. Data at 24 weeks showed the 
benefits of enfuvirtide+OB treatment over OB treatment alone. A significant higher reduction in log10 
HIV RNA was observed in patients who received enfuvirtide+OB versus OB alone (LSM difference 
of –0.93 log10 copies/ml and –0.78 log10 copies/ml in the 2 studies, both p values < 0.0001). Several 
sensitivity  analyses  performed  confirmed  the  robustness  of  the  results.  Results  in  most  subgroups 
tended  to  favour  enfuvirtide+OB  and  in  many  cases  the  differences  between  treatment  groups  were 
statistically significant. 
The  percentage  of  patients  with  undetectable  viral  load  (<  50  copies/ml),  although  low,  was 
significantly better in the enfuvirtide+OB group than OB group alone (15.9% versus 6.3%). 
In all subgroups of patients, the results favoured enfuvirtide+OB versus OB. 
response. 
 Data  at  48  weeks  were  provided  which  confirmed 
After 48 weeks of treatment 18.3% of the patients had a complete response (below 50 copies/ml). The 
treatment  response  is  related  to  the  degree  of  viral  resistance  in  the  backbone  treatment  but  was 
superior  to  OB  alone  in  all  genotypic  sensitivity  score  groups.  AIDS  related  events  were  most 
common in patients switching therapy to enfuvirtide treatment, a result not unexpected as this patient 
group was most immunocompromised. 
the  durability  of 
the 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  outstanding  issues  for  which  the  applicant 
undertook  to  provide  the  necessary  information  to  further  characterise  the  efficacy  profile  of 
enfuvirtide  as  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation,  including  the  final  results  of 
ongoing main studies. 
27/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  has  been  defined in  over  1,000  patients, included  over  500 patients who received 
enfuvirtide for 48 weeks. Overall injection site reactions of usually moderate severity and eosinophilia 
were  events  that  most  clearly  differentiated  enfuvirtide+OB  from  comparator.  Hypersensitivity 
reactions  were  observed  with  low  incidence.  A  few  of  these  were  serious,  although  no  anaphylactic 
reactions  have  been  reported.  There  were  indications  that  bacterial  infections  like  pneumonia  and 
sinusitis may be more prevalent with enfuvirtide.   
Preliminary  data  in  children  suggest  a  similar  safety  profile  as  the  one  observed  in  adults.  Most 
common adverse events were mild to moderate injection site reactions and only two serious adverse 
events have been observed cellulitis and injection site reaction. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  outstanding  issues  for  which  the  applicant 
undertook to provide the additional information to further characterise the safety profile of enfuvirtide 
as follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The ongoing confirmatory trials were designed according to CPMP advice and show incontrovertible, 
clinically  relevant  efficacy  of  enfuvirtide  as  add-on  to  an  individually  optimised  backbone  of 
antiretroviral  medicinal  product  on  HIV  RNA  reduction  and  CD4+  levels  at  24  weeks.  For  the 
population  studied,  heavily  treatment-experienced  patients  with  few  remaining  treatment  options  for 
which there is an unmet medical need, this is acceptable for licensing under exceptional circumstances 
according to CPMP Note for Guidance.  Preliminary data at 48 weeks confirmed the durability of the 
response. 
The  safety  issues  specific  to  enfuvirtide  are  ubiquitous  injection  site  reactions  of  usually  moderate 
severity,  and  generalised  hypersensitivity  reactions,  a  few  of  which  have  been  serious,  although  no 
anaphylactic  reactions  have  been  reported.  A  concern  was  raised  with  increased  incidence  with 
enfuvirtide of bacterial infections, in particular pneumonia. 
The final results of the main studies to be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled 
post-authorisation will provide further information on the long-term efficacy and safety of enfuvirtide. 
During an oral explanation in front of the CPMP, the applicant addressed the issue of time to event for 
infection with increased incidence in the enfuvirtide arm, in particular pneumonia and CMV disease. 
The  reason  for  the  increased  rate  observed  is  unknown  and  the  analysis  of  time  to  event  did  not 
identify  a  specific  pattern.  Therefore  the  CPMP  agreed  to  include  a  warning  in  the  Summary  of 
Product  Characteristics  and  the  applicant  undertook  to  further  address  the  potential  impact  of 
enfuvirtide on the risk for bacterial infections, especially in view of the preclinical indication of host 
activity  on  the  immune  system  and  the  apparent  increase  in  the  incidence  of  pneumonia,  and  to 
conduct a prospective observational cohort study to further assess the risk of pneumonia. 
The  applicant  presented  the  ongoing  paediatric  programme.  The  experience  in  children  is  limited 
particularly  in  children  under  the  age  of  6  years  of  age.  The  data  in  a  limited  number  of  patients 
showed that the 2 mg/kg twice daily provides exposures comparable to those seen in adults and that 
the  safety  profile  was  comparable  to  adults.  The  CPMP  considered  that  there  was  insufficient 
experience  in  children  to  recommend  an  indication  in  children  but  agreed,  based  on  the  limited 
pharmacokinetics  data 
the  dosage 
recommendations currently used in the clinical studies in children. In addition the applicant undertook 
to provide the results on the ongoing study and to explore the potential for alternative dosage forms 
which may also allow flexible dosing in children as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-
authorisation. 
the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics 
include 
in 
to 
Finally,  the  applicant  presented  the  strategies  on  the  supply  of  the  product  considering  the  current 
production  capacity.  The  applicant  undertook  to  keep  the  CPMP  informed  on  the  availability  of  the 
product on the market on regular basis. 
28/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that the  benefit/risk  profile of Fuzeon was favourable in the treatment of HIV-1 infected 
patients for the following indication: 
“Fuzeon  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral  medicinal  products  for  the 
treatment of HIV-1 infected patients who have received treatment with and failed on regimens 
containing  at  least  one  medicinal  product  from  each  of  the  following  antiretroviral  classes, 
protease  inhibitors,  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  and  nucleoside  reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors, or who have intolerance to previous antiretroviral regimens. In deciding 
on a new regimen for patients who have failed an antiretroviral regimen, careful consideration 
should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of mutations 
associated  with  different  medicinal  products.  Where  available,  resistance  testing  may  be 
appropriate.” 
29/29 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
