19 September 2013 
EMA/764026/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Fycompa 
International non-proprietary name: perampanel 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002434/PSUV/0009 
Period covered by the PSUR:  23 July 2012 – 22 January 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Fycompa, the scientific conclusions 
of PRAC are as follows:  
Analysis  of  the  data  contained  within  this  PSUR  did  not  reveal  any  new  safety  concerns,  new  safety 
signals or adverse events not adequately reflected in the current perampanel SPC. 
The PRAC considered that the overall risk/benefit of FYCOMPA remained favourable. 
However,  following  a  review  of  6  events  reported  during  this  period  with  the  code  MedDRA  SMQ  of 
hostility/aggression, the PRAC agreed that amendments to the warning on aggression already present 
in section 4.4 of the SmPC were warranted as described below: 
Aggression 
Aggressive  and  hostile  behaviour  has  been  reported  in  patients  receiving  perampanel  therapy.  In 
perampanel-treated  patients  in  clinical  trials  aggression,  anger  and  irritability  were  reported  more 
frequently  at  higher  doses.  Most  of  the  reported  events  were  either  mild  or  moderate  and  patients 
recovered  either  spontaneously  or  with  dose  adjustment.  However,  thoughts  of  harming  others, 
physical assault or threatening behaviour were observed in some patients (<1% in perampanel clinical 
studies). Patients and caregivers should be counselled to alert a health care professional immediately if 
significant changes in mood or patterns of behaviour are noted. The dosage of perampanel should be 
reduced if such symptoms occur and should be discontinued immediately if symptoms are severe. 
Cases of aggression have been reported and are dose related since they were more frequently reported 
with  higher  doses.    Most  of  these  events  were  either  mild  or  moderate  and  recovered  either 
spontaneously or with dose adjustment.  However, in some cases, reports  of aggression were severe 
which led to discontinuation of treatment. Therefore, the dose titration should be followed (see section 
4.2) and a dose reduction should be considered in case of persistence of aggressive symptoms. 
These changes have been reflected in Section 2 of the PL as described below: 
Fycompa  may  make  you  aggressive,  angry  or  violent.  It  may  also  cause  you  to  have  unusual  or 
extreme changes in behaviour or mood. 
No  new  relevant  information  on  efficacy  and  effectiveness  in  the  authorised  indication  became 
available during the period covered by this PSUR.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Fycompa the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance perampanel is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Fycompa  
EMA/764026/2013 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
