21 May 2015 
EMA/518002/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Fycompa  
International non-proprietary name: PERAMPANEL 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002434/II/0016 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 7 
2.2.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ....................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................. 9 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.2. Clinical Pharmacology ...................................................................................... 10 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 21 
2.3.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 23 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 24 
2.4.1. Dose response study(ies) ................................................................................. 24 
2.4.2. Main study ..................................................................................................... 24 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 51 
2.4.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 54 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 55 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 62 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ............................................................................ 63 
2.5.3. PSUR cycle ..................................................................................................... 63 
2.6. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 63 
2.7. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 65 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 67 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 67 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 70 
5. EPAR changes ....................................................................................... 70 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 2/71 
 
 
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
%RSE   
Percent relative standard error of the estimate 
ADR 
AE 
AED 
ALT 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Adverse Event 
Anti-epileptic Drug 
alanine aminotransferase  
AMPA 
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid  
AST 
aspartate aminotransferase 
Cav,ss   
average steady state perampanel concentration estimated from population PK 
CGI-C   
Clinical Global Impression of Change scale 
CHMP 
CL/F  
CNS 
CMH 
CRCL 
CRF 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
apparent clearance 
Central nervous system  
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
creatinine clearance 
Case Report Form 
C-SSRS  
Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale 
CV 
CYP 
Coefficient of Variation 
Cytochrome P450  
E2007   
Company code for perampanel sometimes used in studies 
EAP 
EEG 
EMA 
ERA 
EU 
FAS 
IGE 
IIV 
IOV 
IVRS 
LC 
LOCF 
Expanded Access Program 
Electroencephalogram  
European Medicines Agency 
Environmental risk assessment 
European Union 
Full Analysis Set 
Idiopathic generalised epilepsy  
inter-individual variability  
Inter-occasion variability 
Interactive Voice Response System  
liquid chromatography  
Last Observation Carried Forward 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 3/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MS 
PD 
Mass spectrometry 
Pharmacodynamics 
PGTC 
Primary Generalised Tonic-Clonic 
PI 
PK 
PL 
POS 
PP 
QoL 
RMP 
SAE  
SD 
Product Information 
Pharmacokinetics 
Package Leaflet 
Partial Onset Seizures 
Per Protocol 
Quality of Life 
Risk Management Plan 
Serious adverse event 
Standard Deviation 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
SMQ 
STP 
TEAE 
US 
V/F  
Standardised MedDRA Queries 
Sewage treatment plant  
Treatment emergent adverse events 
United States of America 
apparent volume of distribution 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 4/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Eisai Europe Ltd. submitted to the 
European Medicines Agency on 20 August 2014 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Centrally authorised Medicinal product(s): 
International non-proprietary name 
For presentations: See Annex A 
Fycompa 
perampanel 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a – Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) – 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
Addition of a new therapeutic indication or modification of 
an approved one  
The MAH applied for an extension of the indication for adjunctive treatment of primary generalised tonic-
clonic seizures in patients with epilepsy aged 12 years and older. Consequently, the MAH proposed the 
update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC. The Package Leaflet was proposed to 
be updated accordingly. In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to propose minor editorial changes to 
the Package Leaflet as well as an update to the contact details of the Maltese local representative. 
The variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0160/2014 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0160/2014 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the MAH did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 5/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The MAH did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Robert James Hemmings 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Pierre Demolis 
Timetable 
Submission date 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP CoRapporteur Assessment Report 
Actual dates 
20 August 2014 
19 September 2014 
10 November 2014 
12 November 2014 
PRAC Meeting, adoption of PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
4 December 2014 
CHMP Rapporteur Updated Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
12 December 2014 
18 December 2014 
Joint PRAC / CHMP Rapporteurs’ Assessment Report 
19 February 2015 
Joint PRAC / CHMP Rapporteurs’ Updated Assessment Report 
3 March 2015 
PRAC Meeting, adoption of PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
12 March 2015 
Joint PRAC / CHMP Rapporteurs’ Revised Assessment Report 
23 March 2015 
2nd Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
26 March 2015 
Joint PRAC and CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
28 April 2015 
PRAC Meeting, adoption of PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
7 May 2015 
Updated Rapporteur’s Assessment Report 
CHMP Opinion 
19 May 2015 
21 May 2015 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Fycompa includes the active substance perampanel, a potent, non-competitive, and highly selective 
antagonist of the α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor. It 
was approved in the European Union (EU) through the centralised procedure in July 2012 as adjunctive 
therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures (POS) with or without secondarily generalized seizures 
in patients with epilepsy aged 12 years and older. The precise mechanism by which perampanel exerts its 
antiepileptic effect has not yet been fully elucidated.  
Fycompa is available as film-coated tablets in the strengths of 2 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg, 8 mg, 10 mg, and 12 
mg. Treatment should be initiated by titrating the dose from 2mg/day to a maintenance dose of 4 to 
8 mg/day, which may be further increased to a maximum dose of 12 mg/day. Fycompa should be given 
once daily at bedtime. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 6/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Problem statement and rational for the proposed change 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) of Fycompa applied for an extension of the indication to 
adjunctive treatment of primary generalised tonic clonic (PGTC) seizures. Like other types of seizures, 
PGTC seizures are caused by the paroxysmal, uncontrolled discharge of central nervous system (CNS) 
neurons, leading to neurologic dysfunction. Unlike most other types of seizures, with PGTC seizures the 
cerebral hyperactivity extends to the entire brain.  
Tonic-clonic seizures represent the most debilitating seizure type within the generalised epilepsies. PGTC 
seizures are associated with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (IGE) and several generalised epilepsy 
syndromes. Of the new anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) developed over the past 20 years, at the time of this 
report only three (topiramate, levetiracetam, lamotrigine) were indicated for the treatment of PGTC 
seizures. 
To support the application, the MAH submitted the results of one pivotal, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Phase III study (Core Study 332). Patients in Core Study 332 were aged 12 years or 
older and received up to 8 mg/day of perampanel or placebo as adjunctive treatment for PGTC seizures. 
Population PK and a PK/PD analyses of the Core Study 332 data were also submitted. For the purpose of 
population PK modelling, the plasma concentration data from Study 332 were pooled with data from 3 
other Phase III studies in subjects with POS.  
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data other than an updated environmental risk assessment (ERA), have been 
submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An updated ERA was provided taking into account use of Fycompa in the proposed new indication of 
adjunctive treatment of PGTC seizures in patients with epilepsy aged 12 years and older.  
The log octanol-water partition coefficient (Kow) value of perampanel was 2.86. Therefore, perampanel 
was not considered a Persistent, Bioaccumulative, and Toxic (PBT) substance. 
Using a refined market penetration factor (Fpen) value of 0.00016 based on combined estimations from 
the sales forecast for adjunctive treatment of POS with or without secondarily generalized seizures and 
for adjunctive treatment of PGTC seizures in patients with epilepsy aged 12 years and older, the 
PECSURFACEWATER for perampanel has been calculated to be 0.00096 μg/L. This is below the action limit 
(0.01µg/L) for Phase II analysis, and hence no further environmental assessment was required. However, 
with the initial marketing authorisation application, a Phase II analysis was provided and the CHMP 
recommended the conduct of the following additional studies: OECD 308 (aerobic system) study, and 
depending on results, perform an OECD 218 (sediment dwelling organism) study. The MAH took the 
opportunity of this application to provide the results of both studies.  
Aerobic system (OECD 308) 
The adsorption coefficient (Koc) of Fycompa was determined to be log Koc 2.71 and hence not expected 
to be retained in the sewage treatment plant (STP). Therefore risk to soil and groundwater compartment 
due to spreading to sludge on soul is considered to be low. A ready biodegradability test was performed 
and the active found not to be readily biodegradable. In the subsequent OECD 308 study, after 97 days of 
incubation, 91-93% of the active was recovered in 2 water-sediment systems, of which 7% was 
recovered in the water layer and 84% - 85% in the sediment extract. No degradation of Fycompa was 
detected in the sediment layers. In conclusion, the active ingredient perampanel was classified as 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 7/71 
 
  
  
persistent and very persistent in the sediment according to OECD 308. Therefore OECD test 218 was 
conducted. 
Sediment Dwelling (OECD 218) 
Since the potential risk identified for Fycompa was its recovery at ~85% in the sediments of 2 water- 
sediment systems in the OECD 308 test, further testing in an OECD 218 sediment dwelling organism 
study was performed for the Phase II tier B assessment. Effects on the sediment dwelling organism 
chironomus riparius were negligible in this toxicity test. Specifically 120 larvae exposed to the top dose of 
the active (820 mg/kg) were not biologically affected from a toxicological perspective, following 28 days 
exposure to the test substance. 
Table 1 – Summary of main ERA study results 
OECD107  
Substance (INN/Invented Name): perampanel 
CAS-number: 380917-97-5 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
Kow 
PBT-statement : 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Test protocol 
OECD 106 
OECD 301 
Value 
0.00096 
Aerobic and Anaerobic 
Transformation in Aquatic 
Sediment systems 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
OECD 308 
Study type  
Test protocol 
Result 
2.86 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT (N) 
The compound is not considered as PBT 
Unit 
µg/L 
Results 
Koc =2.71 
no significant degradation 
of perampanel (1-2%) 
DT50, water =7.9 
DT50, sediment =ND 
DT50, whole system =879 
Conclusion 
>0.01 threshold 
(N) 
Remarks 
NOT READILY 
BIODEGRADABLE 
persistent 
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Test/Species  
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Test  
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb  
EFFECTS ON SEDIMENT 
DWELLING ORGANISM  
OECD 201 
Endpoint 
NOEC 
value  Unit 
Remarks 
>1200 
µg/L  Pseudokirchneriella 
subcapitata 
OECD 211 
NOEC 
220 
µg/L 
OECD 210 
NOEC 
60 
µg/L  Pimephales 
promelas 
OECD 209 
EC 
>1x106 
µg/L 
OECD 218 
NOEC 
Ec50 
820 
>820 
mg/
kg 
risk to chironomus 
riparius was 
negligible 
2.2.2.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The updated ERA presented by the MAH based on sales projections for the use of Fycompa in the existing 
as well as the proposed new indication showed that perampanel does not present a hazard to the 
environment. The updated data submitted in this application did not suggest a significant increase in 
environmental exposure further to the use of perampanel in the new indication. The MAH furthermore 
submitted the results of an OECD 308 and an OECD 218 study thereby complying with the CHMP 
recommendations at the time of the initial marketing authorisation. The studies showed that perampanel 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 8/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
was persistent in sediment, but that the effect on dwelling organisms was negligible. No new concerns 
arose from these two studies. 
2.2.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Based on the available data, perampanel is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. No further 
non-clinical data were considered necessary by the CHMP to support this application. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
The clinical trials were claimed by the MAH to have been performed in accordance with GCP. 
The MAH has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 9/71 
 
  
  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.3.2.  Clinical Pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology program was designed to investigate the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of 
perampanel related to the medicine’s clinical efficacy and safety, and to establish the pharmacokinetic 
(PK) profile of perampanel, including its absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination 
characteristics.  
The application partially relied on the perampanel clinical pharmacology program provided in support of 
the POS indication, which included 27 Phase I studies and 2 Phase II studies. One new phase III study in 
epilepsy patients with PGTC seizures including clinical pharmacology objectives was provided in support of 
this application (Core Study 332). A population PK and a PK/PD analysis of the Core Study 332 data was 
conducted (CPMS-E2007-008R-v1). For the population PK analysis, data of Core Study 332 were pooled 
with data from 3 other Phase III studies in epilepsy subjects with POS (Studies 304, 305, and 306), 
previously assessed during the review of the initial marketing authorisation application, The only dose of 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 10/71 
 
  
  
 
 
perampanel evaluated in Core Study 332 was 8 mg/day, therefore a dose-response analysis was not 
performed. 
Furthermore, since the approval of perampanel for refractory POS, additional in vitro studies were 
conducted as post-approval commitments to characterise the contributions of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
enzymes and non-CYP enzymes to perampanel metabolism as well as to evaluate the effects of 
perampanel on CYP2B6 activity (DMPK2013-001). The MAH took the opportunity of this application to 
also provide the results of study DMPK2013-001. 
2.3.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Study DMPK2013-001: Investigation of Potential Inhibition of E2007 on Human CYP2B6 in Human Liver 
Microsomes 
This study was designed to investigate inhibition potency of E2007 (perampanel) on human cytochrome 
P450 (CYP) 2B6 using bupropion as CYP2B6 probe substrate and human liver microsomes. A reversible 
inhibition study was conducted. The CYP2B6-specific activity was evaluated by bupropion hydroxylation. 
The concentrations of the marker metabolite for CYP2B6 (hydroxybupropion) was determined using high 
performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS), which was validated by 
evaluating selectivity, accuracy of calibration curve, intra-assay variation, and stability in sample extracts. 
The suitability of the inhibition assay conducted in this study was evaluated by inhibition potency of 
positive control, ticlopidine at the concentration of 6.1 μmol/L. 
Results 
Validation Study of Quantitative Method 
The quantification method including selectivity of the analytical condition for marker metabolite of 
reversible inhibition, lack of interference of the internal standard with the marker metabolite, accuracy of 
calibration standards, intra-assay variation for inhibition assay and stability of the marker metabolite in 
sample extracts was validated. 
Reversible Inhibition Study 
The inhibition percentage (%) on the formation of the marker metabolite of CYP2B6 by E2007 and 
positive control are shown in the following table. 
Table 2 - Inhibition Percentage of E2007 and Ticlopidine on CYP2B6 Activity 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 11/71 
 
  
  
 
2.3.2.2.  PK/PD modelling 
Population Analysis CPMS-E2007-008R-v1 
The objectives of the population PK analysis were: 
•  Describe the PK of perampanel in subjects with partial-onset seizures and PGTC seizures 
• 
Identify intrinsic and extrinsic factors that explain between subject variability in perampanel PK, 
such as demographics and co-administration of other AEDs. 
The objectives of PK/PD analyses for efficacy (Study E2007-G000-332 only) were: 
•  Characterize the relationship of average PGTC seizure frequency over 28 days with perampanel 
concentration and intrinsic and extrinsic factors in subjects with PGTC seizures. 
•  Characterize the probability of response (responder or non-responder) at any time in subjects 
with PGTC seizures. 
The objectives of the exploratory population PK/PD analysis for safety in subjects with PGTC (Study 
E2007-G000-332 only) were: 
• 
Explore the relationship between perampanel exposure and most frequently occurring AEs. 
Methods 
See section 2.4.2. for a detailed description of study Core Study 332. Participation in the PK assessment 
was limited to study sites with appropriately trained staff and adequate equipment for procuring and 
processing the specimens. Plasma was used to determine the concentrations of perampanel by liquid 
chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) using previously validated methods. 
The PK data underwent population PK and PK/PD modelling for the relationship between exposure and 
PGTC seizure frequency and the occurrence and severity of the most frequently occurring AEs during the 
Maintenance Period. 
The studies whose data were included in the population PK analysis are summarized in the following 
Table. The PK/PD analyses were built on data from study E2007-G000-332 only. 
Table 3 - Summary of Perampanel Studies Included in Population PK Analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 12/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Population analyses for PK, PK/PD for efficacy (log-transformed percentage change from Baseline in 
average seizure frequency over 28 days at Visit 6, 7, and 8) and logistic regression for responders were 
performed using non-linear mixed effect modelling in NONMEM v7.2. The final population PK model, and 
PK/PD models for PGTC seizure frequency and responder probability were evaluated for performance 
using graphical assessment, nonparametric bootstrapping and visual predictive checks. The resulting 
parameters from the final PK model were evaluated for fitness for calculation of individual derived values 
of perampanel steady-state exposure Cav,ss for use in evaluating the PK/PD relationship for efficacy and 
safety. 
•  PK Model Development 
Base PK Model Development 
Due to the sparse nature of the PK sampling scheme a one compartment model parameterised in terms 
of clearance (CL/F) and apparent volume of distribution (V/F) was the starting point for the PK structural 
base model. The inter-individual variability (IIV) (η, ETA) was assessed on CL/F using an exponential 
error structure, assuming normal distribution for these parameters. If deemed necessary, covariance 
between 2 inter-individual variability terms may have been assessed by application of the omega block. 
Inter-occasion variability (IOV) was assessed on both CL/F and V/F parameters. The residual variability 
was assessed by additive, proportional and combined additive/ proportional error structures. All 
permutations of interindividual and residual variability error structures were tested systematically. 
Covariate PK Model Development 
The effect of the following covariates was planned to be investigated on perampanel PK: demographics 
(gender, race, age, body weight, and seizure type), renal function (creatinine clearance; CRCL), liver 
function [alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate amino transferase (AST)] and concomitant 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, valproic acid, lamotrigine, topiramate, levetiracetam, 
clobazam, phenobarbital, primidone, and zonisamide. 
The association between subject covariates and PK parameters was evaluated in a stepwise fashion: 
• 
• 
Individual Bayes posthoc pharmacokinetic parameter estimates were generated from the base 
model. The difference of individual estimates from the corresponding population value (η) was 
plotted versus the covariates to identify potential relationships. 
η-shrinkage was calculated and reported for IIV parameters estimated by the model. A parameter 
with shrinkage greater than 30% was excluded from the covariate analysis. 
•  Covariates identified as being important were first assessed in the basic model by univariate 
addition and ranked in descending order according to the change in objective function value. All 
significant variables were then tested in a full model, and a subsequent backwards deletion was 
carried out at the 0.1% significance level where the relative influence of each covariate on the 
model was re-evaluated by deleting it from the full model on an individual basis. 
The final model included the structural PK model, estimates of population mean and individual fixed 
effects parameters, and estimates of the random effects parameters. The estimation method used was 
FOCEI. The predictive performance of the final PK was assessed by applying a visual predictive check and 
validated using bootstrapping. 
•  PK/PD Model Development 
Individual perampanel Cav,ss at each visit was derived from post-hoc estimate of individual CL/F and 
dose. For subjects on placebo, Cav,ss was set to zero. Twenty-eight day average PGTC seizure frequency 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 13/71 
 
  
  
 
and response data at each visit during the Maintenance Period was used in the analysis, which was based 
on log-transformed percentage change from Baseline. 
Demographics and concomitant AEDs were considered in the population PK/PD and logistic regression 
model selection process.  
Methods for the covariate PK/PD analysis were identical to those used for the PK model development (see 
above). The final PK/PD model for 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency data was evaluated using the 
Bootstrap re-sampling technique and visual predictive check. The PK/PD model for response data was 
assessed by standard error estimates and nonparametric bootstrap analysis. 
Perampanel /28-day Average PGTC Seizure Frequency Model Structure  
The PK/PD relationship between exposure to perampanel and percentage change from Baseline in 
average seizure frequency over 28 days was modeled according to a model described by Girgis et al., 
2010. Twenty-eight-day PGTC seizure frequency was considered as a continuous variable, after log-
transformation.  
Based on this, the exposure- efficacy relationship structural model for perampanel was the sum of a 
Baseline seizure frequency, the effect of perampanel exposure at steady state, the effect of time on 
seizure frequency and an interaction term between Baseline seizure frequency, the effect of perampanel 
exposure at steady state. Mixed effects modelling in NONMEM 7.2 was applied. 
Perampanel /Response Model Structure 
The probability of each subject, at any time, to be in one of the 2 responder classes was analysed by 
logistic regression. The logit model was of the form: sum of placebo effect, of perampanel exposure, 
effects of covariates and random effect to describe between interindividual variability. 
The Laplacian method, which uses a second-order expansion around the empirical Bayes predictions of 
the inter-individual random effects, was implemented in NONMEM and was used to approximate the 
marginal likelihood. 
•  Results 
PK Population and Dataset  
For Study 332, 205 perampanel plasma concentrations from 73 subjects were available. POS Phase III 
Studies 304, 305 and 306 contributed 4467 observations from a total of 770 subjects. The final PK 
dataset included 4672 observations from a total of 843 subjects. For the pooled PK analysis data set a 
total of 7 observations were excluded, which were classified as below limit of quantification or outlying 
concentrations. Of the 843 subjects 614 were Caucasians and 229 of other ethnic background, including 4 
subjects of Japanese origin. There were 403 males and 440 females. The population age and weight 
ranged from 12 to 74 years (median = 32 years) and 25 to 142 kg (median = 69 kg), respectively. A 
summary of the co-administered AEDs is given in the following table. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 14/71 
 
  
  
Table 4 - Summary of Selected Co-Administered AEDs Included in the Population PK 
Analysis of Perampanel – All Studies (N=843) 
Population and Dataset for PK/PD Dataset for PGTC Seizure Frequency Analysis 
A total of 151 subjects had 438 observation records including subjects on placebo treatment. Fifteen 
observations were excluded from the PK/PD analysis due to being outliers or the subjects not having 
perampanel exposure data available. The final analysis data set for Study 332, 28-day average PGTC 
seizure frequency and response PK/PD data had a total of 423 observations from 149 subjects. 
Of these 149 subjects, 77 received placebo and 72 received active treatment. Overall, 78 were 
Caucasians and 71 non-Caucasians, including 10 Japanese and 35 Chinese subjects. There were 64 males 
and 85 females. The population age and weight ranged from 12 to 70 years (median = 25 years) and 36 
to 154 kg (median = 67 kg), respectively. A summary of the 332 PK/PD population co-administered AEDs 
are given in the table below. The same analysis population was used in the responders/non-responders 
analysis. 
A summary of the co-administered AEDs is given in the following table. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 15/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 5 - Summary of Selected Co-Administered AED Included in the Population PK/PD 
Analysis for PGTC Seizure Frequency - Study 332 Alone (N=149) 
PK Analysis 
For the final model, a one-compartment disposition model with linear elimination from the central 
compartment adequately described perampanel profiles from studies 304, 305, 306 and 332. This is the 
same model reported previously in patients with refractory POS. The IIV could be estimated for CL/F only, 
and IOV was also included on CL/F. V/F and IIV for this parameter were fixed to previously estimated 
values relating to the central volume of distribution for a two-compartment model determined for 
perampanel based on rich data sampling. The final population PK model for perampanel contained the 
statistically significant effects of body weight, gender and the concomitant medications of CYP3A4/5 
inducing AEDs carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, topiramate and phenytoin on perampanel CL/F. The final 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 16/71 
 
  
  
 
 
model was repeated by omitting phenytoin co-administration in the subject who received a single dose 
rescue treatment, this resulted in negligible changes to model parameters. 
The parameter estimates, precision of the estimate and 95 % confidence interval for the final PK model 
are presented in the following table. 
Table 6 - Final Population PK Parameter Estimates of Perampanel – All Studies 
(N=843) 
As seen from the 95% confidence intervals, all the parameters of the structural model were estimated 
with good precision (%RSE ≤6.49%), except for weight effect on CL/F (%RSE=31.9). IIV in CL/F was 
moderate at (43.2%) and estimated with good precision (%RSE ≤5.78). The estimate of IIV for V/F was 
fixed to a previous estimated value of 31.3%, obtained for the central volume of distribution. The residual 
variability in perampanel concentrations was low at 8.82 %. 
In order to evaluate the predictive performance of the final PK model for perampanel, a visual predictive 
check (VPC) was performed. One thousand subjects receiving a steady state dose of 8mg perampanel 
were simulated using the final model. Using the simulated data the 90% prediction intervals were 
determined and plotted together with 8mg dose normalised observed perampanel concentrations. More 
than 90% of the data observations were within 90% prediction intervals for the model. Therefore, the 
perampanel concentration time course has been reasonably well defined in the final PK model with good 
predictive performance. Furthermore, a nonparametric bootstrap for the final PK model was conducted. 
The nonparametric bootstrap showed that the confidence intervals for all parameters were generally 
narrow and the median values of the distribution of bootstrapped parameter values are consistent with 
the original parameter estimates from the final PK model. Overall the bootstrap results and the VPC 
indicated that the final PK model for perampanel described the data well and produced well estimated 
parameters. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 17/71 
 
  
  
 
The descriptive statistics for Cav,ss by dose and by the presence/absence of inducer concomitant 
medication are presented in the following table for all studies combined. 
Table 7 - Summary Model-Predicted Perampanel Cav,ss (ng/mL) Following Perampanel Daily 
Dosing by Concomitant Inducer – All Studies 
According to the model, perampanel PK was not affected by seizure type. 
The effect of body weight and gender were found to be statistically significant covariates affecting 
perampanel CL/F. Differences in perampanel CL/F with body weight and between males and females were 
very small. This was confirmed by simulating perampanel steady state concentration-time profiles 
(n=1000) following 8mg/day in 50 kg vs. 100 kg body weight subjects and in male vs. female subjects. 
PK/PD Analysis 
• 
Perampanel 28-day Average PGTC Seizure Frequency PK/PD Analysis – Study 332 
In subjects with PGTC seizures median values for Baseline actual 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency 
for placebo and treatment groups were 2.5 and 2.6 respectively. 
For the final PK/PD model, the parameter values are shown in the table below. The placebo effect in the 
PK/PD relationship of percent change from Baseline in 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency was not 
significantly affected by the tested covariates. The diagnostic plots for the model indicated that the model 
adequately described the change from Baseline in the 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency data. The 
population and individual predictions versus the observations of log-transformed percentage change in 
seizure frequency did not show any systematic bias in the predictions. Weighted residuals obtained were 
evenly distributed versus population predictions or versus the independent variables time in days, and 
usually less than 2 in absolute value. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 18/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 8 - Parameter Estimates from Base/Final PK/PD Model for Average PGTC Seizure 
Frequency – Study 332 
The model predicts a placebo effect of 31.7% reduction from Baseline in 28-day average PGTC seizure 
frequency: a subject not taking perampanel with a Baseline of 2.6 seizures per 28 days has a frequency 
decrease to 1.91 seizures per 28 days due to the effect of placebo alone. The variability between subjects 
in the placebo effect is mild, with %CV=8.72. 
The effect of perampanel Cav,ss on the change from Baseline in 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency 
is a decrease of 0.981 on the loge scale for an increase of 1 μg/mL in Cav,ss. During maintenance, the 
seizure frequency in a typical male subject of median body weight (69 kg) not receiving any inducer 
medication (Baseline of 2.6 seizures per 28 days) is predicted to be reduced by 62.3% to 0.94 seizures 
per 28 days when treated with 8 mg/day perampanel (predicted Cav,ss of 505 ng/mL). The variability of 
the slope of perampanel concentration effect between subjects is high, with %CV =74.2. 
The following plot displays model-predicting percentage reduction in 28-day average PGTC seizure 
frequency by dose of perampanel administered for subjects receiving and receiving co-administered 
inducers in Study 332. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 19/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Figure 1 - Plot of Model-Predicted % Reduction in PGTC Seizure Frequency vs. Perampanel 
Dose Administered for Induced and Non-Induced Subjects – Study 332. 
This figure demonstrates an improvement in reduction of 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency with 
increasing perampanel dose level in the presence and absence of inducer co-administration 
(carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and phenytoin). The model-predicted effect of inducer co-administration 
on the percent change from Baseline in 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency improvement following 
perampanel administration is less pronounced than their overall effect on perampanel exposure. 
The predictive performance of the final PK/PD model was evaluated using the visual predictive check. The 
majority of the observed data fell within the 90% prediction intervals. The results from the non-
parametric bootstrap evaluation (N=1000) indicated that the final PK/PD model for percent from Baseline 
in 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency was stable and produced well estimated parameters. 
The MAH further examined the influence of time and the results showed no improvement on the residual 
variability with little impact on objective function values.  
• 
Perampanel Response Categorical PK/PD Analysis 
The data for the response analysis were the same as described in the PK/PD analysis for 28-day average 
frequency data. For each time point in the data the subjects were classified as 0 (Non-responder: subject 
had <50 % decrease of 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency from Baseline) or 1 (responder: subject 
had ≥50 % decrease of 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency from Baseline). 
For the final Categorical PK/PD Model, the final logit model for response data was a sum of constant 
placebo effect, linear perampanel exposure effect, and random effect to describe between subjects 
variability. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 20/71 
 
  
  
 
Table 9 - Logistic Regression Model Parameter Estimates for Response Data – Study 332 
The probability of an individual to be a responder was significantly increased by perampanel 
concentration. None of the demographics or concomitant AEDs was found to be a predictor of the 
probability of response or for affecting the slope for the perampanel exposure effect. The model-predicted 
probability of being a responder to perampanel was similar with or without inducer co-administration. 
The predictive performance of the perampanel-response categorical PK/PD analysis was done using a 
nonparametric bootstrap evaluation (N=1000). The confidence intervals are generally narrow and the 
median values of the distribution of bootstrapped parameter values are also consistent with the original 
parameter estimates. Overall the bootstrap results indicated that the final PK/PD model for categorical 
response was stable and produced well estimated parameters. 
• 
Perampanel Exposure – Study 332 Safety PK/PD Analysis 
The relationship between perampanel Cav,ss and occurrence of treatment emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs) of special interest in subjects with PGTC seizures in Study 332 was explored graphically as data 
permitted. Since the incidence of individual TEAEs using narrow Standardised MedDRA Queries (SMQ) 
terms was small, all individual TEAEs of special interest using both the narrow and broad SMQ terms 
relating to hostility/aggression (irritability, laceration, agitation, abnormal behaviour, affect lability, 
aggression, drowning, paranoia, physical abuse) and those relating to psychosis/psychotic events 
(hallucination, abnormal behaviour, affect lability, delusion, hallucination-visual, illusion, paranoia, speech 
disorder, hallucination-auditory) as a group were used for the purpose of the exposure-safety 
assessment. Fifteen subjects receiving perampanel experienced hostility/aggression related adverse 
events (AEs) for whom PK exposure data was available for 12 subjects. Six subjects receiving perampanel 
experienced psychosis/psychotic event related AEs for whom PK exposure data was available for 4 
subjects. 
The median perampanel exposure in subjects who experienced events related to hostility/aggression were 
higher than those who did not experience such events, though substantial overlap in the concentrations 
was evident. No exposure relationship was apparent for psychosis/psychotic events. The potential 
relationship in perampanel exposure and occurrence of hostility/aggression related TEAEs was attempted 
via modelling using a logistic regression approach as planned, including both perampanel and placebo 
treated subjects (n=151). However due to high variability in probability of event and overall low 
incidences of AEs, reliable parameter estimates could not be determined. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Study DMPK2013-001 
The methods and validation assays used for study DMPK2013-001 were considered acceptable by the 
CHMP. Perampanel showed no potential inhibition of CYP2B6 up to 30 μmol/L when using bupropion as 
the probe substrate in human liver microsomes.  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 21/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Perampanel Pharmacokinetics 
The bioanalysis of perampanel in human plasma samples collected in Core Study 332 was carried out in 
accordance with EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09 Bioanalytical Method validation, using the same LC/MS/MS 
method as assessed and considered satisfactory in the context of the initial marketing authorisation 
application.  
Population PK analysis was performed on perampanel plasma steady-state concentration data in subjects 
from Study 332 (PGTC seizures) and from Studies 304, 305, and 306 (refractory POS). The methodology 
utilised for the modelling was generally appropriate. The CHMP noted that 7 observations (< 1%) were 
excluded such as below limit of quantification and outlying concentrations. Normally outlying 
concentrations excluded from analysis should be included at the final step to evaluate their impact. 
However, in this case only, as there were so few exclusions, these were considered unlikely to be of 
relevance. 
In the absence of CYP3A4/5-inducing AEDs the population estimate of perampanel CL/F was 0.66 L/h. 
Perampanel PK was not affected by seizure type, thus confirming the appropriateness of pooling PGTC 
and partial-onset PK data. Perampanel PK was linear since CL/F was dose- and time-independent. In 
addition, CL/F was not significantly affected by age, race, hepatic (ALT, AST), or renal (CRCL) markers.  
Of the extrinsic factors examined, the co-administration of CYP3A4/5 inducing AEDs statistically 
significantly increased CL/F by factors of 2.75 (carbamazepine), 1.92 (oxcarbazepine) and 1.74 
(phenytoin), resulting in perampanel exposure being reduced by similar levels. Perampanel CL/F was also 
statistically significantly increased by a factor of 1.23 by topiramate, which was considered a mild effect 
and not clinically important relative to the high variability in perampanel exposures. This small topiramate 
effect was also observed in the PK assessment of pooled Phase III data in patients with refractory POS 
only. Perampanel CL/F was not significantly affected by any of the other concomitant AEDs including 
valproic acid, lamotrigine, clobazam, phenobarbital, levetiracetam and zonisamide.  
Of the intrinsic factors, gender was found to affect perampanel CL/F in a statistically significant manner. 
CL/F was 18% lower in female subjects (0.54 L/h) compared to males (0.66 L/h). Perampanel CL/F was 
also found to statistically significantly decline with increasing body weight. Both the gender and body 
weight effects were small, with PK simulations showing large overlaps in exposure between males and 
females and between small (50 kg) and large (100 kg) subjects when receiving the same dose, 
regardless of concomitant AEDs. Therefore the effects of gender and body weight were considered by the 
CHMP to be of no clinical relevance and did not warrant any dose adjustment.  
The results from this new population PK analysis are consistent with findings from the previous population 
PK analyses in subjects with refractory partial seizures and in healthy subjects. A number of additional 
diagnostic plots and analyses were requested to fully support the MAH conclusions regarding the results 
of the modelling analysis. The plots were provided and overall supported the conclusions that the model 
described the data well. There appeared to be a bias towards higher concentrations at later times (e.g., 
after 16 hours) than predicted by the population PK model, but despite this trend, the CHMP agreed that, 
when an entire dosing interval is taken into account, the concentrations achieved are well-predicted by 
the model.  Assuming that drug effect is related to exposure over a dosing interval, the noted deviation 
was considered acceptable. 
PK/PD Analysis for Seizure Frequency 
Generally, the applied methodology for the PK/PD modelling was considered acceptable by the CHMP. The 
analysis was conducted on the subject data set from Study 332. Log-transformed percent reduction in 
PGTC seizure frequency from Baseline was modelled with a placebo effect and a proportional exposure 
effect. Perampanel administration reduced PGTC seizure frequency with the decrease being proportional 
(log-linear) to Cav,ss and was independent of time. The decrease in seizure frequency due to placebo was 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 22/71 
 
  
  
unaffected by concomitant AEDs and demographics. The effect of concomitant AEDs and demographics on 
the slope for the effect of perampanel could not be modelled due to the high shrinkage in inter-individual 
variability for the slope as a result of the high variability in response. 
For PGTC subjects, a placebo effect of 31.7% reduction from Baseline in 28-day average seizure 
frequency, with an effect of perampanel Cav,ss of -0.981 per 1 μg/mL was determined. In a typical male 
subject, of median body weight (69 kg) treated with 8 mg/day perampanel without concomitant 
CYP3A4/5-inducing AEDs, seizure frequency was predicted to be reduced by 62.3%, compared to 44.6% 
reduction with concomitant carbamazepine and 50.1% reduction with concomitant, oxcarbazepine or 
phenytoin.  
The CHMP requested additional displays of diagnostic plots as well as related data presentations, analyses 
and discussion. These were provided and supported the conclusion that there was no time effect and that 
the model adequately represents the data. 
PK/PD Categorical Analysis for Response 
PK/PD analysis of the probability of an individual being a responder to perampanel was conducted on 
Study 332 data alone. The model for responder probability was a sum of a placebo effect and a logn-
linear perampanel exposure effect. Responder probability increased from 0.390 for placebo to 0.85 for 8 
mg/day perampanel in the absence of inducer co-administration compared to 0.80 (carbamazepine) and 
0.82 (oxcarbazepine or phenytoin) for inducer co-administration. There was no significant effect for any 
of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors on the probability of being a responder. Upon request of the CHMP, 
the MAH provided additional, convincing evidence that the selected model fits the data significantly better 
than a model with no drug effect and the CHMP endorsed the MAH’s conclusions. 
Perampanel Exposure – Safety PK/PD Analysis 
The median perampanel exposure in subjects who experienced adverse events related to 
hostility/aggression (n=12) were higher than those who did not experience such events, though 
substantial overlap in the concentrations was also evident. No exposure relationship was apparent for 
psychosis/psychotic events. The potential relationship in perampanel exposure and occurrence of 
hostility/aggression AEs was attempted via modelling using a logistic regression approach as planned, 
including both perampanel and placebo treated subjects (n=151). However due to high variability in 
probability of event and overall low incidences of AEs, reliable parameter estimates could not be 
determined. 
2.3.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
With regards to perampanel PK, there were no new findings based on the population PK analysis after 
pooling the data from patients with PGTC seizures to the previously reported analysis in epilepsy patients 
with refractory POS. Overall, perampanel PK in epilepsy patients with PGTC were similar to the epilepsy 
patients with refractory POS. The information in SmPC section 5.2 was updated including revised point 
estimates of the effects of intrinsic and extrinsic factors on the perampanel exposure due to pooling the 
data from epilepsy patients with PGTC with epilepsy patients with refractory POS. This was agreed by the 
CHMP. 
No new drug-drug interactions have been identified for perampanel. A pronounced reduction in exposure 
as well as a reduction of PD effects due to concomitant CYP3A4/5 inducer AEDs was observed. The CHMP 
considered that the existing warning in SmPC section 4.4 on the use of concomitant enzyme-inducing 
AEDs and the possible need for dose adjustment was adequate. SmPC section 4.5 was updated to reflect 
the extent to which perampanel plasma concentrations were affected by concomitant AEDs as calculated 
with the updated population PK model. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 23/71 
 
  
  
The exposure-AE incidence relationship for hostility/aggression could not be formally modelled. Thus, 
despite the observation of higher perampanel exposures in subjects who experienced events related to 
hostility/aggression compared to patients without such events, no firm conclusions could be drawn. 
Overall, the CHMP considered that the available clinical pharmacology data were sufficient to support the 
application for use of Fycompa in the treatment of IGE patients with PGTC seizures. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
In order to demonstrate clinical efficacy in PGTC seizures, the MAH conducted one randomised double-
blind Phase III study, Study E2007-G000-332 (also referred to as Core Study 332). The study had an 
open label extension which was primarily designed to investigate long-term safety, but it also recorded 
long-term efficacy. 
2.4.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
The MAH proposed treatment of PGTC seizures with perampanel at a dose up to 8 mg/day, which could 
be further increased up to 12 mg depending on individual clinical response and tolerability.  
No dose response studies have been conducted.  
Population PK/PD modeling of the perampanel plasma concentration response in Core Study 332 
demonstrated the following: 
• 
The percent reduction in 28-day average PGTC seizure frequency from Baseline during 
maintenance treatment increases as a function of the increase in exposure to perampanel. 
•  Responder probability was predicted to increase with an increase in exposure to perampanel. 
With regards to the choice of the only dose evaluated in Core Study 332 (8 mg/day), this dose was 
selected considering the efficacy results in previous Phase III POS studies and the expected lesser use of 
perampanel inducing AEDs in the new target patient population. The 12 mg dose was included in the 
open label Extension Phase of Study 332 to provide additional safety and efficacy data. The design of 
Study 332 and, previously, of the Phase III POS studies followed the common clinical practice in epilepsy 
to titrate to efficacy and tolerability (2 mg to 8 mg titration, see section 2.4.2. for details on the study 
methods).   
2.4.2.  Main study 
2.4.2.1.  Study E2007-G000-332 
Study E2007-G000-332 (Core Study 332) was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, 
multicentre, parallel-group phase III trial with an open-label extension phase to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety of adjunctive perampanel in the treatment of patients 12 years of age and older with primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures. 
Methods 
Study 332 consisted of 3 phases: Pre-randomisation, Randomisation, and Extension as depicted in the 
following Figure. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 24/71 
 
  
  
Figure 2 - Design of Study E2007-G000-332 
The Pre-randomisation Phase consisted of 2 periods: Screening Period (up to 4 weeks, depending on how 
soon the required documentation was obtained) and Baseline Period (4 or 8 weeks, depending on the 
accuracy of diary-documented seizure frequency during the Screening Period).  
Subjects who met all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria at Visit 1 were given a subject 
seizure diary (paper) to be used for recording seizure count and type on a daily basis by either the 
subject or the designated caregiver. Subjects must have had at least 8 weeks of consecutive seizure diary 
data before randomisation (up to 4 weeks could have been obtained from the subject’s personal 
retrospective seizure diary if collected immediately before study entry). To ensure correct seizure 
classification, the investigator reviewed the subject diary with the subject at Visit 2 and Visit 3. 
The Randomisation Phase was up to 21 weeks in duration, and consisted of 3 periods: Titration (4 
weeks), Maintenance (13 weeks), and Follow-up (4 weeks, only for those subjects not entering the 
Extension Phase). Eligible subjects were randomised to receive perampanel or perampanel-matched 
placebo. Subjects continued to take their Baseline AED medication regimen throughout the 
Randomisation Phase, and subjects or their designated caregivers continued to complete the subject diary 
each day. 
During the Titration Period, for the perampanel group, the dose was increased at weekly intervals in 
increments of 2 mg to the target dose of 8 mg/day or highest tolerated dose. 
During the Maintenance Period, subjects continued treatment with the study drug dose achieved during 
the Titration Period, taking the study drug once daily in a blinded fashion. Dose adjustment during the 
Maintenance Period was not recommended. According to the investigators’ clinical judgment, however, 
subjects with inadequate seizure control were allowed to have their dose increased by one 2 mg 
increment, and subjects experiencing intolerable AEs were allowed to have their dose down-titrated by 
only 2 mg, during the Maintenance Period. More than 1 up-titration or down-titration was not allowed 
during the Maintenance Period unless there was a significant medical reason and the change was 
approved by the Medical Monitor. 
Subjects who completed the Randomisation Phase could enter the Extension Phase and receive open-
label perampanel. Subjects who did not continue into the Extension Phase proceeded to the Follow-up 
Period. During the Conversion Period (Weeks 17-23), all subjects and investigators remained blinded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 25/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Subjects who had been assigned to receive placebo in the Core Study were started on perampanel, 
whereas subjects assigned to receive perampanel in the Core Study continued to receive perampanel 
once daily at the dose they received during the Maintenance Period. During the Conversion Period, 
subjects were allowed to titrate to a total daily dose of 12 mg perampanel (weekly in 2 mg increments) at 
the investigator’s discretion as opposed to 8 mg/day during the maintenance phase. During the 
Maintenance Period of Part A of the Extension Phase (Weeks 24-55), subjects were unblinded to study 
treatment and remained on optimal perampanel dose established during the conversion period. Dose 
adjustment during Maintenance Period was allowed if medically necessary per the investigator’s 
discretion. Subjects who did not tolerate a minimum dose of 2 mg/day during the Extension Period were 
discontinued from the study. Subjects who elected to participate in Part B were treated until they had at 
least 52 weeks of total exposure to perampanel in the study. Subjects in a country where an extended 
access program (EAP) had been activated ended treatment under this protocol and were given the option 
to enrol in the EAP. If an EAP had not been activated in their country or if the subject did not elect to 
participate in Part B the treatment was ended and the subject entered the Follow-up Period of the 
Extension Phase. Subjects who elected not to participate in Part B ended treatment in this study and 
continued to the Follow-up Period of the Extension Phase. 
Subjects entered the Extension Phase on the same concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) they were 
receiving at the end of the Core Study. During the Maintenance Period of the Extension Phase, changes to 
concomitant AED(s) (addition, deletion, or dose adjustment) were allowed, with care taken when 
switching between an inducer and non-inducer AED. 
The Follow-up Period of the Extension Phase spanned the 4 weeks following receipt of the last dose of 
perampanel. At the end of this period, subjects returned to the clinical site and underwent all end-of-
study procedures. 
Study participants 
Approximately 164 subjects (males and females) with PGTC seizures were planned for enrolment across 
approximately 95 sites in the US, Europe, and Asia. A review was conducted by an independent group 
(Epilepsy Study Consortium) of information provided by the investigator regarding the diagnosis and 
seizure type for each subject who provided informed consent. Only when the accuracy of the diagnosis 
was approved by the Epilepsy Study Consortium, was a subject eligible for participation in the study. 
Inclusion Criteria 
Subjects were eligible for participation in the Core Study if they met all of the following inclusion criteria: 
1. Aged 12 years and older (in Germany, greater than or equal to 18 years of age [within the course of 
the study] at the time of the informed consent; in India, less than 65 years of age). 
2. Clinical diagnosis of PGTC seizures in the setting of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (with or without 
other subtypes of primary generalized seizures) and experiencing ≥3 PGTC seizures during the 8-week 
period prior to randomisation. 
3. Had a routine electroencephalogram (EEG) up to 5 years prior to or during the Baseline Period with 
electroencephalographic features consistent with primary generalized epilepsy; any other concomitant 
anomaly must have been explained by adequate past medical history. In the case of a normal historical 
EEG, the EEG was repeated. In the case of another normal EEG upon repeat, the presence or history of 
myoclonus or typical absence seizure, or first degree relative with PGTC seizures, was required. If the 
repeat EEG presented abnormalities compatible with PGTC seizures, no further action was required and 
the subject was eligible for enrolment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 26/71 
 
  
  
4. On a fixed dose of 1 to a maximum of 3 concomitant AEDs for a minimum of 30 days prior to Baseline 
Period; only 1 inducer AED (ie, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, or phenytoin) out of the maximum of 3 
AEDs was allowed. 
5. A vagal nerve stimulator was allowed, but must have been implanted ≥5 months prior to Baseline 
(stimulator parameters were to have remained unchanged for 30 days prior to Baseline and for the 
duration of the study). 
6. Had a computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging within the last 10 years (for adults) or 
5 years (for adolescents) that ruled out a progressive cause of epilepsy. 
7. A ketogenic diet was allowed provided the subject had been on this diet for 5 weeks prior to 
randomisation. 
8. All females must have had a negative serum beta-human chorionic gonadotropin test result or a 
negative urine pregnancy test result at Screening and Baseline. Females of childbearing potential agreed 
to use a medically acceptable method of contraception (eg, abstinence, an intrauterine device, a double-
barrier method such as condom plus spermicide or condom plus diaphragm with spermicide, a 
contraceptive implant, an oral contraceptive or have a vasectomized partner) throughout the entire study 
period and for 30 days after study drug discontinuation. The only female subjects who were exempt from 
this requirement were postmenopausal women (defined as greater than age 50 and having at least 12 
months of amenorrhea) or subjects who had been sterilized surgically or who were otherwise proven 
sterile (ie, bilateral tubal ligation with surgery at least 6 months prior to dosing, hysterectomy, or 
bilateral oophorectomy with surgery at least 2 months prior to dosing). All women who were of 
reproductive potential and who were using hormonal contraceptives were required to have been on a 
stable dose of the same hormonal contraceptive product for at least 12 weeks prior to dosing and must 
have continued to use the same contraceptive during the study and for 30 days after study drug 
discontinuation. 
9. Provided written informed consent/assent signed by subject or legal guardian prior to entering the 
study or undergoing any study procedures. If the written informed consent was provided by the legal 
guardian because the subject was unable to do so, a written or verbal assent from the subject must have 
also been obtained. 
10. Was willing and able to comply with all aspects of the protocol. 
Exclusion Criteria 
Subjects were not eligible for participation in the Core Study if they met any of the following exclusion 
criteria: 
1. Had participated in a study involving administration of an investigational compound or device within 
the 30 days prior to Baseline, or within approximately 5 half-lives of the previous investigational 
compound, whichever was longer. 
2. Were pregnant and/or nursing. 
3. Had participated in a previous perampanel study(ies). 
4. Had a history of status epilepticus that required hospitalization within 12 months prior to Baseline. 
5. Had seizure clusters where individual seizures cannot be counted. 
6. Had a history of psychogenic seizures. 
7. Had any suicidal ideation with intent, with or without a plan, at or within 6 months prior to Visit 2. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 27/71 
 
  
  
8. Had evidence of clinically significant disease (eg, cardiac, respiratory, gastrointestinal, renal disease) 
that in the opinion of the investigator(s) could have affected the subject’s safety or study conduct. 
9. Had a concomitant diagnosis of partial onset seizures. 
10. Had progressive neurological disease. 
11. Had a clinical diagnosis of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. 
12. Had a history of drug or alcohol dependency or abuse within 2 years prior to Screening. 
13. Had multiple drug allergies or a severe drug reaction to an AED(s), including dermatological (eg, 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome), haematological, or organ toxicity reactions. 
14. If felbamate was used as a concomitant AED, subjects must have been on felbamate for at least 2 
years, with a stable dose for 60 days prior to Baseline. They must not have had a history of a white blood 
cell (WBC) count below ≤2500/μL (2.50 109/L), a platelet count <100,000/μL, liver function tests (LFTs) 
>3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), or other indication of hepatic or bone marrow dysfunction while 
receiving felbamate. 
15. In case of a history of vigabatrin use in the past, vigabatrin must have been discontinued for 
approximately 5 months prior to Baseline, and subjects must have had documentation showing no 
evidence of a vigabatrin-associated clinically significant abnormality in an automated visual perimetry 
test. 
16. Were receiving concomitant use of medications known to be inducers of cytochrome P450 3A (with 
the exception of carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, and phenytoin) including, but not limited to: rifampin, 
troglitazone, St John’s Wort, efavirenz, nevirapine, glucocorticoids (other than topical usage), modafinil, 
pioglitazone, and rifabutin, within 30 days prior to Baseline or were receiving concomitant use of 
barbiturates (except for seizure control indication) within 30 days prior to Baseline. 
17. Had used rescue benzodiazepines intermittently (ie, 1 to 2 doses over a 24-hour period was 
considered 1-time rescue) more than 2 times within the 30 days prior to Baseline. 
18. Were known to be positive for human immunodeficiency virus. 
19. Had active viral hepatitis (A, B, or C) as demonstrated by pre-existing positive serology. 
20. Had evidence of significant active hepatic disease. Stable elevations of liver enzymes, ALT, and AST 
due to concomitant medication(s) were allowed if they were <3x ULN. 
Subjects who did not tolerate the minimum dose of 2 mg/day during the Core Study were discontinued 
from the study. 
Treatments 
Test Treatment: Perampanel was supplied as 2-mg oral tablets. The maximum daily dose was 8 mg in the 
Maintenance Period and 12 mg in the Extension Phase.  
Reference: Placebo oral tablets matching perampanel 2-mg oral tablets. 
Subjects in both treatment groups took up to 6 tablets of study drug once daily, by mouth, before 
bedtime, and with food. While the highest dose to be used during the Core Study was 8 mg/day (2 mg x 
4 tablets), a total of 6 tablets were administered during the Core Study in anticipation of maintaining the 
blind during the Open-label Extension Blinded Conversion Period, which allowed all subjects to titrate to a 
total daily dose of 12 mg (2 mg x 6 tablets). A subject whose dose was reduced due to intolerable AEs 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 28/71 
 
  
  
was allocated a different kit that contained more placebo tablets in order to maintain the same total 
number of tablets. 
Subjects were taking a maximum of 3 marketed AEDs as the Baseline treatment on which they had to be 
stabile for at least 30 days prior to administration of study medications. Only 1 inducer AED (ie, 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, or phenytoin) was allowed. No dose changes in concomitant AED(s) were 
allowed during the Core Study. Additions or deletions of an AED were not allowed during the Core Study. 
In case of an emergency, subjects could have received other AEDs (including diazepam and other 
appropriate AEDs) as rescue medications to treat status epilepticus, uncontrolled seizures, or seizure 
clusters. 
Concomitant use of medications known to be inducers of CYP3A (with the exception of carbamazepine, 
oxcarbazepine, and phenytoin) as well as concomitant use of barbiturates (except for seizure control 
indication) were not permitted during the study. Benzodiazepine administration, up to a maximum of 1 
time per week, was allowed during the Core Study as rescue medication for worsening seizures. 
For any drugs known to influence the central nervous system, the dose was to be kept stable during the 
Core Study. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the efficacy of adjunctive perampanel therapy 
compared to placebo on PGTC seizures. 
Secondary study objectives were: 
• 
• 
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of perampanel in subjects with inadequately controlled 
PGTC seizures. 
To evaluate the efficacy of adjunctive perampanel therapy, compared to placebo, on other 
subtypes of primary generalized seizure (myoclonic, absence, and all seizures). 
Exploratory study objectives were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To evaluate the PK of perampanel in subjects with inadequately-controlled PGTC seizures. 
To explore the efficacy of adjunctive perampanel therapy compared to placebo, on the physician-
rated Clinical Global Impression of Change scale (CGI-C) and the time from the first dose date to 
the nth PGTC seizure event, where n = Baseline seizure frequency per 28 days plus 1. 
To explore the relationship between plasma perampanel concentrations, efficacy, and safety using 
population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modeling. 
To evaluate the incremental difference in the percentage change from Baseline in Overall Quality 
of Life (QOL) in subjects who are “Responders” (ie, ≥50% reduction in seizures) versus “Non-
responders”. 
To evaluate the incremental difference in the rates of hospitalization and/ or emergency room 
visits in subjects who are “Responders” (ie, ≥50% reduction in seizures) versus “Non-
responders”. 
Efficacy related outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint for EU registration was the 50% responder rate in the Maintenance Period 
relative to Baseline. For all other regions, this was the key secondary endpoint. Responders were defined 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 29/71 
 
  
  
as subjects who experienced a 50% or greater reduction in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days in the 
Maintenance Period relative to Baseline (Pre-randomisation Phase). 
The primary efficacy endpoint outside the EU was the percent change from Baseline in PGTC seizure 
frequency per 28 days during treatment. For the EU this was the key secondary efficacy endpoint.  
Secondary Endpoints 
• 
• 
Percent change in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days during the Titration and Maintenance 
Periods combined relative to Baseline (key secondary endpoint). 
Percent change in other subtypes of primary generalized seizure (i.e., myoclonic, absence, and all 
seizures) frequency per 28 days in the Titration and Maintenance Periods combined relative to 
Baseline. 
•  Responder Rate for other subtypes of primary generalized seizure frequency (i.e., myoclonic, 
absence, and all seizures) per 28 days in the Maintenance Period relative to Baseline. 
Exploratory Endpoints 
• 
Time from the first dose date to the (Baseline seizure frequency per 28 days plus 1)-th PGTC 
seizure event. 
•  CGI-C response distribution at Visit 7 (i.e., end of the Maintenance Period).  
The investigator completed the CGI-C questionnaire. The purpose of each questionnaire was to 
assess the subject’s clinical status over the last 4 weeks. This assessment evaluated seizure 
frequency and severity/intensity, the occurrence of AEs, and overall functional status. Each 
evaluation was done using a 7-point scale where 1 = very much improved and 7 = very much 
worse. 
Other Endpoints 
• 
• 
Proportion of categorised percent changes in seizure frequency over the Maintenance Period. 
Percentage of subjects who achieved seizure free status (PGTC seizures and all seizures). 
•  Actual and percent change from Baseline in Patient-Weighted Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory 
31 (QOLIE-31-P). 
Subjects who were 18 years of age or older at the time of randomisation completed the QOLIE-
31-P to assess their quality of life status over the last 4 weeks at the visits. The QOLIE-31-P 
contained 39 items; 37 items were used to calculate 8 subscales (Energy, Mood, Daily Activities, 
Cognition, Medication Effects, Seizure Worry, Distress, and Overall QOL) and 1 overall QOLIE-31-
P score. One item regarding the health state of the patient was not scored as designated by the 
developer’s official scoring algorithm. This questionnaire was only implemented in the countries 
where it was available and a validated translation existed for the spoken language(s), and only in 
the age groups for which it had been validated. 
•  Monthly rates (per 28 days) per subject for hospitalizations associated with seizures, unscheduled 
physician visits, and emergency room visits [ie, based on Healthcare Resource Utilization (HCRU) 
responses]. 
HCRU information was collected at the visits using the information on the eCRF (Adverse Event 
eCRF page for hospitalisation) and subject responses to questions concerning the (1) occurrence 
(and number) of an unscheduled physician office visit due to a seizure within the preceding 4 
weeks and (2) occurrence (and number) of emergency room visits within the preceding 4 weeks, 
and if any of the emergency room visit(s) resulted in hospitalisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 30/71 
 
  
  
Exploratory endpoints related to PK and PK/PD analyses are reported separately and assessed in section 
2.3.2.1.  
Sample size 
Assuming a common Standard Deviation of 60% for the percent change in PGTC seizure frequency per 
28 days in the Titration and Maintenance Periods combined relative to the Pre-randomisation Phase, a 
sample size of 82 subjects in each treatment group in the Full Analysis Set would have >85% power to 
detect a treatment difference of 30% between the placebo and the perampanel groups based on the 
Wilcoxon rank-sum test with a 0.05 2-sided significance level.  
Based on a sample size of 82 subjects per treatment group, the study had >80% power to detect a 
treatment difference of 22% in responder rate proportions (35% with placebo and 57% with perampanel) 
with a 0.05 two-sided significance level using a 2-group chi-square test. 
Randomisation 
Following the Baseline Period, subjects were assigned to one of the two treatments (1:1) based on a 
randomisation scheme generated using a computer program. Randomisation was performed centrally by 
an Interactive Voice Response System vendor that generated a randomisation list with a pseudorandom 
number generator.  
Blinding (masking) 
The double-blind design of this study was maintained through the use of placebo tablets that were 
identical in appearance to the perampanel tablets. All study drugs were packaged and labelled so as to be 
indistinguishable between the treatment groups. 
During the Randomisation Phase, the subject and all personnel involved with the conduct and the 
interpretation of the study, including the investigators, investigational site personnel and Sponsor staff, 
were blinded to the treatment codes. Randomisation data were to be kept strictly confidential, filed 
securely by an appropriate group at the Sponsor or contract research organisation and accessible only to 
authorized persons until the time of unblinding. 
Statistical methods 
All statistical analyses were performed by Symbiance, Inc., Princeton Junction, Pennsylvania, US using 
SAS version 9.1.3. 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) included subjects who were randomised to study drug, received at least 
1 dose of study drug, and had any post Baseline seizure frequency data during the Randomisation Phase. 
If a subject received study drug different from that to which he/she was randomised, the subject’s 
efficacy data were analysed “as randomised.” 
The Per Protocol (PP) Analysis Set was a subset of subjects in the Full Analysis Set who did not have 
any major protocol deviations, were at least 80% compliant with the study medication during the 
Randomisation Phase, and had diary compliance of at least 80% during the Pre-randomisation and 
Randomisation Phases. Major protocol deviations were based on selected inclusion criteria related to 
clinical diagnosis of PGTC seizures and minimum number of PGTC seizures during the Pre-randomisation 
Phase, discontinuation or interruption of any background AED, and receipt of study drug other than that 
to which the subject was randomised for longer period of time than receipt of randomised study drug. 
The PK Analysis Set included subjects receiving perampanel who had at least 1 quantifiable perampanel 
concentration with documented dosing history. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 31/71 
 
  
  
The Safety Analysis Set included subjects who were randomised to study drug, received at least 1 dose 
of study drug and had at least 1 post-Baseline safety assessment. If a subject received study drug 
different from that to which he/she was randomised, the subject’s safety data were analysed “as treated.” 
The FAS was the primary analysis set used for the efficacy analyses. The PP Analysis Set was used for 
sensitivity analysis of the primary and key secondary efficacy endpoints.  
Seizure frequency per 28 days was derived from the information recorded in the subject diaries. The 
percent change from Baseline was analysed over the Titration and Maintenance Periods combined, while 
Baseline was defined as seizure frequency per 28 days based on all valid diary data during the Pre-
randomisation Phase. 
The responder analysis was carried out using a Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test stratified by 
country in the FAS. In the Maintenance-LOCF (last observation carried forward) analysis for the responder 
rate, if a subject had less than 8 weeks of Maintenance Period, the PGTC seizure frequency during the last 
8 weeks of the Titration and Maintenance Periods combined (or PGTC seizure frequency during the 
Titration and Maintenance Periods combined for subjects with less than 8 weeks of Titration and 
Maintenance Periods combined) was used to impute. 
The following sensitivity analyses were conducted for the Responder Rate: 
•  Analysis of the responder rate using the FAS will be conducted over the Titration and Maintenance 
Periods combined, and Titration Period, and for the Completers. 
•  Analysis of the responder rate using the PP Analysis Set. 
• 
The responder analysis counting subjects discontinuing during titration as non-responders in the 
FAS. 
The percent change in seizure frequency from Baseline was analysed over the Titration and 
Maintenance Periods combined in the FAS. PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days (as determined from 
subject diaries) was calculated as the number of PGTC seizures divided by the number of days in the 
interval and multiplied by 28. Analysis was conducted using rank analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with 
treatment and country as factors, and the Baseline PGTC seizure frequency as a covariate. In this 
analysis, all PGTC seizure frequency data was first rank-transformed for both Baseline and endpoint PGTC 
seizure frequencies separately. The ANCOVA will then be conducted based on the rank transformed data. 
Due to an expected irregular distribution of PGTC seizure frequency, median was the primary statistic of 
interest for the primary endpoint. Hodges-Lehmann estimator and 95% confidence interval (CI) for this 
estimator were displayed for understanding the treatment effect size. 
The following sensitivity analyses were conducted for the endpoint of percent change in PGTC seizure 
frequency: 
•  Analysis on the Maintenance with LOCF to impute for missing data, and Titration period in the 
FAS. In the “Maintenance-LOCF” Analysis for the percent change, if a subject has less than 8 
weeks of Maintenance Period, the PGTC seizure frequency will be imputed using the same method 
as in the responder analysis.  
•  Analysis of the percent change using the PP Analysis Set. 
•  Analysis of subjects in the FAS who complete the entire study period i.e. have last scheduled 
double-blind visit completed and is marked by the investigator to have completed the study 
(Completers). 
The following exploratory endpoints were analysed for the FAS: 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 32/71 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
The time from the first dose date to the (Baseline seizure frequency per 28 days plus one)- th 
[nth + 1] PGTC seizure event during the treatment period was analysed using the Kaplan-Meier 
method with log-rank tests. 
The number and proportion of subjects who remained seizure-free (PGTC seizures and all 
seizures) during the Maintenance Period were tabulated for the Full Analysis Set (subjects who did 
not complete the Maintenance Period were considered not to have achieved seizure-free status) 
and for subjects who completed the Core Study. 
The categorized percentage change in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days during the 
Maintenance Period using LOCF was summarized. 
•  A treatment group difference in the CGI-C was analysed using a CMH test adjusted for pooled 
country. 
• 
The absolute and percent change from Baseline values were summarized for the following QOLIE-
31-P scales for both treatment groups using descriptive statistics: Energy, Mood, Daily Activities, 
Cognition, Medication Effects, Seizure Worry, Overall QOL, Distress, and Overall Score. Scoring of 
the QOLIE-31-P was performed in accordance with the Scoring Manual for the QOLIE-31-P: 
Patient-Weighted Quality of Life in Epilepsy (v.2). 
•  Descriptive statistics were used to summarize, by treatment group, the accumulated number of 
subjects at each visit with each HCRU visit type and the number of each type of visits per 28 days 
averaged across all visits since Baseline. 
For the percent change in PGTC seizure frequency and the responder rate, analyses (descriptive statistics 
only) were performed for the Full Analysis Set based on the following subgroups: 
•  Age (Age Group 1: ≥12 to <17, ≥17 to <65, ≥65); Age Group 2: ≥12 to <18, ≥18 to <65, ≥65) 
•  Sex (Male, Female) 
•  Race (White, Black/African American, Asian/Pacific, Other) 
•  Country 
• 
Pooled country (the following countries were pooled: Austria/Greece/Serbia/Israel; 
Lithuania/France; Czech Republic/Poland; all other countries were not pooled) 
•  Region (North America/Europe, Asia Pacific) 
•  Baseline AEDs (lamotrigine, valproic acid, levetiracetam, topiramate, zonisamide, ergenyl chrono; 
these represented the 6 most commonly used concomitant AEDs at Baseline) 
Results 
Participant flow 
Of the 307 subjects who were screened, 143 subjects were screen failures and 164 subjects were eligible 
to continue in the study. All but 1 of the 164 randomised subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug. 
This patient assigned to the perampanel group, elected to withdraw from the study prior to the first dose 
of study drug. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 33/71 
 
  
  
 
Figure 3 - Subject Disposition and Primary Reason for Discontinuation from Study 
Table 10 - Subject Disposition and Primary Reason for Discontinuation from Study – 
Core Study: All Randomised Subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 34/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The first subject was enrolled in Study 332 on 13 July 2011 and the last subject visit was 27 May 2014. 
Conduct of the study 
There were 3 global protocol amendments (27 October 2011, 12 April 2012 and 15 November 2013).  
Eleven (11) of 162 subjects who were exposed to study treatments were not eligible to enter in the PP 
population analysis due to protocol deviations. 
The most common reason for exclusion was the major protocol deviation of stopping or interrupting 
Baseline concomitant AED during the Core Study (3 [3.7%] and 4 [4.9%] subjects in the placebo and 
perampanel groups, respectively). One subject in each treatment group had a major deviation of <80% 
compliance with study drug. Additionally, 2 subjects were excluded from the PP Analysis Set for other 
reasons: perampanel Subject 20071001 for a congenital genetic disorder and placebo Subject 16021002 
as a result of prohibited use of a benzodiazepine. 
Numbers analysed 
The FAS, PP Analysis Set  and Safety Analysis Set included 162, 151 and 163 patients respectively. 
In addition to one subject assigned to the perampanel group who did not receive any study treatment 
and was thus excluded from the FAS, another subject, assigned to the placebo group, was not included in 
the FAS because this subject did not have post-Baseline seizure data. This latter subject died as a result 
of convulsions on Day 11 prior to the first post-Baseline seizure diary assessment. 
Table 11 - Analysis Sets – Core Study 322: All Randomised Subjects 
Baseline data 
Standard demography parameters collected during the study included date of birth, sex, race, and 
ethnicity. All pertinent medical history within 2 years, as well as any significant findings noted at 
screening, was documented for each subject. At screening, physical and neurological examinations were 
performed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 35/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Most of the 162 subjects in the FAS were 18 to 64 years old. A total of 22 subjects (13.6%) were less 
than 18 years old (18 [11.1%] subjects were <17 years), and only 1 subject was 65 years of age or older 
(placebo arm). In the perampanel arm, the age range of patients was 12 to 58 years. The majority of the 
subjects were White (53.7%); 42.0% (n=68) were Asian (Chinese, Japanese, and Other Asian) and 2.5% 
were Black/African American. There was a slight imbalance in gender distribution, with females 
representing 56.2% of the FAS. 
The majority of subjects had long-standing epilepsy, with the median time from epilepsy diagnosis to 
study entry of 14.54 years (range: 1.0, 57.1). Consistent with protocol eligibility criteria, all subjects had 
tonic-clonic seizures; about one-half of subjects in both treatment groups (50.0% placebo, 51.9% 
perampanel) also had a history of absence seizures and about 40% (40.2% placebo, 39.5% perampanel) 
had a history of myoclonic seizures. 
Table 12 - Epilepsy-Specific Medical History – Core Study: Safety Analysis Set 
The percentages of subjects who took prior medications were generally similar for the placebo and 
perampanel groups. The most commonly taken individual concomitant (non-AED) drugs were classified in 
the therapeutic subclass of analgesics (13.6% placebo, 24.7% perampanel), and paracetamol was the 
only concomitant medication, other than AEDs, used by at least 10% of subjects in 1 of the treatment 
groups (6.2% placebo, 12.3% perampanel). 
Overall, 33.7% of the subjects in the Safety Analysis Set were taking 1 AED, 46.0% were taking 2 AEDs, 
and 19.6% were taking 3 AEDs, and the frequency distribution of the number of AEDs taken was similar 
for the 2 treatment groups. Table 13 summarises the use of specific AEDs at Baseline for the Safety 
Analysis Set. Among the 6 most frequently used AEDs for the total Safety Analysis Set (lamotrigine, 
valproic acid, levetiracetam, topiramate, zonisamide, ergenyl chrono), at least a 2-fold imbalance 
between the 2 treatment groups was seen in the reported use for topiramate (8.5% placebo; 22.2% 
perampanel) and zonisamide (15.9% and 7.4%, respectively). Inducer AEDs were used by a small 
percentage of subjects in the perampanel group (11.1%, 9 patients), consistent with general prescribing 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 36/71 
 
  
  
 
 
practices for PGTC seizures. The use of an inducer AED, however, was higher in the placebo group 
(22.0%, 18 patients), largely due to an imbalance in the use of carbamazepine (11.0% placebo; 4.9% 
perampanel). 
Table 13 - Anti-Epileptic Drugs at Baseline – Core Study: Safety Analysis Set 
Treatment compliance was ascertained from counts of tablets dispensed and tablets returned. Mean 
compliance was ≥99% in both groups. Based on investigator response, 2 subjects in the placebo group 
were indicated as having an over-compliance rate of >120% at a single visit. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Efficacy Results (EU): 50% responder rate 
Table 14 summarises the primary efficacy results. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 37/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 14 – PGTC 50% Responder Rate During Maintenance-LOCF – Core Study: FAS 
The percentage of subjects who experienced a decrease in seizure frequency of at least 50% relative to 
Baseline was 39.5% in the placebo group and 64.2% in the perampanel group. The p value for the 
difference from placebo was 0.0019. 
The PGTC responder rate results for all sensitivity analyses (PP Analysis Set, Completers Analysis Set, 
FAS considering discontinuation during the Titration Period as non-responders as well as FAS considering 
the Titration and Maintenance Periods combined, and Titration Period) were consistent with those for the 
primary analysis (Maintenance-LOCF). 
As neither the primary and the sensitivity analyses took into account the expected loss of efficacy after 
treatment withdrawal, the CHMP requested that the primary analysis be repeated with all withdrawals 
counted as non-responders. The results are presented in Table 15. Ten (10) subjects in the placebo arm 
and thirteen subjects in the perampanel arm did not complete the study. Of these, 3 subjects in the 
placebo arm and 5 subjects in the perampanel arm were originally classed as responders. 
Table  15  –  PGTC  50%  Responder  Rate  during  Maintenance  with  Discontinuation  as 
Non-Responders (FAS) 
Subgroup analyses are presented in Figure 4 to Figure 7. While several of the subgroups were small, the 
majority of the results showed a larger PGTC responder rate for the perampanel group compared with the 
placebo group. No inferential analyses of these subgroup results were performed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 38/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 - Forest Plot of Responder Rate, by Age, Sex and Race (FAS) 
Figure 5 - Forest Plot of Responder Rate, by Region (FAS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 39/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 - Forest Plot of Responder Rate, by Pooled Country (FAS) 
Figure 7 - Forest Plot of Responder Rate, by Baseline AEDs (FAS) 
Perampanel was superior to placebo for subjects taking concomitant non-inducer AEDs at Baseline 
(n=135), while a smaller proportion of perampanel-treated subjects were responders compared to 
placebo subjects in the subgroup of patients taking concomitant inducer AEDs at Baseline (n=27, 9 
patients in the perampanel group and 18 patients in the placebo group). During Maintenance-LOCF, 
69.4% of perampanel subjects receiving non-inducer AEDs at Baseline had a reported 50% response, 
compared with 38.1% of placebo subjects receiving non-inducer AEDs at Baseline. A total of 22.2% of 
perampanel subjects receiving inducer AEDs at Baseline had a reported response, compared with 44.4% 
of placebo subjects receiving inducer AEDs at Baseline. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 40/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy Results 
•  Main Secondary Endpoint (EU): Percent Change in PGTC Seizure Frequency 
Table 16 summarises the percent change in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days during the Titration and 
Maintenance Periods (combined) relative to Baseline for the FAS. 
Table 16 - PGTC Seizure Frequency per 28 Days and Percent Change During Treatment 
Summary – Core Study (FAS) 
The median change was -38.38% in the placebo group and -76.47% in the perampanel group. The 
median treatment difference from placebo was estimated to be -30.81%. Based on rank ANCOVA, the 
treatment difference was statistically significant (p<0.0001). The median percent change in PGTC seizure 
frequency at Maintenance-LOCF (FAS) was -37.78% and -74.55% for the placebo and perampanel 
groups, respectively. The median treatment difference from placebo in this sensitivity analysis was 
estimated to be -29.63%, and the P value for this difference was <0.0001 (based on rank ANCOVA). 
Results for all other sensitivity analyses were consistent with those of the primary analysis and showed 
that the median percent reduction in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days during the Titration and 
Maintenance Periods (combined) relative to Baseline was larger in the perampanel group compared to the 
placebo group. The estimated median treatment differences from placebo in the PP and Completers 
Analysis Sets were -29.52% and -30.81%, respectively (p<0.0001 for both sensitivity analyses). 
In the subgroup analyses, while several of the subgroups were small, results were generally consistent in 
showing a larger median percent change in PGTC seizure frequency over the Titration and Maintenance 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 41/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Periods of the Core Study for perampanel group compared with the placebo. No inferential analyses of 
these subgroup results were performed. 
• 
Percent Change in All Seizure Frequency 
The median percent change in the frequency of all seizures (ie, any type, including PGTC, myoclonic, 
absence, tonic, and atonic seizures) during the Titration and Maintenance Periods for the FAS was larger 
for the perampanel group with -43.40% than for the placebo group with -22.87%. The estimated median 
treatment difference from placebo was -23.45%, and the p value for this difference, based on rank 
ANCOVA, was 0.0018. 
Table 17 - All Seizure Frequency per 28 Days and Percent Change During Treatment – 
Core Study (FAS) 
• 
Percent Change in Frequency of Primary Generalized Seizure Subtypes 
Only a subset of subjects in the FAS experienced absence (60/162, 37.0%) or myoclonic (47/162, 
29.0%) seizures during the Pre-randomisation Phase and were included in the analyses. The median 
percent change in absence seizures was higher for the perampanel group (-41.18%) compared with the 
placebo group (-7.58%), but the difference did not reach statistical significance (p=0.3478). 
For myoclonic seizures, the median percent change was -52.54% for the placebo group and -24.47% for 
the perampanel group (p=0.6100).   
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 42/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 18 - Frequency of Absence and Myoclonic Seizures per 28 Days and Percent 
Change During Treatment– Core Study (FAS) 
•  Responder Rate for Total Seizures 
The responder rate for all seizures (ie, any type, including PGTC, absence, myoclonic, tonic, and atonic 
seizures) during the Maintenance Period-LOCF for the FAS was numerically higher for the perampanel 
group (45.7%) than for the placebo group (34.6%). The comparison with placebo was not statistically 
significant (p=0.1826). 
•  Responder Rate for Primary Generalized Seizure Subtypes 
The 50% responder rate for absence seizures during the Maintenance-LOCF period was 39.4% in the 
placebo group and 48.1% in the perampanel group. The 50% responder rate for myoclonic seizures was 
60.9% (placebo) and 41.7% (perampanel). The p values for the comparison with placebo were 0.4653 for 
absence seizures and 0.3694 for myoclonic seizures. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 43/71 
 
  
  
 
Exploratory Efficacy Results 
• 
Time To nth +1 PGTC Seizure Event 
The median time to an nth +1 (Pre-randomisation Frequency per 28 Days Plus 1) PGTC seizure event was 
43.0 days for the placebo group but was not estimable for the perampanel group as fewer than 50% of 
subjects in this group experienced a PGTC seizure event. The p value for the comparison with placebo 
was <0.0001. 
•  Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGI-C) 
At Week 12, 32.9% of the subjects (25/76) in the placebo group and 39.2% of subjects (29/74) in the 
perampanel group were considered ‘much improved’ or ‘very much improved’ by the investigators; the 
remaining subjects were rated ‘minimally improved’ to ‘much worse’. The p value for the comparison with 
placebo in the distribution of CGI-C ratings was 0.5639. 
Other Efficacy Endpoints 
•  Categorized Percent Change in PGTC Seizure Frequency 
Nearly one-half of subjects in the perampanel group (39/81, 48.1%) had a decrease in PGTC seizure 
frequency between 75% and 100% compared with 23.5% (19/81) of subjects in the placebo group. The 
percentage of subjects experiencing an increase in PGTC seizure frequency during the Titration and 
Maintenance Periods was nearly 3-fold higher for the placebo group (23/81, 28.4%) compared with the 
perampanel group (8/81, 9.9%). 
• 
Percentage of Subjects who Achieved Seizure-free Status 
Among all subjects in the FAS, nearly one-third of subjects in the perampanel group (30.9%, 25/81), 
compared with 12.3% (10/81) of those in the placebo group, achieved PGTC seizure-free status during 
the Maintenance Period. Similarly, the percentage of subjects in the FAS who achieved total seizure-free 
status during the Maintenance Period was substantially higher for the perampanel group compared with 
the placebo group [4.9% (4/81) placebo vs 23.5% (19/81) perampanel]. In patients with concomitant 
myoclonic seizures, seizure freedom was reached in 16.7 % (4/24) of perampanel patients compared with 
13.0 %  (3/23) on placebo, and for concomitant absence seizures, seizure freedom was reached in 
22.2%  (6/27) of perampanel patients compared with 12.1%  (4/33) on placebo. 
Similar treatment differences were seen among the subset of subjects who completed the Maintenance 
Period, with an approximately 3-fold higher percentage of subjects in the perampanel group compared 
with the placebo group achieving PGTC seizure-free status (36.8% vs 13.9%, respectively) and an 
approximately 5-fold higher percentage of subjects in the perampanel compared to the placebo group 
achieving total seizure-free status (27.9% vs 5.6%, respectively). In patients with concomitant absence 
seizures, seizure freedom was reached in 18.2 % of perampanel patients compared with 13.6 % on 
placebo, and for concomitant absence seizures, seizure freedom was reached in 28.6 % of perampanel 
patients compared with 13.8 % on placebo.  
• 
Patient-Weighted Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory-31 (QOLIE-31-P) 
The median overall QOLIE-31-P score did not differ between placebo and perampanel subjects at Baseline 
(median scores of 58.09 and 55.48, respectively). The median absolute and percent change in the overall 
QOLIE-31-P score at Week 17 (end of Maintenance Phase) indicated an improvement in the perampanel 
group (+3.3 and +4.79% absolute and percent median change, respectively) compared with a worsening 
in the placebo group (median absolute and percent changes of -1.2 and -1.36%, respectively). 
Numerically higher median absolute and percent improvements from Baseline at Week 17 were also 
observed in the perampanel group compared with the placebo group for the following individual QOLIE-
31-P domains: Daily Activities (0.0 absolute and 0.00% for placebo group versus +5.0 absolute and 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 44/71 
 
  
  
+26.58% for perampanel group), Cognition (+3.1 and +5.83% for placebo versus +4.2 and +32.79% for 
perampanel), and Distress (0.0 and 0.00% for placebo versus +3.6 and +5.88% for perampanel). For the 
remaining domains, there were no apparent differences in the median absolute or percent change scores 
at Week 17 between the perampanel and placebo groups. 
•  Healthcare Resource Utilization 
At Week 17, a smaller percentage of subjects in the perampanel group reported at least 1 emergency 
room visit since Baseline compared with the placebo group (12.2% placebo, 2.5% perampanel). The 
percentage of subjects reporting an unscheduled physician visit since Baseline was similar for the placebo 
and perampanel groups (4.9% and 6.2%, respectively), as was the median number of visits resulting in 
hospitalisation per 28 days since Baseline (0.00 and 0.00, respectively). 
2.4.2.2.  Study E2007-G000-332 Extension Phase 
Methods 
See section 2.4.2.1. for a description of the methods in Core Study 332.  
Objectives: The purpose of the Extension Phase was to evaluate the long-term safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of perampanel in subjects with PGTC seizures. 
Main Criteria for Inclusion:  
Male and female subjects were eligible to participate in the Extension Phase if they completed Visit 8 
(Week 17, end of maintenance phase) of the Core Study, continued to be treated with a stable dose of 1 
to a maximum of 3 approved AEDs; were able to record seizure information in diaries and report AEs (or 
had a legal guardian who was able to perform these duties) and for females of childbearing potential, had 
a negative urine pregnancy test at Visit 8 of Core Study and were willing to commit to the consistent and 
correct use of a medically-acceptable method of contraception for the duration of the study and for at 
least 30 days after administration of the last dose of study drug. 
The number of subjects planned for the extension phase was up to 164 subjects from the Core Study. 
Study treatment: Perampanel was supplied as 2 mg or 4 mg tablets. All doses were taken once daily, by 
mouth, before bedtime, and with food. 
Efficacy endpoints and statistical analysis: 
The key efficacy endpoints included the percent change in seizure frequency (PGTC and all seizures 
types) per 28 days during treatment relative to Baseline as well as the proportion of subjects who 
experienced a 50% or greater reduction in PGTC and total seizure frequency during treatment per 28 
days relative to Baseline (responder).  
Efficacy analyses were based on the Full Analysis Set (FAS), which comprised all subjects who were 
eligible to participate in the Extension Phase, received at least 1 dose of perampanel in this phase, and 
had Baseline seizure frequency data and at least 1 observation of valid seizure diary data during the 
perampanel treatment duration. Safety analyses were based on the Safety Analysis Set, defined as 
subjects who received at least 1 dose of perampanel in the Extension Phase and had any on-therapy 
safety data during this phase (results of the Safety evaluations for this study are presented in the safety 
section of this assessment report). 
Two general approaches were used to analyse efficacy data. The first examined seizure data during the 
perampanel treatment duration and used the Pre-perampanel Baseline for comparison. The Pre-
perampanel Baseline was defined as follows: (i) for subjects who had been assigned to placebo treatment 
in the Core Study, the Pre-perampanel Baseline was computed from all valid seizure diary data during the 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 45/71 
 
  
  
Core Study, and (ii) for subjects who had been assigned to perampanel in the Core Study, the Pre-
perampanel Baseline was computed from all valid seizure diary data during the Pre-randomisation Phase 
plus the 4 weeks prior to the Pre-randomisation Phase of the Core Study. The second approach examined 
seizure data as a function of randomised treatment group in the Core Study and used the Pre-
randomisation Phase of the Core Study as the Baseline for evaluating change. For all efficacy analyses, 
the perampanel treatment duration consisted of: (i) the Randomisation Phase of the Core Study plus the 
Extension Phase for subjects assigned to perampanel in the Core Study, and (ii) the Extension Phase for 
subjects assigned to placebo in the Core Study. 
Results 
In total, 140 subjects completed the Core Study and were eligible to enter the Extension Phase. Of these, 
114 subjects entered the Extension Phase (58 placebo, 56 perampanel) as of the cut-off date for the 
report submitted by the MAH, representing 81.4% of the 140 subjects who completed the Core Study. All 
114 subjects in the Extension Phase received at least 1 dose of perampanel and were included in the 
Safety Analysis Set. 
Table 19 – Subject Disposition and Primary Reason for Discontinuation from Study by 
Modal Daily Perampanel Dose – Extension Phase (Safety Analysis Set) 
The demographic and Baseline epilepsy-specific characteristics for the FAS did not differ as a function of 
previous treatment in the Core Study with placebo or perampanel. 
In total, 36.8% of subjects in the Safety Analysis Set were taking 1 AED, 47.4% were taking 2 AEDs, and 
15.8% were taking 3 AEDs at Core Study Baseline, and the most common AEDs taken were lamotrigine 
(40.4%), valproic acid (32.5%), levetiracetam (27.2%), topiramate (14.9%), ergenyl chrono (10.5%), 
and zonisamide (10.5%); all other background AEDs were taken by less than 10% of subjects. Of note, 
11 subjects (9.6%) were taking carbamazepine, 7 (6.1%) were taking phenytoin, and 5 (4.4%) were 
taking oxcarbazepine during the Extension Phase. 
Treatment compliance, ascertained from counts of tablets dispensed and tablets returned, averaged 
approximately 98.2% across the entire Extension Phase (mean of 97.7% for blinded Conversion Period 
and 100.0% for Maintenance Period) for the FAS. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 46/71 
 
  
  
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy Relative to Pre-perampanel Baseline 
The following table summarises the median percent change from the Pre-perampanel Baseline in seizure 
frequency per 28 days by 13-week interval through Weeks 92 to 104 (end of Year 2).  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 47/71 
 
  
  
Table 20 - Summary of Percent Change from Pre-perampanel Baseline in Seizure 
Frequency per 28 Days and Responder Analysis During Perampanel Treatment 
Duration – Extension Phase (FAS) 
Data for age, sex, and race subgroups were generally consistent with those for the overall population in 
showing a similar stable pattern over time of improvement in PGTC seizure control as reflected by the 
median percent change in seizure frequency and responder rate. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 48/71 
 
  
  
 
Efficacy Relative to Core Study Pre-randomisation Phase 
The following table summarizes, by previous treatment group (placebo or perampanel), the median 
percent change in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days and the percentage of PGTC responders for the 
Core Study Maintenance Period (when dose was stable), the blinded Conversion Period of the Extension 
Phase, and by 13-week intervals through Weeks 79 to 91 for the Maintenance Period of the Extension 
Phase. 
Table 21 - Percent Change from Core Study Pre-randomisation Phase in PGTC Seizure 
Frequency per 28 days and Responder Rate – Extension Phase (FAS) 
By the end of the blinded Conversion Period of the Extension Phase, subjects who had received prior 
treatment with placebo showed similar efficacy as subjects who received previous treatment with 
perampanel. 
Ancillary analyses 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 49/71 
 
  
  
 
 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarises the efficacy results from the main study supporting the present 
application. These summary should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 22 – Summary of Efficacy for trial E2007-G000-332 
Title: A Double-Blind, Randomised, Placebo-Controlled, Multicentre, Parallel-Group Study 
with an Open-Label Extension Phase to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Adjunctive 
Perampanel in Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 
Study identifier 
E2007-G000-332 (Study 332) 
EudraCT Number: 2011-000265-12 
Multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 
adjunctive-therapy study 
Duration of main phase: 
Maintenance (13 weeks) 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Pre-randomisation phase: Screening (up to 4 
weeks) and Baseline (4 or 8 weeks) 
Titration: 4 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase:  Follow-up (4 weeks; only for those subjects 
not entering into the Extension Phase). 
Extension Phase: Part A (6-week blinded 
Conversion Period + 32-week Maintenance 
and Part B (maximum of 104 weeks 
Maintenance) 
Superiority of perampanel compared to placebo in the adjunctive treatment 
of PGTC seizures 
Perampanel 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
50% 
responder 
rate 
% change 
in PGTC 
seizure 
frequency 
Once daily oral intake of the highest tolerated 
dose with a maximum of 8mg/day 
perampanel (2mg tablets), 4 weeks titration 
in 2mg/week increments, 13 weeks 
maintenance, 82 patients randomised (81 in 
FAS) 
Once daily oral intake of placebo tablets over 
17 weeks (titration and maintenance), 
82 patients randomised (81 in FAS) 
Responders were defined as subjects who 
experienced a 50% or greater reduction in 
PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days in the 
Maintenance Period relative to Baseline (Pre-
randomisation Phase). 
Percent change in PGTC seizure frequency 
was calculated per 28 days over the Titration 
and Maintenance Periods combined compared 
to  
Baseline (Pre-randomisation Phase). 
Database lock 
27 May 2014 (last subject visit) 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis 
The primary analysis was performed on the intent to treat population (full 
analysis set; FAS) at Week 17 (end of Maintenance Period) 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subject 
50% responders, 
n (%) a)  
Placebo 
Perampanel 
81 
81 
29 (35.8%) 
47 (58.0%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 50/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Analysis 
description 
-76.47 
-38.38 
-100.0, 1546.3 
Comparison groups 
P-value a) 
-100.0, 184.5 
Perampanel versus placebo 
0.0059 
Comparison groups 
Median difference b) 
95% Confidence Interval 
P-value 
Perampanel versus placebo  
-30.81  
-45.490; -15.244 
<0.001 
% change PGTC 
seizure frequency 
(median % 
change) b) 
Min, Max 
Primary 
endpoint: 50% 
responder rate  
Secondary 
endpoint: % 
change PGTC 
seizure frequency 
a) For the primary endpoint, the results presented refer to a re-analysis 
requested by CHMP with all withdrawals counted as non-responders. 
b) Due to an expected irregular distribution of PGTC seizure frequency, 
median was the primary statistic of interest for this endpoint. Hodges-
Lehmann estimator and 95% confidence interval (CI) for this estimator were 
displayed for understanding the treatment effect size. 
The responder analysis was carried out using a Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel 
(CMH) test stratified by country in the FAS. In the Maintenance-LOCF 
analysis, if a subject had less than 8 weeks of Maintenance Period, the PGTC 
seizure frequency during the last 8 weeks of the Titration and Maintenance 
Periods combined (or PGTC seizure frequency during the Titration and 
Maintenance Periods combined for subjects with less than 8 weeks of 
Titration and Maintenance Periods combined) was used to impute. 
The percent change in seizure frequency was based on the PGTC 
seizure frequency per 28 days (as determined from subject diaries), which 
was calculated as the number of PGTC seizures divided by the number of 
days in the interval and multiplied by 28. Analysis was conducted using rank 
analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with treatment and country as factors, and 
the Baseline PGTC seizure frequency as a covariate. In this analysis, all 
PGTC seizure frequency data was first rank-transformed for both Baseline 
and endpoint PGTC seizure frequencies separately. The ANCOVA was then 
conducted based on the rank transformed data.  
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The efficacy assessment for the proposed new indication relied on one single phase III trial, Core Study 
332, which involved 164 patients with inadequately controlled PGTC seizures despite the use of 1-3 
concomitant AEDs. Supportive data for long-term efficacy was available from the Extension Phase of Core 
Study 332. 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The general design of the study was acceptable. The selection criteria for the study population were 
considered appropriate, as was the choice of the endpoints, which were in line with the Guideline on 
clinical investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of epileptic disorders 
(CHMP/EWP/566/Rev.2/Corr). With regards to the study population, patients were included based on a 
clinical diagnosis of PGTC seizures in the setting of idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE). The CHMP was 
therefore of the opinion that the proposed indication of adjunctive treatment of PGTC seizures in patients 
with epilepsy aged 12 years and older should be amended to clearly refer to patients with IGE in order to 
correctly reflect the population studied. 
The length of all study phases was appropriate including the maintenance phase at 13 weeks. However, 
the study design did now allow examining whether the patients had a steady rate of seizures or if the 
frequency was on increase or decrease. The natural variation in the frequency of seizures could have 
decreased the statistical differentiation of the treatment groups and rendered the results not-significant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 51/71 
 
  
  
 
 
However, the CHMP considered that there was no evidence that this would introduce a systemic bias in 
favour of one treatment and thus did not further pursue the issue.   
The treatment regimen applied in the study was in line with the approved posology for POS. Adjustment 
of the dose in the maintenance phase as described in the protocol was considered acceptable. 
With regards to the EU primary endpoint (50% responder rate), the CHMP was of the view that the 
analyses defined in the protocol might overestimate the true benefit of treatment as subjects that 
withdrew during the maintenance phase could still be counted as responders. In order to more accurately 
estimate the proportion of subjects that continue to benefit from treatment at the end of the maintenance 
phase, all withdrawals should be counted as non-responders. With regards to the key secondary endpoint 
(% change in PGTC seizure frequency), since the seizure frequency was expected to follow a skewed 
distribution, the focus on the median rather than the mean was endorsed by the CHMP. For the same 
reason the analysis using ranks rather than raw values was accepted. 
The CHMP furthermore noted that the FAS should in principle include all patients treated, regardless of 
whether they had post-Baseline assessments, as the reason for missing the assessments could be 
treatment related, e.g. due to adverse events. However in the Core Study only one subject was excluded 
for this reason and this subject belonged to the placebo arm. Thus, no major impact on the study results 
was to be expected. 
The number of subjects in both treatment arms were similar. The rates of discontinuations especially due 
to adverse events were higher in the active group. However, due to the limited number of such cases it 
was not possible to statistically analyse these differences and to reach reliable conclusions. At the same 
time, the lack of therapeutic effect was more frequently the reason for discontinuation of patients in the 
placebo group and again the number of cases was too small for reliable statistical analysis. 
Age distribution showed that the principal percentage of the study subjects were between ≥20 to <40 
years old (61.8%) and 22.2% of patients were aged <20 years. This distribution was in line with the 
distribution in clinical practice of PGTC seizures, which are more frequent at the end of childhood and 
early adulthood. As the population PK analysis (section 2.3.2. ) showed no effect of age on the CL/F, the 
CHMP considered that the current recommendation that there was no need for dose adjustment in the 
elderly in SmPC section 4.2 could be maintained. However, the lack of data for perampanel use in 
patients ≥65 years with PGTC seizures should be reflected in SmPC section 5.2 by providing the age 
range investigated, i.e. 12 to 58 years.  
Concomitant Baseline medication included up to 3 other AEDs and the CHMP noted that such high number 
of concomitant treatments could potentially cause problems with interactions that may have an impact on 
the study outcome. However, since the interaction potential with other AEDs was relatively well known for 
perampanel and since the use of enzyme-inducing AEDs was limited in Core Study 332, the issue was not 
further pursued. 
Use of concomitant AEDs by treatment arms showed an imbalance for topiramate and zonisamide in that 
topiramate was used by more patients in the perampanel group and zonisamide by more patients in the 
placebo group. Furthermore, an imbalance was noted in the use of inducer AEDs, which was higher in the 
placebo group (22.0%) compared to the perampanel group (11.1%), largely due to carbamazepine 
(11.0% placebo; 4.9% perampanel). The possible impact on the efficacy outcome is discussed below (see 
‘efficacy data and additional analyses’). 
Baseline seizure types and frequency was balanced between the treatment arms. The actual Baseline 
frequency of all seizures was higher in the perampanel group due to higher frequency of other types of 
seizures, while PGTC frequencies were similar between the groups. This imbalance of other seizure types 
might indicate a difference in the severity and clinical manifestation of the illness between the groups. To 
address this concern, the MAH performed a number of subgroup analyses which demonstrated that the 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 52/71 
 
  
  
differences in the Baseline characteristics were not likely to exhibit any important influence on the results. 
Using a regression model to adjust for the effect of Baseline PGTC seizure frequency, treatment effect 
was still significant. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The results of Core Study 332 showed that adjunctive therapy with perampanel at maximum daily doses 
of 8 mg was superior to placebo in decreasing the frequency of PGTC seizures in IGE patients with 
previously inadequately controlled seizure levels. In the perampanel group, the proportion of responders 
with 50% or more reduction in the seizure frequency compared to Baseline (primary endpoint) was 
significantly higher than in the placebo group. When withdrawals were counted as non-responders, the 
50% responder rate was 58.0% (47/81) in the perampanel arm versus 35.8% (29/81) in the placebo 
group (p=0.0059). Furthermore, with regards to the key secondary endpoint, perampanel treatment 
reduced PGTC seizure frequency from a median of 2.55 seizures per 28 days at Baseline to 0.71 seizures 
per 28 days during the treatment phase (median % reduction of -76.5%). In the placebo arm, the PGTC 
seizure frequency was reduced from a median of 2.50 to 1.57, corresponding to an improvement of 
38.4%. The difference between study arms was statistically significant with -30.8% in favour of 
perampanel. The CHMP considered these findings clinically relevant.  
The findings of the primary and secondary efficacy analyses were confirmed in sensitivity analyses using 
different analysis populations. Logistic regression analysis of the primary endpoint, performed in response 
to a CHMP request, adjusting for concomitant treatment, pooled country, Baseline PGTC seizure 
frequency, Baseline absence seizure frequency, Baseline myoclonic seizure frequency, inducer AED 
status, number of background AEDs, treatment by inducer AED status interaction and treatment by 
number of background AEDs interaction resulted on the term for treatment being not statistically 
significant. However, when the logistic regression was re-run using forward selection for all terms, but 
including interaction terms, the treatment effect was confirmed to be statistically significant, which was 
considered sufficiently reassuring by the CHMP. 
Results for the 50% responder rate for the subgroup of patients receiving concomitant enzyme-inducing 
AEDs suggested inferiority of perampanel compared to placebo. However, the size of the subgroup was 
very limited (only 9 patients treated with perampanel) and the study protocol required capping of the 
dose at 8 mg/day which could have prevented patients from receiving an optimal therapeutic dose. When 
combining perampanel data from all subjects on inducers who entered the Extension Phase of study 332 
(n=23, including patients receiving placebo in the Core Study) who were allowed a more flexible dose 
adjustment of up to 12 mg (3 subjects on 12 mg and 1 on 10 mg), the results showed consistent and 
similar improvements over time for patients on either concomitant inducer or non-inducer AEDs.  
Subgroup analyses of the responder rates by concomitant AED treatment furthermore showed a 
pronounced effect of perampanel in the topiramate subgroup. As topiramate was given more frequently in 
patients in the perampanel group compared to placebo, it was questioned if this imbalance could have 
driven the study outcome in favour of perampanel. Logistic regression analyses however did not reveal a 
significant effect of topiramate on the perampanel treatment response. The same result was found for 
zonisamide for which as well an imbalance between treatment groups was present at Baseline. Following 
this additional information the CHMP considered the issue to be resolved. 
Finally, subgroup analyses for the responder rate and change in seizure frequency suggested that 
European patients had significantly better results in favour of perampanel compared to their North 
American and Asia-Pacific counterparts. However, additional regression analyses with region as covariate 
did not show statistically significant correlations.  
The efficacy of perampanel in reducing PGTC seizure frequency was further supported by secondary, 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 53/71 
 
  
  
exploratory and other analyses. Statistical significance was not demonstrated for all of the other 
endpoints, but the point estimates were generally in line with the primary efficacy findings. The median 
time to nth + 1 PGTC seizure event was 43.0 days in the placebo group and greater than 120 days but 
not estimable for the perampanel group, as fewer than 50% of subjects in this group experienced a PGTC 
seizure event during the Core Study observation period (p<0.0001). Furthermore, nearly one-third of 
subjects in the perampanel group (30.9%) were free of all PGTC seizures during the Maintenance Period, 
and this percentage was considerably higher than that for the placebo group (12.3%).  
Similar results as for PGTC seizures were seen for the 50% responder rate and the change in seizure 
frequency when counting all primary generalised seizures. Approximately one-quarter of subjects in the 
perampanel group (23.5%) who completed the Maintenance Period achieved total seizure-free status 
during the Maintenance Period compared to less than 5% of subjects in the placebo group. However, the 
results did not support an effect of perampanel specifically on absence or myoclonic seizures, whereby 
the size of the subgroups of patients with either seizure type were small. The results of the subgroup 
analyses even seemed to suggest that there was a larger reduction of myoclonic seizures in the placebo 
group compared to the perampanel group (see section 2.5.1. for related safety discussion). The lack of a 
demonstrated effect of perampanel on absence and myoclonic seizures was considered relevant by the 
CHMP given that the target population of IGE patients with PGTC seizures might well also suffer from 
these other seizure types. The CHMP therefore considered that SmPC section 5.1 should be updated to 
inform healthcare professional accordingly. 
Supportive evidence for sustained efficacy was available from the Extension Phase of Core Study 332, in 
which patients were treated with perampanel for up to 2 years. Data from the Extension Phase 
furthermore supported the use of daily doses of more than 8 mg. At the cut-off date for the report 
provided with this application, 114 subjects had entered the Extension Phase and 19 subjects received 
perampanel in daily doses of >8 to 12 mg. While the CHMP noted the limitations of the Extension Study 
(including the open label design, the small number of patients receiving doses of more than 8mg/day and 
that the number of subjects with available data declining over time) overall, the data suggested that 
some patients may derived additional benefit from a higher dose than 8 mg/day, including patients on 
concomitant enzyme-inducing medication. The CHMP also took into account the findings from the PK and 
PK/PD modelling, suggesting similar profiles of perampanel in epilepsy patients with PGTC seizures and 
patients with POS and a linear exposure/response relationship, which has been demonstrated for POS 
over a dose range up to 12 mg/day. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The available clinical data provided convincing evidence that adjunctive therapy with perampanel was 
effective at doses up to 8 mg/day in the treatment of PGTC seizures in IGE patients, which are not 
sufficiently controlled despite the use of other AEDs. The observed effect size for the 50% responder rate 
and PGTC seizure frequency reduction was considered by the CHMP to be clinically meaningful. Limited 
data suggested that some patients might benefit from further increases of the dose up to 12 mg/day.  
Overall, the CHMP considered that there was sufficient evidence with regards to clinical efficacy 
supporting an extension of the indication for Fycompa to adjunctive treatment of primary generalised 
tonic-clonic seizures in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised 
epilepsy. Suitable updates were introduced to the product information (PI) to adequately inform 
healthcare professionals and patients/carers of the use of perampanel in the new indication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 54/71 
 
  
  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The safety of perampanel in the treatment of PGTC seizures was evaluated in Core Study 332 and it’s 
extension (see section 2.4.2. for a description of the study design and methods). Safety assessments 
consisted of monitoring and recording of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), 
discontinuation from treatment, suicidal ideation and behaviour (assessed using Columbia Suicide 
Severity Rating Scale, C-SSRS), and prior and concomitant medication usage, regular monitoring of 
haematology, blood chemistry, and urine values, periodic measurement of vital signs, and performance of 
physical and neurologic examinations. In addition, a Withdrawal Questionnaire was used to assess 
potential withdrawal signs and symptoms that might be associated with the discontinuation of 
perampanel. 
Additional supportive data were also available from the previous POS program (double-blind adjunctive 
therapy Phase III studies 304, 305, and 306). The ADR analysis included the PGTC data alone and the 
PGTC data pooled with the data from the POS double-blind studies. 
Patient exposure 
All safety analyses were performed on the Safety Analysis Set. 
• 
• 
For Core Study 332, the Safety Analysis Set included subjects who were randomised to study 
drug, received at least 1 dose of study drug, and had at least 1 post-Baseline safety assessment 
(N=82 placebo, N=81 perampanel).  
For the Extension Phase of Core Study 332, the Safety Analysis Set included subjects who 
received at least 1 dose of perampanel in the Extension Phase and had any on-therapy safety 
data during this phase (N=114). Data were included from the entire perampanel treatment 
duration, defined as all exposure to perampanel in the Core Study + Extension Phase (subjects 
who received perampanel in the Core Study) or in the Extension Phase only (subjects who 
received placebo in the Core Study). Of the 114 subjects in the Extension Phase, 58 had 
previously received placebo, and 56 had previously received perampanel.  
Details on the demographics and Baseline characteristics are provided in section 2.4.2.1.  
The mean (SD) duration of exposure in the Core Study was 16.2 (3.54) weeks for subjects in the placebo 
group and 15.7 (3.57) weeks for subjects in the perampanel group. The median duration of exposure was 
the same in both treatment groups (17.0 weeks), and ranged from 1.4 to 19.7 weeks for subjects in the 
placebo group and from 3.7 to 18.1 weeks for subjects in the perampanel group. Treatment duration in 
the Core Study was greater than 14 weeks for 89.0% of the subjects in the placebo group and 85.2% of 
the subjects in the perampanel group. 
The mean (SD) cumulative duration of exposure to perampanel across both the Core Study and the 
Extension Phase was 40.3 (28.06) weeks. The median cumulative duration of exposure was 34.9 weeks, 
and ranged from 0.7 to 123.7 weeks. Cumulative treatment duration was greater than 28 weeks for 64 
subjects (56.1%), greater than 40 weeks for 47 subjects (41.2%), and greater than 52 weeks for 36 
subjects (31.6%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 55/71 
 
  
  
Adverse events 
• 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) 
The percentages of subjects with TEAEs, treatment-related TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to study drug dose 
adjustment were higher in the perampanel group than in the placebo group. Overviews of the TEAEs in 
study 332 and it’s extension are provided in Table 23 and Table 24. 
Table 23 – Overview of TEAEs – Core Study 332 (Safety Analysis Set) 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 56/71 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 24 - Overview of TEAEs by Modal Daily Perampanel Dose - Extension Phase 
III32 (Safety Analysis Set) 
In a comparison of the overviews of TEAEs for the placebo and perampanel 8 mg/day groups between 
Core Study 332 and the POS Phase III Double-blind Pool, the drug-placebo difference was generally 
larger in the POS Pool than in Core Study 332 with respect to TEAEs leading to study drug dose reduction. 
Otherwise, the results were generally similar for the POS Pool and Core Study 332.  
Dizziness, irritability, somnolence, and fatigue were very common TEAEs in both the Core Study and the 
Extension Phase. The percentages of subjects with dizziness, irritability, and somnolence were similar in 
the 2 populations. The percentage of perampanel-treated subjects with fatigue was slightly higher in the 
Core Study (14.8%) than in the Extension Phase (10.5%). All very common TEAEs in Core Study 332 
(dizziness, fatigue, headache, irritability, and somnolence,) were also identified as very common TEAEs in 
the POS Phase III Double-blind Pool, whereby for the POS pool, very common TEAEs were defined as 
those that occurred in ≥10% of the subjects in any dose group of the pool, ie placebo or perampanel 2, 
4, 8, or 12 mg/day. There were no very common TEAEs that occurred in Core Study 332 but that had not 
occurred in the POS Pool. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 57/71 
 
  
  
 
 
In Core Study 332, the overall incidence of TEAEs was lower in adolescents than in adults, in both the 
placebo and perampanel groups. In the perampanel group, adolescents appeared to have lower 
incidences of dizziness, fatigue, and somnolence than did adults, and higher incidences of headache and 
irritability. In the Extension Phase the overall incidence of TEAEs was similar among adolescents and 
adults. 
In the placebo group, the incidences of very common TEAEs overall in the Core Study were comparable 
for males and females, whereas dizziness, fatigue, and headache occurred in higher percentages of 
females than males in the perampanel group. The overall incidence of TEAEs in the Extension Phase was 
similar in males and females. 
For the 2 race subgroups with the largest numbers of subjects (white and Asian/Pacific), the incidence of 
somnolence was higher among white subjects than Asian/Pacific subjects in the placebo group but the 
opposite occurred in the perampanel group. In the extension phase all TEAEs appeared to occur in higher 
percentages of white subjects than Asian/Pacific subjects. 
Comparative safety data were presented for inducer AEDs (enzyme-inducing AEDs, i.e. carbamazepine, 
oxcarbazepine, and phenytoin) and non-inducers. In both treatment groups, the number of subjects who 
were receiving at least 1 inducer AED at Baseline was much smaller than the number of subjects who 
were receiving only non-inducer AEDs. From the available data no significant difference by Inducer/Non-
inducer Status was identified. 
Discontinuations Due to Adverse Events 
The percentage of subjects with TEAEs leading to treatment discontinuation in the Core Study was higher 
in the perampanel group (11.1%) compared with the placebo group (6.1%). The percentage of subjects 
with TEAEs leading to treatment discontinuation in the Extension Phase (7.0%, n=8) was lower than in 
the perampanel group of the Core Study (11.1%, n=9).  
Adverse Events of Special Interest 
The following AEs of particular interest were assessed in detail: events related to alertness or cognition, 
psychiatric disorders, events related to hostility/aggression, suicidal ideation and behaviour, events 
related to psychosis/psychotic disorders, status epilepticus/ convulsions, events suggestive of abuse 
potential, events related to drug-related hepatic disorders, events related to falls, injury as a result of a 
fall, rash, cardiac and electrocardiogram events, events related to orthostatic changes in vital signs, 
events related to accidents/injury, and events related to laboratory abnormalities. 
Events suggestive of cognitive impairment (e.g., somnolence), events related to hostility/aggression, 
events related to accidents/injury, and falls were seen more frequently in perampanel-treated subjects 
than those subjects treated with placebo.  
The incidence of TEAEs related to suicidal ideation or behaviour was small and similar for the placebo and 
perampanel groups, and the overall occurrence of suicidality (suicidal ideation and behavior) reports, as 
assessed by the C-SSRS, was lower for the perampanel group (3.7%) than for the placebo group (6.1%).  
A comparison of TEAEs of special interest that occurred in Core Study 332 with those that occurred in the 
POS Phase III Double-blind Pool did not reveal any clinically meaningful differences. 
Adverse Drug Reactions 
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) were defined as TEAEs for which there was some basis to believe a causal 
relationship exists between the occurrence of the TEAE and the use of perampanel.  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 58/71 
 
  
  
In the POS submission, identification of potential ADRs was based on an assessment of the full safety 
database for perampanel, including clinical studies in other indications. The following ADRs resulted from 
this evaluation: dizziness, somnolence, fatigue, irritability, fall, nausea, ataxia, weight increased, vertigo, 
balance disorder, gait disturbance, anxiety, vision blurred, dysarthria, back pain, decreased appetite, 
aggression, diplopia, anger, increased appetite, and confusional state. 
For PGTC, the ADR analysis by the MAH included PGTC data alone and the PGTC data pooled with the 
data from the POS double-blind studies (see Table 25). This analysis revealed no new ADR nor a need for 
a change in the frequency categorisation of any existing ADR. 
Table 25 – ADRs - PGTC and the POS Phase III Double-blind Pool (Safety Analysis 
Set) 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 59/71 
 
  
  
 
In Core Study 332, the rate of discontinuation as a result of an adverse reaction was 4.9% in patients 
randomised to receive perampanel 8 mg, and 1.2% in patients randomised to receive placebo.  The 
adverse reaction most commonly leading to discontinuation (≥2% in the perampanel group and greater 
than placebo) was dizziness. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Two deaths occurred in the Core Study, one in each treatment group, during treatment or within 30 days 
after the last dose. The death of the placebo-treated subject was considered by the sponsor to be a likely 
case of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy, and the death of the perampanel-treated subject was due 
to drowning. There was 1 death during the Extension Phase as of the cut-off date of 1 March 2014, which 
occurred approximately 2 months after the subject received the last dose of perampanel, and the cause 
of death was acute pancreatitis. None of the deaths was assessed as related to study treatment. 
Treatment-emergent SAE, including fatalities, in the Core Study occurred in 7 (8.5%) subjects in the 
placebo group and 6 (7.4%) subjects in the perampanel group. With the exception of the 2 subjects who 
died as a result of the SAE, all subjects in the perampanel group and all but 1 subject in the placebo 
group (with thermal burn) recovered from their SAE without sequelae. 
Most SAEs were considered not related to study drug and did not result in a dose reduction. No individual 
SAE preferred term occurred in more than 1 subject in the perampanel group. 
SAEs assessed as related to study drug were one case of grand mal convulsion in the placebo group and 
one case each of status epilepticus, suicide attempt, and suicidal ideation in the perampanel group. The 
latter 3 subjects with related SAEs in the perampanel group were discontinued from study treatment due 
to the events. The case of suicidal ideation in the perampanel was considered an SAE because it was 
severe in intensity, the subject had 2 previous TEAEs of suicidal ideation that were moderate, and 
hospitalization was required. Three additional subjects in the placebo group had TEAEs of suicidal ideation 
that the investigators did not consider to be SAEs. These events were mild or moderate in intensity and 
did not lead to hospitalization. 
A comparison of the incidences of SAEs occurring in Core Study 332 with those in the POS Phase III 
Double-blind Pool showed similar results. The most frequently occurring SAEs were those related to 
epilepsy. In both Core Study 332 and the POS pool, these occurred in a larger number of subjects in the 
placebo group than the perampanel group. In study 332, SAEs related to epilepsy (ie, convulsion, grand 
mal convulsion, and status epilepticus) occurred in 4 (4.9%) subjects in the placebo group and 2 (2.5%) 
subjects in the perampanel group. Most of these epilepsy-related TEAEs were considered SAEs because 
they resulted in hospitalization. 
Treatment-emergent SAEs (including fatalities) occurred in 8 (7.0%) of the 114 subjects in the Extension 
Phase. Two of the 8 subjects had the same SAE in both the Core Study and the Extension Phase (1 with 
convulsion and 1 with constipation). A treatment-emergent SAE of ‘abortion spontaneous incomplete’ 
occurred in the Follow-up period of the Extension Phase. Convulsion and suicide attempt occurred in 2 
subjects each in the Extension Phase. With the exception of the subject who died as a result of the SAE 
and one subject with retinal detachment, all subjects recovered from their SAEs with no sequelae. 
The SAEs in the Extension Phase that were assessed as related to study drug were aggression in 1 
subject, mental status changes in 1 subject, suicide attempt in 1 subject, and both suicide attempt and 
depression in 1 subject. The dose of perampanel was reduced due to an SAE in the subject with mental 
status changes. The SAEs led to discontinuation of treatment in the subject with suicide attempt and the 
subject with both depression and suicide attempt. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 60/71 
 
  
  
Laboratory findings 
No placebo- or perampanel-treated subject met the criteria for drug-induced liver injury (Hy’s Law) at 
any single visit or over the course of treatment in the Core Study or in the Extension Phase. 
Electrocardiogram tracings were not obtained in Study 332. 
Photosensitivity was not evaluated in Study 332. 
Across all subjects regardless of age, there was a larger mean change in body weight at the end of 
treatment in the perampanel group (+1.8 kg) compared with the placebo group (+0.1 kg). The mean 
change from Baseline to the end of treatment in the perampanel group was less among adults (≥17 
years: +1.69 kg for perampanel group; +0.02 kg for placebo group) than among adolescents (≥12 to 
<17 years: +2.58 kg for perampanel group; +0.37 kg for placebo group). 
The percentage of subjects with at least 1 post-Baseline triglyceride value above 50 or 100 mg/dL was 
higher in the perampanel group than in the placebo group among adult subjects (≥17 years), while no 
such pattern was seen among the 18 adolescent subjects. Treatment-emergent markedly abnormal 
elevations in triglycerides were seen in only 1 subject in the perampanel group whose Baseline 
triglyceride value was above the normal range.  
Safety in special populations 
Safety data as relevant for age, sex and race has been presented in previous sections as relevant. No 
effect of geographic location on the safety profile was noted. 
No additional data has been collected to add to the evaluation of the effects of concomitant illnesses on 
TEAEs in subjects receiving perampanel. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There was no evidence to suggest that co-administration of perampanel with other AEDs increased the 
occurrence of TEAEs (based on the 6 most commonly taken Baseline AEDs, which were all non-inducers). 
In the population PK analysis of pooled PK data (studies 332, 304, 305, and 306), a pronounced 
reduction in perampanel exposure due to concomitant CYP3A inducers (carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, 
and phenytoin) was observed. A mild effect on exposure due to concomitant topiramate (a weak CYP3A 
inducer) was observed, which was not considered to be clinically important relative to the high variability 
in observed perampanel exposure as presented and discussed in sections 2.3.2 and 2.3.2.  
Post marketing experience 
As of 22 July 2014, the cumulative worldwide post-marketing patient exposure to perampanel from the 
International Birth Date was estimated to be over 2,000,000 patient-days of exposure, based 8 mg as the 
defined daily dose. Commercial launch has taken place in 19 of the 39 countries: United Kingdom, 
Germany, Sweden, Austria, Norway, Denmark, Ireland, Switzerland, Lichtenstein, Canada, United States, 
Iceland, Malta, Finland, Spain, Israel, Russia, Netherlands, and France. 
There have been a total of 26 post-marketing reports with events that fell under the MedDRA SMQ of 
suicide/self-injury, with 17 reports which met serious criteria and including reports of suicidal ideation 
and suicide attempts where the temporal association suggested a possible causal link to perampanel 
therapy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 61/71 
 
  
  
No new emerging safety issues in the clinical development program or marketing data with perampanel 
were identified in the most recent periodic safety update reporting period, and there were no changes to 
the previous knowledge of efficacy and safety of perampanel. Generally, there were no significant 
changes in the frequency and severity of previously identified adverse reactions or important risks.  
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Safety data for the use of perampanel in the treatment of PGTC seizures were available from the Core 
Study 332 for 81 patients. Additional data were available from the Extension Phase for 114 patients 
treated with perampanel including 58 patients who previously received placebo in the Core Study. Only 
limited information was available for long-term use (36 patients with exposure of 52 weeks or more) and 
for daily doses of >8 mg – 12 mg. No children less than 12 years of age with PGTC seizures were 
included in Study 332. However, 13.6% of the study population was younger than 18 years of age and 
the safety findings were similar to the total population. Only 1 elderly patient (≥65 years) was included in 
Study 332 and assigned to the placebo group, but as previously discussed, the age distribution in Study 
332 was in line with the observed frequency of PGTC epilepsy which are more frequent at the end of 
childhood and early adulthood. Furthermore, the safety of perampanel in the elderly population has 
previously been assessed in studies in other indications (Parkinson’s disease and neuropathic pain).  
Overall, the CHMP considered the extend of the exposure in patients with PGTC seizures acceptable, 
taking into account the additional existing data in other patient populations, in particular POS. Additional 
data for long-term safety in the treatment of PGTC seizures are expected to become available in June 
2016 with the full study report of the Extension Phase of Study 332. 
In the population of epilepsy subjects with PGTC seizures in the Core Study 332, 82.7% of subjects 
treated with perampanel had TEAEs (compared with 72.0% of placebo-treated subjects) and 69.1% of 
subjects experienced TEAEs that were reported as treatment-related (compared with 45.1% of placebo-
treated subjects). Treatment-emergent SAEs (including fatalities) were reported for 7.4% of perampanel-
treated subjects and 8.5% of placebo-treated subjects. TEAE-related treatment discontinuation occurred 
in 6.1% of the subjects in the placebo group and 11.1% of the subjects in the perampanel group. These 
rates are consistent with those seen in patients with refractory POS for which Fycompa has previously 
been approved. 
The incidence and type of TEAEs in Core Study 332 were not significantly influenced by age, sex, race, 
geographic location, or concomitant AED use.  For the effect of enzyme-inducing AEDs see sections 2.3.2. 
and 2.4.  
The incidence of TEAEs related to suicidal ideation or behaviour was small and similar for the placebo and 
perampanel groups, and the overall occurrence of suicidality reports (suicidal ideation and behaviour), as 
assessed by C-SSRS, was lower for the perampanel group (3.7%) than for the placebo group (6.1%). 
However, there have been post-marketing reports of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts for which a 
temporal association was found suggesting a possible causal link to perampanel therapy. On the basis of 
these post-marketing reports and the known AED class risk, it was agreed that the risk of suicide should 
be considered an important identified risk in the risk management plan (RMP), rather than a potential 
risk, and section 4.8 of the SmPC was updated to include “suicidal ideation” as well as “suicide attempt” 
in the list of ADRs. Both events were included as uncommon ADRs, as the integrated analyses of PGTC 
and POS data revealed an incidence of 0.2% and 0.1% for suicidal ideation and suicide attempt, 
respectively. The product information already included the AED class warning on suicide in SmPC 
section 4.4, which was considered sufficient by the CHMP.  
Another question, while not arising directly from the safety assessment, but rather the efficacy analyses, 
was if perampanel, like some other anticonvulsants, may worsen/induce myoclonic seizures. In Core 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 62/71 
 
  
  
Study 332, the reduction of myoclonic seizure frequency was larger in the placebo group compared to the 
perampanel group (see section 2.4.2.1. ). To address this point, the MAH provided additional supportive 
analyses showing an interaction between treatment effect and Baseline myoclonic seizure frequency, 
which was unbalanced in favour of placebo. Furthermore, when taking into account the full categorisation 
of seizure worsening in the strict sense of an increase in frequency (i.e. > 0% to 25%, > 25% to 50%, > 
50% to 75%, > 75% to 100% and > 100%), the data showed a similar pattern for both the perampanel 
and the placebo arm with 7 patients in each arm (29.2% and 30.4%, respectively) experiencing seizure 
worsening, including 3 patients each with a seizure frequency increase of >100%. The CHMP was 
reassured by these data and agreed that at the time of this report, there was no strong evidence showing 
that perampanel would induce or worsen myoclonic seizures.  
Except for the upgrading of suicidality from an important potential to an important identified risk, no new 
safety issues have been identified and there were no significant changes in the frequency or severity of 
previously identified ADRs based on cumulative safety data from the clinical development program and 
from the worldwide post-marketing experience.  
The data on vital signs presented, including weight increase, were in line with the previous assessment 
for the POS indication. Likewise, the data on laboratory evaluations, including increases in triglyceride 
values, did not raise any new concerns compared to the previous POS evaluation. 
Overall, the CHMP was of the view that the data presented in support of the proposed indication in the 
treatment of patients with PGTC seizures did not significantly alter the established safety profile of the 
product. The product information has been updated with relevant safety data.   
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Overall, the CHMP was of the opinion that the available safety data including the integrated analysis of 
PGTC and POS data, were sufficient to support this application for an extension of the indication of 
Fycompa to adjunctive treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adult and adolescent 
patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. The product information has been 
adequately updated with relevant safety information. 
2.5.3.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3.2 was acceptable. The PRAC endorsed 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment report is attached. 
The safety specifications have been updated to upgrade “Suicidality” as an important identified risk (new 
wording shown in bold, deleted wording in strikethrough): 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 63/71 
 
  
  
 
Safety concerns 
Table 26 – Summary of Safety Concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Somnolence 
•  Dizziness 
• 
• 
• 
Aggression 
Balance disorder, ataxia and falls (particularly 
in the elderly) 
• 
Interaction with levonorgestrel-containing 
contraceptives, and unintended pregnancy 
exposures 
•  Weight gain 
• 
• 
•  Drug abuse, misuse, dependency and 
Blurred vision 
Suicidality 
withdrawal 
•  Off-label usage 
•  Skin photosensitivity 
•  Suicidality 
•  Use in patients <12 years of age 
• 
Impact on cognition and growth in the 
paediatric population 
Long-term safety in adolescents and adults 
• 
•  Use in human pregnancy and lactation 
• 
Long term effects of perampanel binding to 
elastin, melanin and hepatic cells 
•  Use in patients with cardiovascular disease, 
hypertension, congestive heart failure, history 
of myocardial infarction or any evidence of risk 
factors for QT prolongation 
•  Use in patients with a history of psychotic 
disorder or suicidal behaviour in the previous 2 
years 
•  Use in patients with hepatic insufficiency 
whether related to concomitant medications or 
underlying liver disease 
•  Use in patients with a history of drug or alcohol 
dependency 
•  Use in patients who are taking vigabatrin 
•  Use in patients with clinically significant renal 
or respiratory disease 
• 
Idiosyncratic reactions related to reactive 
metabolites 
•  Use in the elderly with epilepsy, with particular 
monitoring of dizziness, balance disorders and 
falls 
•  Non-CYP3A drug-drug interactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 64/71 
 
  
  
 
In addition, section VI.2.1. of the RMP has been added to include discussion of the proposed new 
indication. Section VI.2.4. has been completed in compliance with the EMA guideline “Guidance on format 
of the risk management plan (RMP) in the EU”. The table in VI.2.6. “planned Post-Authorisation 
Development plan” has been updated to include the studies from the summary tables in Part III and Part 
IV as requested. Other minor editorial changes have also been introduced. 
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
As a consequence of this application for a new indication, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of 
the SmPC have been updated. The Package Leaflet (PL) has been updated accordingly. In addition, minor 
editorial changes and amendments to improve the clarity and readability of the information was 
implemented throughout the PI. Some information in relation to POS was re-arranged and moved from 
SmPC section 4.4 to section 5.1, where it was considered better placed.  
The main changes introduced to the SmPC (sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4) were the following (new text is 
shown in bold, deletions are shown as strikethrough): 
•  SmPC section 4.1: 
Fycompa is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondarily 
generalised seizures in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with epilepsy aged 12 
years and older. 
Fycompa is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures 
in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (see 
section 5.1). 
•  SmPC section 4.2: 
Posology 
Adults and adolescents 
Fycompa must be titrated, according to individual patient response, in order to optimise the balance 
between efficacy and tolerability. 
Perampanel should be taken orally once daily before at bedtime. 
Partial Onset Seizures 
Perampanel at doses of 4 mg/day to 12 mg/day has been shown to be effective therapy in partial-onset 
seizures.  
Treatment with Fycompa should be initiated with a dose of 2 mg/day. The dose may be increased based 
on clinical response and tolerability by increments of 2 mg/day (either weekly or every 2 weeks as 
per half-life considerations described below) to a maintenance dose of 4 mg/day to 8 mg/day. 
Depending upon individual clinical response and tolerability at a dose of 8 mg/day, the dose may be 
increased by increments of 2 mg/day to 12 mg/day. Patients who are taking concomitant medicinal 
products that do not shorten the half-life of perampanel (see section 4.5) should be titrated no more 
frequently than at 2-week intervals. Patients who are taking concomitant medicinal products that shorten 
the half-life of perampanel (see section 4.5) should be titrated no more frequently than at 1-week 
intervals. 
Primary Generalised Tonic-Clonic Seizures 
Perampanel at a dose up to 8 mg/day has been shown to be effective in primary generalised 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 65/71 
 
  
  
 
tonic-clonic seizures.   
Treatment with Fycompa should be initiated at a dose of 2 mg/day. The dose may be increased 
based on clinical response and tolerability by increments of 2 mg (either weekly or every 2 
weeks, as per half-life considerations described below) to a maintenance dose of up to 
8 mg/day. Depending upon individual clinical response and tolerability at a dose of 8 mg/day, 
the dose may be increased up to 12 mg/day, which may be effective in some patients (see 
section 4.4). Patients who are taking concomitant medicinal products that do not shorten the 
half-life of perampanel (see section 4.5) should be titrated no more frequently than at 2-week 
intervals. Patients who are taking concomitant medicinal products that shorten the half-life of 
perampanel (see section 4.5) should be titrated no more frequently than at 1-week intervals. 
(…) 
•  SmPC section 4.4: 
(…) 
Concomitant CYP 3A inducing anti-epileptic medicinal products 
Response rates after addition of perampanel at fixed doses were less when patients received concomitant 
CYP3A enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic medicinal products (carbamazepine, phenytoin, oxcarbazepine) as 
compared to response rates in patient who received concomitant non-enzyme–inducing anti-epileptic 
medicinal products. The 50% responder rates in the 4 mg, 8 mg and 12 mg groups were respectively 
23.0%, 31.5%, and 30.0% in combination with enzyme inducing antiepileptic medicinal products and 
were 33.3%, 46.5% and 50.0% when perampanel was given incombination with non-enzyme-inducing 
anti-epileptic medicinal products. Patients’ response should be monitored when they are switching from 
concomitant non-inducer anti-epileptic medicinal products to enzyme inducing medicinal products and 
vice versa. Depending upon individual clinical response and tolerability, the dose may be increased or 
decreased 2 mg at a time (see section 4.2). 
Other concomitant (non- anti-epileptic) cytochrome P450 inducing or inhibiting medicinal products 
Patients should be closely monitored for tolerability and clinical response when adding or removing 
cytochrome P450 inducers or inhibitors, since perampanel plasma levels can be decreased or increased; 
the dose of perampanel may need to be adjusted accordingly. 
Monotherapy 
Two to 6.5% of the patients on perampanel in the clinical studies became seizure free during the last 28 
days of treatment compared with 0% -1.7% on placebo. There are no data regarding the effects of 
withdrawal of concomitant anti-epileptic medicinal products to achieve monotherapy with perampanel. 
(…) 
For all other changes, including changes to the PL, please refer to the attached PI.  
Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with the current SmPC guideline, which were 
reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL has been revised to amend contact details for the 
representatives of Belgium, Luxembourg and Malta. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 66/71 
 
  
  
 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No new user testing was considered necessary by the CHMP.  
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Efficacy of Fycompa in the adjunctive treatment of PGTC seizures that are not sufficiently controlled 
despite the use of other AEDs was demonstrated in one double-blind, randomised clinical Phase III trial 
(Core Study 332) with supportive data from its open label extension. Additional supportive data for the 
use of perampanel in patients with PGTC seizures were derived from PK/PD modelling and a population 
PK analysis which included three Phase III studies in POS patients. 
Overall, the design of Core Study 332 was considered acceptable and the study population was generally 
representative of the new target population. However, the CHMP noted that patients were selected based 
on an underlying diagnosis of IGE. Therefore, the CHMP considered that the indication should refer to 
PGTC seizures in patients with IGE in order to correctly reflect the population in which a beneficial effect 
has been demonstrated.  
The results of Core Study 332 showed that more patients responded to adjunctive therapy with 
perampanel at daily doses of up to 8 mg compared to placebo, as measured by the proportion of patients 
with 50% or more reduction in PGTC seizure frequency compared to Baseline. When withdrawals were 
counted as non-responders, the 50% responder rate was 58.0% (47/81) in the perampanel arm versus 
35.8% (29/81) in the placebo group (p=0.0059). Perampanel was also superior to placebo in reducing 
PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days with a median treatment difference of 30.8% less seizures in the 
perampanel arm. These findings in a refractory population were considered clinically relevant. 
Furthermore, nearly one-third of subjects (30.9%) became free of all PGTC seizures during treatment 
with perampanel, and this percentage was considerably higher than that for the placebo group (12.3%). 
The median time to an nth + 1 PGTC seizure event was 43.0 days in the placebo group and greater than 
120 days but not precisely estimable for the perampanel group, as fewer than 50% of subjects in this 
group experienced a PGTC seizure event during the Core Study observation period (p<0.0001). 
Similar results were observed for the change in all seizure frequency and in the 50% responder rate for 
all seizures. Approximately one-quarter of subjects in the perampanel group (23.5%) who completed the 
Maintenance Period of the study achieved total seizure-free status compared to less than 5% of subjects 
in the placebo group. 
Support for sustained efficacy was provided by data from the Extension Phase for up to 2 years. Some 
patients in the Extension Phase appeared to benefit from doses of >8 mg to 12 mg/day, including, but 
not limited to patients receiving concomitant inducer AEDs. While the data from the Extension Phase were 
limited, use of doses up to 12 mg/day was further supported by population PK and PK/PD analyses 
suggesting a linear exposure/response relationship of perampanel. Population PK and PK/PD analyses 
generally suggested that perampanel PK in epilepsy patients with PGTC seizures were similar to the 
epilepsy patients with refractory POS. A pronounced reduction in exposure as well as a reduction of PD 
effects due to concomitant CYP3A4/5 inducing AEDs was observed, which was in line with previous 
findings for POS only. Therefore, the CHMP considered that the existing warning in SmPC section 4.4 on 
the use of concomitant enzyme-inducing AEDs and the possible need for dose adjustment was adequate 
and no further update was needed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 67/71 
 
  
  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
While generally the age distribution in the pivotal trial reflected the fact that PGTC seizures occur more 
frequently at the end of childhood and early adulthood, the CHMP noted that there were no data for 
elderly patients (≥65 years) receiving perampanel treatment. However, since the population PK analysis 
suggested that CL/F did not depend on age, the CHMP agreed that there was no need for dose 
adjustment in the elderly.  
The CHMP furthermore considered the effect of perampanel on absence and myoclonic seizures, as IGE 
patients might well suffer from other primary generalised seizure types in addition to PGTC seizures. 
While generally similar results as for PGTC seizures were observed when counting all primary generalised 
seizure types, analyses for absence and myoclonic seizures, respectively, did not show a convincing effect 
of perampanel on either seizure type. The CHMP considered that this information was relevant to 
prescribers and therefore decided that SmPC section 5.1 should be updated to inform about the lack of a 
demonstrated effect on absence and myoclonic seizures. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
In Core Study 332, 82.7% of subjects treated with perampanel had TEAEs, compared with 72.0% of 
placebo-treated subjects, and 69.1% of subjects experienced TEAEs reported as treatment-related, 
compared with 45.1% of placebo-treated subjects. Treatment-emergent SAEs, including fatalities, were 
reported for 7.4% of perampanel-treated subjects and 8.5% of placebo-treated subjects. TEAE-related 
treatment discontinuation occurred in 6.1% of the subjects in the placebo group and 11.1% of the 
subjects in the perampanel group. These rates were consistent with those seen in patients with refractory 
POS. 
Based on cumulative data from the clinical development program and from the worldwide post-marketing 
experience, there were no significant changes in the frequency or severity of previously identified ADRs. 
The available data did not suggest an effect of age, sex, race, geographic location, or concomitant AED 
use on the safety profile. No new drug-drug interactions have been identified for perampanel. 
Safety data from Study 332 for suicidal ideation or behaviour were generally in line with previous safety 
assessments for Fycompa. However, when taking into account the totality of the available data 
accumulated over time, including post-marketing reports of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts for 
which a temporal association suggested a possible causal relationship to perampanel use, as well as the 
known AED class risk, the CHMP considered that the safety concern in the RMP should be upgraded from 
an important potential to an important identified risk. Consequently, suicidal ideation as well as suicide 
attempt were included in the list of ADRs in SmPC section 4.8.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Overall, the CHMP considered the extend of the exposure in patients with PGTC seizures acceptable, 
albeit there were limited data in some age groups and with regards to long-term treatment. No children 
less than 12 years of age with PGTC seizures were included in the Core Study, which was acceptable 
given that the indication was restricted accordingly. With regards to adolescent patients, 13.6% of the 
study population was younger than 18 years of age and the safety findings were similar to the total 
population. No elderly patients received perampanel treatment in Study 332. The safety in the elderly has 
however previously been demonstrated in studies in other indications. A total of 1324 subjects aged 65 or 
more were included in studies in Parkinson’s disease and neuropathic pain, with no evidence for different 
adverse reactions in patients in this age group.  
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 68/71 
 
  
  
Data for perampanel exposure of 52 weeks or more were only available for 36 patients. Additional data 
for long-term safety in the treatment of PGTC seizures were expected to become available in June 2016 
with the full study report of the Extension Phase for study 332.  
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Support for a favourable treatment effect of perampanel in the adjunctive treatment of PGTC seizures 
originated from an appropriately designed and executed study in patients of a suitable clinical profile. A 
statistically significant benefit compared to placebo was demonstrated for relevant endpoints, i.e. 50% 
responder rate and reduction in seizure frequency, in line with the Guideline on clinical investigation of 
medicinal products in the treatment of epileptic disorders (CHMP/EWP/566/Rev.2/Corr). More than half of 
the patients receiving perampanel responded to treatment, which was considered clinically relevant. 
The safety profile for perampanel for treatment of patients with PGTC seizure was generally in line with 
the previously established profile in refractory POS. The risk of suicidality was upgraded to an important 
identified risk in the RMP based on cumulative safety data including post-marketing reports in POS 
patients. Overall, the risks of perampanel treatment were considered manageable given the updates to 
the product information and the RMP. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The CHMP considered that a beneficial effect has been demonstrated for perampanel up to daily doses of 
8 mg/day, which could be further increased to 12 mg/day for some patients with PGTC seizures. 
Treatment related risks were generally in line with the established safety profile of Fycompa prior to this 
report. Therefore, based on the updated product information, the CHMP concluded that the benefits of 
perampanel outweighed its risks in the adjunctive treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures 
in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. Overall, the 
benefit-risk profile of Fycompa remained favourable. 
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
There was limited information for long-term use of perampanel in patients with PGTC seizures and for 
daily doses above 8 mg and up to 12 mg. However, overall, the available data suggested maintenance of 
the effect and that at least some patients, including those with concomitant inducer AEDs, might benefit 
from doses above 8 mg/day. Additional data were expected by June 2016 when the full study report of 
the Extension Phase for study 332 is expected. 
No convincing effect on absence and myoclonic seizures was shown for perampanel compared to placebo. 
These finding were considered important in the population of IGE patients who might well also suffer from 
generalised seizure types other than PGTCs, and the CHMP considered that healthcare professionals 
should be informed accordingly (SmPC section 5.1.) 
With regards to safety, the upgrade of the risk of suicidal ideation or behaviour to an important identified 
risk and related labelling changes was not triggered directly by data from patients with PGTC seizures, 
but rather reflecting a cumulative review of the available data at the time of this report. The related class 
warning for AEDs had already been included in SmPC section 4.4 prior to this report.  
Overall, suitable updates were introduced to the product information to adequately inform healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers of the use of perampanel in the new indication.   
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 69/71 
 
  
  
4.  Recommendations 
The application for the extension of the indication for Fycompa for adjunctive treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic 
generalised epilepsy is approvable since all concerns have all been resolved. 
Final Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation(s) to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change(s): 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
Extension of indication to include a new indication for Fycompa for adjunctive treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic 
generalised epilepsy. Consequently, the MAH proposed an update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 
and 5.2 of the SmPC. In addition, minor editorial changes and amendments to improve the clarity and 
readability of the information was implemented throughout the product information. 
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated accordingly.  
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to updates the contact details of the local representatives of 
Belgium, Luxembourg and Malta. 
The variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this variation. In particular the EPAR module 
8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Extension of indication to include a new indication for Fycompa for adjunctive treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adult and adolescent patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic 
generalised epilepsy. Consequently, the MAH proposed an update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 
and 5.2 of the SmPC. In addition, minor editorial changes and amendments to improve the clarity and 
readability of the information was implemented throughout the product information. 
Summary 
Review of the results from a randomised controlled clinical trial and from a computer model to predict the 
fate and effects of perampanel in the body after administration showed that adjunctive treatment with 
Fycompa was effective in reducing the frequency of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in patients 
with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. More than half of the patients responded to treatment and had only 
half as many seizures or even less than before treatment. The safety profile was generally in line with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 70/71 
 
  
  
 
previously established profile in patients with treatment resistant partial onset seizures and the benefit-
risk balance was considered favourable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/518002/2015 
Page 71/71 
 
  
  
 
 
