26 February 2020 
EMA/CHMP/165665/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): perampanel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009255/201907 
Period covered by the PSUR:21/07/2018 to 21/07/2019  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for perampanel, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Hepatotoxicity 
In view of available data on hepatotoxicity from clinical trials, literature data, spontaneous reports with 
plausible temporality including in 12 serious cases a positive de-challenge and in 1 serious case a 
positive re-challenge, a causal relationship between perampanel and hepatotoxicity could not be 
excluded. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing perampanel should 
be amended accordingly. 
Hormonal contraceptives 
One case of pregnancy was reported where the patient was noted to be using a subcutaneous 
contraceptive device. Perampanel is a weak inducer of CYP3A4/5 and is known to reduce the exposure 
to levonorgestrel by 40% and thus impair the efficacy of the contraceptive method. This finding is 
reasonably relevant for all hormonal contraceptives containing progestins. Currently the Product 
information of perampanel, only mentions the possible lack of efficacy with progestatin-containing oral 
contraceptive whereas, all hormonal contraceptives, not only oral, but also implants, patches are 
concerned. The Summary of Product Characteristic (SmPC) and the package leaflet (PIL) should be 
amended accordingly. 
Stevens - Johnson syndrome 
Three cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) were retrieved during the period of this PSUR. One 
case did not bring enough information and carbamazepine was introduced concomitantly to 
perampanel. The second case had a confirmed diagnosis of SJS but the chronology was unclear with an 
unknown outcome. The last case had a suggestive time to onset for perampanel (9 days) and a 
positive dechallenge and was considered possibly related to perampanel (score of Alden: 3). This case 
provides sufficient data to warrant an update to the Summary of Product Characteristic (SmPC) and 
the package leaflet (PIL) to reflect the risk of SJS according to the guideline “Severe Cutaneous 
Adverse Reactions (EMA/PRAC/710714/2017). 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for perampanel the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing perampanel is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/165665/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
