EMA/378245/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004059 
Galafold (migalastat) 
An overview of Galafold and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Galafold and what is it used for? 
Galafold is a medicine used to treat patients  aged 12 years and above who have Fabry disease. This is 
a rare inherited disorder where patients  have various mutations (changes) in the gene responsible for 
the production of an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase. This enzyme normally breaks down a fatty 
substance called globotriaosylceramide (GL-3). As a result of the mutations, the  enzyme does not work 
properly and cannot break down GL-3. This leads to  a build  up of GL-3  in various cells in  the body, 
including in  the heart and kidneys. 
Fabry disease is rare, and Galafold was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 22 May 2006.  Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu306368. 
Galafold contains the active substance migalastat. 
How is Galafold used? 
Galafold can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should only be started and supervised 
by a doctor who is experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of Fabry disease.  
Galafold is available as capsules. The recommended dose of Galafold is one capsule every other day. 
Patients should not consume any food at least 2 hours before and 2  hours after taking Galafold to allow 
full absorption.  
Galafold is only for use in patients with  certain mutations in  the alpha-galactosidase A gene. For more 
information about using Galafold, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Galafold work? 
The active substance in Galafold, migalastat, attaches to  certain unstable forms of alpha-galactosidase 
A, stabilising the enzyme. This allows the enzyme to  be transported into areas of the cell where it  can 
break down GL-3. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Galafold have been shown in studies? 
Galafold has been investigated in two  main studies involving a total of 127  patients [AI1]aged over 16 
yewith Fabry disease. 
The first study, which compared Galafold with  placebo (a dummy treatment) in 67  patients, looked at 
the proportion of patients who responded to treatment (defined as a reduction of at least 50% in GL-3 
deposits in the kidneys). Overall, Galafold was not  found to be more effective than placebo at reducing 
GL-3 deposits; however, additional analyses including only patients with  those genetic mutations  that 
can be treated with  Galafold showed that patients  responded better to Galafold than  to placebo after 6 
months of treatment. 
The second study, in 60  patients, compared Galafold with  the medicines agalsidase alfa or agalsidase 
beta, two treatments  that replace the missing enzyme. The main measure of effectiveness was the 
change in patients’ kidney function  after 18  months of treatment. In this study, Galafold was found to 
be as effective as enzyme replacement in stabilising patients’  kidney function. 
The company also provided results of a study that showed that  Galafold produces the same levels of 
the active substance in  the body and has the same effect in adolescents aged 12  up to and including 
15 years old as in  adults and young people aged 16 and above.  
What are the risks associated with Galafold? 
The most common side effect with  Galafold (which  may affect around 1 in  10 people) is headache.  
For the full list  of all side effects and restrictions with  Galafold, see the  package leaflet. 
Why is Galafold authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Galafold’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  The Agency noted that  Galafold was studied in a limited number of 
patients, however the  available evidence is considered sufficient for such a rare disease. The Agency 
also noted  that Galafold is taken by mouth and this could be an advantage compared with other 
authorised treatments such as enzyme replacement which  are given by infusion (drip) into  a vein. 
Regarding safety, Galafold was well-tolerated. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Galafold? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Galafold have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Galafold 
Galafold received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on 26 May 2016. 
Further information on Galafold can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/galafold. 
This overview was last updated in  07-2021. 
Galafold (migalastat)  
EMA/378245/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
