EMA/310431/2021  
EMEA/H/C/000771 
Galvus (vildagliptin) 
An overview of Galvus and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Galvus and what is it used for? 
Galvus  is  a  diabetes  medicine  that is used together with diet and exercise to control the blood glucose 
(sugar)  in  adults  with  type 2 diabetes. It is used alone when metformin (another diabetes medicine) is 
not  suitable,  or  together  with other diabetes medicines, including insulin, when these medicines do not 
provide adequate control of the blood glucose.  
Galvus contains the active substance vildagliptin. 
How is Galvus used? 
Galvus  can  only  be  obtained  with  a  prescription  and  is available as 50-mg tablets. The recommended 
dose of Galvus is: 
• 
• 
one  tablet  in  the  morning  and  another  in  the  evening  (100 mg  per  day)  when  used  alone,  with 
metformin,  with  a  thiazolidinedione,  with  metformin  plus  a  sulphonylurea,  or  with  insulin  (with  or 
without  metformin); 
one  tablet  in  the  morning  (50 mg  per  day)  when  taken  with  a  sulphonylurea.  A lower dose of the 
sulphonylurea  may  also  be  considered  to  reduce  the  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  (low  blood  glucose 
levels).  
In patients with  moderate or severe kidney problems, the recommended dose is 50 mg once daily. 
Because vildagliptin has been associated with  liver problems, the doctor should carry out tests to check 
the patient’s  liver function before treatment  with Galvus and at  regular intervals during treatment. 
For more information about using Galvus, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Galvus work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in  which the pancreas does not  make enough insulin to control the level o f  
glucose  in  the  blood  or  when  the  body  is  unable  to  use  insulin  effectively.  The  active  substance  in 
Galvus,  vildagliptin,  is  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase  4  (DPP-4)  inhibitor.  It  works  by blocking the breakdown 
of  incretin  hormones  in  the  body.  These  hormones  are  released  after  a  meal  and  stimulate  the 
pancreas  to  produce  insulin.  By blocking  the breakdown of incretin hormones in the blood, vildagliptin 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
prolongs  their  action,  stimulating  the  pancreas  to  produce  more insulin when blood glucose levels are 
high. Vildagliptin  does not work when the blood glucose is low. 
Vildagliptin  also  reduces  the  amount  of  glucose  made  by  the  liver,  by  increasing  insulin  levels  and 
decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these processes reduce blood glucose le v e ls  
and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
What benefits of Galvus have been shown in studies? 
Galvus  on  its  own  or  as  an  add-on  treatment  has  been  studied  in 11 main studies involving a total of 
over  6,000  patients  with  type  2  diabetes and insufficient control of blood glucose levels. In all studies, 
the  main  measure  of  effectiveness  was  the  change  in  blood  levels  of  a substance called glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c),  which gives an indication  of how  well blood glucose is controlled. 
Galvus was effective at reducing levels of HbA1c but was less effective than metformin, rosiglitazone (a 
thiazolidinedione)  or  gliclazide  (a  sulphonylurea).  In  a  study  comparing  Galvus  with  metformin, 
significantly  better  results  were  seen  with  metformin:  a  reduction  in  HbA1c  of  1.5  percentage  points 
after  52  weeks  compared  with  a  reduction  of  around  1  percentage  point  in  patients  treated  with 
Galvus. 
When used as an add-on to metformin and to pioglitazone (a thiazolidinedione), Galvus reduced HbA1c  
levels by 0.8 to 1.0  percentage points. When used with glimepiride (a sulphonylurea), Galvus caused   a  
reduction  of  around  0.6  percentage  points.  In  contrast,  patients  adding  placebo  to  their  existing 
treatment  showed  smaller  changes  in  HbA1c  levels,  ranging  from  a  fall  of  0.3  to  a  rise  of  0.2 
percentage points. 
As  an  add-on  to  metformin  plus  glimepiride,  Galvus  reduced  HbA1c  levels  by  1  percentage  point, 
compared with  a reduction of 0.3 percentage points  in patients taking placebo.  
Finally,  when  used  as  an  add-on  to  insulin  treatment,  Galvus  caused  a  greater  reduction  in  HbA1c 
levels  than  adding  placebo,  but  the  size  of  this  effect  in  one  study was small, possibly due to the fact 
that  the  study  included  long-term  patients  who  were  less  likely  to  show  improvement.  However,  in 
another  study,  the  size  of  this  effect  was  significant.  Patients  taking  Galvus in addition to insulin, with 
or  without  metformin,  had  a  reduction  in  HbA1c  levels  of 0.77 percentage points, compared with 0.05 
percentage points in  patients taking placebo in addition  to insulin.   
What are the risks associated with Galvus? 
The  most  common  side  effect with Galvus (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) is dizziness. For the 
full  list  of  all  side  effects  reported  with  the  medicine,  including  side  effects  occurring  when it is taken 
with  other diabetes medicines, see the package leaflet. 
For the full list  of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Galvus authorised in the EU? 
Studies  have  shown  Galvus  to  be  effective  as  add-on  to  metformin,  a  thiazolidinedione  or  a 
sulphonylurea (dual therapy), a sulphonylurea and metformin (triple  therapy) or insulin with  or without 
metformin. Galvus on its own has also been shown to be effective in reducing blood glucose but less so  
than  metformin.  The  medicine  should  therefore  only  be  used  on  its  own  in  patients  for  whom 
metformin  is  inappropriate  either  because  of  side  effects  occurring  with  metformin  or  because  they 
have  a  condition  that  makes  metformin  unsuitable  for  them.  The  side  effects  of  Galvus  were  mostly 
mild and resolved over time.  
Galvus Galvus (vildagliptin)  
EMA/310431/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The  European  Medicines  Agency  decided  that  Galvus’  benefits  are  greater  than  its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What  measures  are  being  taken  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of 
Galvus? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the s a f e  
and  effective  use  of  Galvus  have  been  included  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics  and  the 
package leaflet. 
As  for  all  medicines,  data  on  the  use  of  Galvus  are  continuously  monitored.  Suspected  side  effects 
reported with  the medicine are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Galvus 
Galvus received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on 26 September 2007. 
Further 
information 
on 
Galvus 
can 
be 
found 
on 
the 
Agency’s 
website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/galvus. 
This overview was last updated in  06-2021. 
Galvus Galvus (vildagliptin)  
EMA/310431/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
