EMA/520660/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000668 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ganfort 
bimatoprost / timolol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ganfort. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Ganfort. 
What is Ganfort? 
Ganfort is an eye drops solution that contains two active substances: bimatoprost (0.3 mg/ml) and 
timolol (5 mg/ml). 
What is Ganfort used for? 
Ganfort is used to reduce the pressure inside the eye. It is used in adults with ‘open angle glaucoma’ 
or ocular hypertension who do not respond sufficiently to eye drops containing beta-blockers or 
prostaglandin analogues (other medicines used for these conditions). 
‘Ocular hypertension’ is when the pressure in the eye is higher than normal. In open angle glaucoma 
the high pressure is caused by fluid being unable to drain out of the eye. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ganfort used? 
Ganfort is given as one drop in the affected eye(s) once a day, either in the morning or the evening. It 
should be given at the same time each day. If more than one type of eye drop is being used, each one 
should be given at least five minutes apart. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Ganfort work? 
Raised pressure in the eye causes damage to the retina (the light sensitive membrane at the back of 
the eye) and to the optic nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain. This can result in serious 
vision loss and even blindness. By lowering the pressure, Ganfort reduces the risk of damage.  
Ganfort contains two active substances, bimatoprost and timolol, which lower the pressure in the eye 
in different ways. Bimatoprost is a prostaglandin analogue, (a copy of the natural substance 
prostaglandin) that works by increasing the drainage of fluid out of the eye. Bimatoprost on its own 
has already been approved in the European Union under the name Lumigan. Timolol is a beta-blocker 
that works by reducing the production of fluid within the eye. Timolol has been commonly used to treat 
glaucoma since the 1970s. The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, 
reducing the pressure inside the eye more than either medicine alone. 
How has Ganfort been studied? 
Four main studies have been performed involving 1,964 adults with ocular hypertension or glaucoma. 
The studies compared Ganfort with bimatoprost, timolol, or bimatoprost and timolol given at the same 
time after three weeks to four months of treatment. The main measures of effectiveness were the 
average reduction in eye pressure or the number of patients whose eye pressure fell below the target 
of 18 mmHg (making it within the normal range). 
What benefit has Ganfort shown during the studies? 
Overall, the studies showed that Ganfort is effective in lowering eye pressure. The values were lowered 
by about 8-10 mmHg. Ganfort was more effective than timolol on its own and was as effective as 
bimatoprost.  
Ganfort was, however, more effective than bimatoprost in patients whose pressure was not controlled 
with eye drops containing prostaglandins alone. Ganfort lowered the pressure to less than 18 mmHg in 
18.7% of these patients compared with 10.2% with bimatoprost only. In addition, more patients given 
Ganfort had a drop in pressure of more than 20% (67.9% against 48.9%). 
In addition, Ganfort was shown to be as effective as bimatoprost and timolol given at the same time. 
What is the risk associated with Ganfort? 
The most common side effect (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is conjunctival hyperaemia 
(increased blood supply to the eye, leading to redness of the eye). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Ganfort, see the package leaflet.  
Ganfort must not be used in patients who have asthma or severe lung disease, or in patients with 
some heart conditions. See the package leaflet for the full list of restrictions.  
Why has Ganfort been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Ganfort’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Ganfort  
EMA/520660/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ganfort? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ganfort have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Ganfort 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ganfort on 19 May 2006.  
The full EPAR for Ganfort can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Ganfort, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2016.  
Ganfort  
EMA/520660/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
