25 July 2013 
EMA/648705/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Ganfort 
bimatoprost, timolol 
Procedure no. EMEA/H/C/000668/PSUV/0020 
Period covered by the PSUR:  20 September 2010 – 19 November 2012 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Circadin, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
The PRAC considered that the overall risk/benefit of GANFORT remained favourable. 
However, the MAH was recommended that within section 4.8 of the SmPC, the following ADRs be 
moved from the tables for ADRs seen only with the individual components (timolol and bimatoprost) to 
the table for ADRs seen with GANFORT: Bronchospasm (predominantly in patients with pre-existing 
bronchospastic disease), dyspnea, eyelid retraction and dizziness. 
In section 4.8 of the SmPC, the following wording should be added: “Cases of corneal calcification have 
been reported very rarely in association with the use of phosphate containing eye drops in some 
patients with significantly damaged corneas.”  
The above-mentioned SmPC changes will need to be reflected in the PL. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Ganfort the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal products containing the two active substances bimatoprost and timolol is 
favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product information, as follows: 
Update of section 4.8 of the SmPC 
• 
The Safety information needs amending to reflect the available data. The following ADRs 
should be moved from the tables for ADRs seen only with the individual components (timolol 
and bimatoprost) to the ADR table for ADRs seen with GANFORT: Bronchospasm 
(predominantly in patients with pre-existing bronchospastic disease), dyspnea, eyelid 
retraction and dizziness. 
•  GANFORT contains a phosphate buffer as an excipient. In line with an assessment of the use of 
phosphate buffers in medicinal products given as eye drops, the following wording should be 
added: “Cases of corneal calcification have been reported very rarely in association with the 
use of phosphate containing eye drops in some patients with significantly damaged corneas.” 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied 
Ganfort  
EMA/648705/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
