21 July 2016 
EMA/507746/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): bimatoprost / timolol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002961/201511 
Period covered by the PSUR: 20 November 2012 – 19 November 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations  
In the current PSUR, a large number of cases include immediate local ocular tissue irritation, angioedema, 
urticarial, eczema and allergic dermatitis. Furthermore, some of these included positive rechallenge and 
dechallenge. It is noted that hypersensitivity is a listed ADR in the timolol Product Information. Therefore, 
the PRAC agreed that ‘Hypersensitivity reaction including signs and symptoms of allergic dermatitis, 
angioedema, eye allergy’ should be added in section 4.8 for both Ganfort and Ganfort PF. 
14 cases of nightmare were reviewed in the current PSUR, which included cases of both positive 
dechallenge and rechallenge. 14 cases of insomnia were reviewed and these also included positive 
dechallenge experience. Nightmare and insomnia are listed as an ADR in the timolol Product Information. 
Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Nightmare and Insomnia’ should be added in section 4.8 for Ganfort.  
Dysgeusia was evaluated in a review of 12 cases (one serious and 11 non-serious cases). In the cases 
evaluated close temporal relationship was reported coupled with a possible mode of action which supports 
a causal relationship between Ganfort and Dysgeusia. Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Dysgeusia’ 
should be added in section 4.8 for Ganfort.  
Eye swelling was evaluated in a review of 30 cases. A close temporal relationship was reported and also 
positive dechallenge experience which support a causal relationship between Ganfort / Ganfort PF and 
Eye swelling. Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Eye swelling’ should be added in section 4.8 for both 
Ganfort and Ganfort PF. 
A review of 46 cases with blurred vision, some with close temporal relationship and positive dechallenge 
support a causal relationship between Ganfort and Vision blurred. Furthermore, Vision blurred is listed as 
an additional ADR associated with the timolol component of Ganfort in the CCDS. Therefore, the PRAC 
agreed that ‘Vision blurred’ should be added in section 4.8 for Ganfort. 
Bradycardia was evaluated as a potential safety signal and 15 cases were reviewed. These showed a close 
temporal relationship and positive rechallenge and dechallenge which support a causal relationship 
between Ganfort / Ganfort PF and bradycardia. Bradycardia is also a well-known pharmacological effect 
from systemic beta blocker treatment. Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Bradycardia’ should be added in 
section 4.8 for both Ganfort and Ganfort PF. 
Alopecia was evaluated as a potential safety signal with 23 cases which included close temporal 
relationship and positive dechallenge and rechallenge experience which support a causal relationship 
between Ganfort and Alopecia. Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Alopecia’ should be added in section 4.8 
for Ganfort. 
In a safety review of 26 cases of Fatigue, a close temporal relationship and positive dechallenge and 
rechallenge experience was reported which support a causal relationship between Ganfort and Fatigue. 
Therefore, the PRAC agreed that ‘Fatigue’ should be added in section 4.8 for Ganfort. 
Asthma is currently a listed ADR in the timolol Product Information. Asthma and asthma-related 
symptoms cases were evaluated in the present PSUR. It showed a close temporal relationship and 
positive rechallenge and dechallenge which support a causal relationship Ganfort PF and Asthma and 
other asthma-related symptoms including dyspnea and wheezing. Therefore, the PRAC agreed that that 
‘Asthma’ should be added in section 4.8 for Ganfort and Ganfort PF and ‘Dyspnoea’ in section 4.8 for 
Ganfort PF. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing bimatoprost/timolol were warranted.  
EMA/507746/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
