1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Chronic  glaucoma  is  an  eye  disease  characterised  by  increased  intraocular  pressure,  glaucomatous 
excavation  and  atrophy  of  the  optic  nerve  head,  and  reduction  of  the  visual  field.  It  is  a  common 
disease accounting for a substantial percentage of the cases of blindness in the developed world.  
Primary  open-angle  glaucoma  is  a  chronic,  generally  bilateral  but  often  asymmetrical  disease 
characterised  by  a  multifactorial  optic  neuropathy  in  which  there  is  a  characteristic  acquired  loss  of 
retinal ganglion cells and atrophy of the optic nerve. The aetiology is multifactorial and the elevated 
intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important risk factor among several others, e.g. inheritance, age, race, 
myopia  and  cardiovascular  disease.  In  the  European  population  above  the  age  of  40  years  the 
occurrence is about 1 %, (accelerating with increasing age). 
Other characteristics are adult onset, open, normal-appearing anterior-chamber angles and absence of 
known  other  (e.g.,  secondary)  explanations  for  progressive  glaucomatous  optic  nerve  change  (e.g., 
pigment dispersion, pseudoexfoliation, iridocorneal endothelial syndrome). 
The secondary open angle glaucoma is characterized by open angles and secondary explanations for 
progressive  glaucomatous  optic  nerve  change  due  to  elevated  intraocular  pressures  caused  by  e.g. 
pigment dispersion, pseudoexfoliation, iridocorneal endothelial syndrome or uveitis. The elevated IOP 
is an important risk factor as in primary open angle glaucoma. 
The  IOP  can  be  lowered  by  medical  treatment,  laser  surgery,  and  incisional  surgery  (alone  or  in 
laser 
combination). 
trabeculoplasty  is  an  appropriate  initial  therapeutic  alternative  and  filtering  surgery  may  be  an 
appropriate initial therapy for some patients with moderate or severe glaucoma.  
topical  medications  constitute 
therapy.  Argon 
instances, 
In  most 
initial 
Medical agents that increase aqueous outflow include topical  miotics, topical adrenergic derivatives, 
and  prostaglandin  analogues.  Agents  that  decrease  aqueous  production  include  carbonic  anhydrase 
inhibitors, alpha2-adrenergic agonists and beta-adrenergic antagonists. To determine the effectiveness 
of topical therapy, it is necessary to distinguish between the therapeutic impact of an agent on IOP and 
ordinary background fluctuations of IOP.  
The  choice  of  therapy  must  take  into  account  quality  of  life,  cost  and  compliance.  In  many  patients 
beta-blockers have been used as the first line of therapy and first choice since they are effective and 
usually  topically  well  tolerated;  caution  must  be  exercised  if  the  patient  suffers  from  a  systemic 
condition such as bronchopulmonary disease or cardiac arrhythmia, since the systemic absorption of 
these drugs may cause relevant adverse systemic effects. 
Over  the  past  few  years  there  has  been  a  gradual  shift  in  the  choice  of  first  time  medical  therapy. 
Prostaglandin  derivatives/prostamides  (such  as  latanoprost,  travoprost  and  bimatoprost)  have,  in  the 
hands  of  many  ophthalmologists  superceded  beta-blockers  as  the  first  choice,  especially  after  the 
approval  by  the  FDA  in  the  US  and  EMEA  in  Europe  as  1st  line  treatment.  The  prostaglandin 
derivatives/prostamides has gained wide spread use due to a high pressure lowering capacity, usually 
between 25 and 33%, and a high systemic safety profile.  
The indication for Ganfort is the reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers or 
prostaglandin analogues. The recommended dose is one drop of Ganfort in the affected eye(s) once 
daily, administered in the morning. Ganfort consists of a combination of two well-known ophthalmic 
drugs, timolol (0.5% or 5 mg/mL) and bimatoprost (0.03% or 0.3 mg/mL). The rationale for the 
development of a topical ocular product that combines a synthetic prostamide (bimatoprost) and a 
beta-blocker (timolol) in a single formulation for the reduction of IOP by the differential mechanisms 
of action and complementary pharmacology of the active ingredients, was that the majority of patients 
with glaucoma or ocular hypertension eventually require adjunctive therapy to control their IOP. 
Therefore, the fixed combination may lead to increased compliance since it is administered more 
conveniently than the individual products administered adjunctively. Furthermore, there is an 
1/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
elimination of the risk of wash-out of the first administered IOP-lowering agent and a reduction in the 
exposure to the potentially harmful preservative benzalkonium chloride. 
The  individual  active  substances  are  bimatoprost,  which  was  granted  approval  via  centralised 
procedure  under  the  invented  name  Lumigan  (EU/1/01/205/001-002),  and  timolol,  which  are  both 
indicated  for  lowering  IOP.  The  concentration  of  timolol  in  Ganfort  is  equivalent  to  the  commonly 
used  monotherapy  concentration.  However,  the  daily  timolol  exposure  is  one  half  the  monotherapy 
dose,  since  Ganfort  is  only  to  be  applied  once  daily  whereas  timolol  as  a  monotherapy  is  typically 
applied twice daily. 
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Ganfort is formulated as sterile preserved aqueous formulation for topical ophthalmic application. This 
combination  product  contains  bimatoprost  0.03%  and  timolol  maleate  0.68%  as  active  substances. 
Excipients  include  also  sodium  chloride,  sodium  diphosphate  dibasic  heptahydrate,  citric  acid 
monohydrate, benzalkonium chloride and purified water. 
The product is supplied in LDPE bottle. 
Active substance 
Two drug substances are used in this fixed combination product, bimatoprost and timolol (as maleate). 
Bimatoprost 
This  active  substance  has  been  approved  for  use 
(EU/1/01/205/001-002). 
in  Lumigan  via  centralised  procedure 
Bimatoprost  is  a  white  to  off-white  powder,  hygroscopic,  slightly  soluble  in  waterit  shows 
polymorphism, but following the manufacturing process described, polymorph I is obtained. There is 
no difference in terms of aqueous solubility between the polymorphic forms. 
The chemical structure is well characterised, it has 5 chiral centres and it also has cis-trans isomerism, 
the  selected  form  being  (Z)-7-[(1R,  2R,  3R,  5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-[(1E,  3S)-3-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1-
pentenyl]cyclopentenyl]-N-ethyl-5-heptenamide.  
Bimatoprost is synthesized in 4 steps followed by purification. Adequate in-process controls are applied 
during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting 
materials and reagents, have been presented. The three-production scale batch data presented showed a 
reproducible manufacturing process leading to homogeneous batches. 
Bimatoprost  specifications  include  tests  for  physical  characteristics,  identity  (IR,  HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC, 97.5-101.0%), physical purity, chemical purity, residual solvents, related substances, moisture 
(KF), microbial limit. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriate for controlling the quality of this 
active substance. 
The re-test period proposed is the acceptable according to the stability data submitted and it is 
identical to the current approved for Lumigan (bimatoprost). 
Timolol maleate 
The drug substance timolol maleate (INN) is an active substance described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia. It is a white to almost white crystalline powder or colourless crystals. It is soluble in 
water and in alcohol. It shows optical activity.  
2/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The chemistry, manufacturing and control information on timolol maleate have been evaluated by the 
EDQM  and  a  Certificate  of  Suitability  of  the  Monograph  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  has  been 
issued. This CEP includes additional test for residual solvents and for related substances by HPLC. 
Although in the Eur Ph monograph the impurities are determined by a TLC method, the manufacturer 
used an additional HPLC method, annexed to the Certificate. 
Timolol maleate is controlled according to the requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph and additional 
requirements  according to the CEP and a  microbial limit test (MLT) according to the Ph Eur as the 
active substance is used in aseptic preparation of the finished drug product. 
Batch analysis data of 3 representative batches of timolol maleate are provided. The batches are within 
the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability data on 11 production batches covering periods up to 60 months at 25(cid:31)C (cid:31) 2(cid:31)C / 60% 
(cid:31) 5% RH were providedAn annual retest will be applied by the applicant. The re-test period proposed 
is supported by the stability data provided. 
Finished Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  main  goal  in  the  development  of  this  ophthalmic  solution  was  to  obtain  a  safe  and  effective 
formulation for topical application to the eye that would provide a comfortable dose with minimal risk 
of  irritation.  Development  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the  stability  of  formulation, 
compatibility of formulation with the container closure system, preservative effectiveness, and ocular 
tolerability  of  the  formulation.  The  eye  drops  are  formulated  with  well-known  excipients  and  the 
composition  is  very  similar  to  the  already  approved  Lumigan  (bimatoprost)  eye  drops,  apart  from 
timolol maleate content and the adjustment in sodium chloride concentration for isotonicity. Viscosity 
of the solution is similar to water. 
The solution is packaged in a multiple-dose eye drop white bottle and a white tip manufactured 
from low density polyethylene (LDPE) and a blue cap manufactured from high impact 
polystyrene (HIPS). This container closure system is the same used in Lumigan. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  process  selected  is  similar  to  the  process  used  in  the  manufacture  of  Lumigan  eye  drops,  these 
including  (1)  the  preparation  of  the  bulk  followed  by  (2)  sterile  filtration  of  the  bulk  product  and 
aseptic filling into pre-sterilised containers.  
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing  process  in  three  production-scale  batches  of  each  and  is  satisfactory.  The  in  process 
controls are adequate for this product. 
The  3  commercial  batch  analysis  data  provided  show  that  this  solution  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of 
this eye drop preparation. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  physical  appearance,  assay  of  the 
active  substances  (HPLC,  95.0-105.0%  of  label  strength  in  each  case),  identification  of  the  active 
substances  (HPLC,  TLC),  benzalkonium  chloride  assay,  benzalkonium  chloride  identification, 
impurities  (HPLC),  pH  (Ph  Eur),  osmolality  (Ph  Eur),  sterility  (Ph  Eur),  efficacy  of  antimicrobial 
preservation (Ph Eur), particulate matters (Ph Eur). 
3/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis results of pivotal clinical batches (2), primary stability (3), and supportive stability (15) 
are included and confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  during  12  months  at  25ºC/40%RH  and  6  months  at 
40ºC/20%RH on primary stability batches, 24 months at 25ºC/40%RH and 6 months at 40ºC/20%RH 
on  supportive  stability  batches  and  9  months  at  25ºC/40%RH  and  6  months  at  40ºC/20%RH  on 
validation batches in accordance with ICH Guidelines.  
The parameters controlled are the same as for release: physical appearance, particulate matter, pH, 
osmolality, assay of bimatoprost and timolol, degradation products, assay of BAK (benzalkonium 
chloride), sterility, preservative efficacy and packaging integrity. The control of water loss is included 
in all the studies but there is no specification of this parameter during the shelf-life. 
A photostability study on one supportive stability batch was performed. The light study conformed to 
ICH option 2 light emission standard exposure (>200 Watts UV and > 1.2 million lux hours of visible 
light). Results showed that the drug product is well protected in the primary packaging compared to 
controls. 
Freeze/thaw and low/high temperature cycling studies (2 days at -10 to -20°C and 2 days at 40°C) 
have been also performed on one batch to determine the effect of temperature. The cycling studies 
data indicate that short excursions to the studied temperature extremes do not adversely affect the 
quality of the solution. 
In use stability studies have been carried out on one commercial batch and on one pilot batch near 
the end of shelf life, following the relevant ICH guideline. The parameters tested were: physical, 
chemical and microbiological. The data support the shelf life proposed after the first opening. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life, storage conditions and in-use of the finished 
product after first opening as stated in the SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substances and finished product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of unresolved quality issues without impact on 
the clinical efficacy or safety of the product, therefore the applicant made a commitment to resolve 
these as post-opinion follow-up measures. 
4/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacodynamics 
Studies  in  dogs  and  monkeys  have  been  carried  out  to  assess  the  mechanism  of  the  IOP-lowering 
action  of  bimatoprost.  In  dogs,  topically  applied  bimatoprost  did  not  affect  total  outflow  facility, 
indicating that bimatoprost does not lower IOP by affecting conventional, trabecular outflow facility. 
Similarly, in monkeys, bimatoprost had no effect on total outflow facility, but increased uveoscleral 
outflow  by  42%.  Fluorophotometric  studies  showed  that  bimatoprost  0.1%  did  not  alter  aqueous 
humour  inflow  in  monkeys.  The  results  of  these  studies  suggest  that  bimatoprost  lowers  IOP  by 
increasing uveoscleral outflow. The mechanism of action by which bimatoprost reduces IOP in man is 
by  increasing  aqueous  humour  outflow  through  the  trabecular  meshwork  and  enhancing  uveoscleral 
outflow.  
Timolol is a non-selective β1 and β2 adrenoceptor antagonist that lowers IOP by suppressing aqueous 
humour  formation  in  humans.  The  mechanism  of  the  ocular  hypotensive  effect  of  timolol  is 
predominately  by  reduction  of  aqueous  humour  formation  as  shown  by  fluorophotometry  and 
tonography studies in humans and nonhuman primates. Timolol exerts little or no effect on the facility 
of outflow. 
The  secondary  pharmacodynamics  of  timolol  is  well  described.  Based  on  receptor  screening  assays 
and  in  vitro  tissue  preparations,  bimatoprost  is  not  expected  to  interact  with  prostaglandin  receptors 
and  a  variety  of  other  receptors,  ion  channels  and  transporters.  New  studies  have  been  performed 
trying to elucidate the nature of the bimatoprost receptor and the mechanism of action. Currently, the 
data  suggest  two  hypotheses:  bimatoprost  may  activate  a  newly  identified  spliced  variant  of  the  FP 
receptor  or  it  may  activate  a  novel  receptor  that heterodimerizes  with  the  FP  receptor.  Interestingly, 
long-term  treatment  with  both  bimatoprost  and  the  prostaglandin  F2α  agonist  latanoprost  lead  to 
remodelling of the uveoscleral outflow routes and morphological changes in the trabecular meshwork, 
providing evidence for the increases in uveoscleral and trabecular outflow. 
Whereas PGF2α´s main effect in humans is contraction of the uterus, bimatoprost was virtually devoid 
of  uterotonic  activity  in  both  the  pregnant  and  non-pregnant  human  isolated  uterus.  Species 
differences  were  apparent  with  respect  to  animal  uterine  studies.  Also  in  contrast  to  PGF2α, 
bimatoprost  does  not  induce  mitosis.  Bimatoprost  exhibited  no  meaningful  activity  at  human 
thromboxane  receptors  (TP),  thus  bimatoprost  has  minimal  potential  for  activating  thromboxane 
receptors associated with uterine, cardiovascular and airway smooth muscle. In vitro studies showed 
that bimatoprost does not induce relaxation of precontracted, endothelium intact rabbit jugular vein; a 
preparation in which PGF2(cid:31) causes pronounced vasorelaxation. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
No  safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  performed  with  Ganfort.  Nevertheless  the  safety  of 
bimatoprost  and  timolol  is  well  characterized  and  there  is  nothing  to  indicate  that  drug  interaction 
occurs. 
Bimatoprost 
Based on safety studies performed in rats and conscious dogs, bimatoprost is not expected to exert any 
effect  on  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  electrocardiogram,  or  respiration  rate.  Bimatoprost  showed  no 
effect  in  general  activity  and  behaviour  tests  and  in  tests  on  CNS  performed  in  mice  and  rats. 
Bimatoprost exhibited only very low activity in the urinary excretion and digestive system. An ocular 
surface  hyperaemic  response  was  observed  during  chronic  bimatoprost  treatment  but  was  not 
associated with inflammation.  
5/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Timolol 
In humans, topical non-selective β-blockers are associated with  mild ocular side effects that include 
ocular  irritation  and  conjunctival  hyperaemia.  Timolol  maleate  0.5%  administered  topically  or 
intravenously,  decreased  basal  blood  pressure  and  heart  rate  of  anaesthetised  dogs.  Timolol  may  be 
extensively  absorbed  systemically  after  ocular  inoculation  thus  it  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with 
bronchial asthma or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and serious systemic effects such 
as bradycardia, second- and third-degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure and cardiogenic 
shock.    
Timolol  may  be  extensively  absorbed  systemically  after  ocular  inoculation  and  therefore  specific 
warnings are given in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) on the adverse reactions that can 
be  seen  after  administration  of  β-blockers.  Furthermore,  under  4.3  in  the  SPC,  Ganfort  is 
contraindicated  in  patients  with  reactive  airway  disease,  sinus  bradycardia,  second-  and  third-degree 
atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock and patients hypersensitive to the active 
ingredients or any of the excipients.    
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  with  Ganfort.  However  the 
occasional  use  of  artificial  tear  products  or  topical  decongestant  antihistamine  was  allowed  during 
clinical  trials.  Consequently,  the  absence  of  specific  drug  interaction  studies  with  Ganfort  has  been 
included in section 4.5 of the SPC.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  bimatoprost  and  AGN  191522  (the  C1-metabolite)  concentrations  in  blood/plasma  were 
determined  using  a  HPLC/MS/MS  method,  whereas  the  timolol  content  in  blood/plasma  was 
determined using GC/MS/MS.  
The provided absorption study is of limited value. Only the absorption into one tissue is investigated 
and the comparison of ocular absorption is made difficult since the Ganfort absorption study design 
did  not  include  rabbits  treated  with  bimatoprost  and  timolol  as  single-therapies.  However,  the 
submitted distribution study covers the area in a satisfactory manner.    
[3H]-bimatoprost  0.03%  and  [3H]-timolol  0.5%  were  rapidly  absorbed  and  distributed  into  ocular 
tissues of rabbits. Radioactivity concentrations were highest in the ocular tissues, which were in close 
contact with the dosing solution; nevertheless, significant concentrations of [3H]-bimatoprost and [3H]-
timolol radioactivity were measured in the iris and ciliary body, which are the sites of pharmacological 
action. Overall, the pharmacokinetic parameters of [3H]-bimatoprost and [3H]-timolol radioactivity in 
ocular tissues were similar following single- or combination treatment.  
Consequently,  even  though  only  a  single  ocular  instillation  has  been  investigated,  there  is  no  
indication that co-administration of bimatoprost and timolol alters the ocular absorption or distribution 
of the individual Ganfort components.  
Topical  administration  to  the  eye  represents  a  highly  effective  route  of  systemic  delivery,  thus 
bimatoprost and timolol were detected systemically following ocular instillation. In monkeys but not 
in  rabbits,  a  decrease  in  systemic  bimatoprost  exposure  was  seen  after  Ganfort  treatment  when 
compared to the exposure levels obtained after bimatoprost 0.03% treatment alone. In both rabbits and 
monkeys,  combined  treatment  with  bimatoprost  0.03%  and  timolol  0.5%  resulted  in  an  increased 
systemic timolol exposure than seen with timolol as single-treatment. The increase in timolol Cmax was 
1.7 and 2.6-fold in rabbits and monkeys, respectively. However, these findings do not cause concern 
since these phenomena have not been observed in the clinic and therefore have no clinical relevance. 
Systemic  patient  Cmax  values  for  bimatoprost  and  timolol  are  0.064  and  0.618  ng/mL,  respectively, 
which is a bit lower than when the drugs are administered as single-therapies. 
No  new  studies  on  bimatoprost  and  timolol  metabolism  or  excretion  have  been  performed.  The 
metabolism  of  bimatoprost  and  timolol  differ  and  are  therefore  not  expected  to  affect  or  alter  one 
another.  
6/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily IV injections of bimatoprost did not significantly affect any of the hepatic microsomal enzyme 
activities  at  systemic  exposures  4000  times  greater  than  that  seen  in  humans  after  ophthalmic 
administration.  Therefore,  it  is  not  likely  that  bimatoprost  will  give  rise  to  drug-drug  interactions 
involving cytochrome P450 mediated metabolism. Furthermore, the systemic exposure of bimatoprost 
after  ocular  administration  is  negligible.  Timolol  is  metabolised  by  CYP2D6,  which  is  well-
characterized with respect to pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Systemic exposure levels in clinical 
trials showed no signs of pharmacokinetic interaction between bimatoprost and timolol. Altogether, it 
is deemed acceptable that no in vivo drug-drug interaction studies have been performed. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The single-dose toxicity of bimatoprost (alone) was evaluated in intraperitoneal (IP) and IV studies in 
mice and rats.  IP administration of 96 mg/kg in mice and IV administration of up to 3 mg/kg in rats 
produced no adverse effects.    
The LD50 of a single oral dose of timolol was 1190 mg/kg in mice, 900 mg/kg in rats. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  performed  in  rabbits  and  monkeys  compared  the  findings  made  after 
ocular  administration  of  bimatoprost  0.03%  and  timolol  0.5%  as  single-therapies  with  the  findings 
made in the Ganfort treatment group. The only treatment related effect seen in the one-month rabbit 
study  was  ocular  discomfort  in  rabbits  treated  with  timolol,  whereas  no  treatment-related  findings 
were  made  in  a  three-month  rabbit  study.  The  key  findings  made  in  a  six-month  monkey  study 
included increased iridial pigmentation in the bimatoprost treatment group during weeks 4, 13, and 26. 
An increase in iridial pigmentation was also noted at week 26 in monkeys treated with Ganfort, thus 
iridial pigmentation was delayed in monkeys treated with Ganfort when compared to bimatoprost as a 
single-therapy. There was no difference in severity of these changes between groups. According to the 
applicant, the increased iris pigmentation is caused by an increased stimulation of melanin production 
in melanocytes and not by an increase in melanocyte number. Iridial pigmentation is also observed in 
the  clinic  and  thus  the  adverse  effect  is  mentioned  in  the  SPC  under  section  4.4.  Altogether,  no 
unexpected findings were made after repeated ocular administration of Ganfort at doses that reached 
systemic  exposures  (AUC)  up  to  200  and  9-fold  higher  than  seen  in  patients  for  bimatoprost  and 
timolol, respectively. 
•  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Bimatoprost  was  negative  for  genotoxic  potential  in  a  battery  of  tests  endorsed  by  ICH,  including 
Salmonella/Escherichia  coli  Mutagenicity  Assay,  Reduced  Volume  L5178Y/TK  +/-  Mouse 
Lymphoma Mutagenesis Assay, and the in vivo Mouse Micronucleus Assay  
Timolol maleate was negative in Ames assay using Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 and TA100. 
Timolol  maleate  was  negative  for  mutagenicity  in  the  in  vitro  neoplastic  cell  transformation  assay, 
mouse micronucleus assay and mouse cytogenetic assay. 
•  Carcinogenicity  
The carcinogenic potential of bimatoprost was evaluated in two lifetime (104 weeks) oral studies, one 
in mice and one in rats. There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential in mice or rats at systemic 
exposures  that  achieved  1300  and  2000-fold,  respectively,  the  exposure  in  humans  given  the 
combination ocular  regimen.  A  dose-related  increase in the number of vacuolated corpora lutea was 
observed in female rats. 
In a two-year oral study of timolol maleate in rats, there was a statistically significant increase in the 
incidence  of  adrenal  pheochromocytomas  in  males  at  300 mg/kg/day,  which  was  approximately 
51,000-times the daily dose of timolol in Ganfort at the ocular clinical regimen. 
7/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
In  rats,  bimatoprost  affected  gestation  and  prenatal  development,  manifested  as  reduced  gestation 
length, late resorption and foetal death, postnatal mortality, and reduced pup body weight with a safety 
margin of 94. When bimatoprost was administered to mice during pregnancy an increased incidence of 
late abortions and early delivery were seen with a safety margin of 18.  
Furthermore,  human  data  from  epidemiological  studies  suggest  that  a  risk  of  intra-uterine  growth 
retardation  may  exist  following  exposure  to  systemic  beta-blockers.  In  one  case  report,  bradycardia 
and arrhythmia occurred in the foetus of a woman who was being treated with timolol eye drops.  
Based on these findings, it is not recommended to use Ganfort during pregnancy. 
•  Local tolerance 
In ocular toxicology studies, transient ocular discomfort and conjunctival hyperaemia, but no signs of 
inflammation  were  observed  in  rabbits  and  dogs  that  received  bimatoprost.  No  signs  of  iritis/uveitis 
were observed in chronic toxicological studies of bimatoprost in rats and monkeys. The mechanism of 
hyperaemia related to bimatoprost treatment appears to occur by endothelial-mediated vasodilatation 
and is not associated with inflammation in laboratory animals.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
A variety of container/closure extractables have been identified, i.e. benzyl alcohol, phenol, benzoic 
acid,  oligomers  of  polyethylene  glycol  monobenzoate  esters  (E8  and  E9)  and  the  still  unidentified 
peaks E6, E10, E11 and E12. A literature evaluation of benzyl alcohol, benzoic acid and the oligomers 
of  polyethylene  glycol  monobenzoate  esters  showed  that  safety  margins  for  these  compounds  were 
multiple folds above human exposure when the intended clinical dose of bimatoprost is given. Phenol 
and the unidentified impurities E6, E10, E11 and E12 have not been qualified and their concentration 
should therefore not exceed a limit of 3 ppm (ICHQ3B). 
The potential antigenicity of bimatoprost was evaluated using a passive cutaneous anaphylaxis assay 
(PCA)  in  rats  and  guinea  pigs,  and  a  systemic  anaphylaxis  assay  in  guinea  pigs.  Intraperitoneal, 
intradermal or intravenous administration of bimatoprost did not produce dermal or systemic antigenic 
reactions, and there were no other drug-related effects. The potential to elicit a delayed dermal contact 
hypersensitivity response was evaluated in guinea pigs. None of the guinea pigs induced intradermally 
with bimatoprost responded to topical challenges of bimatoprost.   
The  pharmacological  activity  of  two  minor  impurities  in  the  bimatoprost  bulk  drug  material,  15(cid:31)-
AGN 192024 and 5,6-trans AGN 192024, and a minor impurity and degradant, 15-oxo AGN 192024, 
were  determined  in  vitro  preparations.  The  results  of  these  studies  suggest  that  these  three  potential 
synthetic impurities/degradants contribute minimally to the ocular hypotensive activity of bimatoprost 
and are not likely to be associated with ocular side effects. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The PECSURFACEWATER values from the Phase I exposure assessment of bimatoprost and timolol were 
calculated  to  8.4  x  10-6  and  1.4  x  10-5  µg/L,  which  is  significantly  less  than  the  action  limit  of 
0.01 µg/L  described  in  the  draft  guideline  “Guideline  on  the  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of 
Medicinal products for Human use”. Ganfort is unlikely to pose a risk to the environment. 
8/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement that clinical trials conducted outside the European community 
met the ethical requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  has  provided  three  clinical  studies  supporting  the  pharmacokinetic    profile  of 
bimatoprost   0.03%/  timolol 0.5%  combination  eye  drops  (referred  to  as  Combination)  following 
ocular administration to healthy subjects (Phase I Study 192024-503T) and to patients with glaucoma 
or OHT (Phase III Studies 192024-018T and 192024-021T).  
Study 192024-503T 
The  design  of  study  192024-503T  was  aimed  to  investigate  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the 
combination in 17 healthy volunteers. This study consisted of a 7-day, three-period cross over design 
in which once daily morning administration of the Combination was compared to once daily morning 
dosing of bimatoprost 0.03% (Lumigan) and once daily morning dosing of Timolol (Timoptol) and a 
wash-out period of 7 days between treatments. 
According to the results provided by the applicant when coadministered with timolol as combination, 
mean  bimatoprost  Cmax  value  was  0.064  ng/mL  with  a  Tmax  value  at  0.11  hr  and  was  below 
0.025 ng/mL at 20 minutes post-dose, which indicates a reduction on bimatoprost levels with respect 
the administration of Bimatoprost 0.03% monotherapy (Cmax 0.071 ng/mL, Tmax 0.12 hr). 
Bimatoprost 0.03% monotherapy is administered in the evening while the Combination has a morning 
administration.  
With  respect  to  timolol  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  during  the  administration  of  0.5%  timolol 
monotherapy  for  7 days,  the  mean  Cmax  was  0.868  ng/mL  with  a  Tmax  value  of  0.62  hr  post-dose 
although  when  coadministered  as  combination,  mean  timolol  Cmax  value  decreased  29%  to  0.618 
ng/mL, but the half-life remained unchanged at 10.78 hr. 
During  the  Phase  III  studies  supporting  Ganfort  MAA  (Studies 192024-018T  and  192024-021T) 
therapeutic  drug  monitoring  was  performed  in  order  to  assess  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the 
combination in conjunction with that previously described in healthy volunteers. The design of studies 
192024-018T  and  192024-021T  were  primarily  aimed  to  investigate  the  efficacy/safety  of  the 
combination and confirm the pharmacokinetic profile in the  target population. These studies consisted 
of 12-month, 3-arm parallel design in which one daily morning administration of the Combination was 
compared to once daily evening dosing of bimatoprost 0.03% (Lumigan) and twice daily morning and 
evening dosing of Timolol. 
Taking into account that the pharmacokinetic results obtained in the pivotal studies were only aimed to 
monitor the plasma concentration of the active substances (blood concentration at minute 5) and that 
no  pharmacokinetic  parameters  have  been  provided,  the  complete  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the 
combination relies on Phase I study 192024-503T (17 healthy volunteers).  
9/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 192024-018 
The mean blood concentrations of bimatoprost in the Combination group obtained from Months 3, 6, 
and 12 were 0.0485 ng/mL, 0.0479 ng/mL, and 0.0514 ng/mL, respectively.  
Moreover, no statistical comparison was performed on the bimatoprost blood concentrations between 
the  combination  and  bimatoprost  groups  due  the  fact  that,  in  the  bimatoprost  group,  patients  were 
dosed  on  the  evening  of  the  day  before  the  sample  collection  day  (approximately  12 hours  after 
dosing),  and  therefore  the  blood  bimatoprost  concentrations  were  generally  below  the  limit  of 
quantification.  
One of the main objectives of this study was the comparison between both treatments and the fact that 
bimatoprost monotherapy (Lumigan) has an evening posology. 
The 5-minute postdose mean timolol plasma concentrations were larger in the Timolol group than in 
the  combination  group  at  all  follow-up  timepoints,  and  were  statistically  significantly  higher 
(p < 0.0154)  at  Months  3,  6,  and  12,  with  an  overall  statistical  significance  of  p  =  0.0005.    This  is 
expected, as the twice-daily regimen should result in a higher peak concentration. 
The incremented concentration of timolol monotherapy versus timolol in the combination have been 
justified by the applicant with the different posology administered in both arms, timolol monotherapy 
was  administered  twice  a  day  (which  is  the  recommended  posology  in  terms  of  efficacy)  while  the 
combination  had  a  morning  administration.  This  justification  is  considered  acceptable;  the 
administration  of  timolol  twice  a  day  is  considered  adequate  to  compare  the  efficacy  of  both 
treatments although no pharmacokinetic comparisons are allowed with this design.   
Study 192024-021 
The Months 3, 6, and 12 mean blood concentrations of bimatoprost in the Combination group were 
0.0619  ng/mL,  0.0618  ng/mL,  and  0.0489  ng/mL,  respectively,  with  no  statistically  significant 
differences  over  time.    Moreover,  the  5-minute  post-dose  mean  timolol  plasma  concentrations  were 
larger  in  the  Timolol  group  than  in  the  Combination  group  at  all  follow-up  timepoints  and  were 
statistically significantly higher (p < 0.036) at Months 3 and 12, with an overall statistical significance 
(p = 0.0123)  
The Phase I pharmacokinetic study (192024-503T) was conducted with Formulation 9264X (Isotonic), 
which is slightly different to the intended commercial formulation (the sodium chloride concentration 
was reduced to reduce the amorality) However, the formulation 9374X used in the Phase III clinical 
studies is the same as the product intended for marketing.  
The  applicant  has  not  developed  any  studies  aimed  at  demonstraingt  the  potential  differences  in  the 
absorption/efficacy of both formulations. 
Bimatoprost  major  metabolites  in  blood  were  AGN  191522  (the  C1  metabolite)  (5.9%),  M-12 
(bimatoprost  glucuronide)  (9.4%),  and  M-14  (another  bimatoprost  glucuronide)  (18.1%).  The  two 
glucuronides of bimatoprost are not considered active and therefore have not been investigated by the 
applicant. 
The concentration measurements of AGN 191522 (the potentially pharmacologically active C-1 acid 
metabolite of bimatoprost) have been determined in all the human pharmacokinetic studies supporting 
the Ganfort Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) [192024-503T (healthy volunteers), 192024-
018T  and  192024-021T  (Target  population)].  However,  no  pharmacokinetic  analysis  has  been 
performed  due  the  fact  that  AGN  191522  concentrations  were  uniformly  below  0.05  ng/mL  in  all 
blood samples (Study 192024-503T). 
Taking  into  account  that  the  limit  of  quantification  established  in  Lumigan  MAA  as  well  as  the 
proposed  dose  of  bimatoprost  in  the  combination  schedule  are  the  same,  the  absence  of  a  complete 
description  of  AGN  191522  pharmacokinetic  profile  supporting  Ganfort  MAA  could  be  considered 
acceptable.   
10/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Special populations 
The  applicant  has  not  developed  specific  studies  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  and  a 
recommendation of caution in use has been included in the SPC.  
The  applicant  has  performed  statistical  analyses  in  Phase  III  studies  to  examine  the  effects  of 
demographic  variables  on  drug  concentrations  in  both  trials,  the  applicant  concludes  that  these 
findings are considered exploratory in nature and so the results are not discussed. However, some of 
these findings seem to show potential differences in the combination pharmacokinetic parameters vs. 
monotherapies related to gender.   
With regard to the elderly, the applicant justifies the absence of specific subgroup analysis by noting 
that the mean age of the long-term Phase III population was 61.0 years with a significant proportion 
(37.6%)  falling  into  the  >  65  years  category.  Moreover,  the  applicant  relies  on  the  fact  that  the 
individual  products,  as  monotherapy,  do  not  have  a  requirement  for  dose  adjustment  in  the  elderly 
population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The applicant has not conducted in vitro interaction studies since the Combination is not expected to 
have a different safety profile to the individual agents (See Non-Clinical section). 
Moreover  the  absence  of  in  vivo  drug-drug  interactions  studies  with  other  agents  is  justified  by  the 
applicant  by  the  fact  that  in  the  bimatoprost  monotherapy  (Lumigan  MAA)  Phase  III  trials,  patients 
typically  received  concomitant  medication,  and  no  particular  safety  events  were  attributed  any  one 
group  of  concomitant  medication.  This  could  be  supported  with  the  low  drug  concentrations  of 
bimatoprost (< 0.2 ng/mL) following ocular dosing. 
With regard to the potential drug-drug interaction between the both components of the combination, 
the  applicant  concludes  that  the  mean  pharmacokinetic  parameter  values  and  their  associated 
variabilities  were  very  similar  between  the  treatments,  indicating  no  evidence  of  drug-drug 
interactions.  
Pharmacodynamics  
•  Mechanism of action 
Bimatoprost is a synthetic prostamide, structurally related to prostaglandin F (PGF) that does not act 
through  any  known  prostaglandin  receptors.  Bimatoprost  selectively  mimics  the  effects  of  newly 
discovered biosynthesized substances called prostamides and reduces intraocular pressure in man by 
increasing  aqueous  humour  outflow  through  the  trabecular  meshwork  and  enhancing  uveoscleral 
outflow.  
Timolol  maleate  is  a  1  and  2  adrenoreceptor  non-selective  blocker  that  does  not  have  significant 
intrinsic  sympathomimetic  activity  or  membrane  stabilizing  activities.  Blocking 
the  beta 
adrenoreceptors  results  in  reduction  of  the  intracellular  second  messenger,  cAMP,  believed  to  be 
involved in aqueous humour dynamics. Timolol does not have any effect on the outflow mechanism 
and exerts its effect on IOP by reducing aqueous humour production (Robinson et al, 1993; Yablonski 
et al, 1978). The effect on IOP appears to outlast the effect on aqueous humour. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  pharmacology  of  bimatoprost  and  timolol  are  well  established  and  have  been  demonstrated  by 
studies included in the Lumigan Marketing Authorisation Application and described in the Timoptol 
SPC. No new clinical pharmacology studies were performed with the Combination, and this could be 
considered acceptable.  
With  regard  to  pharmacodynamic  interactions,  the  potential  interaction  of  timolol  with  other 
antihypertensive  drugs  (addictive  effects  with  potential  consequences  of  hypotension  and/or 
11/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bradycardia)  or antidiabetic drugs (hypoglycaemia)  has been studied. This potential interaction have 
been adequately included in the SPC (Section 4.5)  
Clinical efficacy  
A  clinical  development  programme  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the 
bimatoprost  0.03%/timolol  0.5%  eye  drops  combination,  henceforth  known  as  the  Ganfort 
combination,  for  the  reduction  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  patients  with  glaucoma  or 
ocular hypertension (OHT).  
The Phase III clinical development programme comprised 4 studies: 
•  Studies 192024-018T, 192024-021T, and 192024-504T were designed to compare the safety 
and  efficacy  of  the  Combination  with  that  of  the  individual  components  administered  as 
monotherapy.    These  were  bimatoprost  0.03%  eye  drops  (Lumigan;  henceforth  known  as 
bimatoprost) and timolol 0.5% eye drops (henceforth known as timolol).   
•  Study  192024-026T  compared  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  Ganfort  combination  to 
adjunctive  (concurrent)  use  of  bimatoprost  along  with  timolol  (referred  to  as  Concurrent 
treatment). 
The studies were designed in accordance with the European regulatory guideline for comparing fixed 
combination  medicinal  products  with  the  individual  components  (European  Commission,  3CC10a, 
1996).  Thus, the use of active control groups rather than a placebo group was considered appropriate 
for these studies.   
The data for the 2 identically designed studies, 192024-018T and 192024-021T, were also pooled and 
the results of this analysis are summarised.   
•  Dose response study 
Since only one dose and regimen of the Ganfort combination was studied, no drug-dose relationship to 
response was established. 
The  Ganfort  combination  therapy  consists  of  bimatoprost  0.03%  and  timolol  0.5%.    In  the  clinical 
studies, the dosing regimen for the Ganfort combination was one drop daily administered once daily in 
the morning.   
Timolol  0.5%  was  selected  as  the  preferred  dose  in  the  Ganfort  combination  product,  as 
the 0.25% concentration  is  considered  to  be  of  minimal  value  in  the  poorly  controlled  patient.    In 
addition, the use of timolol 0.5% once-daily has been shown to provide a beneficial effect on IOP over 
a 24-hour period, an effect that was less pronounced with the 0.25% concentration (Zimmerman and 
Kaufman, 1977).   
The applicant has provided a justification for the proposed morning posology based on the results of 
the 24-hour IOP diurnal curve in the glaucomatous patient according to the literature and the evidence 
of a comparable daytime IOP control regardless of Bimatoprost morning or evening dosing (Lumigan 
clinical development programme).  
However,  although  no  direct  comparison  between  dose  timing  has  been  performed,  no  relevant 
differences between the morning and evening administration are expected. Sections 4.2 & 5.1 of the 
SPC recommend a morning dosing of Ganfort, however, if necessary for patient compliance evening 
dosing may be considered. 
•  Main studies 
A multicentre, double-masked, randomised, parallel group design was used for all studies.  Treatment 
allocation was randomised and double-masked in order to reduce bias.   
Studies 192024-018T and 192024-021T were 12-month studies conducted in the US and Canada and 
had  a  common  design.    Study  192024-504T  was  a  12-week  study  conducted  in  Europe,  Australia, 
New  Zealand  and  South  Africa,  and  Study  192024-026T  was  a  3-week  study  conducted  in  North 
America and Europe.   
12/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/Report 
No.  
192024-018T  
192024-021T 
Study Type 
Population 
(ITT) 
Key Features 
Long-term 
efficacy and 
safety 
Statistical 
testing for 
superiority  
Long-term 
efficacy and 
safety  
Statistical 
testing for 
superiority 
OHT or 
glaucoma 
Ganfort combination compared with Bimatoprost, 
and Timolol  
(N = 520)  
Double-masked, 3-arm parallel-group 
Once daily, morning dosing of the Ganfort 
Combination  
3-month primary analysis period followed by 9-
month masked follow-up period 
OHT or 
glaucoma 
Ganfort combination compared with Bimatoprost, 
and Timolol  
(N = 541) 
Double-masked, 3-arm parallel-group 
Once daily, morning dosing of the Ganfort 
combination  
3-month primary analysis period followed by 9-
month masked follow-up period 
192024-504T  
Efficacy and 
safety  
OHT or 
glaucoma 
Ganfort combination compared with Bimatoprost, 
and Timolol  
Statistical 
testing for 
superiority 
Efficacy and 
safety  
Statistical 
testing for 
non-
inferiority 
(N = 458) 
Double-masked, 3-arm parallel-group 
Once daily, morning dosing of the Ganfort 
combination 
12 weeks 
OHT or 
glaucoma 
(N = 445) 
Ganfort combination compared with Bimatoprost 
and Timolol dosed concurrently (adjunctively) 
and with Bimatoprost monotherapy 
Double-masked, 3-arm parallel-group 
Once daily, morning dosing of the Ganfort 
combination 
3 weeks 
192024-026T 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The patient population selected in the Phase III studies differed somewhat.   
Studies 192024-018T and -021T 
The  studies  enrolled  adult  patients  diagnosed  with  OHT,  chronic  open-angle  glaucoma,  or  chronic 
angle-closure  glaucoma  with  a  patent  iridotomy  and  requiring  bilateral  treatment.    Those  with 
inadequately controlled IOP (≥ 18 mm Hg in at least 1 eye) on current medication or treatment naïve 
(IOP ≥ 24 mm Hg in at least 1 eye) patients at the prestudy visit (Hour 0 and Hour 2) were eligible.   
Qualifying Hour 0 and Hour 2 IOPs must have been from the same eye.  The baseline (Day 0, Hour 0) 
inclusion  criteria  were  post-washout  morning  IOP ≥ 24 mm Hg  in  at  least  1  eye,  and  best-corrected 
Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity equivalent to a Snellen score 
of 20/100 or better in each eye.   
Although  patients  treated  with  topical  ophthalmic  beta-blocker  medication  within  the  previous 
6 months prior to baseline were excluded from entry into the study, patients inadequately controlled 
on prostaglandins and prostamides were eligible.  
Study 192024-504T 
13/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This study randomised patients who were insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers.   
Patients with glaucoma or OHT whose IOP following run-in on beta-blocker shows inadequate control 
(IOP 20 to 30 mmHg at hour 0 in one or both eyes. Post wash out Day 0 hour 0 IOP at least +4 mmHg 
greater than the run-in Hour 0 IOP in the same eye. 
This  different  patient  population  to  the  one  used  in  Studies  192024-018T  and  -021T  was  selected 
because  it  was  more  akin  to  the  European  patient  population  that  would  be  considered  for  a  new 
glaucoma combination therapy (in keeping with the prescribing guidelines applicable at the time the 
study was set up, ie, addition of an antiglaucoma agent if the beta-blocker was unsuccessful).   
Study 192024-026T  
This  study  recruited  only  patients  with  glaucoma  or  OHT  in  both  eyes  and  requiring  bilateral 
treatment, and only patients naïve to prior IOP-lowering therapy.   
It is well established that open-angle glaucoma, other than primary, comprises a small proportion of 
the  population.    The  patient  population  from  this  clinical  development  programme  is  no  exception 
with pigmentary, pseudoexfoliative and residual (patent iridotomy) glaucoma seen in at least one eye 
in the following number of patients: 
Study # 
Patients (% of total) 
192024-018T 
192024-021T 
192024-504T 
OD 
16  (3.1%) 
11  (2.0%) 
45  (9.8%) 
OS 
16 (3.1%) 
9   (1.7%) 
47 (10.3%) 
Treatments, randomisation and blinding (masking) 
All studies were randomised, double masked and used the bimatoprost vehicle as “placebo”. 
Studies 192024-018T and -021T 
Qualified  patients  were  enrolled  and  assigned  to  1 of 3 masked  treatment  groups  (the  Ganfort 
combination, Bimatoprost, or Timolol) based on a 2:1:1 allocation.   
For  patients  in  the  Ganfort  combination  group,  the  combination  was  administered  once  daily  in  the 
morning, with the vehicle administered in the evening to maintain proper masking against timolol. For 
patients in the Bimatoprost group, the bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution was administered once 
daily in the evening, with the vehicle administered in the morning to maintain proper masking against 
timolol. For patients in the Timolol group, timolol was administered at both the morning and evening 
administrations. Patients began study medication dosing in the evening of the day 0 (baseline) visit. 
These  clinical  trial  were    12-month  studies  with  a  3-month  primary  study  period  and  a  9-month 
masked extension period. The studies were unmasked at month 3 for the analysis of the 3-month data 
for  regulatory  filing  in  the  US.  Special  efforts  were  made  to  avoid  biasing  the  conduct  of  the  final 
9 months of the studies. The treatment identity and the results of the 3-month data analyses were not 
revealed at any investigational center prior to study completion. Clinical personnel involved with the 
daily monitoring of the trial remain masked to the 3-month data during the conduct of the remaining 
9 months of the study. 
Study 192024-504T 
Qualified  patients  were  assigned  to  masked  treatment  groups  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  according  to  the 
randomisation schedule. 
For patients in the Ganfort combination group, the Combination eye drops were administered QD in 
the morning, with the vehicle administered in the evening to maintain proper masking against timolol.  
For  patients  in  the  Bimatoprost  group,  the  Bimatoprost  eye  drops  were  administered  QD  in  the 
evening,  with  the  vehicle  administered  in  the  morning  to  maintain  proper  masking  against  timolol.  
14/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  patients  in  the  Timolol  group,  timolol  eye  drops  were  administered  at  both  the  morning  and 
evening dosing times 
Study 192024-026T 
Patients  were  assigned  to  masked  treatment  groups  with  Ganfort  combination,  Concurrent,  or 
Bimatoprost  based  on  a  2:2:1  allocation  ratio  at  each  study  site.    Randomisation  was  stratified  by 
baseline IOP averaged from both eyes into 2 groups, IOP ≤ 26 mm Hg or IOP > 26 mm Hg.   
For patients in the Ganfort combination group, the Ganfort combination eye drops were administered 
QD  in  the  morning,  with  the  vehicle  administered  twice  in  the  evening  to  maintain  proper  masking 
against timolol.  For patients in the Concurrent group, the morning dose was timolol and the evening 
dose was bimatoprost followed by timolol.  For patients in the Bimatoprost group, the morning dose 
was vehicle and the evening dose was bimatoprost followed by vehicle to maintain masking. 
The possible shortcomings of the masking due to the same vehicle, namely the bimatoprost vehicle, 
used with both the Ganfort combination and with bimatoprost were discussed briefly by the applicant. 
The  only  minor  difference  between  the  bimatoprost  vehicle  and  the  Ganfort  combination  eye  drops 
(beyond removal of the drug substances) is the slight reduction in sodium chloride concentration in the 
Ganfort  combination  eye  drops  formulation.    This  minor  difference  was  considered  unlikely  to 
influence the masking. 
Objectives 
Study 
Study 192024-018T 
Study 192024-021T 
Objective 
To  compare  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  bimatoprost  0.03%/timolol  0.5% 
combination  ophthalmic  solution  once  daily  with  that  of  timolol  0.5% 
ophthalmic  solution  monotherapy  twice  daily  and  bimatoprost  0.03% 
ophthalmic  solution  once  daily  administered  for  3  months  (with  a  9-month, 
masked extension) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
To  compare  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  bimatoprost  0.03%/timolol  0.5% 
combination  ophthalmic  solution  once  daily  with  that  of  timolol  0.5% 
ophthalmic  solution  monotherapy  twice  daily  and  bimatoprost  0.03% 
ophthalmic  solution  once  daily  administered  for  3  months  (with  a  9-month, 
masked extension) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
Study 192024-504T  To compare the efficacy and safety of bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination 
once-daily  (QD)  (dosed  in  the  morning)  with  that of  bimatoprost  0.03%  QD 
(dosed  in  the  evening)  monotherapy  ophthalmic  solution  and  timolol  0.5% 
twice-daily  (BID)  monotherapy  ophthalmic  solution  administered  for  12 
weeks  in  patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  with  an  elevated 
intraocular pressure (IOP) on beta blocker therapy alone. 
Study 192024-026T 
To  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  bimatoprost  0.03%/timolol  0.5% 
combination ophthalmic solution once daily (QD) (hereafter referred to as the 
Ganfort  combination)  with  that  of  bimatoprost  0.03%  QD  and  timolol  0.5% 
twice daily (BID) ophthalmic solutions dosed concurrently (hereafter referred 
to  as  Concurrent)  for  3  weeks  in  treatment-naïve  patients  with  glaucoma  or 
ocular  hypertension.  The  bimatoprost  0.03%  ophthalmic  solution  QD 
treatment arm (hereafter referred to as bimatoprost) was used for validation of 
study outcomes only. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The same efficacy parameters were applied, but the choice of the primary end points varied across the 
studies:  
(cid:131)  Study  192024-018T,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  the 
adjusted target IOP <18 mm Hg (adjusted for central corneal thickness) 
15/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Study 19202-021T used the mean change from baseline in IOP 
(cid:131)  Study 192024-504T applied the change in mean diurnal IOP  
(cid:131)  Study 192024-026T used the mean IOP values as primary efficacy criterion 
Among the secondary endpoints were mean IOP values, mean change in IOP, mean diurnal IOP, the 
proportion of patients achieving target IOP < 18 mm Hg, or > 20 % decrease from baseline IOP in the 
studies. 
Table 
Efficacy Parameters Analysed in Clinical Studies 
Efficacy 
Parameters 
Mean 
IOP 
values 
Chang
e in 
IOP 
Mean 
diurnal 
IOPa 
Chang
e in 
mean 
diurnal 
IOPa 
Target 
IOPb 
> 20% 
decreas
e 
Target 
diurnal 
IOPa, b 
> 20% 
decreas
e 
Target 
IOPb of 
< 18 m
m Hg 
Target IOP category 
analysis (< 14 
mm Hg, 14 to 17.5 
mm Hg, and 
> 17.5 mm Hg) 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Study 
192024-
018T 
192024-
021T 
192024-
504T 
192024-
026T 
Source: individual CSRs 
a  Diurnal IOP = average of Hour 2, Hour 0 and Hour 8 IOPs 
b  The number (%) of patients who achieved the target IOP parameter 
Sample size  
See Table  
Patient Disposition: All Efficacy Studies 
Studies 192024-018T  and  -021T:  in  each  study,  planned  enrolment  was  for  480 patients  in  order  to 
have 360 patients complete the 12-month study period (assuming a 25% drop-out rate).  
(cid:131)  192024-018T 
Four hundred and eighty patients were planned; 520 patients were enrolled in the study, with 261 
patients randomized to the Ganfort combination, 129 patients randomized to Bimatoprost, and 130 
patients  randomized  to  Timolol  groups.  There  were  450  patients  who  completed  through  the 
month 12 visit of the study. 
(cid:131)  192024-021T 
Four hundred and eighty patients were planned; 541 patients were enrolled in the study, with 272 
patients randomized to the Ganfort combination, 136 patients randomized to Bimatoprost, and 133 
patients  randomized  to  Timolol  groups.  There  were  473  patients  who  completed  through  the 
month 12 visit of the study. 
16/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  
Category 
n (%) 
Patient Disposition: All Efficacy Studies 
Pooled 192024-018T and 192024-021T  
192024-504T 
192024-026T 
Combinatio
n  
Bimatopros
t 
Timolol  
Combinatio
n 
Bimatopros
t 
Timolol 
Combinatio
n 
Concurren
t 
Bimatopros
t 
Randomised 
ITT population 
PP population 
Safety population 
533 
533 
511 
533 
265 
265 
257 
265 
263 
263 
252 
263 
155 
155 
141 
152 
148 
148 
135 
147 
156a 
155 
149 
154 
178 
178 
171 
176 
Completed (%) 
468 (87.8%)  225 (84.9%)  230 
146 (94.2%)  143 (96.6%)  152 
172 (96.0%) 
(87.5%) 
(98.1%) 
177 
177 
165 
176 
90 
90 
87 
90 
170 
(96.0%) 
88 (97.8%) 
Discontinued  due 
to: 
  Lack of efficacy 
8 (1.5%) 
3 (1.1%) 
6 (2.3%) 
  AE 
37 (6.9%) 
26 (9.8%) 
9 (3.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
7 (4.5%) 
  Administrative 
reason 
10 (1.9%) 
7 (2.6%) 
15 (5.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (2.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (1.7%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (1.7%) 
3 (1.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (1.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
  Protocol violation 
5 (0.9%) 
  Other 
5 (0.9%) 
2 (0.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
2 (1.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (1.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, 192024-504T, M5, vol 19, and 192024-026T CSRs, M5, vol 26, and Section 5.3.5.3, Pooled Efficacy Tables for Studies 192024-018T/-021T, 
M5, vol 28 
a  One  patient,  who  was  randomised  to  Timolol,  was  excluded  from  all  analyses  due  to  misconduct  identified  at  the  investigator  site  before  database  lock
17/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Studies 192024-018T and -021T 
An ITT (intent-to-treat) population consisting of all randomised patients in both studies was used for the 
efficacy  analyses.    Analyses  were  performed  for  the  primary  efficacy  variable,  IOP,  using  the  ITT 
population  (all  randomised  patients)  with  last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF),  and  the per  protocol 
(PP) population with observed cases.  Comparisons were made between the Ganfort combination and each 
of  the  2 monotherapies  in  a  pairwise  fashion  using  contrasts  from  the  ANOVA  model,  at  the 
0.05 significance level. 
For some of the efficacy parameters, the IOP measurements were also adjusted for corneal thickness based 
on the Ehlers’ method (referred to as the “adjusted IOP”). 
Study 192024-504T 
The  mean  change  from  baseline  in  diurnal  IOP  was  the  primary  efficacy  variable  and  the  analysis  was 
performed on the ITT population using LOCF.  Treatment comparisons were made between the Ganfort 
combination therapy and the individual component groups, and were tested using contrasts from a 2-way 
ANOVA model with fixed effects for treatment and investigator.  A PP analysis of the primary efficacy 
variable, mean change from baseline in diurnal IOP, was also performed. 
Study 192024-026T 
An  ITT  population  of  all  randomised  patients  was  used  for  efficacy  analyses  and  summaries  of 
demographic  and  baseline  measurements.    The  primary  comparison  of  IOP  between  the  Ganfort 
combination and Concurrent was analysed using non-inferiority and statistical superiority tests.  
As  is  particularly  relevant  for  non-inferiority  analyses,  corresponding  efficacy  analyses  were  also 
performed using the PP population.   
RESULTS 
Recruitment 
The studies recruited patients with OHT and all forms of chronic open angle glaucoma, including primary 
open-angle, pseudoexfoliative, pigmentary, and chronic angle closure glaucoma with patent iridotomy in 
each eye.  In addition, patients with mixed pathology were also recruited.   
For Study 192024-026T, both eyes needed to be eligible with an IOP asymmetry of no greater than 5 mm 
Hg, thereby ensuring consistency of disease between eyes.   
For  Studies  192024-504T,  -018T,  and  -021T,  only  one  eye  needed  to  be  eligible,  although  both  eyes 
needed to require IOP-lowering therapy.   
Conduct of the study 
According to the applicant, all clinical studies were conducted in accordance with current Good Clinical 
Practice (GCP) guidelines. Studies conducted outside the European Union met the ethical requirements of 
Directive 2001/20/EC. 
However,  during  Study  192024-504T,  prior  to  database  lock,  the  applicant  comments  that  sufficient 
evidence of misconduct was discovered at one site to justify the exclusion of data generated by this centre. 
The site had only randomized one patient. Analyses of both efficacy and safety were performed excluding 
the data generated from this one patient. Additional analyses of demography, primary efficacy and adverse 
event incidence were also performed, for comparative purposes, with this patient included. 
18/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, prior to database lock, the primary endpoint for Study 192024-018T was amended from the 
mean change from baseline IOP, to the incidence of patients achieving adjusted target IOP at all follow-up 
timepoints.  The  change  was  caused  by  the  results  from  the  Advanced  Glaucoma  Intervention  Study 
(AGIS-7)  (Am J Ophthalmol 2000; 130:429-440). 
Baseline data 
Study 192024-018T 
Overall, the mean age of patients was 59.4 years (ranging from 22 to 91 years).  There were more females 
(53.3%)  than  males,  the  majority  of  the  population  was  Caucasian  (72.1%)  and  the  most  common  iris 
colour was brown (44.4%). 
Study 192024-021T 
The female to male gender ratio was 51.9 %: 28.1%.  The mean age was 62.4 years (ranging from 24 to 90 
years). 
The  distribution  of  diagnoses  was  52.9  %  for  glaucoma,  44.4  %  for  ocular  hypertension  and  2.8  %  for 
mixed diagnosis, similarly distributed in the treatment groups.  
Study 192024-504T 
The female to male gender ratio was 62.4 %:37.6 % The mean age was 61.5 years (ranging from 25 to 87 
years). 
The mean diurnal IOP was 27.36 mm Hg, 26.97 mm Hg, and 27.19 mm Hg in the Ganfort combination 
group,  the  bimatoprost  and  the  timolol  group,  respectively.  Patients  with  a  glaucoma  diagnosis 
encompassed 87.8 %, 10.5 % had ocular hypertension and 1.77 % had a mixed diagnosis. 
Study 192024-026T 
The mean age was 59.8 years (ranging from 18 to 87 years). The female to male ratio was 55.3 %:44.7%.  
The mean diurnal IOP values at baseline were similar across the treatment groups: 24.9 mm Hg, 25.2 mm 
Hg,  and  25.0  mm  Hg  in  the  Ganfort  combination  group,  the  bimatoprost  and  the  timolol  group, 
respectively. 
Numbers analysed 
See Table  
Patient Disposition: All Efficacy Studies 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study 192024-018T 
Results  of  the  primary  endpoint,  the  percentage  of  patients  who  achieved  a  target  IOP  <  18  mm  Hg  is 
shown  below.  The  difference  between  the  Ganfort  combination  and  bimatoprost  is  not  statistically 
significant, as opposed to the difference between the combination and timolol. 
The PP-analyses confirmed the ITT-analyses. 
19/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 
Study 192024-018T: Percentage of Patients Achieving Target IOP < 18 mm Hg at All 
Follow-Up Timepoints (ITT) 
Achieved Target IOP < 18 mm Hg 
Adjusted 
Unadjusted 
Combination 
N = 261 
Bimatoprost 
N = 129 
61.7% 
22.6% 
57.4% 
16.3% 
Timolol 
N = 130 
48.5% 
6.9% 
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Report 192024-018T, Tables 14.2-5 and 14.2-6. 
Note: IOP measured at all follow-up timepoints. Adjusted IOP = IOP measurement adjusted for corneal 
thickness using Ehlers’ approach. 
Results from the mean change from baseline analysis are provided in the table below, where only at 6 out 
of  16  timepoints  show  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  Ganfort  combination  and 
bimatoprost, and a numerically lower value was not observed at all the rest of the timepoints. 
20/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 
Study 192024-018T: Mean IOP (mm Hg) at Baseline and Mean Changes from Baseline at 
Each Scheduled Timepoint (ITT with LOCF) 
Timepoint 
Combination 
N = 261 
Bimatoprost 
N = 129 
Timolol 
N = 130 
Baseline 
Week 2 
Hour 
0 
Hour 
2 
Hour 
8 
Hour 
0 
Hour 
2 
Hour 
Week 6 
Hour 
Month 3 
Hour 
2
Hour 
8
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
Month 6 
Hour 
Hour 
2
Hour 
Month 9 
Hour 
Month 
12 
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
26.1 
24.2 
23.0 
-9.2 
-8.0 
-7.4 
-9.5 
-7.9 
-7.5 
-9.1 
-7.6 
-7.1 
-8.4 
-7.2 
-7.0 
-8.6 
-7.1 
-8.4 
-7.0 
25.5 
23.9 
22.9 
-7.8a 
-7.1a 
-6.1a 
-8.5a 
-7.5 
-6.5a 
-8.5 
-7.7 
-6.2a 
-7.9 
-7.3 
-6.4 
-8.0 
-7.2 
-7.8 
-7.2 
25.9 
24.5 
23.0 
-7.0b 
-6.2b 
-5.1b 
-7.0b 
-6.4b 
-5.2b 
-7.0b 
-6.2b 
-5.0b 
-7.0b 
-6.4b 
-4.9b 
-6.6b 
-6.0b 
-6.7b 
-6.0b 
Combination 
v. 
P-value
0.093 
Combination 
v.  
P-value 
0.648 
0.324 
0.821 
0.389 
0.988 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.026 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.005 
0.237 
0.011 
0.067 
0.809 
0.030 
0.143 
0.861 
0.200 
0.088 
0.751 
0.063 
0.668 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.038 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.007 
< 0.001 
0.006 
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Report 109204-018T, Tables 14.2-1.1 and 14.2-3.1 to 14.2-3.6, M5, vol 4. 
N = Number of randomised patients. 
a  Ganfort combination mean decrease from baseline in IOP statistically significantly greater than 
Bimatoprost (p ≤ 0.030).  
b  Ganfort combination mean decrease from baseline in IOP statistically significantly greater than 
Timolol (p ≤ 0.038).  
A  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  the  Ganfort  combination  towards  bimatoprost  in 
monotherapy was not found in this population. 
192024-021T 
At one point only, was the difference between the bimatoprost 0.03 %/timolol 0.5 % ophthalmic solution 
combination  and  bimatoprost  0.03  %  ophthalmic  solution  in  mean  change  from  baseline,  statistically 
21/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant. The difference between the Ganfort combination and timolol 0.5 % ophthalmic solution was 
statistically significant at all timepoints but one.  
Study 192024-021T: Mean IOP (mm Hg) at Baseline and Mean Changes from Baseline at Each Scheduled 
Timepoint (ITT with LOCF) 
Timepoint 
Combination 
N = 272 
Bimatoprost
N = 136 
Combination 
v. Bimatoprost 
Timolol 
N = 133  P-value 
Combination 
v.  
P-value 
Baseline 
Hour 
0
Hour 
Hour 
25.8 
24.5 
23.6 
Week 2 
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
Week 6 
Hour 
Month 3 
Hour 
2
Hour 
8
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
Month 6 
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
Month 9 
Hour 
Month 
12 
Hour 
Hour 
Hour 
-9.4 
-8.3 
-7.9 
-9.6 
-8.1 
-7.9 
-9.2 
-8.0 
-7.7 
-8.6 
-7.5 
-7.3 
-8.4 
-7.2 
-8.1 
-7.2 
26.1 
25.1 
23.8 
-8.8 
-8.3 
-7.2 
-9.0 
-8.5 
-7.4 
-8.9 
-8.6 
-7.2 
-8.6 
-8.3b 
-7.1 
-8.0 
-7.9 
-7.8 
-7.7 
26.5 
25.1 
23.7 
-7.8a 
-6.9a 
-5.8a 
-7.7a 
-6.9a 
-5.3a 
-7.6a 
-7.1a 
-5.5a 
-7.2a 
-6.8a 
-5.4a 
-6.9a 
-6.5 
-6.7a 
-6.3a 
0.356  
0.102 
0.583 
0.091 
0.967 
0.136 
0.093 
0.294 
0.225 
0.388 
0.175 
0.328 
0.890 
0.047 
0.594 
0.340 
0.068 
0.435 
0.184 
0.054 
0.123 
0.973 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.003 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.022 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.050 
< 0.001 
0.001 
0.071 
< 0.001 
0.026 
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Report 109204-021T, Tables 14.2-1.1 and 14.2–3.1 to 14.2-3.6, M5 vol 11. 
a  Ganfort  combination  mean  decrease  from  baseline  in  IOP  statistically  significantly  greater  than 
Timolol (p ≤ 0.050).  
b  Bimatoprost  mean  decrease  from  baseline  in  IOP  statistically  significantly  greater  than  the  Ganfort 
combination (p = 0.047).  
The difference between the combination and bimatoprost in mean change from baseline was statistically 
significant  only  at  one  point.  The  difference  between  the  combination  and  timolol  was  statistically 
significant at all timepoints except 2.  
22/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results for an important secondary parameter are shown in the table below. 
Study 192024-021T: Number (%) of Patients Achieving a Target IOP < 18 mm Hg at all Follow-up 
Timepoints (ITT population) 
Achieved 
IOP < 18 mm Hga 
Unadjusted 
Adjusted 
Combination 
N = 272 
65 (23.9%) 
182 (66.9%) 
Bimatoprost 
N = 136 
27 (19.9%) 
81 (59.6%) 
Timolol 
N = 133 
12 (9.0%)b 
60 (45.1%)b 
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Report 192024-021T, Tables 14.2-5 and 14.2-6, M5 vol 11 
Note: IOP measured at all follow-up timepoints. Adjusted IOP = IOP measurement adjusted for corneal 
thickness using Ehlers’ approach. 
a  Scheduled follow-up IOP measurements were at Hours 0, 2, and 8 at Weeks 2 and 6 and Months 3 and 
6 and Hours 0 and 2 at Months 9 and 12. 
b  Ganfort combination patients achieving IOP < 18 mm Hg statistically significantly higher than 
Timolol (p < 0.001).  
192024-504T 
A statistically and clinically significant decrease in mean diurnal IOP was found in all groups at all visits 
(p<0.001).  The  mean  difference  between  the  Ganfort  combination  and  bimatoprost  was  not  statistically 
significant at any time point, but the decrease from baseline was numerically larger at all timepoints with 
the combination. The difference between the Ganfort combination and timolol was statistically in favour 
of the combination at all timepoints. 
Study  192024-504T:  Baseline  and  Mean  Changes  from  Baseline  in  Diurnal  IOP  (mm Hg)  at  Each 
Scheduled Visit (ITT with LOCF) 
Within-group Comparison 
Timepoin
t 
Combinatio
n 
N = 155 
Bimatopros
t 
N = 148 
Baseline 
27.36 
Week 2 
Week 6 
Week 12 
-9.21 
-9.56 
-9.77 
26.97 
-9.19 
-9.48 
-9.71 
Combination  versus 
Bimatoprosta  
Mean 
differenc
e 
P-value 
(95% 
CI) 
Combination  versus 
Timolola 
Mean 
differenc
e 
P-value 
(95% 
CI) 
0.33 
0.05 
0.02 
0.03 
0.294 
0.888 
0.962 
0.941 
0.19 
-1.99 
-2.19 
-2.17 
0.541 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
Timolo
l 
N 
155 
= 
27.19 
-7.33 
-7.35 
-7.60 
Note: Diurnal IOP was calculated by the mean of Hour 0, 2 and 8 IOP values 
a  A negative difference between the 2 treatment groups indicates that the mean change was in favour of 
the Ganfort combination group  
Secondary endpoints: 
23/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  IOP  <  18  mm  Hg  at  all  timepoints,  the  figures  were  18.7  %, 
20.9 %, and 5.2 % in the combination group, the bimatoprost, and the timolol group, respectively, with the 
latter difference being statistically significant. 
The  percentage  of  patients  with  a  decrease  in  IOP  from  baseline  of  >  20  %  at  all  timepoints  was  also 
similar between the Ganfort combination and the bimatoprost group and statistically significantly higher 
than in the timolol group with 62.6 %, 59.5 %, and 36.8 % achieving this endpoint, respectively. 
For the decrease of the mean diurnal IOP > 20 % at all visits, the figures were 83.9 %, 87.2 %, and 60.0 % 
in the 3 groups, respectively. 
This  study  failed  to  show  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  IOP-lowering  between  the  Ganfort 
combination and bimatoprost in this population of patients with an inadequate response to beta-blockers. 
192024-026T 
In this study, the requirements for non-inferiority of the Ganfort combination compared to the concurrent 
use of the single agents was that the difference between the mean IOP in the combination group and in the 
concurrent  group  should  not  only  be  less  than  1.5  mm  Hg  at  the  3  timepoints,  but  also  less  than 
1.0 mm Hg for at least 2 of the 3 timepoints. 
For the mean IOP at each time point at week 3, the difference in mean IOP  was within the 1.0 mm  Hg 
non-inferiority  margin  at  one  observation,  namely  at  H8,  and  within  the  1.5  mm  Hg  margin  at  all  3 
timepoints. The upper limit of the 95 % confidence interval for the between group difference was 1.28 mm 
Hg, 1.29 mm Hg, and 0.51 mm Hg at hours 0, 2 and 8, respectively, at week 3. The differences in mean 
IOP between the Ganfort combination and the concurrent groups were -0.15 to 0.61 mm Hg. However it is 
noted that in this treatment naïve population, a statistically significant difference between the combination 
observed.
and 
bimatoprost 
group 
was 
the 
24/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 192024-026T: Mean IOP (mm Hg) at Each Scheduled Timepoint (ITT with LOCF) 
Timepoint 
Baselin
e 
Hour 0 
Hour 2 
Hour 8 
Week 3 
Hour 0 
Hour 2 
Hour 8 
Combination 
N = 178 
Concurrent 
N = 177 
Bimatoprost 
N = 90 
26.2 
24.9 
23.7 
16.5 
16.2 
15.4 
26.4 
25.2 
23.9 
15.8 
15.5 
15.5 
26.2 
25.1 
23.8 
17.7 
16.8 
16.8 
vs  
Combination  vs 
Concurrent 
P-value 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
0.410 
-0.18 
(-0 62 0 25)
0.300 
-0.29 
(-0 83 0 26)
0.400 
-0.26 
(-0.85, 0.34)
0.084 
0.60 
(-0 08 1 28)
0.077 
0.61 
(-0 07 1 29)
0.663 
-0.15 
(-0.80, 0.51)
Combination  vs  
Bimatoprost 
P-value 
Difference 
(95% CI)
0.923 
-0.03 
(-0 56 0 50)
0.530 
-0.21 
(-0 86 0 45)
0.466 
-0.27 
(-0.99, 0.45)
0.007 
-1.15 
(-1 97 -0 32)
0.216 
-0.52 
(-1 34 0 30)
0.001 
-1.32 
(-2.12, -0.52)
Concurrent 
Bimatoprost 
P-value 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
0.562 
0.16 
(-0 38 0 69)
0.821 
0.08 
(-0 58 0 73)
0.973 
-0.01 
(-0.74, 0.71)
< 0.001 
-1.75 
(-2 58 -0 92)
0.008 
-1.13 
(-1 96 -0 30)
0.004 
-1.17 
(-1.97, -0.38)
Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Report 192024-026T, Tables 14.2-1.1 and 14.2-1.2, M5, vol 26 
25/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strictly, the non-inferiority criteria were not fulfilled, as the non-inferiority margin of 1.0 mm Hg was met 
at only one and not at two timepoints, as requested. However, this demand is ambitious as usually the 1.5 
mm Hg is applied as limit for non-inferiority. 
The PP-results confirmed the ITT results. 
Secondary endpoints:  
At week 3, the mean diurnal IOP was 16.1 mm Hg, 15.6 mm Hg, and 17.1 mm Hg in the Ganfort 
combination group, the concurrent group, and the bimatoprost group, respectively. (p= 0.222 for the 
Ganfort combination vs. concurrent group). 
Ancillary analyses 
No ancillary analyses have been performed. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses) 
The applicant provided responder analyses, which included analyses based on diurnal IOP from the pooled 
studies 192024 018T & 021T. Since the design of the two studies 192024-018T and -021T were identical 
(except for the choice of primary efficacy parameter), a pooled analysis was considered to be justified. 
Two  analyses  were  presented,  namely  percentage of  patients  achieving  greater  than  20%  decrease  from 
baseline diurnal IOP at all visits and the percentage achieving an IOP below 18  mmHg at all follow-up 
timepoints.  In  both  cases,  analyses  were  performed  for  the  overall  population  and  patients  who  were 
uncontrolled  by  prostamide/prostaglandins.  There  is  a  statistically  significant  benefit  of  the  Ganfort 
combination vs. bimatoprost monotherapy. The results provided are summarized below: 
Percentage of patients achieving greater than 20% decrease from baseline diurnal IOP at all visits 
The results provided by the applicant show that a decrease greater than 20% from baseline diurnal IOP is 
seen  in  a  similar  percentage  comparing  the  overall  population  (68.1%,  1061  patients)  vs.  patients 
previously treated with prostamide/prostaglandins (67.9%, 373 patients). In both cases the results obtained 
with the fixed Ganfort combination are statistically significantly superior compared to those obtained with 
bimatoprost monotherapy (58.1% overall, 48.9% prostamide/prostaglandin patients). 
Table   
Pooled 192024-018T & -021T: Incidence of patients achieving >20% decrease from 
baseline diurnal IOP at all visits 
Study Population 
Total patient # 
Overall* 
1061 
Prostaglandin/prostamide 
373 
wash-out** 
Ganfort® 
68.1% 
67.9% 
Bimatoprost 
58.1%a 
48.9%b 
Timolol 
38.0% 
31.5% 
*Section 5.3.5.3 Pooled Efficacy   Table 2.7.3.13-10 M5, vol 29 (Page 39) 
** Section 2.7.3.6.1  Table 99.3 M2, vol 2 (Page 51) 
a p = 0.003   b p = 0.001 
Percentage of patients achieving an IOP below 18 mmHg at all Follow-up timepoints 
The  applicant  establishes  that  a  similar  percentage  of  responders  has  been  obtained  after  treatment  with 
treated  with 
the  Ganfort  combination  (23.3%  Overall  population;  18.7%  patients  previously 
prostamide/prostaglandins)  and  these  percentages  are  superior  to  those  obtained  with  bimatoprost 
monotherapy (18.1% and 10.2% respectively). 
26/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  incidence  of  patients  achieving  the  target  IOP  of  < 18  mm  Hg  at  all  follow-up  timepoints  is 
summarised for the pooled populations in the following Table.   
Table   
Pooled 
IOPs < 18 mm Hg at all follow-up timepoints 
192024-018T  & 
-021T: 
Incidence 
of 
patients 
achieving  
Study Population 
Total patient # 
Ganfort® 
Bimatoprost 
Timolol 
Overall* 
Prostaglandin/prostamide 
wash-out** 
1061 
373 
(patient #) 
23.3%  
(124/533) 
18.7% 
(36/193) 
(patient #) 
18.1%c 
(48/265) 
10.2%d 
(9/88) 
(patient #) 
8.0% 
(21/263) 
8.7% 
(8/92) 
*Section 5.3.5.3 Pooled Efficacy   Table 2.7.3.13-8 M5, vol 29 (Page 37) 
** Section 2.7.3.6.1  Table 98.3 M2, vol 2 (Page 48) 
c p = 0.058    d p = 0.027          
In the target IOP analysis for the pooled Studies 192024-018T/-021T, an unadjusted IOP < 18 mm Hg was 
achieved  at  all  timepoints  by  statistically  significantly  more  patients  in  the  Ganfort  combination  group 
(18.7%) compared with the Bimatoprost group (10.2%; p = 0.027) and Timolol group (8.7%; p = 0.043).   
The  proportion  of  patients  who  achieved  IOPs  < 18 mm Hg  at  all  follow-up  timepoints  in  the 
subpopulation  of  patients  receiving  prostaglandins/prostamides  was  comparable  to  the  results  for  the 
whole population. 
A statistically significant difference in favour of the Ganfort combination compared to both bimatoprost 
and timolol was noted for the proportion of patients who achieved IOP<18 mm Hg in the subpopulation of 
patients who were not satisfactorily controlled on prostaglandin/prostamide alone. This result is in contrast 
to the similarity of the mean IOP values in the subpopulation and the total population. 
The use of these responder analyses is consistent with recent scientific and clinical recommendations. 
The  applicant  has  also  provided  an  additional  analysis  of  the  pooled  192024-018T  and  -021T  studies, 
which demonstrates a statistically significant better effect in the treatment-naïve patients. This might be an 
indirect reflection of the clinical experience, that the effect of the treatment with timolol decreases with 
extended use. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special populations have been conducted. 
•  Supportive studies 
No supportive studies have been submitted. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
None of the superiority trials showed a consistent statistically significant difference between the Ganfort 
combination and bimatoprost in change from baseline IOP. In contrast, a statistically superior effect was 
observed  for  the  Ganfort  combination  over  timolol.  Taking  into  account  strictly  the  protocol  defined 
primary endpoints, the pivotal studies could  be considered to have failed.  
27/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  scientifically  and  clinically  approved  recent  literature1  state  that  the  relevant  aims  of  anti-
glaucoma/IOP-decreasing therapy are a diurnal IOP < 18 mm Hg and a reduction of > 20 % in IOP from 
baseline.  In  the  responder  analyses  provided  these  goals  have  been  achieved,  with  a  statistically  and 
clinically  significant  margin  between  the  Ganfort  combination  product  and  bimatoprost  (Lumigan) 
monotherapy in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
Additionally, the applicant has also analysed the subgroup of patients who was insufficiently controlled on 
prostaglandin/prostamide,  regarding  the  generally  accepted  responder  analyses,  i.e.  the  percentage  of 
patients  achieving  IOP  control  <  18  mm  Hg  and  the  percentage  of  patients  with  >  20  %  reduction  of 
diurnal  IOP  from  baseline.  The  subpopulation  encompasses  around  one  third  of  the  study  population, 
namely  373/1061  patients.    The  difference  in  the  incidence  of  patients  achieving  >20  %  decrease  in 
diurnal  IOP  from  baseline  is  clinically  and  statistically  significant  between  the  bimatoprost/timolol 
combination group and the bimatoprost group. For the analysis in the incidence of patients achieving IOP 
< 18 mm Hg at all follow-up visits, the difference between the combination and the monotherapy group is 
statistically  significant  in  the  analysed  subpopulation  and  clearly  numerically  different  in  the  overall 
population. 
Thus, results from this important subpopulation support a better effect of the Ganfort combination therapy 
than of bimatoprost alone. Considering the results of Study 192024-504T that addresses only patients not 
responsive  to  β-blocker  therapy  the  full  picture  of  efficacy  in  the proposed  therapeutic  indication  seems 
justified.  
Study 192024-504T specifically evaluated the effect of the Ganfort combination in patients not adequately 
controlled  with  beta-blockers.  Although  clear  evidence  of  superiority  of  the  combination  over  timolol 
monotherapy was shown in this study, a statistical superiority vs. bimatoprost has not been proved. 
With regards to study 192024-026T and according to the applicant´s margin of non-inferiority, this study 
has not proved the non-inferiority of the Ganfort combination (Bimatoprost 0.03%/Timolol 0.5%) versus 
the  concurrent  administration  of  both  drugs  in  treatment-naïve  patients.  The  upper  limit  of  the  95  % 
confidence interval for the between group difference in mean IOP was less than 1.0 mmHg at hour 8 (one 
timepoint instead the two proposed in the protocol) but less than 1.5 mmHg at all timepoints. However, it 
should be highlighted that the margin of non-inferiority of 1.5 mmHg could be considered acceptable to 
prove non-inferiority.  
Concerns regarding the appropriateness of comparing the bimatoprost monotherapy evening dosing with 
the bimatoprost/timolol combination morning dosing have subsequently been addressed with reference to 
the initial investigations with bimatoprost dosing regimen, which showed comparable results regardless of 
morning  or  evening  dosing.  The  accepted  timolol  0.5  %  morning  dose  regimen  has  been  shown  to  be 
optimal, to manage the physiological diurnal variation with the morning IOP peak. The proposed morning 
posology  with  the  bimatoprost/timolol  combination  as  stated  in  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  is  therefore 
justified. An adequate explanation has been also been added in section 5.1 of the SPC, where it states that 
evening dosing may be considered if necessary for patient compliance. 
The  Ocular  Hypertension  Treatment  Study  (OHTS)  recently  reported  that  corneal  thickness  was  a  very 
significant predictor of progression to glaucoma even after adjusting for other known risk factors (Gordon 
2002).    The  authors  concluded  that  corneal  thickness  must  be  considered,  not  only  to  improve  the 
classification of patients with respect to the risk of progression to vision loss, but also to better define a 
patient’s response to therapy. The applicant highlights that the inclusion of such adjusted analyses in most 
of the variables are provided as supplementary information. 
1 1. European Glaucoma Society Terminology and Guidelines for glaucoma 2nd ed. 2003  
   2. AGIS Investigators.  The Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS): 7.  
   3. The relationship between control of intraocular pressure and visual field deterioration.  Am J Ophthalmol 2000;    
       130:429-440) 
28/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
In  conclusion,  the  presented  studies  in  connection  with  the  submitted  response  to  the  CHMP  list  of 
Questions seem to justify the therapeutic indication and posology for the fixed combination of bimatoprost 
0.03  %  and  timolol  0.5  %:  reduction  of  intraocular  pressure  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or 
ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers or prostaglandin analogues. 
29/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Patient exposure 
The  database  contains  safety  information  of  1974  subjects,  of  whom  18  were  healthy  volunteers.  A 
number of 861 patients received the bimatoprost 0.03 %/timolol 0.5 % combination, 468 patients hereof 
were exposed for 12 months. 
Table  
Number of Subjects Exposed to Combination and Comparators 
Study 
Number 
Duration 
of 
Therapy 
Number of Subjects  
Enrolled
a 
Evaluable 
for 
Safetyb 
Combination vs monotherapy 
192024-
018T 
192024-
021T 
Pooled 
192024-
504T 
12 
monthsc 
12 
monthsc 
12 weeks 
520 
541 
1061 
458d 
520 
541 
1061 
453e 
Combination vs concurrent therapy 
192024-
026T 
Phase III 
total 
3 weeks 
445 
442 
1964 
1956 
Combination vs monotherapy in healthy subjects 
Number of Subjects Evaluable for Safetya  
in Each Treatment Arm 
Combination  Bimatoprost  Timolol  
Concurrent 
(Bimatoprost 
and Timolol) 
261 
272 
533 
152 
176 
861 
129 
136 
265 
147 
90 
502 
130 
133 
263 
154 
NA 
417 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
176 
176 
192024-
503T 
All studies 
Overall 
total 
3 x 7 daysf 
18 
18 
18f 
17e 
17f 
NA 
1982 
1974 
879 
519 
434 
176 
a    Allocated to receive study treatment 
b   Subjects that were enrolled in studies and received a dose of study medication (safety population) 
c   After an initial 3-month period, patients entered a 9-month masked extension phase  
d  A total of 459 patients were enrolled but due to misconduct identified at an investigator site, the single 
patient ( Timolol group) recruited at this site, was excluded from all analyses before database lock 
In study 192024-504T, 2 patients in the Ganfort combination group and 1 each in the Bimatoprost and 
Timolol groups recruited at one investigator site were excluded from safety analyses after receiving 
the wrong study treatment at week 6;  in addition, one patient in the Ganfort combination group 
discontinued the study without receiving study medication, and was, therefore, excluded from the 
safety population 
e 
30/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f  Subjects were dosed sequentially for 7 days with each of the 3 treatments with a 1-week washout 
between treatments. 
The  magnitude  and  duration  of  the  exposure  to  the  study  drug  is  satisfactory  for  the  drug  intended  for 
long-term therapy. 
Demographic  information  (all  studies):  The  patients’  age  ranged  from  18  to  91  years  with  the 
preponderance of patients from 45-65 years (54 %) and with 38 % being ≥ 65 years.  The male to female 
gender ratio was 45.5:55.5. The majority (79 %) of patients were Caucasian and 13 % were black. 
The demographic distribution in the study population is unremarkable. The following types of glaucoma 
were  represented  in  the  study  population:  primary  open  angle  glaucoma,  pigmentary  glaucoma, 
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma and residual (patent iridotomy). 
As  for  diagnosis,  the  population  in  the  clinical  studies  differed  with  a  clear  preponderance  of  glaucoma 
patients  in  the  192024-504T  study  as  compared  to  the  more  evenly  distribution  between  glaucoma  and 
ocular  hypertension  in  the  192024-018T  and  192024-021T  trials  and  an  opposite  distribution  in  the 
192024-026T study. 
•  Adverse events  
An appropriate battery of predefined safety parameters encompassing the adverse events, blood pressure, 
heart  rate,  visual  acuity,  biomicroscopy,  ophthalmoscopy,  visual  field  examination,  cup/disc  ratio, 
pregnancy testing, blood chemistry, haematology, and urine analysis were investigated. 
Overall, the most frequently reported adverse events in the patients were conjunctival hyperaemia, growth 
of eye lashes, burning sensation in the eye, eye pruritus, infection (body as a whole), superficial punctuate 
keratitis, and cataract for the Ganfort combination group. 
A summary of adverse events in the 4 Phase III studies is shown in the table below.  
31/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  
Summary of Adverse Events (All Phase III Studies) 
Number  of 
patients 
(%) 
Study 192024-504T 
Pooled 
3 month data 
192024-018T/021T 
Pooled 
12 month data 
192024-018T/021T  
Study 192024-026T 
Comb 
N = 152 
Bimat 
N = 147 
Timolol 
N = 154 
Comb 
N = 533 
Bimat 
N = 265 
Timolol 
N = 263 
Comb 
N = 533 
Bimat 
N = 265 
Timolol 
N = 263 
Comb 
N = 176 
Concur
r 
N = 176 
Bimat 
N = 90 
All AEs 
  ocular  
86 
(56.6) 
79 
(52.0) 
83 (56.5)  44 
(28.6)a 
76 (51.7)  27 
(17.5)a 
316 
(59.3) 
247 
(46.3) 
173 
(65.3) 
143 
(54.0) 
126 
(47.9)a 
85 (32.3)a 
  non-ocular  18 
22 (15.0)  19 (12.3)  13 (25.0)  69 (26.0)  68 (25.9) 
(11.8) 
73 
(48.0) 
0 
0 
0 
72 (49.0)  23 
(14.9)a 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.7) 
0 
0 
Treatment-
related AEs 
SAEs 
Treatment-
related 
SAEs 
Deaths 
Withdrawal 
due to AEs 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
418 
(78.4) 
323 
(60.6) 
264 
(49.5) 
256 
(48.0) 
218 (82.3)  189 
(71.9)a 
123 
(46.8)a 
181 
(68.3)b 
139 (52.5)  139 (52.9)
71 (40.3)  82 
(46.6) 
66 (37.5)  76 
13 (7.4) 
(43.2) 
20 
(11.4) 
83 (31.6)a 
62 (35.2)  74 
(42.0) 
159 
(60.0)b 
15 (5.7) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
9 (3.4)a 
43 
(47.8) 
37 
(41.1) 
14 
(15.6) 
34 
(37.8) 
0 
0 
0 
221 
(41.5) 
135 
(50.9) 
65 (24.7)a 
6 (1.1) 
2 (0.8) 
5 (1.9) 
36 (6.8) 
16 (6.1) 
7 (4.6) 
3 (2.0) 
2 (1.3) 
21 (3.9) 
18 (6.8) 
4 (1.5) 
37 (6.9) 
26 (9.8) 
3 (1.7) 
3 (1.7) 
1 (1.1) 
 Source: Section 5.3.5.1, Reports 192024-504T, Tables 14.3-4, 14.3-11 and 14.3-14 M1, vol. 9     and 192024-026T, Tables 14.3-4, 14.3-11 and 14.3-13 M1, vol. 9    ;  
Section 2.7.4.7,  3-month  Pooled  Tables  for  Studies 192024-018T/-021T,  Table 2.5.5.17-4  M1, vol. 9    ;    Section  5.3.5.3,  12-month  Pooled  Tables  for 
Studies 192024-018T/021T, Table 2.7.4.17-4 M1, vol. 9     
Note: Comb = Combination; Bimat = Bimatoprost; Concurr = Concurrent Bimatoprost/Timolol  
a   Combination incidence of AEs statistically significantly higher than Timolol (p ≤ 0.041)   
b   Combination incidence of AEs statistically significantly lower than Bimatoprost (p ≤ 0.043)   
32/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
The applicant hypothesizes that the observed less frequent adverse events in the Ganfort combination 
group,  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  could  be  explained  by  a  beta-blocker  inhibition  of  nitric  oxide 
production. This latter compound mediates the vasodilatation characteristic for bimatoprost (and other 
prostaglandin-like ocular drugs). For the pooled studies 192024-018T and -021T, overall statistically 
significant  fewer  treatment  related  adverse  were  reported  for  the  Ganfort  combination  than  the 
bimatoprost group with 48 % and 60 %. For timolol the figure was 32 %. 
For  a  few  adverse  events,  however,  like  burning  sensation,  superficial  keratitis,  FB  sensation  and 
erosion,  the  frequency  was  numerically  higher  in  the  Ganfort  combination  group  than  in  the 
bimatoprost group. 
The  incidence  of  the  potentially  concerning  ocular  adverse  events  for  prostaglandin  analogues,  i.e. 
iritis, uveitis, increased iris pigmentation cystoid macular oedema is similar to what has earlier been 
reported  with  Lumigan;  with  1  case  of  uveitis  and  4  cases  of  iritis  and  1  case  of  increased  iris 
pigmentation recorded in the Ganfort combination group across all studies. 
The  company  was  asked  to  justify  why  they  considered  the  3-month  safety  data  from  the  pooled 
analysis to be similar to the safety data from -504T.  The apparent discrepancies were in the incidence 
of eye pruritus (5.1% vs. 3.9%), superficial punctuate keratitis (3.4% vs. 0%), eye dryness (3.0% vs. 
0.7%). These adverse events all fell within the same frequency category in terms of presentation of the 
SPC Point 4.8 Undesirable effects and are grossly similar.  Therefore, it was considered appropriate to 
use the data from the 12-month pooled analysis to support the undesirable effects section of the SPC. 
For  the  ophthalmological  safety  evaluation  of  specific  relevance  for  a  glaucoma  population,  no 
unexpected findings were made for visual acuity, cup/disc ratio or visual field. Neither for laboratory 
findings nor vital signs were noteworthy observations made. 
Overall,  more  treatment  related  adverse  events  were  reported  for  the  bimatoprost  group  than  for  the 
Ganfort combination group. Nevertheless the following adverse events were reported at >10% during 
clinical trials with the Ganfort combination: conjunctival hyperaemia and eyelash growth. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A total of 4 deaths were reported in the study programme. All were regarded as not treatment related. 
The reports included 2 myocardial infarctions in the bimatoprost and the timolol group, respectively, a 
cerebrovascular  disorder,  and  death  following  injuries  after  a  car  accident  both  in  the  Ganfort 
combination  group,  all  occurring  in  the  12-month  studies.  These  findings  are  not  surprising 
considering the composition of the population. 
•  Laboratory findings/Vital signs 
No new concerns were raised with the results from laboratory analyses. No major clinically significant 
differences in heart rate or blood pressure between the treatment groups were reported. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Studies in special populations were not conducted 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No studies to investigate possible interactions with other topical medication were carried out. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation in the Ganfort combination group were 
conjunctival  hyperaemia  (1.5%),  photophobia  (0.6%)  and  iritis  (0.6%).  The  overall  discontinuation 
rate because of adverse events was statistically significantly lower with the fixed Ganfort combination 
than with the bimatoprost monotherapy regimen, namely 3.6 % versus 7.9 % (p=0.008) respectively. 
Overall, the discontinuation rate because of adverse events was not high. 
33/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Post marketing experience 
Post-marketing experience with the fixed dose combination Ganfort is not available.  
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the safety pattern of the bimatoprost / timolol combination is consistent with that of the well-
known active constituents. However, some of the specific bimatoprost adverse events like conjunctival 
hyperaemia, eyelash growth and ocular pruritus were less frequent with the Ganfort combination than 
with bimatoprost alone.  
The discontinuation rate because of adverse events was statistically significantly lower with the fixed 
Ganfort  combination  than  with  the  bimatoprost  monotherapy  regimen,  namely  3.6  %  versus  7.9  % 
(p=0.008). 
Overall,  the  adverse  event  pattern  or  frequency  of  the  Ganfort  combination  is  not  concerning,  in 
particular a low frequency for the typical adverse events for the class: inflammation, and changes of 
iris pigmentation is noted. 
The  long-term  safety  population  evaluated  under  controlled  conditions  is  considered  sufficient  to 
assess  a  favourable  safety  profile  for  the  Ganfort  combination.  The  MAH  has  addressed  the  posed 
questions:  the  omission  of  flare  meter  investigations  has  been  justified,  the  presentation  and 
interpretation of the adverse events frequency reporting has been explained and justified, and the low 
incidence  of  iris  pigmentation  has  been  adequately  discussed.  Hence,  no  outstanding  safety  issues 
remain. 
1.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
When the necessary changes to the forwarded document have been implemented by the applicant, this 
will be communicated to the EMEA. 
Risk Management Plan 
The  two  active  substances  in  Ganfort  eye  drops  are  bimatoprost  and  timolol,  which  have  been 
available  on  the  market  for  more  than  5  years  and  more  than  20  years  in  ocular  formulations, 
respectively.  The  systemic  absorption  of  both  compounds  is  minimal.  The  safety  will  be  monitored 
with the Pharmacovigilance system implemented by the applicant and will be reviewed in the PSURs. 
The  argumentation  put  forward  by  the  applicant  for  not  submitting  a  risk  management  plan  was 
considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
1.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Ganfort consists of a combination of two well-known ophthalmic drugs, timolol (0.5% or 5 mg/mL) 
and bimatoprost (0.03% or 0.3 mg/mL). The rationale for the fixed combination is well established.  
34/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The metabolism of bimatoprost and timolol differ and are therefore not expected to affect or alter one 
another.  Since  bimatoprost  and  timolol  act  through  different  receptors  it  is  unlikely  that  interaction 
would occur at the receptor level. 
The  key  findings  following  six  months  of  repeated  dosing  of  monkeys  included  increased  iridial 
pigmentation  in  the  bimatoprost  and  Ganfort  treatment  groups.  The  increased  iridial  pigmentation 
caused by bimatoprost may be an irreversible effect observed in both monkey and humans after long 
treatment periods.   Bimatoprost and timolol reveal no hazard for humans with respect to genotoxicity 
or  carcinogenic  potential.  The  use  of  Ganfort  is  not  recommended  during  pregnancy.  Ganfort  is 
unlikely to pose a risk to the environment. 
Efficacy 
Overall,  the  study  population  and  the  chosen  efficacy  end  points  were  appropriate.  The  timing  of 
dosing  for  the  Ganfort  combination  and  the  bimatoprost  groups  differed.  However  this  has  been 
justified  with  reference  to  the  initial  investigations  with  the  bimatoprost  dosing  regimen,  which 
showed comparable results regardless of morning or evening dosing.  
A  consistent  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  bimatoprost  0.03  %/timolol  0.5  % 
combination and bimatoprost 0.03 % was not consistently seen in any of the superiority trials for the 
chosen primary endpoint.  
The  applicant  has  however  provided  a  responder  analysis  addressing  the  scientifically  and  clinically 
accepted  important  parameters,  namely  the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  an  IOP  control 
< 18 mm Hg at all timepoints and a decrease in diurnal IOP from baseline > 20 % at all visits. These 
analyses  were  performed  for  the  overall  population  and  the  subpopulation  of  patients  inadequately 
controlled  on  prostaglandins/prostamides.    This  subpopulation  encompasses  around  one  third  of  the 
study population, namely 373/1061 patients.  The difference in the incidence of patients achieving >20 
% decrease in diurnal IOP from baseline is clinically and statistically significantly superior in favour 
of the bimatoprost/timolol combination group versus the bimatoprost group for both populations. As 
for  the  analysis  in  the  incidence  of  patients  achieving  IOP  <  18  mm  Hg  at  all  follow-up  visits  the 
difference between the Ganfort combination and the monotherapy group is statistically significant in 
the analysed subpopulation and clearly numerically different in the overall population in favour of the 
Ganfort combination. 
this 
from 
results 
Thus, 
inadequately  controlled  on 
important  subpopulation  of  patients 
prostaglandins/prostamides  support  a  better  effect  of  the  Ganfort  combination  therapy  than  of 
bimatoprost  alone.  Considering  the  results  of  study  192024-504T  that  addresses  only  patients  not 
responsive  to  β-blocker  therapy,  the  full  picture  of  efficacy  in  the  proposed  therapeutic  indication 
seems justified, in view of the better safety profile, which is primarily reflected in a lower frequency 
of adverse reactions and a lower withdrawal rate because of adverse events.  
In  the  non-inferiority  study  against  the  concurrent  regimen,  proof  of  non-inferiority  was  not  found 
obeying  all  the  predefined  criteria,  which  were,  admittedly,  demanding.  The  achieved  differences, 
however, were within the standard criteria for non-inferiority of 1.5 mm Hg. 
Safety 
From the safety database, all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been reviewed and 
are summarised in the Clinical safety section.  
•  User consultation 
The  applicant  has  provided  detailed  results  of  readability  testing  performed  according  to  the 
European  Commission  Guideline  on  Packaging  Information  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human 
Use  Authorised  by  the  Community  and  as  per  the  guidance  provided  by  the  EC  “Guideline  on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet (PL) of medicinal products for human use”  
35/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Package Leaflet fully conforms to the standards set. The applicant has performed readability 
testing according to the “readability guideline” and has subsequently taken appropriate measures 
to improve the readability. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Four  clinical  randomised,  double-masked,  parallel  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy and safety of the bimatoprost 0.03 /timolol 0.5 % combination ophthalmic solution in patients 
with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
Two  12-months  superiority  studies  of  similar  design  compared  the  Ganfort  combination  with  the 
individual components applied as monotherapy. The Ganfort combination was also compared to each 
monotherapy in a superiority study of 12 weeks duration.  
A  non-inferiority  study  compared  the  Ganfort  combination  with  the  adjunctive  application  of 
bimatoprost and timolol, and with bimatoprost monotherapy for internal validation, in a 3 weeks trial.  
The Ganfort combination was dosed once daily in the morning, bimatoprost was dosed once daily in 
the  evening,  and  timolol  was  dosed  twice  daily  (morning  and  evening  with  an  interval  of 
approximately 12 hours), consistent with the approved regimen. 
Overall,  the  study  population  and  the  chosen  efficacy  end  points  were  appropriate;  however,  the 
dosing  regimen  for  the  Ganfort  combination  and  the  bimatoprost  groups  differed.  This  has  been 
justified  with  reference  to  the  initial  investigations  with  bimatoprost  dosing  regimen,  which  showed 
comparable results regardless of morning or evening dosing. The text regarding the dosing regimen in 
section 5.1 of the SPC adequately reflects this. 
In none of the superiority trials was a consistent statistically significant difference between the Ganfort 
combination  and  bimatoprost  seen  for  the  chosen  primary  endpoint.  The  applicant  has  provided 
responder analyses addressing the scientifically and clinically accepted important parameters namely 
the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  IOP  control  <  18  mm  Hg,  and  a  decrease  in  diurnal  IOP  from 
baseline > 20 %. These analyses were performed for the overall population and the subpopulation of 
patients  inadequately  controlled  on  prostaglandins/prostamides.    This  subpopulation  encompasses 
around one third of the study population, namely 373/1061 patients.  The difference in the incidence of 
patients  achieving  >20  %  decrease  in  diurnal  IOP  from  baseline  is  clinically  and  statistically 
significantly superior in favour of the bimatoprost/timolol combination group versus the bimatoprost 
group for both populations. As for the analysis in the incidence of patients achieving IOP < 18 mm Hg 
at all follow-up visits the difference between the Ganfort combination and the monotherapy group is 
statistically significant in the analysed subpopulation and clearly numerically different in the overall 
population in favour of the Ganfort combination. 
this 
from 
results 
inadequately  controlled  on 
important  subpopulation  of  patients 
Thus, 
prostaglandins/prostamides,  support  a  better  effect  of  the  Ganfort  combination  therapy  than  of 
bimatoprost  alone.  Considering  the  results  of  study  192024-504T  that  addresses  only  patients  not 
responsive  to  β-blocker  therapy  the  full  picture  of  efficacy  in  the  proposed  therapeutic  indication  is 
justified.  
In  study  504T  a  numerically  superior  effect  was  not  found  at  all  observation  points.  A  statistically 
superior  effect  was  observed  for  the  Ganfort  combination  over  timolol  0.5  %.  In  the  non-inferiority 
study  against  the  concurrent  regimen,  proof  of  non-inferiority  was  not  found  obeying  the  all  the 
predefined  criteria,  which  were,  admittedly,  demanding.  The  achieved  differences  were,  however, 
within the standard criteria for non-inferiority of 1.5 mm Hg. 
The  long-term  safety  population  evaluated  under  controlled  conditions  is  considered  sufficient  to 
assess a favourable safety profile for the Ganfort combination.  
36/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon request, the applicant has properly addressed the question why patients insufficiently responsive 
to timolol should switch to the fixed combination Ganfort instead of bimatoprost as monotherapy. It 
can be concluded that the population that  is insufficiently controlled on β-blocker monotherapy, has 
been demonstrated to clearly respond to the bimatoprost/timolol combination with a once daily dosing 
regimen.  The  proportion  of  patients  who  reported  at  least  one  adverse  reaction  with  the  Ganfort 
combination was statistically significantly lower than with bimatoprost monotherapy, i.e. 48 % vs. 60 
% (p=0.001). Likewise, the rate of discontinuation because of adverse events was 3.6 % in the Ganfort 
combination  group  as  opposed  to  7.9.  %  in  the  bimatoprost  group  (p=  0.008).  These  statistically 
significant differences are also clinically relevant and translate well to a presumed higher compliance 
in  a  clinical  setting.  Especially  in  a  progressive  disease  without  symptoms  that  are  manifest  to  the 
patient, application of the  medication in accordance  with the ophthalmologist’s prescription is a key 
point.  Therefore,  an  enhanced  compliance  is  of  particular  importance  in  the  treatment  of  open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
The overall efficacy of the bimatoprost 0.03 %/timolol 0.5 % eye drops combination in the treatment 
of  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  who  are  insufficiently  responsive  to 
β-blocker  alone  should  be  assessed  in  connection  with  the  better  safety  profile,  which  is  primarily 
reflected  in  a  lower  frequency  of  adverse  reactions  and  a  lower  withdrawal  rate  because  of  adverse 
events. 
Considering the arguments presented above a positive benefit-risk conclusion can be reached for the 
therapeutic  indication:  Reduction  of  intraocular  pressure  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or 
ocular  hypertension  who  are  insufficiently  responsive  to  topical  beta-blockers  or  prostaglandin 
analogues.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered  that the 
risk-benefit balance of Ganfort in the reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-
angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers or 
prostaglandin analogues was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
37/37 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
