ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.25 mg of ganirelix in 0.5 mL aqueous solution.  
The active substance ganirelix (INN) is a synthetic decapeptide with high antagonistic activity to the 
naturally occurring gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH). The amino acids at positions 1, 2, 3, 6, 8 
and 10 of the natural GnRH decapeptide have been substituted resulting in [N-Ac-D-Nal(2)1, D-
pClPhe2, D-Pal(3)3, D-hArg(Et2)6, L-hArg(Et2)8, D-Ala10]-GnRH with a molecular weight of 1570.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear and colourless solution, with a pH of 4.8–5.2 and an osmolality of 260-300 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is indicated for the prevention of premature luteinising hormone (LH) 
surges in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) for assisted reproduction 
techniques (ART). 
In clinical studies ganirelix was used with recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) or 
corifollitropin alfa, the sustained follicle stimulant. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter should only be prescribed by a specialist experienced in the treatment of 
infertility. 
Posology 
Ganirelix is used to prevent premature LH surges in women undergoing COH. Controlled ovarian 
hyperstimulation with FSH or corifollitropin alfa may start at day 2 or 3 of menses. Ganirelix Gedeon 
Richter (0.25 mg) should be injected subcutaneously once daily, starting on day 5 or day 6 of FSH 
administration or on day 5 or day 6 following the administration of corifollitropin alfa. The starting 
day of ganirelix is depending on the ovarian response, i.e. the number and size of growing follicles 
and/or the amount of circulating oestradiol. The start of ganirelix may be delayed in absence of 
follicular growth, although clinical experience is based on starting ganirelix on day 5 or day 6 of 
stimulation. 
Ganirelix and FSH should be administered approximately at the same time. However, these medicinal 
products should not be mixed and different injection sites are to be used.  
FSH dose adjustments should be based on the number and size of growing follicles, rather than on the 
amount of circulating oestradiol (see section 5.1). 
Daily treatment with ganirelix should be continued up to the day that sufficient follicles of adequate 
size are present. Final maturation of follicles can be induced by administering human chorionic 
gonadotropin (hCG). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Timing of last injection 
Because of the half-life of ganirelix, the time between two injections of ganirelix as well as the time 
between the last injection of ganirelix and the hCG injection should not exceed 30 hours, as otherwise 
a premature LH surge may occur. Therefore, when injecting ganirelix in the morning, treatment with 
ganirelix should be continued throughout the gonadotropin treatment period including the day of 
triggering ovulation. When injecting ganirelix in the afternoon the last injection of ganirelix should be 
given in the afternoon prior to the day of triggering ovulation. 
Ganirelix has shown to be safe and effective in women undergoing multiple treatment cycles. 
The need for luteal phase support in cycles using ganirelix has not been studied. In clinical studies, 
luteal phase support was given according to study centres’ practice or according to the clinical 
protocol. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
There is no experience on the use of ganirelix in subjects with renal impairment, as they were 
excluded from clinical studies. Therefore, the use of ganirelix is contraindicated in patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment (see section 4.3). 
Hepatic impairment 
There is no experience on the use of ganirelix in subjects with hepatic impairment, as they were 
excluded from clinical studies. Therefore, the use of ganirelix is contraindicated in patients with 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter should be administered subcutaneously, preferably in the upper leg. The 
injection site should be varied to prevent lipoatrophy. The patient or her partner may perform the 
injections of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter themselves, provided that they are adequately instructed and 
have access to expert advice.  
For instructions of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6 and the instructions for 
use included at the end of the package leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) or any other GnRH analogue. 
Moderate or severe impairment of renal or hepatic function. 
Pregnancy or breast-feeding. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity reaction 
Special care should be taken in women with signs and symptoms of active allergic conditions. Cases 
of hypersensitivity reactions (both generalised and local), have been reported with ganirelix, as early 
as with the first dose, during post-marketing surveillance. These events have included anaphylaxis 
(including anaphylactic shock), angioedema and urticaria (see section 4.8). If a hypersensitivity 
reaction is suspected, ganirelix should be discontinued and appropriate treatment administered. In the 
absence of clinical experience, ganirelix treatment is not advised in women with severe allergic 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conditions. 
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) 
OHSS may occur during or following ovarian stimulation. OHSS must be considered an intrinsic risk 
of gonadotropin stimulation. OHSS should be treated symptomatically, e.g. with rest, intravenous 
infusion of electrolyte solutions or colloids and heparin. 
Ectopic pregnancy 
Since infertile women undergoing assisted reproduction, and particularly in vitro fertilisation (IVF), 
often have tubal abnormalities the incidence of ectopic pregnancies might be increased. Early 
ultrasound confirmation that a pregnancy is intrauterine is therefore important. 
Congenital malformations 
The incidence of congenital malformations after Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART) may be 
higher than after spontaneous conceptions. This is thought to be due to differences in parental 
characteristics (e.g. maternal age, sperm characteristics) and an increased incidence of multiple 
gestations. In clinical studies investigating more than 1,000 new-borns it has been demonstrated that 
the incidence of congenital malformations in children born after COH treatment using ganirelix is 
comparable with that reported after COH treatment using a GnRH agonist. 
Women weighing less than 50 kg or more than 90 kg 
The safety and efficacy of ganirelix have not been established in women weighing less than 50 kg or 
more than 90 kg (see also sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Excipient 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per injection, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
The possibility of interactions with commonly used medicinal products, including histamine liberating 
medicinal products, cannot be excluded. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of ganirelix in pregnant women. 
In animals, exposure to ganirelix at the time of implantation resulted in litter resorption (see section 
5.3). The relevance of these data for humans is unknown. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether ganirelix is excreted in breast milk. 
The use of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is contraindicated during pregnancy and breast-feeding (see 
section 4.3). 
Fertility 
Ganirelix is used in the treatment of women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation in 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assisted reproduction programmes. Ganirelix is used to prevent premature LH surges that might 
otherwise occur in these women during the ovarian stimulation. For posology and method of 
administration, see section 4.2. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The table below shows all adverse reactions in women treated with ganirelix in clinical studies using 
recFSH for ovarian stimulation. The adverse reactions with ganirelix using corifollitropin alfa for 
ovarian stimulation are expected to be similar. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions are classified according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency; very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100). The frequency 
of hypersensitivity reactions (very rare, < 1/10,000) has been deduced from post-marketing 
surveillance. 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Frequency 
Very rare 
Adverse reaction 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including rash, facial swelling, 
dyspnoea, anaphylaxis [including anaphylactic shock], 
angioedema and urticaria)1 
Worsening of a pre-existing eczema2 
Nervous system disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Uncommon  Headache 
Uncommon  Nausea 
Very 
common 
Uncommon  Malaise 
Local skin reaction at the site of injection (predominantly 
redness, with or without swelling)3 
1 Cases have been reported, as early as with the first dose, among patients administered ganirelix. 
2 Reported in one subject after the first ganirelix dose. 
3 In clinical studies, one hour after injection, the incidence of at least once a moderate or severe local 
skin reaction per treatment cycle, as reported by patients, was 12% in ganirelix-treated patients and 
25% in patients treated subcutaneously with a GnRH agonist. The local reactions generally disappear 
within 4 hours after administration. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Other reported adverse reactions are related to the controlled ovarian hyperstimulation treatment for 
ART, notably pelvic pain, abdominal distension, OHSS (see also section 4.4), ectopic pregnancy and 
spontaneous abortion. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose in humans may result in a prolonged duration of action. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data on acute toxicity of ganirelix in humans are available. Clinical studies with subcutaneous 
administration of ganirelix at single doses up to 12 mg did not show systemic adverse reactions. In 
acute toxicity studies in rats and monkeys, non-specific toxic symptoms such as hypotension and 
bradycardia were only observed after intravenous administration of ganirelix over 1 and 3 mg/kg, 
respectively. 
In case of overdose, ganirelix treatment should be (temporarily) discontinued. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Pituitary and hypothalamic hormones and analogues, 
anti-gonadotropin-releasing hormones, ATC code: H01CC01 
Mechanism of action 
Ganirelix is a GnRH antagonist, which modulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis by 
competitive binding to the GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland. As result a rapid, profound, 
reversible suppression of endogenous gonadotropins occurs, without initial stimulation as induced by 
GnRH agonists. Following administration of multiple doses of 0.25 mg ganirelix to female volunteers 
serum LH, FSH and E2 concentrations were maximally decreased by 74%, 32% and 25% at 4, 16 and 
16 hours after injection, respectively. Serum hormone levels returned to pre-treatment values within 
two days after the last injection. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation the median duration of ganirelix treatment was 
5 days. During ganirelix treatment the average incidence of LH rises (> 10 IU/L) with concomitant 
progesterone rise (> 1 ng/mL) was 0.3-1.2% compared to 0.8% during GnRH agonist treatment. 
There was a tendency towards an increased incidence of LH and progesterone rises in women with a 
higher body weight (> 80 kg), but no effect on clinical outcome was observed. However, based on the 
small number of patients treated so far, an effect cannot be excluded. 
In case of a high ovarian response, either as a result of a high exposure to gonadotropins in the early 
follicular phase or as a result of high ovarian responsiveness, premature LH rises may occur earlier 
than day 6 of stimulation. Initiation of ganirelix treatment on day 5 can prevent these premature LH 
rises without compromising the clinical outcome. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In controlled studies of ganirelix with FSH, using a long protocol of GnRH agonist as a reference, 
treatment with the ganirelix regimen resulted in a faster follicular growth during the first days of 
stimulation but the final cohort of growing follicles was slightly smaller and produced on average less 
oestradiol. This different pattern of follicular growth requires that FSH dose adjustments are based on 
the number and size of growing follicles, rather than on the amount of circulating oestradiol. Similar 
comparative studies with corifollitropin alfa using either a GnRH antagonist or long agonist protocol 
have not been performed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic parameters after multiple subcutaneous dosing of ganirelix (once daily injection) 
were similar to those after a single subcutaneous dose. After repeated dosing 0.25 mg/day steady-state 
levels of approximately 0.6 ng/mL were reached within 2 to 3 days. 
Pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an inverse relationship between body weight and serum 
concentrations of ganirelix. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
After a single subcutaneous administration of 0.25 mg, serum levels of ganirelix rise rapidly and reach 
peak levels (Cmax) of approximately 15 ng/mL within 1 to 2 hours (tmax). The bioavailability of 
ganirelix following subcutaneous administration is approximately 91%. 
Biotransformation 
The major circulating component in plasma is ganirelix. Ganirelix is also the main compound found in 
urine. Faeces only contain metabolites. The metabolites are small peptide fragments formed by 
enzymatic hydrolysis of ganirelix at restricted sites. The metabolite profile of ganirelix in humans was 
similar to that found in animals. 
Elimination 
The elimination half-life (t½) is approximately 13 hours and clearance is approximately 2.4 l/h. 
Excretion occurs via faeces (approximately 75%) and urine (approximately 22%). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on safety pharmacology, repeated dose 
toxicity and genotoxicity. 
Reproduction studies carried out with ganirelix at doses of 0.1 to 10 μg/kg/day subcutaneously in the 
rat and 0.1 to 50 μg/kg/day subcutaneously in the rabbit showed increased litter resorption in the 
highest dose groups. No teratogenic effects were observed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glacial acetic acid 
Mannitol (E 421) 
Water for injections 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
The medicinal product is filled in a glass syringe with staked stainless steel needle, closed with a 
plunger stopper and supplied with a plunger rod. The injection needle is provided with a rigid needle 
shield. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pack sizes of 1 pre-filled syringe or 6 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each pre-filled syringe is intended for only one injection. 
Alcohol swabs, gauze pads and sharps container are needed for administration of this medicinal 
product but are not provided in the pack. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
The syringe should be inspected before use. Use only syringes with clear, particle-free solutions and 
from undamaged containers. 
Before using this medicinal product for the first time, the patient should carefully read the instructions 
for use at the end of the package leaflet where instructions are provided on how to administer 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter. 
Air bubble(s) may be seen in the pre-filled syringe. This is expected, and removal of the air bubble(s) 
is not needed. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. The used syringes need to be disposed of in a sharp disposal container. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1658/001 
EU/1/22/1658/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
ganirelix 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.25 mg ganirelix in 0.5 mL aqueous solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: glacial acetic acid, mannitol (E 421), water for injections, sodium hydroxide as pH 
adjustment.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 pre-filled syringe 
6 pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For single use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1658/001 [1 pre-filled syringe] 
EU/1/22/1658/002 [6 pre-filled syringes] 
13.  BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES> 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 mL injection 
ganirelix 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
ganirelix 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Possible side effects  
How to store Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is and what it is used for 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter contains the active substance ganirelix and belongs to a group of medicines 
called “antigonadotropin-releasing hormones” which act against the actions of the natural 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH regulates the release of gonadotropins (luteinising 
hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)). Gonadotropins play an important role in 
human fertility and reproduction. In women, FSH is needed for the growth and development of 
follicles in the ovaries. Follicles are small round sacs that contain the egg cells. LH is needed to 
release the mature egg cells from the follicles and ovaries (i.e. ovulation). Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
inhibits the action of GnRH, resulting in suppression of the release of especially LH. 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is used for 
In women undergoing assisted reproduction techniques, including in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and other 
methods, occasionally ovulation may occur too early causing a significant reduction in the chance of 
getting pregnant. Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is used to prevent the premature LH surge that might cause 
such a premature release of egg cells. 
In clinical studies ganirelix was used with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) or 
corifollitropin alfa, a follicle stimulant with a long duration of action. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Do not use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
- 
if you are allergic to ganirelix or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6); 
if you are hypersensitive to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) or a GnRH analogue; 
if you have a moderate or severe kidney or liver disease; 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Ganirelix Gedeon Richter. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
If you have an active allergic condition, please tell your doctor. Your doctor will decide, depending on 
the severity, if additional monitoring is required during treatment. Cases of allergic reactions have 
been reported, as early as with the first dose. 
Allergic reactions, both generalised and local, including hives (urticaria), swelling of the face, lips, 
tongue, and/or throat that may cause difficulty in breathing and/or swallowing (angioedema and/or 
anaphylaxis) have been reported (see also section 4). If you have an allergic reaction, stop using 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter and seek immediate medical assistance. 
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) 
During or following hormonal stimulation of the ovaries, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome may 
develop. This syndrome is related to the stimulation procedure with gonadotropins. Please refer to the 
package leaflet of the gonadotropin-containing medicine prescribed for you. 
Multiple births or birth defects 
The incidence of congenital malformations after assisted reproduction techniques may be slightly 
higher than after spontaneous conceptions. This slightly higher incidence is thought to be related to 
characteristics of the patients undergoing fertility treatment (e.g. age of the woman, sperm 
characteristics) and to the higher incidence of multiple gestations after assisted reproduction 
techniques. The incidence of congenital malformations after assisted reproduction techniques using 
ganirelix is not different from that after using other GnRH analogues in the course of assisted 
reproduction techniques. 
Pregnancy complications 
There is a slightly increased risk of pregnancy outside of the uterus (an ectopic pregnancy) in women 
with damaged fallopian tubes. 
Women weighing less than 50 kg or more than 90 kg 
The efficacy and safety of ganirelix has not been established in women weighing less than 50 kg or 
more than 90 kg. Ask your doctor for further information. 
Children and adolescents 
There is no relevant use of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter in children or adolescents. 
Other medicines and Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter should be used during controlled ovarian stimulation for assisted 
reproduction techniques (ART). 
Do not use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter during pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
The effects of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter on ability to drive and use machines have not been studied. 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per injection, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is used as part of the treatment for assisted reproduction techniques (ART) 
including in vitro fertilisation (IVF). 
Ovarian stimulation with follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) or corifollitropin may start at day 2 or 3 
of your period. Ganirelix Gedeon Richter (0.25 mg) should be injected into the fatty layer just under 
the skin once daily, starting on day 5 or day 6 of stimulation. Based on your ovarian response, your 
doctor may decide to start on another day. 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter and FSH should be administered approximately at the same time. However, 
these medicines should not be mixed and different injection sites are to be used. 
Daily treatment with Ganirelix Gedeon Richter should be continued up to the day that sufficient 
follicles of adequate size are present. Final maturation of the egg cells in the follicles can be induced 
by administering human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). 
The time between two injections of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter as well as the time between the last 
injection of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter and hCG injection should not exceed 30 hours, as otherwise a 
premature ovulation (i.e. release of egg cells) may occur. 
Therefore, when injecting Ganirelix Gedeon Richter in the morning treatment with Ganirelix Gedeon 
Richter should be continued throughout the gonadotropin treatment period including the day of 
triggering ovulation.  
When injecting Ganirelix Gedeon Richter in the afternoon the last injection of Ganirelix Gedeon 
Richter should be given in the afternoon prior to the day of triggering ovulation. 
Instructions for use 
Before the administration of this medicine it is very important that you also carefully read and closely 
follow the detailed instructions for use provided at the end of this package leaflet. 
Injection site 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is supplied in pre-filled syringes and should be injected slowly, into the fatty 
layer just under the skin, preferably in the upper leg. Inspect the solution before use. Do not use if the 
solution contains particles or is not clear. You may notice air bubble(s) in the pre-filled syringe. This 
is expected, and removal of the air bubble(s) is not needed. If you administer the injections yourself or 
have it done by your partner, follow the instructions below and at the end of the Package leaflet 
carefully. Do not mix Ganirelix Gedeon Richter with any other medicines. 
Preparing the injection site 
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Swab the injection site with a disinfectant (for 
example alcohol) to remove any surface bacteria. Clean about 5 cm (two inches) around the point 
where the needle will go in and let the disinfectant dry for at least one minute before proceeding. 
Inserting the needle 
Remove needle shield. Pinch a fold of skin between index finger and thumb. Insert the needle at the 
base of the pinched-up skin at an angle of 45° to the skin surface. Vary the injection site with each 
injection. 
Checking the correct needle position 
Gently draw back the plunger to check if the needle is positioned correctly. Any blood drawn into the 
syringe means the needle tip has penetrated a blood vessel. If this happens, do not inject Ganirelix 
Gedeon Richter, but remove the syringe, cover the injection site with a swab containing disinfectant 
and apply pressure; bleeding should stop in a minute or two. Do not use this syringe and dispose of it 
properly. Start again with a new syringe.  
Injecting the solution 
Once the needle has been correctly placed, push the plunger down slowly and steadily, so the solution 
is correctly injected and the skin tissues are not damaged. Push the plunger down until the syringe is 
empty and wait for 5 seconds. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Removing the syringe 
Pull the syringe out quickly and apply pressure to the site with a swab containing disinfectant. Use the 
pre-filled syringe only once. 
If you use more Ganirelix Gedeon Richter than you should 
Contact your doctor. 
If you forget to use Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
If you realise that you forgot a dose, administer it as soon as possible. 
Do not inject a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you are more than 6 hours late (so the time between two injections is longer than 30 hours) 
administer the dose as soon as possible and contact your doctor for further advice. 
If you stop using Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Do not stop using Ganirelix Gedeon Richter unless advised to by your doctor, as this may affect the 
outcome of your treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The chance of having a side effect is described by the following categories: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 women) 
− 
Local skin reactions at the site of injection (predominantly redness, with or without swelling). 
The local reaction normally disappears within 4 hours of administration. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 women) 
− 
− 
− 
Headache 
Nausea 
Feeling generally unwell (malaise) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 women) 
− 
Allergic reactions have been observed, as early as with the first dose. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rash 
Facial swelling 
Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
Swelling of face, lips, tongue, and/or throat that may cause difficulty in breathing and/or 
swallowing (angioedema and/or anaphylaxis) 
Hives (urticaria) 
• 
−  Worsening of a pre-existing rash (eczema) has been reported in one subject after the first 
ganirelix dose. 
In addition, side effects are reported which are known to occur with controlled ovarian 
hyperstimulation treatment (e.g. abdominal pain, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), ectopic 
pregnancy (when the embryo develops outside the womb) and miscarriage (see the package  leaflet of 
the FSH-containing preparation you are treated with). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and on the carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package, in order to protect from light. 
Inspect the syringe before use. Use only syringes with clear, particle-free solutions and from 
undamaged containers. 
Each pre-filled syringe is only for a single use of injection. 
Alcohol swabs, gauze pads and sharps container are needed for administration of this medicine but 
they are not provided in the pack. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ganirelix Gedeon Richter contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is ganirelix (0.25 mg in 0.5 mL solution). 
The other ingredients are: glacial acetic acid, mannitol (E 421), water for injection. The pH 
(measurement of the acidity) may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide (see section 2 
“Ganirelix Gedeon Richter contains sodium”). 
What Ganirelix Gedeon Richter looks like and contents of the pack 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is a clear and colourless solution for injection (injection). The medicine is 
filled in a glass syringe with staked stainless steel needle, closed with a plunger stopper and supplied 
with a plunger rod. The injection needle is provided with a rigid needle shield. 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is available in packs of 1 pre-filled syringe or 6 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21. 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
HOW TO PREPARE AND ADMINISTER GANIRELIX GEDEON RICHTER IN PRE-
FILLED SYRINGE 
Before the administration of this medicine, carefully read these instructions and the package leaflet the 
whole way through. 
These instructions will help you with how to give yourself or how your partner can give you an 
injection of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter. If you are not sure about administering the injection or you 
have any questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist for help. 
Do not mix Ganirelix Gedeon Richter with any other medicines. 
Perform the injection at the same time each day. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains one daily dose of ganirelix. 
CONTENTS OF THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Preparing for the injection 
Preparing the injection site 
Injecting the medicine 
After the injection 
1. 
Preparing for the injection 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
2. 
• 
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. It is important that your hands and the items 
you use are as clean as possible to avoid infections. 
Find a clean area for the items you need for the injection, e.g. a clean table or similar horizontal 
surface. 
Gather everything you need and lay them out into the clean area: 
- 
- 
Swabs containing disinfectant (e.g. alcohol) 
1 pre-filled syringe containing the medicine 
- 
- 
Do not hold the syringe by the plunger to avoid syringe disassembling. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label or on the 
carton after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
A puncture-resistant container (e.g. a plastic bottle with a wide enough opening) to 
dispose the used syringe safely. 
- 
Inspect the solution before use. 
You may notice air bubble(s) in the pre-filled syringe. This is expected, and removal of the air 
bubble(s) is not needed. 
Do not use the syringe if: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of these occurs, you should dispose the syringe safely into the sharps container and use 
another one. 
it is cracked or damaged, or 
the needle shield has been removed or is not tightly attached or 
a fluid leakage is visible or 
the solution looks abnormal (it contains particles or it is not colourless). 
Preparing the injection site 
Choose the injection site preferably in the upper leg. The injection site should be varied for each 
injection to prevent the damage of tissue under the skin. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
3. 
• 
• 
• 
Do not inject yourself in any area that is tender, damaged or bruised. Always choose an intact 
skin area for injecting the medicine. 
Do not inject through clothes. 
Administer Ganirelix Gedeon Richter and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) approximately at 
the same time. However, these medicines should not be mixed, and different injection sites are 
to be used. 
Swab the injection site with a disinfectant (for example alcohol) at the chosen injection site to 
remove any surface bacteria. Clean an area of about 5 cm (two inches) in diameter around the 
point where the needle will go in and let the disinfectant dry for about 1 minute before 
proceeding. 
Do not touch the injection site again or blow on it before the injection. 
Injecting the medicine 
You receive Ganirelix Gedeon Richter in pre-filled syringes with a staked needle, ready for 
administration without any further adjustments to the syringe. 
By grabbing the middle of the syringe body, remove 1 syringe from the pack. 
For injecting the medicine, pull off the needle shield from the syringe that is held horizontally 
and pointing away from you. Do not twist but pull the needle shield off. 
• 
• 
When handling the syringe, do not touch the syringe tip or the needle with your fingers to avoid 
contamination. 
At the chosen and disinfected injection site, pinch up a fold of skin between your index finger 
and thumb. 
• 
• 
Administer Ganirelix Gedeon Richter subcutaneously, i.e. into the fatty layer just under the 
skin. 
Hold the syringe with your other hand so that you can place your thumb onto the plunger when 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
needed. Insert the needle completely with a quick, firm action into the middle of the pinched-up 
skin at an angle of 45° to the skin surface. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Gently draw back the plunger to check if the needle is positioned correctly. 
Any blood drawn into the syringe means the needle tip has penetrated a blood vessel. If this 
happens, do not inject Ganirelix Gedeon Richter, but remove the syringe, cover the injection site 
with a swab containing disinfectant and apply pressure; bleeding should stop in a minute or two. 
Do not use this syringe and dispose of it properly and use a new syringe. 
Once the needle has been correctly placed, push the plunger down with your thumb slowly and 
steadily, so the solution is correctly injected and the skin tissues are not damaged. 
Push the plunger down until the syringe is empty. 
4. 
After the injection 
• 
• 
Wait for 5 seconds (slowly count to 5), then let go of the skin you are pinching. 
Pull the syringe out quickly from your skin and apply pressure to the site with a swab containing 
disinfectant. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not rub your skin after the injection. 
Use each pre-filled syringe only once. 
Do not recap the needle to avoid needle stick injury. 
Discard the used syringe safely in the puncture-resistant container immediately, and return to 
the pharmacy for a correct disposal. Ask your pharmacist how to dispose of medicines you no 
longer use. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
