Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 mL solution 
for injection in pre-filled syringe (ganirelix acetate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ganirelix Gedeon Richter 0.25 mg/0.5 
mL  solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled  syringe.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Ganirelix 
Gedeon Richter and how more information will be obtained about Ganirelix Gedeon Richter’s risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ganirelix  Gedeon  Richter’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Ganirelix  Gedeon 
Richter should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Ganirelix Gedeon Richter should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of how Ganirelix 
Gedeon Richter's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter is authorised for the prevention of premature luteinising hormone (LH) 
surges in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) for assisted reproduction 
techniques  (ART)  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains  ganirelix  acetate  as  the  active 
substance and it is given by subcutaneous administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter’s benefits can be found in 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ganirelix-gedeon-richter 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Ganirelix Gedeon Richter's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Ganirelix  Gedeon  Richter  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ganirelix Gedeon Richter are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Ganirelix  Gedeon  Richter.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks  Hypersensitivity reaction 
Injection site reactions 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
Pregnant and lactating women 
Women with a history or current Type I 
hypersensitivity 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ganirelix Gedeon Richter. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ganirelix Gedeon Richter. 
 
