26 March 2015 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Gardasil 9  
International non-proprietary name: human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine 
(RECOMBINANT, ADSORBED) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003852/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Gardasil 9 
Applicant: 
Active substance: 
Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC 
162 Avenue Jean Jaurès 
69007 Lyon  
France 
human papillomavirus type 6 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 11 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 16 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 18 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 31 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 33 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 45 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 52 L1 protein  
human papillomavirus type 58 L1 protein   
Common Name: 
human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine 
(recombinant, adsorbed) 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
J07BM03 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Gardasil 9 is indicated for active 
immunisation of individuals from the age of 
9 years against the following HPV diseases: 
  Premalignant lesions and cancers 
affecting the cervix, vulva, vagina and anus 
caused by vaccine HPV types 
  Genital warts (Condyloma acuminata) 
caused by specific HPV types. 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Suspension for injection 
Per 0.5 ml dose: Human Papillomavirus Type 6 L1 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 2/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strength(s): 
protein 30 micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 11 L1 protein 40 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 16 L1 protein 60 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 18 L1 protein 40 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 31 L1 protein 20 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 33 L1 protein 20 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 45 L1 protein 20 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 52 L1 protein 20 
micrograms 
Human Papillomavirus Type 58 L1 protein 20 
micrograms 
Route of administration: 
Intramuscular use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) or pre-filled syringe 
Package size(s): 
Pack of 1 vial 
Pack of 1 syringe + 2 needles 
Pack of 10 syringes + 20 needles 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 3/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2. About the product ................................................................................................ 9 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 16 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 20 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 22 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 22 
2.2.7. Introduction.................................................................................................... 22 
2.2.8. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 23 
2.2.9. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 24 
2.2.10. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 24 
2.2.11. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ....................................................... 26 
2.2.12. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 26 
2.2.1. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 27 
2.2.2. Introduction.................................................................................................... 27 
2.2.1. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 31 
2.2.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 31 
2.2.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 31 
2.2.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 32 
2.2.5. Dose response study........................................................................................ 32 
2.2.6. Main studies ................................................................................................... 32 
2.2.7. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 105 
2.2.8. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................. 110 
2.2.9. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 117 
2.2.10. Conclusions on the clinical safety ................................................................... 118 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 122 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 4/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
9vHPV vaccine   
Nine-valent Human Papillomavirus vaccine 
AE 
AIN 
AIS 
ANSS 
ASC-H   
ASC-US  
CI 
CIN 
cLIA 
CRF 
DSMB   
EGLs 
ELISA   
FAS 
FMP 
GMR 
GMTs 
Adverse experience 
Anal intraepithelial neoplasia 
Adenocarcinoma in situ 
All (HPV Type-specific) Naïve Subjects with Serology 
Atypical squamous cells cannot rule out HSIL 
Atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance 
Confidence interval 
Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 
Competitive Luminex Immunoassay 
Case report form 
Data and Safety Monitoring Board 
External genital lesions 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
Full Analysis Set 
Final Manufacturing Process 
Geometric mean ratio 
Geometric Mean Titres 
HN-TS   
HPV-Naïve Type-Specific 
HPV 
HR 
HSIL 
LR 
Pap 
PBNA 
PPE 
PPI 
Human Papillomavirus 
High-risk 
High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion 
Low-risk 
Papanicolaou 
Pseudovirion-based neutralization assay 
Per Protocol Efficacy 
Per Protocol Immunogenicity 
qHPV vaccine 
Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus vaccine 
RR 
SAEs 
SCC 
VaIN 
VE 
VIN 
VLP 
Risk reduction 
Serious Adverse Experiences  
Squamous cell carcinoma 
Vaginal Intraepithelial Neoplasia 
Vaccine efficacy 
Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia 
Virus-Like Particle 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 5/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC submitted on 3 March 2014 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Gardasil 9, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 
3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 19 September 2013  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Gardasil 9 is indicated for active immunization from the age of 9 years against the following HPV diseases:  
• cervical cancer and premalignant cervical lesions  
• vulvar and vaginal cancers and premalignant vulvar and vaginal lesions  
• external genital warts caused by HPV types (6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58).  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that Human 
Papillomavirus Type 31 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 33 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 45 L1 
protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 52 L1 protein and Human Papillomavirus Type 58 L1 protein were 
considered to be new active substances. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting 
certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0196/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0196/2013 was completed. The PDCO issued an opinion 
on compliance for the PIP P/0196/2013. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substances Human Papillomavirus Type 31 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus 
Type 33 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 45 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 52 L1 protein and 
Human Papillomavirus Type 58 L1 protein contained in the above medicinal product to be considered as a new 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 6/128 
  
  
  
 
 
active substances in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a product previously authorised 
within the Union. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 26 June 2008 and 17 November 2011. The Scientific 
Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Manufacturers 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Waarderweg 39 
2031 BN Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder 
Co-Rapporteur: Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 3 March 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 26 March 2014.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 June 2014. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 June 2014.  
  During the meeting on 10 July 2014 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) adopted 
the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan 
•  During the meeting on 24 July 2014, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 24 July. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 October 2014. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 25 November 2014. 
  During the meeting on 4 December 2014 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 18 December 2014, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 23 February 2015. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 7/128 
  
  
  
 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 03 March 2015. 
  During the meeting on 12 March 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) adopted 
the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan 
•  During the meeting on 23 to 26 March 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation 
to Gardasil 9.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
Introduction 
2.1.  Problem statement 
HPV infection causes benign and malignant dysplastic disease, localized primarily in the anogenital area and 
aerodigestive tract, in both men and women. Persistent HPV infection significantly increases the risk of cervical 
and other anogenital cancers, and oropharyngeal cancers. Overall, HPV is responsible for approximately 5% of 
the global cancer disease burden.  
Cervical Cancer and Precancerous Dysplasia. Nearly 100% of cervical cancers are caused by HPV infection. 
Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women worldwide, with approximately 530,000 new cases 
diagnosed each year and 275,000 deaths annually. Most (approximately 80%) of the cases occur in developing 
countries. In developed countries, cervical cancer screening programs have reduced the incidence of cervical 
cancer by 75% due to the detection, follow-up, and treatment of premalignant lesions. Despite this success, 
nearly 12000 cases of cervical cancer still occur annually in the United States, causing over 4000 deaths 
annually. In the European Union (EU 28), about 34000 new cervical cancer cases are diagnosed every year and 
cause about 13000 annual death. About 55000 new cervical cancer are estimated to occur each year in Europe 
(United Nation definition). 
Non-Cervical HPV Disease. Infection with HPV is also associated with anal, vulvar, vaginal, penile, and 
oropharyngeal cancers. Each of the HPV-related diseases is much less frequent than cervical cancer, but taken 
together, they represent a significant human health and economic burden. Of particular concern, the incidence 
of anal cancer has been increasing in both men and women over the past several decades. The incidence of 
HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer is also increasing. It is anticipated that oropharyngeal cancers could soon 
become the dominant HPV-associated cancer in developed countries, where cervical cancer incidence has 
decreased because of screening programs. In Europe, for example, approximately 90% of anal cancers, 15% of 
vulvar cancers, 70% of vaginal cancers, and 30 to 40% of penile cancers are estimated to be caused by HPV 
infection; in addition, about 16000 new non-cervical HPV-related anogenital cancer cases are diagnosed in men 
and women every year. In the United States, the annual incidence of HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer is 
now comparable to that of cervical cancer, and affects both men and women, with a male:female ratio of 
approximately 4:1. Increasing trends of head and neck cancers at sites considered associated with HPV have 
also been observed in Europe. Between 26-40% of oropharyngeal cancers are estimated to be caused by HPV 
infection in Europe. Approximately 8100 new HPV-related oropharyngeal cancer cases are estimated to be 
diagnosed every year in Europe. 
Benign HPV Disease. Infection with HPV also cause benign lesions like Condyloma Acuminata (anogenital 
Warts: GW) located in the genital or perianal region and juvenile recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 8/128 
  
  
  
primarily located in the larynx. RRP is rare but can be life-threatening and is thought to occur by transmission of 
the virus from an infected mother to her child. Treatment of these benign lesions is often lengthy and painful; 
RRP often has high recurrence rate. In Europe, incidence rate of GW is estimated to vary between 150 and 170 
per 100 000 person-year in the general population, and is generally found to be highest among 20-24 years old 
individuals and was evaluated to vary between 450 and 700 per 100 000 within this age group. 
HPV types are classified into high-risk (HR) types, based on their potential to cause cancer, and low-risk (LR) 
types (causing generally benign lesions). The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has identified 
12 HPV types as carcinogens. These include the 7 HR HPV types represented in the 9vHPV vaccine (HPV 16, 18, 
31, 33, 45, 52, and 58) and 5 HR HPV types not represented in the 9vHPV vaccine (HPV 35, 39, 51, 56, and 59). 
LR HPV types 6 and 11, which are responsible for ~90% genital warts and RRP cases, are also included in the 
9vHPV vaccine. A summary of the attribution of the 9vHPV vaccine types to cervical lesions worldwide is 
provided in the table below:  
Lesion Type 
6/11/16/18 
31/33/45/52/58† 
Overall 9V 
Attribution 
Cervical Cancer 
AIS 
CIN 2/3 
   CIN 3 
   CIN 2 
CIN 1 
70% 
95% 
50% 
55-65% 
40% 
30-35%‡ 
† In absence of HPV types 6/11/16/18 
‡ HPV 6/11 are attributed to ~5% of CIN1 lesions. 
2.2.  About the product 
20% 
<5% 
30% 
25-30% 
30-35% 
90% 
>95% 
75-85% 
85-90% 
70-75% 
25% 
50-60%* 
The 9vHPV vaccine Gardasil 9 is a vaccine against HPV, and can be considered an extended version of the 
quadrivalent Gardasil (qHPV). The 9vHPV vaccine targets HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 (named throughout the 
report as old types, since they are also targeted by the licensed qHPV vaccines Gardasil and Silgard) as well as 
HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 (named throughout the report as new types). The quadrivalent HPV vaccine 
used in the context of Gardasil 9 dossier is referenced to as qHPV or Gardasil in this report. 
The Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine (named 9-vHPV vaccine or Gardasil 9 in this report) is a sterile, 
white, cloudy, liquid suspension prepared from the HPV Type 6, HPV Type 11, HPV Type 16, HPV Type 18, HPV 
Type 31, HPV Type 33, HPV Type 45, HPV Type 52, and HPV Type 58 Monovalent Bulk Adsorbed Products 
(MBAPs). It is filled into single-dose vials or syringes to ensure a minimum recoverable volume of 0.5 mL for 
injection. 
The HPV L1 VPLs are produced using the same manufacturing process as used for the applicant’s licensed 
Gardasil (also called qHPV in this report). The VLPs are adsorbed on amorphous aluminum hydroxyphosphate 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 9/128 
  
  
  
sulfate (AAHS) adjuvant, with the final formulation also including sodium chloride, L-histidine, polysorbate 80, 
sodium borate, and water for injection.  
Each 0.5-mL dose of 9vHPV vaccine is formulated to contain 500 µg AAHS and 30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg 
of HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 L1 proteins respectively. The final container is a sterile suspension for 
injection in a single-dose vial or a prefilled syringe. 
Gardasil 9 is intended for intramuscular injection, and the primary series consists of 3 separate 0.5 ml doses 
administered according to the following schedule: 0, 2, 6 months. If an alternate vaccination schedule is 
necessary, the second dose should be administered at least one month after the first dose and the third dose 
should be administered at least 3 months after the second dose. All three doses should be given within a 1-year 
period. 
Gardasil 9 is indicated for active immunization from the age of 9 years against the following HPV diseases caused 
by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58: (1) cervical cancer and premalignant cervical lesions; (2) vulvar 
and vaginal cancers and premalignant vulvar and vaginal lesions; (3) premalignant anal lesions and anal 
cancers; (4) external genital warts. 
Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Papillomaviruses, which are small, non-enveloped, icosahedral DNA viruses, are classified according to their L1 
DNA sequence homology. The nine HPV types in the 9-Valent HPV Vaccine are HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 
45, 52, and 58. 
The drug substance consists of the nine Monovalent Bulk Adsorbed Products (MBAPs), one for each of the nine 
human papillomavirus (HPV) types included in Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine, Recombinant (9-Valent 
HPV Vaccine). The individual VLPs of each type are adsorbed onto amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate 
sulfate adjuvant. The active components in each MBAP are the highly purified virus-like particles (VLPs) made up 
of the recombinant major capsid (L1) protein for that HPV type. L1 is the major structural protein of the human 
papillomavirus viral capsid. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
Native papillomavirus virions have an icosahedral symmetry consisting of 72 pentamers of L1 protein and are 
nearly spherical with an approximate diameter of 60 nm. For the vaccine, the L1 capsid polypeptide of each of 
the nine vaccine types is expressed in a separate fermentation of a recombinant strain of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae, and self-assembles to form VLPs, which mimic the capsid structure of the native virions. See Figure: 
Structural model of a full size HPV Virus-Like Particle. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 10/128 
  
  
  
Structural Model of a full-size HPV Virus-Like Particle.  
The image used to represent the VLP is from Y. Modis et al1 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacture 
The drug substance is manufactured at one of two Merck Sharp & Dohme sites in the USA; the WestPoint site or 
the Stonewall site. Sufficient information to confirm the GMP status of the two manufacturing sites has been 
provided. Both sites are included as a manufacturer of drug substance for the approved product Gardasil. 
The approved product Gardasil and Gardasil 9 contain the same 4-valent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18) HPV drug 
substance materials. The manufacturing process/ controls for these 4-valent types are largely the same.  
The manufacture of the drug substance consists of two main steps: 
Fermentation and harvest of the recombinant yeast cell slurry  
The fermentation process is conducted in two steps, the seed fermentation followed by the production 
fermentation, which includes a cell expansion and a galactose induction phase to produce L1 protein. At the end 
of the fermentation phase, the cells are harvested by diafiltration to produce the cell slurry, which is dispensed 
and frozen at <-60°C until further processing. For Types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, a protease inhibitor is added to 
the cell harvest to prevent proteolytic cleavage of the L1 protein during purification. Two different fermentation 
scale productions have been established at the different manufacturing sites. The Stonewall fermentation 
process is 2 times that of West Point. The purification of the VLPs and the manufacture of the MBAPs are in the 
same range at both sites.  
Purification of the VLPs and adsorption of the purified VLPs onto aluminium-containing adjuvant to form the Drug 
Substance (MBAP). 
1 Modis Y, Trus BL, Harrison SC. Atomic model of the papillomavirus capsid. EMBO J 2002;21(18):4754-62. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 11/128 
  
  
  
 
                                                
The purification process for Types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 was established based on the already approved 
processes of Types 6, 11, 16 and 18.  
Cell slurry is thawed and then homogenised to release VLPs from yeast cells. The purification of the VLPs and the 
manufacture of the MBAP are identical at both sites. The purification is conducted by multiple steps employing 
cross-flow membrane filtration steps (initial step removes cell debris), cation exchange (further removal of host 
cell proteins, HCP) and hydroxyapatite chromatography (polishing step to remove HCP, nucleic acids, lipids and 
residual proteases; it also selects for smaller, monodisperse populations of HPV VLPs). The columns are 
validated for reuse for subsequent lots of the same HPV type, and regeneration procedures are described.  
For all HPV Types except 18, the VLPs are disassembled using dithiothreitol (DTT) and then reassembled by 
removing dithiothreitol by diafiltration. The purpose of the disassembly and reassembly steps is to improve VLP 
structure and stability. Type 18 VLPs do not require disassembly and reassembly because they are inherently 
more stable. 
The final steps in the purification process for all types are buffer exchange and sterile filtration to produce the 
final aqueous product (FAP). The FAP is diluted to a target protein concentration of 640 µg/ml. The diluted FAP 
(DFAP) may be stored for 7 days at 2-8°C. 
The FAP for each type is then adsorbed onto amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulfate to produce the 
MBAP. The purpose of the adsorption step is to provide a stable, immunogenic formulation of HPV MBAP. Each 
DFAP is individually added to the adjuvant with in-line mixing. Target protein concentration in the MBAP is 320 
µg/ml. The MBAP for each type is filled in glass bottles with sanitary fittings and then stored at 2-8°C. 
The amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulfate adjuvant used in the manufacture of the MBAP is 
manufactured at the same sites as the drug substance.  
The manufacturing process is well defined, extensively characterised and acceptably validated. Information on 
the composition of buffers, solutions and raw materials used in manufacturing has been provided. Appropriate 
control strategies are employed to confirm consistent production. Critical process parameters have been defined 
for fermentation of individual HPV types (mainly related to galactose addition rate/ concentration, protease 
inhibitor concentration and harvest time). Critical process parameters for purification steps have been described 
(including DTT concentration, blending ratio of adjuvant and DFAP). However, the proposed regulatory strategy 
to manage changes in non-critical parameters was asked for in the initial assessment and the applicant has 
sufficiently clarified the handling during the procedure. Furthermore, minor issues were outstanding in the initial 
application, e.g. pre-filtration bioburden limits, nature of bags used to store cell slurry. These have also been 
resolved during the procedure. 
Control of Materials 
Construction and characterisation of the parenteral Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain and the individual gene 
expression vectors were extensively described. For HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18, plasmid or phage libraries were 
constructed from DNA obtained from human clinical specimens or cell lines positive for each targeted HPV type. 
In contrast, a similar breadth of research experience does not exist for the less-prevalent, less-studied HPV 
types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58. Thus, the L1 gene for three or four clinical isolates was sequenced for each of these 
five HPV types. The natural sequence which was the most prevalent (dominant) was chosen. The design and 
features of the galactose-inducible expression system (with host cells), is the same for all types also including 
the approved types in Gardasil. The subsequent establishment of master and working cell banks (MCBs and 
WCBs) was described in detail. Sufficiently detailed information was provided on the analyses performed to 
confirm host strain identity and genetic stability of the individual L1 genes throughout production and on the 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 12/128 
  
  
  
manufacture and control of master and working cell banks. Procedures for establishing future WCBs has been 
well described but for this application, based on previous experience with approved types, the applicant has 
proposed to delete a test for strain identity. This has been considered acceptable given the supportive data 
submitted.  
A comprehensive list of all materials used in the manufacture of the individual MBAP products has been provided 
and the applicant has also clarified the nature and composition of MCB and WCB storage containers. In 
conclusion, the quality of materials used in production has been sufficiently described. 
Process Validation 
Process validation studies were well designed and cover all aspects of manufacture of the individual MBAP drug 
substances as well as the transport between the manufacturing sites and demonstrate that the process is 
capable of producing drug substance of consistent quality. The justification given to use a matrix approach for 
the validation studies is accepted. Reuse of filters and columns has been investigated. The control strategy 
applied for the various validation studies is considered adequate.  
Characterisation 
The format of characterisation studies performed on the new types follows, to a large extent, the format 
performed for the types included in the approved 4-valent vaccine Gardasil, with some variations to the types of 
methods applied. The applicant was therefore requested to explain and justify these differences and has done so 
appropriately. Overall, the experimental approach as implemented by the applicant, allows for a comprehensive 
experimental analysis and characterisation of DS (intermediate) materials addressing a large array of 
physico-chemical and functional parameters (structural elucidations of primary, secondary, tertiary, and 
quaternary structures including particle sizes; epitope integrity; antigenicity, immunogenicity, and 
completeness of adsorption). These data, gathered by a multitude of different experimental approaches are 
considered appropriate for the accurate characterisation of crucial quality attributes.  
The protein sequence of all HPV types has been confirmed by MS. For most aspects on primary structure, the L1 
proteins demonstrate heterogeneic features similar to the approved types, including N-terminal methionine 
truncation (31, 45, 52 and 58), N-terminal acetylation (78-100 %) in all types and partial removal of the last one 
or two C-terminal residues as determined from peptide mapping. Deamidation can occur at one to six sites and 
it is likely that less than or equal to 6% of L1 protein molecules in a FAP sample would be deamidated at one or 
more sites. Mass measurement studies on intact L1 proteins revealed significant amounts of a modification 
consistent with phosphorylation. According to references, phosphorylation of L1 has been shown to occur in 
native virions and recombinant produced L1. The applicant was asked to discuss the relevance of this 
modification in relation to clinical experience from approved HPV L1 types and the response cites previous 
experience and consistency with respect to phosphorylation. SDS PAGE analysis of intact monomer revealed, to 
a minor extent, a predominant clipping of all L1 types into 10 kDa and 45 or 47 kDa (depending on type) 
fragments, which is consistent with the approved L1 types. Clipping of L1 is controlled in the specification of % 
intact monomer.  
Structural characterisation has been accomplished using Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DCS), Dynamic 
Light Scattering (DLS) and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). Using TEM, tubular forms of VLPs can be 
detected. The applicant was asked to address the clinical experience with tubular VLPs in the approved types. 
Until now, no tubular forms were found in the old types. A need for routine monitoring of these by TEM was not 
considered necessary as these are subject to sufficient routine control of VLP structure by DLS testing and In 
vitro relative potency (IVRP) also these tubular forms were included in batches of the new types used in the 
clinical studies. DLS data showed some variability in polydispersity index, suggesting a higher variability in 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 13/128 
  
  
  
particle size distribution compared to historic data from the approved types, still within the acceptance criteria 
for this index. The applicant has however shown that the increase has no impact on product quality to an 
acceptable extent. In addition, the calculations leading to this index were not originally described. The applicant 
has now submitted the relevant information.  
Critical conformational epitopes on the VLP surface are the surrogate markers for VLP biological function, 
particularly with respect to the ability to induce a neutralising antibody response in animals and humans. It has 
been demonstrated that conformational epitopes on HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 can induce HPV type 
specific neutralisation. Therefore, characterisation of these epitopes is a central component for evaluation of 
structural integrity. Studies have been performed to investigate relative antigenicity using a panel of antibodies 
(per type) encompassing specificity towards conformational and linear epitopes. These results demonstrate an 
improved exposure of conformational epitopes when going from hydroxyapatite product to FAP, concomitant to 
a decrease in reactivity to hidden linear epitopes. Affinity, as shown by solution dissociation constant studies, 
does not change when going from hydroxyapatite product (HAP) to FAP. 
The in vitro relative potency (IVRP) method is an important method to determine structural changes in the VLPs. 
In the previous application, data were included to demonstrate correlation of this method with in vivo potency 
determinations. The concept of the IVRP method is the same as for the approved product for which the suitability 
of the method with respect to estimation of immunogenicity of the batches has been sufficiently established by 
historical data and the feasibility of the method in this respect is confirmed by clinical data from this application. 
The capacity of the IVRP to detect storage related changes is demonstrated in the drug product section where a 
decrease in IVRP activity is detected upon incubation at elevated temperatures.  
Data from extensive characterisation studies have also been applied to examine the comparability of alternative 
novel facilities used for fermentation of selected novel HPV types. In this context it is important to note that 
these new facilities have all received formal regulatory approval for the manufacture of the existing HPV types. 
For the original data provided for HPV type 31, 45, 52, 58 drug substance materials fermented in different 
buildings (B60 at West point and B63 at Stonewall), questions regarding comparability have been adequately 
resolved by the applicant. 
Impurities 
The extent of characterised product and process related impurities are similar to that of the approved types and 
have been clinically qualified. An overview of host-cell-derived impurities and process residuals (non-L1 protein, 
DNA, RNA, total lipid, total carbohydrates, antifoam, benzonase, RNase T1, pepstatin A, DTT, EDTA, citrate, 
phosphate) along with the assays used to monitor their concentrations has been provided. The following issues 
were identified. For type 31 produced at B60 an additional, HPV related, 60 kDa band was detected using 
western blot while no western blot studies of cell slurry from B63 was performed and the applicant was asked to 
justify the comparability in this respect. This form will be detected by the SDS-PAGE analyses and as mentioned 
below the acceptance criteria for this test (percent intact L1 monomer) has been further qualified. Furthermore, 
according to data provided on the removal of citrate, it appeared that this is not consistently removed during 
purification as one batch was out of trend and a clarification was requested. The applicant clarified that the level 
of this batch is still within clinically qualified limits and that it will continue to monitor citrate for up to three lots 
of type 31 within the application procedure to establish consistency, which is accepted. 
Issues were identified regarding the definition of protein impurities. These are considered as active DS and not 
as impurities by the applicant. The applicant has justified this approach, and shown that both the HCP content 
and the extent of L1-protein fragmentation in DS batches are adequately controlled. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 14/128 
  
  
  
Regarding demonstration of clearance of yeast protein impurities, a minor point regarding the polyclonal serum 
was raised and has been appropriately resolved. 
Specification 
The applicant has provided a satisfactorily extensive data package on the control of the drug substance. DS 
release tests include protein concentration (bicinchoninic acid assay), percent purity (SDS-PAGE), percent intact 
monomer (SDS-PAGE), IVRP (three methods are specified but ‘manual OD’ and ‘NIMBUS’ methods will be used 
for release and stability of specified types), identity (as for IVRP), sterility (Ph.Eur.), endotoxin (Ph.Eur.), 
aluminium content (spectrometry), pH, characteristics (visual), and completeness of adsorption (as for IVRP). 
This testing programme is considered appropriate as it is equivalent to the already approved testing scheme for 
Gardasil. For the 9-valent vaccine, modified assay formats have been developed for IVRP testing. Apart from 
this, experimental methods have been adequately described and validated following a reasonable and sound 
validation strategy. 
For the “old” HPV types a large batch database is available. This includes batch analysis data of clinical and 
process validation lots and data from three lots of each of the new types produced at commercial scale have also 
been submitted. Much less data have so far been collected for DS batches of the novel HPV types. Nevertheless, 
also for the novel HPV types, data from three batches per type have been submitted. The existing batch analysis 
data do not exhibit any unwanted trends or deviations that might cause a risk for drug substance quality. 
Specifications for the “old” HPV types are either the same as approved during licensure of the 4-valent vaccine 
or have been slightly re-adjusted (tightened) by the applicant in line with available batch analysis data. 
Specifications for the novel HPV type DS have been implemented on the basis of a rather limited set of batch 
analytical data available to date. Proposed acceptance criteria for the two attributes Percent Purity and Percent 
Intact Monomer were requested to be aligned to levels found in product used in clinical trials since these 
attributes are important for efficacy and safety. The applicant has in his response submitted updated acceptance 
criteria and data to support that these may be considered clinically qualified. With this, the specifications are 
considered acceptable based upon the data currently available but should be reassessed as soon as batch 
analysis data from 20 batches of each type are available. The applicant has provided an acceptable program as 
to how this will be done (indicating those specifications which will be re-evaluated and justifying those that will 
not). 
A description of the criteria and procedures for renewal of the primary standards, including the use of any 
correction factors, was lacking in the dossier. In its response, the applicant verified that the stability of the 
primary standard is monitored, that no downward trend has yet been seen and that the current standard is still 
considered acceptable. However, no description of any procedure for renewal of the primary standard (i.e., how 
the new standard will be qualified, including assigning its potency value and any calibration against the old 
standard) is provided. Thus, in the case that a new primary standard needs to be established, this will be the 
subject of a type II variation and the applicant has acknowledged that this is understood and will be followed. 
Container closure 
The description and characterisation of containers used for DS (intermediates) was largely considered 
satisfactory in the initial assessment. Upon request, the applicant has made reference to the specific Ph. Eur. 
requirements that have been taken into consideration for the selection and testing of the containers. 
Stability 
A very intensive stability assessment has been conducted. For the types included in the already licensed vaccine 
Gardasil (types 6, 11, 16, 18), a very broad database is currently available to support the claimed storage 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 15/128 
  
  
  
periods for these types: cell slurry and MBAP. Stability has been assessed by analysis of a suitable panel of 
stability-indicating parameters and under normal (2-8°C), accelerated (23-27°C), and stressed (35-39°C) 
conditions. 
The same testing scheme has also been used for the novel HPV types (31, 33, 45, 52, 58). Some of the studies 
are currently ongoing but the available data confirm DS stability and support the claimed storage periods for 
these new types: 60 months at -70°C (for cell slurry) and 36 months at 2-8°C (for MBAP). 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The complete drug product composition is presented in Table 1. The 9-valent HPV vaccine may be packaged in 
vials (type I glass Ph.Eur., elastomer stopper Ph.Eur. and flip-off cap), or prefilled syringes (luer-lock tip type I 
glass Ph.Eur. barrel with laminated stopper Ph.Eur.).   
Table 1.   Complete Drug Product Composition 
Component 
Quantity per  
0.5-mL Dose 
Function 
Quality Standard 
HPV Type 6 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 11 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 16 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 18 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 31 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 33 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 45 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 52 L1 Protein 
HPV Type 58 L1 Protein 
Amorphous aluminium 
hydroxyphosphate 
sulfate adjuvant 
Sodium Chloride 
L-Histidine 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium Borate a 
Water for Injection 
30 µg 
40 µg 
60 µg 
40 µg 
20 µg 
20 µg 
20 µg 
20 µg 
20 µg 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
Internal specification 
500 µg 
(aluminium content) 
Adjuvant 
Internal specification 
9.56 mg 
0.78 mg 
50 g 
35 g 
QS 
Stabiliser 
Meets USP and Ph. Eur. 
Buffer 
Stabiliser 
Buffer 
Solvent 
Meets Ph. Eur.  
(no USP monograph) 
Meets NF and Ph. Eur. 
Meets NF and Ph. Eur. 
Meets USP and Ph. Eur. 
  USP:  United States Pharmacopeia, Ph. Eur.:  European Pharmacopoeia, NF: National Formulary 
  a 
Listed in Ph. Eur. as borax 
The composition is based on the currently licensed Gardasil vaccine. Excipients include: sodium chloride (to 
ensure stability), L-histidine (buffering agent for adsorption and final vaccine), and polysorbate-80 (stability of 
the VLP aqueous bulk and MBAP preventing surface adsorption and aggregation) and sodium borate 
(maintenance of a stable pH of the adjuvant during storage). The amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate 
sulfate adjuvant is used to enhance the immunogenicity of the HPV VLP vaccine. Higher quantities of aluminium 
adjuvant are used in Gardasil 9 than in Gardasil however this has been justified and supported by the safety 
profile. All excipients are controlled according to Ph. Eur. 
Nonclinical and clinical dose-ranging studies were conducted to define the optimal target dose of each HPV 
virus-like particle type. Based on the results of these studies, the target protein concentrations selected in the 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 16/128 
  
  
  
 
drug product were 60 µg/mL, 80 µg/mL, 120 µg/mL, 80 µg/mL, 40 µg/mL, 40 µg/mL, 40 µg/mL, 40 µg/mL, and 
40 µg/mL for HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58, respectively. The aluminium content per dose for 
the 9vHPV Vaccine (500 μg) is greater than for the 4-valent HPV vaccine formulation (225 μg). Previous clinical 
experience with an 8-valent formulation containing HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 45, 52, and 58 and 225 μg 
aluminium indicated that addition of new HPV types to the 4-valent HPV vaccine formulation may result in 
somewhat lower anti-HPV titres for HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18. In an effort to keep the immunogenic response 
for HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 non-inferior to that induced by the 4-valent HPV vaccine, the adjuvant content 
was increased to 500 μg aluminium per dose.   
Regarding the container-closure system, suitability has been demonstrated by compendial testing of the 
components, leachable and extractable studies and drug product stability. Although Gardasil 9 vaccine in 
syringe lots has not been used in clinical studies, the syringes are made from the same glass as the vials. 
Integrity of the vial and syringe has been demonstrated (dye challenge test and aerobiology microbial 
challenge). 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacture 
All manufacturing operations (including previous clinical supply manufacture) and quality control testing of the 
vaccine are performed by Merck & Co., Inc., Sumneytown Pike, P.O. Box 4, West Point, Pennsylvania 
19486-0004, USA. Commercial supply manufacture will occur at the same site. The most significant difference 
between the lab, pilot and commercial formulation processes is the incorporation of automated control systems 
in the production facility for some process steps.  
Secondary packaging for both vials and syringes is performed by Merck Sharp & Dohme BV, Waarderweg 39, BN 
Haarlem. This site is also responsible for testing on importation and EU batch release.  
The manufacturing process for the 9-valent Final Container Product (9vFC) in vials or syringes consists of two 
main steps: formulation and filling. The formulation is based on certain volumes of the components, but the 
actual transfer is monitored by weight. Critical process controls for these steps are provided. The formulated 
9-valent Bulk Adsorbed Product (NBAP) is prepared from eleven sterile ingredients. At first, histidine buffer (0.5 
M sodium chloride in 20 mM histidine buffer) and 2X alum in saline with polysorbate 80 (PS-80) are mixed into 
a portable tank for formulation. The Type 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 MBAPs are then sequentially 
added to the same tank. A settle and subsequent decant step has been introduced to achieve the final 
formulation concentrations for aluminium and potency for each HPV type. For the settling time, a design space 
was established taking into consideration the temperature and starting aluminium concentrations. Upon 
blending, each type-specific protein concentration is reduced from 320 µg/ml to the target concentrations 
selected in the drug product which were 60 μg/mL for HPV type 6, 80 μg/mL for HPV type 11, 120 μg/mL for type 
16, 80 μg/mL type 18, 40 μg/mL for type -31, 40 μg/mL for type 33, 40 μg/mL for type  45, 40 μg/mL for type 
52, and 40 μg/mL for type 58. Following completion of the decant process, the Final Formulated Bulk (FFB) is 
mixed to ensure homogeneity, aseptically sampled for testing of sterility and aluminium concentration and 
finally cooled to 2-8 ºC before filling or storage. Before and during filling, the FFB is agitated and recirculated to 
ensure homogeneity. The formulation process allows for multiple options for FFB storage. The target batch size 
for the FFB is approximately 315 kg.  
Aseptic filling and stoppering of the 9vFC vaccine in vials occurs in the barrier isolator system. Before filling, 
homogeneity is ensured by mixing the FFB in the portable tank by agitation and recirculation. The FFB is 
continuously agitated and recirculated throughout the fill. An automatic filling machine, equipped with sterile 
components, aseptically fills the FFB into vials such that each vial or syringe contains a minimum recoverable 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 17/128 
  
  
  
volume of 0.5 ml. During filling, in-process weight checks are performed routinely. After each vial or syringe is 
filled, it exits the isolator and is inspected for defects. Quality control samples are taken during the fill. After 
inspection, the vials and syringes are placed into trays and stored at 2-8 ºC until they are labelled and packaged. 
Process validation studies for formulation, vial filling and syringe filling for the 9vHPV vaccine were performed. 
The purpose of these studies was to qualify the formulation, vial and syringe filling processes for the 9vHPV 
Vaccine. The process validation of formulation and vial filling consisted of four consecutive lots of the 9vHPV 
Vaccine formulation as well as vial filling processes and the syringe filling validation consisted of three 
consecutive lots of the 9vHPV Vaccine syringe filling process. One of the batches to be filled in vials was filled at 
or close to the maximum batch size of 315 kg while two syringe batches were filled at this scale. 
The information provided in the dossier for manufacturing of Drug Product was not considered sufficient in the 
initial application. A significant part of validation data has been placed in the description of the manufacturing 
process development. As these studies serve to define the outer boundaries of the process as intended to be run 
for future batches, these parts were asked to be moved to the section on process validation instead. Additionally, 
a summary of real data was requested, not only statements. The applicant has updated the file in an acceptable 
way on these issues. In conclusion, the studies demonstrate the capability of the process to produce drug 
product of consistent quality. 
The company originally claimed that since certain steps are well controlled, they are not critical and therefore 
not described in detail in the dossier. This was not accepted. The fact that it is well controlled only lowers the risk 
but since the criticality classification is based on the testing performed, a description of how changes to this 
testing (methods, limits) will be handled to assure a sufficient regulatory oversight was requested. The applicant 
has responded to this and it has been clarified that the EU regulation on variations will be followed when 
evaluating changes to Drug Product, Critical Process Parameters (CPPs), Key Operating Parameters (KOPs) and 
analytical methods, and a variation will be submitted as required in accordance with the regulation.  
The data to support the statement that 30 minutes of resuspension ensures a robust resuspension for bulk input 
resuspension, pre-settle resuspension, or FFB resuspension and sampling step during the entire shelf lives of the 
components was requested and acceptable data have been provided and the description updated. For the 
settling operation, a design space is claimed built on aluminium concentration and temperature. Its 
establishment was requested to be described in more detail and justified and the design space requested to be 
included in the description of the process. The applicant has submitted an acceptable answer to this. 
Product specification 
The final product, as packaged in vials, is tested for in vitro relative potency (IVRP, same test as for DS). Identity 
(IVRP), sterility (Ph.Eur.), endotoxins (Ph.Eur.), aluminium (spectroscopy), pH (Ph.Eur.), characteristics and 
package identity (visual checks), recoverable volume (gravimetrical test) and syringeability (to ensure that 
liquid is dispensed from the needle in an even stream), which is performed on syringes only.  
Batch analysis data for 18 FFB lots used to produce drug product at pilot and full manufacturing scales for clinical 
studies, stability studies, and process validation all fulfilled the requirements for sterility and aluminium.    
For the drug product, all batches (n= 12 clinical lots, 24 other lots) fulfilled the specification and showed good 
reproducibility. The same pattern as regards aluminium was seen. The results of the IVRP analyses were 
consistent between batches and considerably higher than the lower specification limit. The acceptance criteria 
applied in the tests for identity, sterility, endotoxins, pH, characteristics, volume of fill and syringeability are 
non-controversial and can be accepted. In the initial assessment the specification of aluminium content 
appeared wide and was not supported by the batch data. The specification has been appropriately updated in 
this respect. During development, a test for completeness of adsorption and one for general safety was 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 18/128 
  
  
  
performed but these are proposed to be deleted. Considering the results shown, the test for completeness of 
adsorption can be removed from the specification but this should be performed when assessing any potential 
changes to the final product manufacturing process and the applicant has agreed to do so. The removal of the 
general safety test is also endorsed. 
The justification for the lower IVRP limits was not accepted as the applicant only based this on process capability 
and did not provide any supporting evidence that the lower level would be clinically justified, as the batch data 
submitted for clinical and other batches were in no cases near the lower limit.  
The applicant was asked to revise the limits to assure that a clinically justified level can be assured throughout 
the entire shelf life of the product and set release limits taking any loss during storage into account. One aspect 
requested to be taken into account in the justification is if the clinical batches were assayed by the TECAN and 
not the NIMBUS assay. This issue constituted a major objection. In the response, the applicant elaborated on 
how the claimed lower efficacious doses were calculated. In contrast to Gardasil where actual serological studies 
were performed with fractions of the antigen doses, in Gardasil 9 there are no clinical data from lower doses of 
most of the types since the low dose batches contained the same amount of the new types as the mid dose 
presentation.  
No actual justification on the use of 0.5 for the lower 95% confidence limit for the geometric mean ratio (2-fold 
non-inferiority margin) has been submitted in the applicant’s response, but it is recognised that this has been 
used in many of the clinical studies and does therefore not raise any concerns. The principle to calculate the 
lowest effective dose based on the dose finding data can be accepted and it is acknowledged that the 
specifications claimed at release and during shelf life allow a safety margin compared to the claimed lowest 
clinically effective dose. For this reason the proposed specification can be accepted.  
The reference standard used for routine testing is a 9-valent Final Container Product (9vFC) lot, which is referred 
to as the working standard. The same standard is used for both IVRP and completeness of adsorption (i.e. use 
of the IVRP assay to measure the amount of HPV VLP in a vaccine sample that is not adsorbed to the aluminium 
adjuvant). The current lot of working standard, is a clinical manufacturing lot that was formulated and filled at 
pilot scale using MBAPs manufactured at full scale. An acceptable protocol for qualification of new working 
standards has been provided. 
Stability of the product 
For the final formulated bulk, 12 month data from 3 lots produced at pilot scale and 3 lots produced at full scale 
are presented, tested at 2-8°C, 23-27°C and 35-39°C. The proposed shelf life for the two container types 
(syringes and vials) is 36 months at 2-8°C, with TOR allowances of 10 days at 25°C and one day at 37°C. 
However, in order to minimise the risk of uncontrolled product storage and subsequent deterioration, only TOR 
allowances of 72 hours (when stored at temperatures from 8°C to 25°C or from 0°C to 2°C) have been approved 
in the product information, with the instruction to use or discard the product at the end of this period. 
For vials, 42 months data from three pilot scale batches are presented and 36 months data from four full scale 
batches, at 2-8 °C. Respective data from samples stored at 23-27°C and 35-39°C are also available. 
For the commercial syringe presentation ( image 5), data for up to 30 months are available from 1 full scale 
batch and 2 pilot scale batches stored at 2-8°C and 1 full scale batch and 1 pilot scale batch stored for 6 months 
at 35-39°C. Further data are available from syringes (image 1) fully comparable to the commercial presentation 
except for a different tip cap for which the differences are considered to have negligible potential impact and 
therefore can be considered fully representative for the commercial product. Here, data are available from 3 
pilot scale and 4 full scale batches stored for at least 36 months at 2-8°C, for up to 24 months at 23-27°C, and 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 19/128 
  
  
  
for 6 months at 35-39°C. In addition, supportive data are provided from 3 other packaging material variants 
(image 2-4) produced at pilot scale. All test attributes in the release specifications are included in the stability 
studies, except IVRP upper limits, identity, endotoxin, aluminium, package identity and volume of fill. In 
addition to the release specifications, test for completeness of adsorption (IVRP) are included in the stability 
studies. 
No significant changes in physical appearance, completeness of adsorption, pH, or sterility can be observed in 
the available data from 2-8°C. To estimate the loss rate for the IVRP, a statistical analysis was performed via 
linear regression of log transformed data, using a random slope, fixed intercept mixed model. Stability data from 
2-8°C, 23-27°C and 35-39°C of at least 3 months were included. The stability data from both containers and the 
final formulated bulk were combined for the statistical evaluation of loss estimated for each subtype, because 
the sample matrices between the final formulated bulk and the two types of container are equivalent. The only 
exception was HPV type 11 at 2-8°C and HPV types 18 and 52 stored at 35-39°. These data did not fulfil the 
statistical criteria for pooling and only the FFB data were used for the loss rate estimate. Stability for all subtypes 
was shown when stored at 2-8°C, with higher losses at 23-27°C and 35-39°C, as expected. No clear trends are 
evident and the observed fluctuations are attributable to the assay variation.  
In addition to the stability studies, a thermal stress study on one vial lot and one syringe lot was conducted. This 
study is completed and the results support the expiry specification, TOR exposures and product shipping and 
handling. Moreover, a sequential stability study has been initiated to evaluate the cumulative effect of multiple 
holds during routine storage of MBAP, FFB, and 9vHVP vaccine. This study is ongoing. Furthermore, a 
photostability study with 9vHPV vaccine was performed where HPV Type 18 was shown to be somewhat 
sensitive to UV light, but to an acceptable range. 
In summary, the results support the final formulated bulk (FFB) storage period and 9vHPV vaccine expiry, as 
well as respective TOR exposure periods. Initially the decision on the final shelf lives awaited the outcome of the 
major objection on justification of acceptance criteria. Since the claimed IVRP specifications now can be 
accepted this means also that the claimed shelf life of 12 months in 2-8 °C for the final formulated bulk and 36 
months for the final product under the same conditions can be accepted. 
Adventitious agents 
Two raw materials used in the working cell bank and fermentation processes, D-galactose, and L-Tyrosine, were 
identified to be of direct human or animal origin. D-Galactose is derived from bovine milk sourced from the 
United States; the milk is sourced from healthy animals in the same manner as milk for human consumption. 
This material was determined to be compliant with the EMA Note for Guidance on Minimizing the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products 
(EMA/410/01 Rev 3, July 2011). L-tyrosine is extracted from human hair sourced from China or from poultry 
feathers.  Regarding the TSE status of this raw material, amino acids from human hair are prepared using harsh 
conditions and therefore, according to the TSE guideline, they are unlikely to present any TSE risk and are 
considered to be compliant with the guideline. The provided documentation regarding viral safety is deemed 
sufficient. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Drug substance 
The manufacturing and controls for the 4-valent HPV Types in Gardasil 9 are the same as the manufacturing and 
controls for the 4-valent HPV Types currently licensed and approved for Gardasil/Silgard, with some exceptions. 
The process is well defined and was extensively characterised and acceptably validated. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 20/128 
  
  
  
For the HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18 included in the licensed 4-valent vaccine “Gardasil” drug substances (MBAP) and 
intermediates (hydroxyapatite product and FAP) have been tested according to the previously established and 
approved comprehensive programme. Basically, the same testing scheme has been applied for the novel HPV 
types 31, 33, 45, 52, 58 to be included for the formulation of the 9-valent vaccine. Certain distinct changes in 
methodologies have been acceptably justified and the applicant has provided the scientific rationale and 
reason(s) for these technical alterations. The applicant has also clarified certain findings from the 
characterisation studies of new L1 types in relation to clinical experience of the existing L1 types, including the 
relevance of L1 phosphorylation and relevance of variability in polydispersity index of tubular VLPs which had 
suggested a higher variability in particle size distribution.  
The applicant has verified that the DLS method, including the calculation of polydispersity index (PDI), and the 
acceptance criteria for hydrodynamic diameter (Dh) and PDI proposed for Types 6, 11, 16 and 18, is the same 
as approved for Gardasil. In addition, an update of the MAA file containing a description of the DLS test, 
including how the PDI is calculated, and the acceptance criteria, has been submitted. 
Data from these extensive characterisation studies have also been applied to examine the comparability of 
alternative novel facilities used for fermentation of selected novel HPV types. Some specific questions regarding 
the comparability of material produced in the different buildings have now been resolved.   
Characterisation and clearance studies for impurities have been performed mainly on the basis of the operations 
already in place for the approved 4-valent vaccine which is considered appropriate. Results confirm that levels 
of (defined) impurities are acceptably low and under proper control.  
The drug substance specifications are acceptable. The proposed acceptance criteria for the two attributes 
Percent Purity and Percent Intact Monomer, was considered to be wider than what has been shown to be safe 
and efficacious in clinical trials. The applicant has now submitted revised acceptance criteria as well as 
acceptable clinical justification of the proposed limits. Since specifications for the novel HPV type DS (types 31, 
33, 45, 52 and 58) have been implemented on the basis of the rather limited set of batch analytical data 
available to date, the applicant was asked to reassess the specifications for all new types when sufficient data 
become available. In its response, the applicant has agreed to re-evaluation of certain acceptance criteria 
(percent purity, percent intact monomer and IVRP), justifying that other DS specifications will not change with 
additional batch data The re-evaluation will be performed following availability of data from 20 batches of each 
type according to an agreed protocol. This has been accepted and is included as a recommendation. 
Drug product 
The information provided in the dossier for manufacturing of Drug Product was not originally considered 
sufficient. A significant part of validation data was placed in the description of the manufacturing process 
development and has now been moved.  
The company claimed that since certain steps are well controlled, they are not critical and therefore not 
described in detail in the dossier. The applicant was asked how changes to this testing (methods, limits) will be 
handled to assure sufficient regulatory oversight and the applicant has provided satisfactory clarification 
regarding this. In relation to the final DP specifications, the justification for the lower IVRP limits have been 
expanded to explain how the limits can be considered as clinically qualified in an acceptable way and the major 
objection is thereby resolved. Final assignment of shelf lives for the formulated final bulk and the drug product 
awaited the outcome of this question and as it has now been resolved, the claimed shelf lives can as a 
consequence be approved.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 21/128 
  
  
  
For some issues although acceptable responses have been submitted, the file remains to be updated and the 
applicant has committed to do so. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give reassurance on 
viral/TSE safety. Two recommendations for future quality development of the product is listed below. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP 
recommends the following points for investigation: 
Area 
Number 
Description 
Classification 
Quality 
001 
Quality 
002 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.7.  Introduction 
REC 
REC 
DS acceptance criteria for Percent Purity, 
Percent Intact Monomer will be reassessed 
for types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 according to 
the statistical methods (as described in the 
Day 181 Responses as soon as batch 
analysis data from at least 20 batches of 
each type are available.  
DS acceptance criteria for IVRP will be 
reassessed when batch analysis data from 
at least 20 batches of each type are 
available. The DS reassessment will be 
planned as part of an overall IVRP 
acceptance criteria reassessment, which will 
be performed when sufficient release and 
stability data for both DS and DP can be 
integrated into the original dataset.   
The pharmacological evaluation of GARDASIL 9 was focused on the evaluation of immunogenicity.  One non-GLP 
immunogenicity study was performed in non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) to determine whether an HPV 
VLP-specific immune response was elicited by the vaccine. 
The nonclinical toxicology of Gardasil 9 was evaluated in 3 studies, all carried out under GLP-compliant 
conditions. They include an intramuscular repeat-dose toxicity study in rats (with local tolerance and non-GLP 
immunogenicity assessments), an intramuscular developmental toxicity and immunogenicity study in rats with 
fertility and embryo-foetal evaluation, and an intramuscular developmental toxicity and immunogenicity study 
in rats with postnatal evaluation. 
All non-clinical toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with the GLP, which is in line with the current 
requirements. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 22/128 
  
  
  
 
2.2.8.  Pharmacology 
The pharmacological evaluation of the 9vHPV vaccine was focused on the evaluation of primary 
pharmacodynamics (i.e. immunogenicity) as the vaccine did not show any effects apart from the expected 
immune response. This is consistent with the CHMP Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and 
Toxicological Testing of Vaccines and with the WHO Guidelines on Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
There is no animal model for human papilloma virus infection. Therefore, the vaccine could not be tested for 
protection in animals. The pharmacology studies are focused on the evaluation of immunogenicity. 
To support the development of Gardasil 9, the applicant performed an immunogenicity study in Rhesus 
macaques (study PD001).  
Methodology 
One group of six Rhesus macaques (2 females, 4 males, 6-8 years of age) received three 0.5 mL intramuscular 
injection in right deltoid muscle with 9vHPV vaccine on Day 0, Week 8 and Week 24. Formulation of 9vHPV 
vaccine consisted of 2 µg/4µg/4µg/2µg/2µg/2µg/2µg/2µg/2µg of HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 VLPs 
per 0.5 mL dose, and 309.5µg AAHS per 0.5 mL dose. 
Immunogenicity was assessed by competitive Luminex Immunoassay (cLIA) (8-plex cLIA) for the following 8 
HPV types: 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 45, 52 and 58. Immunogenicity for type 33 was determined by serial end-point 
dilution in a HPV 33 VLP direct binding ELISA. The study evaluated the antibody response to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 
31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 L1 VLPs formulated with AAHS. 
Results 
Intramuscular administration of 3 doses of the nine-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine formulated with AAHS was well 
tolerated in Rhesus macaque monkeys. The vaccine elicited a robust immune response in all the animals 
resulting in the production of antibodies against each of the nine HPV types (6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 
58) present in the vaccine. This study demonstrates the immunogenicity of all 9 monovalent HPV L1 VLPs (6, 11, 
16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58) as a nine-valent formulated vaccine in non-human primates. These data support 
the hypothesis that 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine will elicit HPV protection from infection through humoral 
immunity in human clinical trials. 
In conclusion, intramuscular administration of the 9vHPV vaccine was well tolerated and immunogenic in Rhesus 
macaques. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Secondary pharmacodynamics studies were not performed for the 9vHPV vaccine, since the vaccine did not 
show any effects apart from the expected immune response. This was found acceptable by the CHMP under the 
current requirements. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies were not performed for the 9vHPV vaccine. This is in accordance with the WHO 
Guidelines on the Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines, which suggests that safety pharmacology tests for vaccines 
should be performed only if data from nonclinical and/or human clinical studies suggest that the vaccine may 
affect physiological functions (central nervous system (CNS), respiratory, cardiovascular, and renal functions) 
other than the immune system. The 9vHPV vaccine has been tested in nonclinical safety assessment studies 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 23/128 
  
  
  
where daily monitoring for physical signs did not reveal any notable effects on any physiological function. In 
addition, the safety of the 9vHPV vaccine has been tested in human clinical studies and no signs of concern have 
been identified. Apart from the expected immune response and local injection site reactions, there has not been 
any evidence of systemic effects (such as effects on CNS, respiratory, cardiovascular, and renal systems) 
caused by HPV L1 VLP vaccines. 
Therefore, given that there were no signs of CNS, respiratory, cardiovascular and renal effects for the 9vHPV 
vaccine, a nonclinical safety pharmacology study was deemed to be not necessary for the 9vHPV vaccine. This 
was found acceptable by the CHMP under the current requirements. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamics studies were not performed for the 9vHPV vaccine. The potential interference with other 
vaccines is an important aspect, but can only be addressed in clinical studies.  
2.2.9.  Pharmacokinetics 
No studies on absorption, distribution, metabolism or excretion were performed. This is in line with the CHMP 
Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines and is therefore 
acceptable. 
2.2.10.  Toxicology 
Toxicology studies supporting the safety of the 9vHPV vaccine included 3 GLP-compliant studies in rats 
consisting of: i) a repeat-dose toxicity study (with local tolerance and non-GLP immunogenicity assessments), 
ii) an intramuscular developmental toxicity and immunogenicity study with female fertility and embryo-foetal 
evaluation and iii) an intramuscular developmental toxicity and immunogenicity study with postnatal evaluation. 
The only treatment-related effects were indicative of the immune response and injection site reactions. 
These studies provide an extensive evaluation of the preclinical safety of the 9vHPV vaccine and support the 
administration of this vaccine to humans. 
The 9vHPV vaccine contains the four HPV VLP types that are present in the quadrivalent human papillomavirus 
(types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine, in addition to five new HPV L1 VLP types (31, 33, 45, 52, and 58).  It 
should be noted that the nonclinical toxicology of the quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, 18) 
recombinant vaccine has been previously assessed. Of much more importance for the safety assessment is the 
large safety database available for the 4-valent vaccine (Gardasil). Based on the similarities between the 
vaccines, no important difference in safety is anticipated. 
Toxicology studies of AAHS alone were not performed because this adjuvant has been used before in several 
other Merck vaccines and has an established safety profile. 
Single dose toxicity   
Single-dose toxicity was assessed within a repeat-dose toxicity study, which is acceptable. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A three-month intramuscular toxicity GLP-compliant study was performed in rats dosed once every 21 days with 
a 21-day recovery period. The objective of the study was to determine the potential toxicity and immunogenicity 
of the 9-valent HPV Vaccine, formulated in Merck Aluminum Adjuvant (MAA), when administered 
intramuscularly to rats once on each of Study Days 1, 22, 43, and 64. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 24/128 
  
  
  
No treatment-related deaths were noted. Treatment-related antemortem findings were limited to very slight to 
moderate changes in hematological parameters and biochemical parameters observed in females and males at 
all doses (low-dose, mid-dose, high-dose), such as increases in leukocytes, neutrophil, eosinophil, and 
monocyte counts on Study Day 67 only, and decreases in albumin values and increases in globulin. These are 
anticipated immunological responses, which were recovered or at least partially recovered by the end of the 
21-day recovery period. These changes were likely attributed to non-specific immune responses, and could be 
expected for a vaccine. 
At interim necropsy (3 days after the last dose) but not at final necropsy (after a 21-day recovery period), 
statistically significant increases in splenic weights, with no gross or histomorphologic correlate, were observed 
in female rats injected with the mid- and high-dose of the vaccine. The increase in splenic weights was 
considered an expected secondary effect to the stimulation of the immune system by vaccination and was 
converted to normal range following a 21-day recovery. Theoretically, immune stimulation holds a risk of 
causing/exacerbating autoimmune diseases, but such a risk can only be characterized in post-marketing 
settings. 
Histopathological findings were observed at injection sites and in draining lymph nodes, which is expected for a 
vaccine containing Alum, and the effect appears to be mainly caused by the adjuvant. Given a total amount of 
500 µg Alum within the 9vHPV vaccine formulation (instead of 225 µg in GARDASIL), a 21-day recovery period 
appears not sufficiently long to allow detection of fully or partial recovery of the effect when evaluated by muscle 
inflammation and lymph node hyperplasia. Nonetheless, absence of myofiber degeneration and reduced 
severity of inflammation at the end of recovery suggest ongoing resolution of the skeletal muscle changes. 
For immunogenicity evaluation, the 9vHPV vaccine induced humoral immune responses against all 9 HPV 
serotypes (HPV Type 6, -11, -16, -18, -33, -31, -45, -52, and -58) following one or four intramuscular injections 
to rats at all dose levels, as a pharmacological effect. In contrast, there was generally no detectable antibody 
response against any of these HPV serotypes in the PBS or adjuvant control groups at any time point, as 
expected. 
Genotoxicity 
The in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity/mutagenic potential of the 9vHPV vaccine were not evaluated. According 
to the CHMP Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines, the WHO 
Guidelines on Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines and the Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare "Guideline 
for Non-clinical Studies of Vaccines for Preventing Infectious Diseases", genotoxicity studies are not generally 
required for vaccines. The CHMP agreed. 
Carcinogenicity 
The oncogenic/carcinogenic potential of the 9vHPV vaccine in long and short-term studies was not evaluated. 
According to current requirements as mentioned above, carcinogenicity studies are generally not required for 
vaccines and this is acceptable also for Gardasil 9.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
The reproductive and developmental toxicity of the 9vHPV vaccine was assessed in two GLP-compliant studies 
using female rats. The reproductive and developmental toxicity evaluation is an important part of the overall 
safety assessment for this vaccine because the 9vHPV vaccine is indicated for use in women of childbearing 
potential. The study designs were developed with reference to CBER/FDA's Guidance for Industry on 
"Considerations for Developmental Toxicity Studies for Preventive and Therapeutic Vaccines for Infectious 
Disease Indications" and previous experience with another HPV L1 VLP vaccine, which was found acceptable. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 25/128 
  
  
  
The results of the study on embryo-foetal development show that three 0.5 mL (0.25 mL administered to each 
quadriceps muscle) intramuscular injections, at a dose of 30/40/80/55/30/30/30/30/30 µg HPV VLPs and 500 
µg MAA adjuvant, given at 5 and 2 weeks prior to cohabitation and on GD 6, is not teratogenic, and is 
well-tolerated in female/pregnant rats and without adverse effect on female mating performance and fertility. 
Concerning the study on intramuscular developmental toxicity and immunogenicity study in rats with postnatal 
evaluation, the results show that four 0.5 mL (0.25 mL administered to each quadriceps muscle) intramuscular 
doses of 9vHPV vaccine, administered to F0 females at 5 and 2 weeks prior to cohabitation, on Gestation Day 
(GD) 6 and on Lactation Day (LD) 7, did not cause adverse effects on development, growth, behaviour, 
reproductive performance, and fertility of the F1 generation in rats. 
Local Tolerance  
An assessment of local tolerance for the 9vHPV vaccine was included within the repeat-dose toxicity study in rats. 
The results demonstrated that the changes at the injection site were of minimal toxicological significance and 
within acceptable tolerability limits for intramuscular vaccine treatment in rats with AAHS-containing 
formulations. 
Other toxicity studies 
No other toxicity studies were performed, since no specialized toxicological assessments were needed for this 
vaccine. The CHMP agreed. 
2.2.11.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment has not been conducted. The vaccine consists of proteins and as such it is not 
considered to constitute a risk to the environment. 
2.2.12.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical toxicological testing of the 9vHPV vaccine includes 3 GLP-compliant studies in Sprague-Dawley rats, 
consisting of a repeat-dose toxicity study (complete toxicity with local tolerance and non-GLP immunogenicity 
assessments), a female fertility and embryo-foetal developmental toxicity study, and a postnatal developmental 
toxicity study. 
In the repeat-dose toxicity study, three dose levels (low-dose, mid-dose, high-dose) of the vaccine were 
assessed with the mid-dose level being similar to the final formulation to be licensed. Four 0.5-mL (0.25 
mL/quadriceps) intramuscular dose administrations on study Days 1, 22, 43, and 64, followed by an observation 
period of approximately 3 weeks, showed a favourable safety profile. There were no treatment-related effects 
on mortality, physical signs, body weight, food consumption, ophthalmic, or urinalysis parameters.  
Treatment-related antemortem findings include changes in hematology and blood chemistry, such as very slight 
increases in white cell count, decrease in albumin values and increase in globulin, resulting in decreases in A/G 
ratio. These changes were consistent with the expected immunological response induced by the vaccine, and 
were transient. Treatment-related postmortem findings include transient increases in spleen weights with no 
gross or histomorphologic correlates, and histomorphologic findings at the injection site and in the draining 
lymph nodes, such as inflammation and transient muscle fibre degeneration observed in the quadriceps muscle, 
and hyperplasia of the draining iliac and inguinal lymph nodes correlated with the increased size of lymph nodes 
observed grossly. The change observed in the draining lymph nodes was of similar frequency and severity in 
adjuvant-placebo versus high-dose vaccine groups, and was considered secondary to stimulation of the immune 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 26/128 
  
  
  
system by the adjuvant. Ongoing resolution of these changes was suggested by the absence of myofibre 
degeneration and the reduced severity of inflammation and hyperplasia at the end of a 21-day recovery. 
Antibodies against each of the 9 HPV L1 VLP types were found in every 9vHPV vaccine-treated group. 
In addition, two GLP-compliant studies on reproductive and developmental toxicity of the 9vHPV vaccine were 
conducted in female Sprague-Dawley rats. 
In the first developmental toxicity study, female rats (F0) received three 0.5 mL (0.25 mL administered to each 
quadriceps muscle) intramuscular injections at 5 and 2 weeks prior to cohabitation and on Gestation Day (GD) 
6. There were no treatment-related adverse effects in the F0 females, including mating performance and 
fertility. No treatment-related adverse effect on the embryo-foetal development of the F1 generation was 
observed after routine uterine and foetal examinations, which include assessment of numbers of corpora lutea, 
implantations, and live foetuses and embryonic/foetal viability, foetal weights, sex ratios, and external, visceral, 
coronal, and skeletal morphology. Transfer of antibodies specific against all 9 HPV serotypes from 
vaccine-treated dams to GD 21 foetuses was evidenced by immunogenicity data. 
In the second developmental toxicity study, female rats (F0) received 0.5 mL (0.25 mL administered to each 
quadriceps muscle) intramuscular injection with 9vHPV vaccine on 4 occasions (Premating Week -5 and -2 plus 
GD 6 and LD 7). There were no vaccine-related effects in F0 females and no treatment-related adverse effects 
on development, growth, behaviour, reproductive performance, and fertility of the F1 generation in rats. 
In conclusion, the non-clinical toxicity testing programme designed for the 9vHPV vaccine is adequate. The three 
to four intramuscular doses of vaccine were well tolerated in rats in all conducted toxicity studies. Theoretically, 
lymphoid stimulatory effect seen in repeat-dose toxicity study might cause/exacerbate autoimmune diseases, 
but such a risk can only be characterized in post-marketing setting in humans. 
2.2.1.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The immunogenicity study PD001 in non-human primates demonstrated immunogenicity against all 9 HPV types 
and supported the clinical development of the product. 
There are no safety concerns identified from the 3 non-clinical toxicology studies performed for Gardasil 9. 
Clinical aspects 
2.2.2.  Introduction 
The demonstration of efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine is based on comparison of its efficacy and immune responses 
results to qHPV. Efficacy can only be studied in women 16-26 years of age due to sexual naivety of the younger 
age group that is the main target for vaccination (9-15 years of age). In the age group 16-26 years of age, 
non-inferior immune responses to the 4 HPV types common to both vaccines were the main surrogate markers 
for efficacy. In addition, no negative trend in efficacy was demonstrated. For the 5 new HPV types, clinical 
efficacy was to be demonstrated in comparison to qHPV for the age group 16-26 years. In younger subjects, 
boys and girls 9-15 years of age, and in men 16-26 year of age, serological bridging to the efficacy population, 
i.e. women 16-26 years of age, and to qHPV recipients 9-15 years of age was considered acceptable as a 
surrogate measure of efficacy. This is in line with the clinical development for Gardasil, where efficacy was 
demonstrated in women 16-26 and serological bridging was considered acceptable to extrapolate efficacy to 
younger subjects. In addition, both vaccines have similar claims for protection, i.e. against the same disease 
endpoints, the only difference being the number of virus types included in the vaccine formulations. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 27/128 
  
  
  
In summary, the indication of Gardasil 9 is based on: 
 
non-inferior immunogenicity between Gardasil 9 and the qHPV vaccine for HPV Types 6, 11, 16 and 18 
in girls and women 9 to 26 years of age; consequently, efficacy for Gardasil 9 against persistent infection 
and disease related to HPV Types 6, 11, 16, or 18 can be inferred to be comparable to that of the qHPV 
vaccine; 
 
demonstration of efficacy against persistent infection and disease related to HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52 
and 58 in girls and women 16 to 26 years of age, and  
 
demonstration of non-inferior immunogenicity against the Gardasil 9 HPV Types in boys and girls 9- to 
15 years of age and men 16- to 26-years of age, compared to girls and women 16-to 26-years of age. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 28/128 
  
  
  
  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Study Protocol 
Study Design/Sites 
Study vaccine/arm/No. 
of subjects 
Population 
and age 
Primary Endpoints 
16-26 years-old 
females 
Part A: 
- General tolerability 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 (4 original 
types) 
Part B: 
- General tolerability 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 (4 original 
HPV types) 
- Combined incidence of high-grade genital 
diseases and cancers related to 5 new types 
after median 30 months FU and at least 30 
cases of high-grade disease 
- General tolerability 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 (all 9 
vaccine types) 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 
- General tolerability 
9-15 years-old 
girls and boys, in 
a comparison 
with 16-26 
years-old 
females 
16-26 years old 
males and 
females 
Duration and 
follow-up 
(FU) 
Part A: 7 months 
Part B: 
Immunogenicity
: 
42 months 
Efficacy: at least 
42 months (up 
to FU 54 
months) 
12 months 
(FU 36 months) 
7 months 
immunogenicity 
12 months 
safety 
P001 
Phase IIb/III 
Part A/Phase IIb: 
Substudy 
1) Dose- ranging 
Part B/Phase III: 
Substudies 
2) Immunogenicity 
3) Efficacy 
P002 
Phase III 
Substudies 
1) Adolescent 
Bridging 
2) Lot consistency 
P003 
Phase III 
Safety 
Immunogenicity 
P005 
Phase III 
Concomitant 
Menactra and 
Adacel 
Double-blind, randomized 
9vHPV/qHPV 
105 centers: US (28) and 
Ex-US (77) incl. Austria, 
Brazil, Canada, Chile, 
Colombia, Denmark, 
Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, 
Mexico, New Zealand, 
Norway, Peru, Republic of 
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan, 
Thailand 
Part A n=619/620 
Part B, n= 7,099/7,105 for 
immunogenicity and efficacy 
3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
72 centers located 
throughout Africa, 
Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin 
America, and North America 
9vHPV 
3 vaccine lots 
n=3,066 
Open-label, non-randomized 
Double-blind, randomized 
Open label, randomized 
76 centers:  US (24) and 
Ex-US (52) incl. Canada, 
Colombia, Denmark, 
Germany, Israel, Malaysia 
Mexico, Norway, Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, South 
Africa, Spain, Sweden, 
Thailand, Turkey. 
Open-label randomized 
3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
9vHPV 
3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
N=2500  
1100 HM 
1100 females 
300 MSM 
41 centers: US (34) and 
Ex-US (7) incl. Chile, 
Colombia, Mexico, Peru 
n=619/618 
P006 
Phase III 
Tolerability and 
immunogenicity  
Double-blind, randomized 
32 centers: US (10), Ex-US 
(22) incl. Australia, Canada, 
Colombia, Denmark, Hong 
Kong, Mexico, Sweden 
9vHPV+ 
[Menactra+Adacel]/9vHPV 
11-15- year old 
girls and boys 
9vHPV: 3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
[Menactra+Adacel]: at Month 0 
(concomitant) or Month 1 
(non-concomitant) 
9vHPV/placebo 
n=615/306 
3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
12-26-year old 
females 
previously 
receiving 
Gardasil 
- General tolerability 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 for 9vHPV 
vaccine antigens 
- SCR at 4 weeks post-dosing for 
MenA-C-Y-W135 antigens 
- SPR at 4 weeks post dosing for D, T 
antigens 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post dosing for pertussis 
antigens 
- General tolerability 
- SCRs to each of 5 new HPV vaccine types 
7 months 
7 months 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 29/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P007 
Phase III 
Concomitant 
Repevax 
Open-label randomized 
9vHPV+ [Repevax]/9vHPV 
11-15- year old 
girls and boys 
22 centers: Austria, Belgium, 
Denmark, Finland, Germany, 
Thailand 
n=525/528 
9vHPV: 3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
[Repevax]: at Month 0 
(concomitant) or Month 1 
(non-concomitant) 
P009/GDS01C 
Phase III 
Immunogenicity 
and tolerability 
Double-blind, randomized 
9vHPV/qHPV 
24 centres: Belgium, 
Denmark, Finland, Italy, 
Spain, Sweden 
n=300/300 
3 doses at Month 0, 2, 6 
9-15-year old 
girls 
- General tolerability 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post-dose 3 for 9vHPV 
vaccine antigens 
- SPR at 4 weeks post dosing for D, T 
antigens 
- GMTs at 4 weeks post dosing for pertussis 
antigens 
- SPR at 4 weeks post dosing for poliovirus 
antigens 
-  GMTs  at  4  weeks  post-dose  3  (HPV-16, 
-18) 
7 months 
7 months 
* = Mid-dose selected in Part A of P001, including 30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 µg of HPV types 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 L1VLP with 500 µg aluminium 
adjuvant per 0.5 mL dose, was used in all 7 phase III clinical studies. GMT, geometric mean titre; SCR, seroconversion rate, SPR, seroprotection rate, n, number of 
subjects receiving at least one injection
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 30/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
No clinical pharmacokinetic studies were conducted with the 9vHPV vaccine in support of this Application. 
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies are not routinely conducted as part of the evaluation of vaccines, as indicated 
by the CHMP “Guideline on Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines” (EMEA/CHMP/VWP/164653/2005). 
2.2.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No clinical pharmacokinetic studies were conducted with the 9vHPV vaccine in support of this Application. 
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies are not routinely conducted as part of the evaluation of vaccines, as indicated 
by the CHMP “Guideline on Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines” (EMEA/CHMP/VWP/164653/2005). 
2.2.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The pharmacodynamics of a vaccine relate to its interaction with the immune system and is essentially described 
through immune responses to vaccination. Gardasil 9 is an adjuvanted non-infectious recombinant 9 valent 
vaccine. It is prepared from the highly purified virus-like particles (VLPs) of the major capsid L1 protein from the 
same four HPV types (6, 11, 16, 18) in qHPV vaccine Gardasil or Silgard and from 5 additional HPV types (31, 33, 
45, 52, 58). It uses the same amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulphate adjuvant as the qHPV vaccine. 
The VLPs cannot infect cells, reproduce or cause disease. The efficacy of L1 VLP vaccines is thought to be 
mediated by the development of a humoral immune response. The assessment of anti-HPV immune responses 
was restricted to serum antibody responses only, using HPV vaccine type-specific Competitive Luminex 
Immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA). The pseudovirion-based neutralization assay was used as supportive and only 
analysed for study 001. The immunogenicity of the 9vHPV vaccine is described in detail in the Clinical Efficacy 
section.  
Based on epidemiology studies, Gardasil 9 is anticipated to protect against the HPV types that cause 
approximately: 90% of cervical cancers, more than 95% of adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS), 75-85% of high-grade 
cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 2/3), 85-90 % of HPV related vulvar cancers, 90-95 % of HPV related 
high-grade vulvar  intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN 2/3), 80-85% of HPV related vaginal cancers, 75-85 % of HPV 
related high-grade vaginal  intraepithelial neoplasia (VaIN 2/3), 90-95% of HPV related anal cancer, 85-90% of 
HPV related high-grade anal intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN2/3), and 90% of genital warts. 
The indication of Gardasil 9 is based on: 
 
non-inferior immunogenicity between Gardasil 9 and the qHPV vaccine for HPV Types 6, 11, 16 and 18 
in girls and women 9 to 26 years of age; consequently, efficacy for Gardasil 9 against persistent infection 
and disease related to HPV Types 6, 11, 16, or 18 can be inferred to be comparable to that of the qHPV 
vaccine; 
 
demonstration of efficacy against persistent infection and disease related to HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52 
and 58 in girls and women 16 to 26 years of age, and  
 
demonstration of non-inferior immunogenicity against the Gardasil 9 HPV Types in boys and girls 9- to 
15 years of age and men 16- to 26-years of age, compared to girls and women 16-to 26-years of age. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 31/128 
  
  
  
 
2.2.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Whereas pharmacokinetics studies are not usually conducted for a vaccine, pharmacodynamics relate to its 
mechanism of action, which is thought to be mediated by the induction of immune responses against the specific 
aetiological agent. The VLPs included in the vaccine cannot infect cells, reproduce or cause disease. The 
assessment of anti-HPV immune responses was restricted to serum antibody responses only, using HPV vaccine 
type-specific Competitive Luminex Immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA). The pseudovirion-based neutralization assay 
was used as supportive and only analysed for study 001. Immunogenicity of Gardasil 9 is described in details in 
the following section on clinical efficacy. 
Clinical efficacy 
2.2.5.  Dose response study 
One formal dose formulation-finding study was conducted as Part A of a pivotal efficacy study (P001) in 16-26 
years of age women. In this study, three dose formulations of 9vHPV vaccine were tested, in comparison with 
qHPV vaccine with respect to 4 original vaccine HPV types. The mid-dose formulation containing 270 µg of total 
antigens and 500 µg of AAHS adjuvant was selected, based on interim analysis, for all subsequent phase III 
immunogenicity and efficacy evaluations. This was found acceptable by the CHMP. 
See section 2.2.7 for details of the study design. 
2.2.6.  Main studies 
The clinical development program consists of 7 clinical studies. One study (001) was a phase II/III study 
conducted in two parts A and B, and the others were phase III studies. Four studies are considered pivotal: 001, 
002, 003 and 009/GDS01C, and three studies supportive: 005, 006 and 007.  
One pivotal efficacy study (Part B of P001) was conducted in 16-26 years of age women to assess efficacy of 
9vHPV vaccine against HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, using the composite endpoint of CIN2/3, AIS, invasive 
cervical carcinoma, VIN2/3, VaIN2/3, vulvar cancer or vaginal cancer. Efficacy against HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 was 
primarily assessed using a bridging approach that demonstrated non-inferior immunogenicity of the 9vHPV 
vaccine compared to the qHPV vaccine (Part B of P001, P009/GDS01C).  
The pivotal study 002 compared immune responses to the 9vHPV vaccine in women 16-26 years vs. the immune 
responses of boys and girls 9-15 years of age receiving the same vaccine. The pivotal study 009/GDS01C 
compared immune responses to Gardasil and the 9vHPV vaccine in subjects 9-15 years old. The pivotal study 
003 compared immune responses to 9vHPV vaccine in males 16-26 years old against immune responses in 
women 16-26 years old. 
As mentioned in section 2.2.5, the immunogenicity of the HPV vaccines was measured using 2 methods (see also 
page 45): 
  A competitive Luminex-based immunoassay (cLIA) and 
  A pseudovirion-based neutralisation assay (PBNA). 
Pivotal Studies 
Each study was a multinational and multicentre trial and designed prospectively with concurrent control(s). 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 32/128 
  
  
  
The main design features of 7 clinical studies were summarized in the tabular overview and further described as 
follows (study 003 is described separately after the description of the other pivotal studies): 
Study 001 
The study was a double-blind, randomized, Gardasil-controlled trial. It assessed immunogenicity, efficacy and 
safety of 9vHPV vaccine in young women, 16 – 26 years of age. The study was adaptively designed (Part A, Part 
B) and included 3 substudies: 
 
Part A: phase IIb Dose-finding substudy evaluated safety and immunogenicity of 3 dose formulations of 
the 9vHPV vaccine, in comparison with Gardasil (mentioned above). 
 
Part B: phase III Immunogenicity substudy and Efficacy substudy were conducted following Part A. They 
compared 9vHPV vs. Gardasil for immunogenicity, efficacy and safety in a 3 dose-regimen. The 
immunogenicity substudy comprised all subjects enrolled in Part B and represented a subset of the 
efficacy substudy. 
Dose-finding substudy extended from Day 1 through Month 7, and the duration of immunogenicity substudy was 
42 months (for efficacy substudy, see 3.4 section). 
Study 002 
The study included two substudies: Adult-to-adolescent immunobridging substudy compared (pre)adolescents 
vs. young women with respect to safety and immunogenicity of 9vHPV vaccine, in an open-label 
non-randomized manner. Lot consistency substudy compared 3 manufacturing lots for immunogenicity of the 
vaccine in 9-15 year-old girls, in a randomized and double-blinded fashion. 
The duration of P002 study was 12 months (for safety). 
Study 009/GDS01C 
The study compared 9vHPV vs. Gardasil for immunogenicity and safety in 9-15 year-old girls. This was a 
double-blind randomized trial with the duration of 7 months. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Study 001 included females 16-26 years of age.  
Inclusion criteria included: in good physical health; able to read, understand, and complete the vaccination 
report card; agrees to provide study personnel with a primary telephone number as well as an alternate 
telephone number for follow-up purposes; has never had Pap testing or has only had normal Pap test results; 
has a lifetime history of 1 to 4 male and/or female sexual partners at the time of enrolment OR has 0 male 
and/or female sexual partner, is 18 years of age or older, and plans to become sexually active within the first 3-6 
months of the study; has refrained from douching/vaginal cleansing and using vaginal medications or 
preparations for 2 calendar days prior to the Day 1 visit and agrees to refrain from these activities for 2 calendar 
days prior to any future visit that includes collection of study specimens (cervical/genital swabs or Pap test); has 
refrained from sexual activity (including anal, vaginal, or genital/genital contact whether same sex or opposite 
sex) for 2 calendar days prior to the Day 1 visit.  
Subject agrees to refrain from these sexual activities for 2 calendar days prior to any future visit that includes 
collection of study specimens (cervical/genital swabs or Pap test); since the first day of the subject’s last 
menstrual period through Day 1, the subject has not had sex with males or has had sex with males and used 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 33/128 
  
  
  
effective contraception with no failures and understands and agrees that during the Day 1 through Month 7 
period, she should not have sexual intercourse with males without contraception.  
One hundred five centres located in Austria, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Germany, Hong Kong, 
Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Republic of Korea, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, and the U.S. enrolled 
subjects into the study. 
Study 002 included Boys and Girls Age 9 to 15 Years.  
Inclusion criteria: Subject is male or female, between the ages of 9 years and 15 years on the day of enrolment, 
in good physical health; agrees to provide study personnel with a primary telephone number as well as an 
alternate telephone number for follow-up purposes; must not yet have had coitarche and does not plan on 
becoming sexually active during the Day 1 through Month 7 period. Women Age 16 to 26 Years: Same as for 
study 001. 
Seventy-two (72) study centres located throughout Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America, and North 
America enrolled subjects into the study. 
Study 009/GDS01C included 9 to 15 year-old healthy girls, who had not yet coitarche and does not plan on 
becoming sexually active during the study period, without known allergy to any vaccine component, or history 
of severe allergic reaction that required medical intervention, or immunosuppressive condition or treatment, or 
autoimmune condition, did not receive a marketed HPV vaccine, has not participated in an HPV vaccine clinical 
trial, and has no history of a positive HPV test. 
Subjects were recruited to 26 centres in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Spain and Sweden. 
Treatments 
Study 001: Study vaccine was administered as a 0.5-mL intramuscular injection in a three dose regimen (Day 
1, Month 2, and Month 6). 
Part A: Approximately 1,240 healthy 16- to 26-year-old women were to be randomized in equal numbers to one 
of the three 9vHPV vaccine dose formulations (low, mid or high dose) or the comparator qHPV vaccine. 
Low dose: 20/40/40/20/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg aluminum 
adjuvant/0.5 mL 
Mid dose: 30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg aluminum 
adjuvant/0.5 mL 
High dose: 30/40/80/55/30/30/30/30/30 μg HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg aluminum 
adjuvant/0.5 mL 
Part B: Approximately 13,380 additional healthy 16- to 26-year-old women were to be randomized in equal 
numbers to the selected 9vHPV vaccine dose formulation chosen from Part A or the comparator qHPV vaccine.  
Study 002 and 009/GDS01C: Subjects received one 0.5-mL intramuscular dose of 9vHPV vaccine at Day 1, 
Month 2, and Month 6. The dose corresponds to the mid-dose in study 001. 
The choice of dosing was based on the experience with qHPV. 
Objectives 
Study 001:  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 34/128 
  
  
  
Part A Analysis: Primary Objectives 
(1) Objective: To evaluate the tolerability of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine when administered to 16- to 
26-year-old women. 
(2) Objective: To evaluate a formulation of 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine for use in the efficacy evaluation in Part 
B. 
Part B Analysis (Tolerability and Efficacy Analyses Include Part A Subjects Who Received the Selected 9-Valent 
HPV L1 VLP Vaccine Dose or the Comparator GARDASIL™)  
Primary Objectives 
(1) Objective: To evaluate the tolerability of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine when administered to 16- to 
26-year-old women. 
(2) Objective: To demonstrate that administration of 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine will reduce the combined 
incidence of HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, and 58-related high-grade cervical abnormalities (CIN 2/3), 
Adenocarcinoma In Situ (AIS), invasive cervical carcinoma, high-grade Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN 
2/3), high-grade Vaginal Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VaIN 2/3), vulvar cancer, or vaginal cancer, compared with 
Gardasil in 16- to 26-year-old adolescent and young adult women who are seronegative at Day 1 and PCR 
negative Day 1 through Month 7 to the relevant HPV type. 
(3) Objective: To demonstrate that the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior GMTs for anti-HPV 6, 
11, 16, and 18 compared to Gardasil. 
Secondary Objectives 
(1) Objective: To demonstrate that administration of 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine will reduce the combined 
incidence of HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, and 58-related persistent infection detected in samples from two or more 
consecutive visits (±1 month visit windows) 6 months or longer apart compared with Gardasil in 16- to 
26-year-old adolescent and young adult women who are seronegative at Day 1 and PCR negative Day 1 through 
Month 7 to the relevant HPV type. 
(2) Objective: To demonstrate that 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine is immunogenic with respect to HPV types 31, 
33, 45, 52, and 58. 
(3) Objective: To demonstrate that the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior immune responses 
with respect to seroconversion percentages for HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18 compared to Gardasil. 
 (4) Objective: To quantify the amount by which the administration of 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine reduces the 
combined incidence of HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, and 58-related cervical, vulvar and vaginal disease compared 
with Gardasil in 16- to 26-year-old adolescent and young adult women who are seronegative at Day 1 and PCR 
negative Day 1 through Month 7 to the relevant HPV type(s). 
(5) Objective: To evaluate the persistence of anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 immune responses 
generated by 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine. 
(6) Objective: To evaluate the impact of administration of 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine on the incidence of Pap 
test abnormalities (ASC-US [Positive for High Risk HPV] or worse). 
Exploratory efficacy objectives 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 35/128 
  
  
  
 
to demonstrate the reduction in the combined incidence of HPV-31/33/45/52/58-related persistent 
infection (PI ≥12 months duration) in 9vHPV vaccine, relative to qHPV group 
 
To evaluate whether 9vHPV vaccination reduces the combined incidence of HPV-16/18-related PI (≥6 
months duration) and HPV-16/18-related cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease 
 
To evaluate whether a combined incidence of HPV-6/11-related cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease is 
comparable in the 9vHPV vs. qHPV vaccine groups 
 
To evaluate the impact of 9vHPV vaccination on the combined incidence of CIN, AIS, and cervical cancer 
caused by any HPV type 
 
To evaluate the impact of 9vHPV vaccination on the combined incidence of vulvar and vaginal disease 
caused by any HPV type 
 
To evaluate the efficacy of 9vHPV vaccine against HPV-35/39/51/56/59-related PI (≥6 months 
duration) and HPV35/39/51/56/59-related cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease 
 
To evaluate the impact of 9vHPV vaccination on the incidence of Pap test abnormalities (ASC-US 
[Positive for High Risk HPV] or worse) related to HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 
 
To evaluate the impact of 9vHPV vaccination on the incidence of cervical biopsy and cervical definitive 
therapy treatments 
Study 002:  
Primary Safety Objective: To evaluate the tolerability of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine in preadolescent and 
adolescent boys and girls 9 to 15 years of age and young women 16 to 26 years of age. 
Primary Immunogenicity Objectives: 
Adolescent-Adult Immunobridging Substudy 
(1) To demonstrate that administration of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior GMTs for serum 
anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and 
anti-HPV 58 in preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years 
of age. 
(2) To demonstrate that administration of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior GMTs for serum 
anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and 
anti-HPV 58 in preadolescent and adolescent boys 9 to 15 years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 
years of age. 
Manufacturing Lot Consistency Substudy 
(1)  To demonstrate that the Final Manufacturing Process (FMP) results in 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine that 
induces consistent serum anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, 
anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 responses. 
Secondary Objectives: 
Adolescent-Adult Immunobridging Substudy 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 36/128 
  
  
  
(1) To demonstrate that the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior immune responses with respect 
to seroconversion percentages to HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in preadolescent and 
adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years of age. 
(2) To demonstrate that the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior immune responses with respect 
to seroconversion percentages to HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in preadolescent and 
adolescent boys 9 to 15 years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years of age. 
Manufacturing Lot Consistency Substudy 
(1) To demonstrate that the FMP results in 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine that induces consistent seroconversion 
percentages to HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
Primary Objective 
To demonstrate that administration of the 9vHPV vaccine induces non-inferior Geometric Mean Titres (GMTs) for 
serum anti-HPV 16 and anti-HPV 18 compared to qHPV vaccine in preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 
years of age. 
Secondary Objectives 
To evaluate the tolerability of the 9vHPV vaccine in preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age. 
To summarise humoral immune responses (including anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, GMTs and seroconversion rates at 
4 weeks post-dose 3) in preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age who received 9vHPV vaccine or 
qHPV vaccine. 
Exploratory Objective 
To summarise humoral immune responses (including anti-HPV 31, 33, 45, 52, 58 GMTs and seroconversion 
rates at 4 weeks post-dose 3) in preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age who received 9vHPV 
vaccine. 
 The objectives of the pivotal studies are in agreement with the scientific advice, and the methodology used is 
in agreement with the development of Gardasil.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Study 001 
Efficacy: The protocol specified that the primary analysis of efficacy was to be conducted in the per-protocol 
efficacy (PPE) population. This cohort consisted of subjects who received all 3 vaccinations, did not deviate from 
the study protocol in ways that could potentially interfere with the efficacy of the vaccine, and were seronegative 
at baseline and PCR negative at baseline and during the 6-month vaccination regimen and for 1 month 
thereafter (to allow for induction of immune responses to Dose 3 of the vaccine) to the relevant HPV type(s). 
Cases of the primary endpoint were counted starting after Month 7. The following specimens were collected from 
study participants for the purpose of detecting vaccine-type HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or clinical disease: 
(1) cervico-vaginal and external genital swabs; (2) ThinPrep™Pap test; (3) cervical or external genital biopsy if 
clinically indicated; (4) endocervical curettage specimen at the investigator’s discretion; and (5) definitive 
therapy specimen if clinically indicated. A blinded Pathology Panel evaluated all biopsies according to a standard 
operating procedure until consensus diagnoses were obtained. Primary efficacy cases of CIN 2/3 or worse, 
VIN2/3 or worse, and VaIN 2/3 or worse were defined if, on a single biopsy tissue block, both of the following 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 37/128 
  
  
  
conditions were met: (1) HPV 31 DNA, HPV 33 DNA, HPV 45 DNA, HPV 52 DNA and/or HPV 58 DNA was detected 
in biopsy thin sections using Merck’s Biopsy Thin-Section PCR Assay; and (2) the consensus diagnosis of the 
Program’s Pathology Panel was CIN 2, CIN 3, AIS, cervical cancer, VIN2/3, VaIN 2/3, vulvar cancer, or vaginal 
cancer. 
The clinical efficacy endpoints are in agreement with those used in the clinical development of Gardasil, and 
have been further discussed in scientific advice.  
Immunogenicity: Serum anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 titres were measured using a HPV-9 
competitive Luminex Immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA). The following endpoints were collected from each study 
subject to assess immunogenicity: 1) cLIA titres for each of the vaccine HPV types; 2) seroconversion status 
(i.e., above or below serostatus cut off) for each of the vaccine HPV types. All subjects that were part of the 
defined per protocol immunogenicity (PPI) population were included in the immunogenicity summary. Serum 
samples were collected from all subjects at Day 1 and Month 7. Additional samples were collected at Month 12, 
Month 24, Month 36, and Month 42 to assess persistence of antibody responses. The primary time point for 
immunogenicity analysis was at Month 7. 
The serostatus cut-off is the antibody titre level within the assay’s quantifiable range that reliably distinguishes 
“negative” from “positive” samples. The HPV-9 cLIA serostatus cut-offs for HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 
52 and 58 are 30, 16, 20, 24, 10, 8, 8, 8 and 8 mMU/mL, respectively. 
Two versions of the HPV-9 competitive Luminex immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA) were used in the 001 study: Version 
1.0 representing the pre-validated assay, and Version 2.0 representing the fully validated assay used to assess 
immunogenicity for Phase III. One difference between Version 2.0 and Version 1.0 is the different dilution rule. 
Version 1.0 of the HPV-9 cLIA was used for Part A interim immunogenicity analysis of baseline and PD2 
specimens to support dose selection. Subsequently, Version 2.0 of the HPV-9 cLIA assay was applied to Part B 
of the study to support the primary, secondary, and exploratory immunogenicity objectives of the study. In the 
per-protocol efficacy analysis, baseline HPV serostatus, as determined by testing using the HPV-9 cLIA assay, 
will be used to include/exclude eligible subjects. While material discrepancy in HPV baseline seropositivity as 
determined by the two versions of the HPV-9 cLIA is not expected, baseline samples for Part A subjects who 
received either the selected V503 dose formulation or qHPV vaccine were re-tested using Version 2.0 of the 
HPV-9 cLIA. Thus, the HPV-9 cLIA Version 2.0 is consistently used to determine baseline serostatus for both Part 
A and Part B subjects in order to allow data from Part A and Part B subjects to be combined for the efficacy 
analyses. 
In addition, a subset of subjects in the immunogenicity subset were analysed using the pseudovirion-based 
neutralisation assay (PBNA).  
Safety: The following measures were collected from each study subject to assess safety: 1) temperatures 
(within 5 days following any vaccination); 2) all adverse events (within 14 days following any vaccination); 3) all 
serious adverse experiences that occurred from Day 1 through 180 days following the last vaccination; 4) all 
serious adverse experiences that resulted in death or were determined to be related to the study vaccine or 
study procedure that occurred at any time during the study. All subjects that received at least one injection of 
study vaccine and had safety follow-up data were included in the safety summary. In addition to the above 
safety endpoints, this CSR summarizes: (1) new medical conditions; (2) serious adverse experiences observed 
during pregnancy and lactation; (3) pregnancy outcomes; and (4) serious adverse experiences in infants (of 
study subjects) potentially exposed to test product. 
Study 002 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 38/128 
  
  
  
Immunogenicity: The same immunogenicity endpoints were used as in study 001, except that the no additional 
serum samples were taken after month 7.  
Safety: The following measures were collected from each study subject to assess safety: 1) temperatures 
(within 5 days following any vaccination); 2) all adverse events (within 14 days following any vaccination); 3) all 
serious adverse experiences (SAEs) that occurred from Days 1 through 180 following the last vaccination; 4) all 
SAEs that resulted in death or were determined to be related to the study vaccine that occurred at any time 
during the study. All subjects who received at least one injection of study vaccine and had safety follow-up data 
were included in the safety summary. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
Immunogenicity: The same immunogenicity endpoints were used as in study 001, except that the no additional 
serum samples were taken after month 7. 
Safety: The same safety endpoints as in study 002 were used in study 009/GDS01C.  
Across studies, the serological methods are the same as for Gardasil development, and are considered relevant 
and well established. 
Sample size 
Study 001 
The study sample size was determined to provide sufficient statistical power to demonstrate success against the 
primary efficacy hypothesis if the 9vHPV vaccine is truly efficacious. 
A total sample size of 14,000 subjects (Part A = 620; Part B = 13,380) randomized to either the 9v HPV vaccine 
or the qHPV vaccine on a 1:1 allocation ratio provides the study a >90% power to demonstrate success on the 
primary efficacy hypothesis based on a test with one-sided α=0.025 level of significance. The power and sample 
size were determined based on the following assumptions: 
– Efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine relative to placebo is 88%; 
– Efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine relative to the qHPV vaccine against HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 is 83% 
under the assumption that the qHPV vaccine has cross-protection efficacy of 30% relative to placebo against 
these HPV types. 
With these assumptions, 30 cases of the primary efficacy endpoint need to be accrued to have >90% power to 
succeed on the test of the primary efficacy hypothesis at α=0.025 level of significance based on a fixed-event 
design. A total sample size of 14,000 subjects will provide at least 30 cases of the primary efficacy endpoint 
based on the following assumptions: 
– ≤23% exclusion rate from the PPE population due to Day 1 seropositivity and/or Day 1 through Month 7 
PCR-positivity to HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58; 
– ≤10% attrition rate between Day 1 through Month 7; 
– ≤5% attrition rate post Month 7; 
– 0.35 per 100 person-years incidence of the primary efficacy endpoint in the qHPV vaccine group; and 
– Accrual of at least 30 months post randomization follow-up time on at least 50% of subjects randomized. 
Study 002 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 39/128 
  
  
  
Immunobridging hypotheses will be tested by comparing the approximately 600 preadolescent and adolescent 
girls (or boys) vs. the approximately 400 young women (16 to 26 years of age) who received the same lot of 
vaccine. The sample size for the preadolescent and adolescent group (~600 per group) is primarily driven by the 
lot consistency objective and also by consideration of the overall safety data base in 9- to 15-year-old subjects. 
One-sided 2.5% significance level is used for the calculations. The power and sample size are based on the 
following assumptions: 1) the exclusion rates for PPI population are approximately 20% for the 9- to 
15-year-old girls and boys group and 40% for the 16- to 26-year-old young women group, 2) a standard 
deviation (SD) of the natural-log-transformed titres of 1.2, and 3) non-inferiority margin for GMT ratio is 1.5 fold. 
The estimates of exclusion rates and SD are based on data from previous qHPV vaccine studies.  
A sample size of 400 young women and 600 preadolescent and adolescent girls has 91% power to show 
non-inferior Month 7 GMTs for preadolescent and adolescent girls vs. 16- to 26-year-old young women if the 
underlying GMT ratio is 1.0 for the 4 original types (HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18) and also 1.0 for the 5 new types (HPV 
31, 33, 42, 52, and 58). Since higher anti-HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 GMTs have been observed with qHPV vaccine 
in preadolescent and adolescent girls and boys than in 16-to 26-year-old young women (GMT ratios ranged from 
1.7 to 2.7 across the 4 HPV types), it is possible that in this study, the GMT ratios for these 4 original types and 
also the 5 new types (by the same mechanism) will be higher than 1.0. The power will increase to 95% if the 
underlying GMT ratio is 1.2 for the 4 original types and 1.0 for the 5 new types. The power may reach >99% if 
the underlying GMT ratio is 1.2 for both the original and new types. 
Non-inferior Month 7 GMTs for 9- to 15-year-old boys vs. 16- to 26-year-old young women will be tested only if 
the GMT comparisons between 9- to 15-year-old girls and 16- to 26-year-old young women reach statistical 
significance. The statistical power for meeting the primary immunogenicity hypothesis in all 9 HPV types for 9- 
to 15-year-old boys vs. 16- to 26-year-old young women would be at least, (91%)2=83% assuming true GMT 
ratios 1.0 for all 9 types, (95%) 2=90% assuming true GMT ratios 1.2 for original types (6, 11, 16 and 18) and 
1.0 for new types (31, 33, 42, 52, and 58), and >99% assuming true GMT ratios 1.2 for all 9 types. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
This study was intended to randomize equally 600 girls (9 to 15 years of age) into each of the 2 groups (9vHPV 
vaccine vs. qHPV vaccine). The primary set of subjects for the analysis of the immune responses was the Per 
Protocol Set. It was expected that there would be an approximately 20% exclusion rate from the PPS. Thus, the 
primary analysis would include 480 girls (240 in each group). The non-inferiority margin is 0.67, the true GMT 
ratio was assumed to be 1 and the standard deviation was estimated at 1.2 for both the HPV 16 and 18 
post-vaccination titres (natural log scale). Based on 240 evaluable subjects per group and the above elements, 
the study has over 90% power to demonstrate the non-inferiority of the 9vHPV vaccine compared to qHPV 
vaccine for HPV 16 and 18. 
The estimations of exclusion rate and the standard deviation were based on data from previous qHPV vaccine 
studies. The power of the study was calculated using PASS 2008 software based on the assumption of 
log-normality of the post-vaccination titres.  
All sample size calculations were based on reasonable assumptions. 
Randomisation 
Study 001 
In Part A or Part B, subjects received an allocation number from an allocation schedule generated by the Clinical 
Biostatistics department of the Sponsor. There were separate allocation schedules for Part A and Part B. The 
randomization was balanced within sites. An Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) was used to allocate 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 40/128 
  
  
  
study subjects and assist with the vaccine supply management at the study site. At the first visit, study 
personnel accessed the IVRS after the subject had signed informed consent (or for minors after a subject’s 
parent/legal guardian had signed informed consent and the subject had signed assent), and after the subject 
had met all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria. The IVRS assigned the subject an allocation number (AN) 
and a unique vial identification number for the vial of clinical material that the subject was to receive at that visit. 
The IVRS assigned the appropriate clinical material based on the subject’s vaccination group. The study 
personnel accessed IVRS at each subsequent vaccination visit for assignment of a unique vial identification 
number of the clinical material from the appropriate vaccination group to be administered to the subject. ANs 
were subject-specific and were not reused for any reason. ANs for subjects who discontinued or withdrew from 
the study were not reassigned. 
Study 002 
Enrolment was stratified by age and gender. Among the 9- to 15-year-old subjects, enrolment was stratified 
approximately 2:1 for 9- to 12-year-olds and 13- to 15-year-olds. This was to ensure that the tolerability profile 
of the vaccine among the younger subjects is clearly defined. 
Specifically, 3 allocation schedules were generated by the Sponsor – one for each of the following cohorts: 
  9- to 15-year-old females (~1800 subjects): the allocation schedule was stratified 2:1 for 9- to 
12-year-olds and 13- to 15-year-olds; these subjects were randomized within each age stratum in a 
1:1:1 ratio to receive 1 of 3 FMP vaccine lots (Lot 1, Lot 2, or Lot 3) using centralized randomization; 
subjects, site personnel and Sponsor were blinded to vaccine lot allocation 
  9- to 15-year-old males (~600 subjects): the allocation schedule was stratified 2:1 for 9- to 
12-year-olds and 13- to 15-year-olds; these subjects all received vaccine Lot 1 
  16- to 26-year-old females (~400 subjects): no age strata were included in the allocation schedule; 
these subjects all received vaccine Lot 1 
As in study 001, an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) was used to allocate study subjects, and assign 
each subject an AN.  
Study 009/GDS01C 
A central randomization system (implemented through an Interactive Web Response System [IWRS]) assigned 
the subject a vaccine group (blinded) and an allocation number according to the randomized allocation 
schedules and then subsequently assigned a unique vaccine kit number corresponding to the vaccine group. The 
randomized allocation schedule was stratified in 2 age strata (9 to 12 years of age, and 13 to 15 years of age, 
at the time of enrolment) with a capping at 300 subjects per stratum and was based on balanced randomization 
blocks of size 6 (i.e. 50 blocks of size 6 per stratum). Subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio within each age 
stratum to 9vHPV vaccine or qHPV vaccine. A single subject could not be assigned more than 1 allocation 
number. In addition, at each subsequent administration of study vaccine, the study personnel requested 
through the IWRS the assignment of a vaccine kit number corresponding to the subject's vaccine group. 
Blinding (masking) 
Study 001 
This was a double-blind study with in-house blinding procedures. Subjects, investigators, laboratory staff and 
the Sponsor were blinded to vaccine allocation. The clinical materials GARDASILTM and the 3 doses of 9-valent 
HPV L1 VLP vaccine were visually indistinguishable, and were supplied in identical vials. Clinical, statistical and 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 41/128 
  
  
  
data management study personnel at the Sponsor, involved in study conduct, remained blinded to subject 
vaccination group allocations for Part A and Part B subjects until primary efficacy analysis. The exception was 
unblinded personnel who provided data summaries for dose selection and DSMB meetings but was otherwise not 
associated with the conduct of the study or the design of any of the statistical analyses for the study (other than 
those requested by the DSMB). 
In Part A, sites were to contact IVRS at the completion of each subject's Month 7 visit to determine those 
subjects from Part A who were to continue in the study to at least Month 42 and those who were to complete the 
study at their Month 7 visit. No vaccination group information for the continuing subjects was released to the 
study sites, and subjects continuing beyond Month 7 remained randomised between the two continuing 
vaccination groups. The formal statistical test of the Part A hypothesis based upon Month 7 data was conducted 
at the time the database was unblinded for the primary efficacy analysis.   
In addition, the Pathology Panel was blinded to the vaccination group assignment of study subjects, and to 
results of HPV typing analysis of specimens of study subjects, throughout the duration of the study. 
Study 002 
Given that the study included comparisons of 9vHPV vaccine across distinctly different age and gender groups, 
a full double-blind design was not possible. Within the Immunobridging Substudy boys 9-15 years and, young 
women 16-26 years old was assigned open-label treatment with the 9vHPV vaccine (of the same FMP lot). 
Within  the Manufacturing Lot Consistency Substudy however, girls 9-15 years were randomised to 1 of 3 
different FMP lots of the 9vHPV vaccine with subjects, investigators (and staff), laboratory staff, and Sponsor 
blinded to FMP lot number throughout the study until the unblinding of the database.  
In addition the laboratory staff was to remain blinded to age and gender of all subjects for the duration of the 
study. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
The study was performed in a double-blind fashion. Subjects, investigators, and the Sponsor, with limited 
exceptions (e.g. Pharmacovigilance and Risk Management Department) were blinded to vaccine allocation. The 
two study vaccines were visually identical and were presented in an indistinguishable packaging. Laboratory 
personnel conducting HPV assays were blinded to all subjects' age, as well as the vaccination group. 
Overall, Study 001 and Study 009/GDS01C were both performed in a double-blind fashion. Blinding procedures 
were appropriate and in Study 001 the blinding was maintained for those subjects randomised to the selected 
dose and comparator who continued in the study beyond Month 7. The mix of open-label and double blind 
treatment in Study 002 is acceptable. 
Statistical methods 
Study 001 
The study used a seamless Phase II/III adaptive design. Based on an interim analysis of immunogenicity data in 
the phase II dose selection part (Part A), one dose was selected for evaluation in the phase III part (Part B). The 
evaluation of primary safety and efficacy objectives for the 9v HPV vaccine was based on combined data from 
subjects enrolled in Part A who received the selected 9v HPV vaccine dose or the comparator and subjects 
enrolled in Part B. The primary immunogenicity analyses for Part B was the formal comparison of the selected 
9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine to the qHPV control and included those subjects enrolled in Part B only. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 42/128 
  
  
  
Part B had a fixed event design whereby the primary efficacy analysis was to be conducted after at least 30 cases 
of the primary efficacy endpoint (HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related high-grade cervical abnormalities (CIN 2/3), 
Adenocarcinoma In Situ (AIS), invasive cervical carcinoma, high-grade Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN 
2/3), high-grade Vaginal Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VaIN 2/3), vulvar cancer, or vaginal cancer) had been 
observed. 
Vaccine efficacy (VE), defined as 100%*(1-relative risk) and equivalent to the percent reduction in the risk of 
becoming a case of a particular endpoint in the group vaccinated with 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine relative to the 
risk in the qHPV group, was computed using exact methods. The statistical criterion for success with respect to 
the primary efficacy hypothesis required that the lower bound of the confidence interval for vaccine efficacy 
exclude 25% for the primary efficacy endpoint. The primary efficacy hypothesis was tested at the á=0.025 
(1-sided) level. 
For every composite efficacy endpoint, an estimate of vaccine efficacy with 95% confidence intervals was also 
provided for each HPV type and/or by lesion type. In addition to computing point and CI estimates of VE, 
Kaplan-Meier time-to-event plots were estimated for selected efficacy endpoints. 
The primary immunogenicity endpoints were geometric mean titres (GMTs) corresponding to HPV types 6, 11, 
16, and 18 at Week 4 Postdose 3 (Month 7). The hypotheses of non-inferiority of GMTs for HPV types 6, 11, 16 
and 18 were based on one-sided tests of non-inferiority comparing GMTs for each component. Four ANOVA 
models (one per HPV type) with a response of log individual titres and a fixed effect for vaccination group was 
used. Each hypothesis was tested at the á=0.025 level (1-sided). 
In the primary analyses a per-protocol approach was used. Per Protocol Efficacy (PPE) Populations consisted of 
subjects who received all 3 doses of the 9vHPV vaccine or the qHPV vaccine within 1 year; had Month 7 PCR 
results on swab samples collected within 14 to 72 days post-dose 3; were HPV-naïve (i.e., seronegative at Day 
1 and PCR negative from Day 1 through Month 7) to the vaccine HPV type being analysed (HPV-naïve to both 
types 6 and 11 in analysis of HPV 6-related and HPV 11-related endpoints); and did not violate the protocol in 
ways that could interfere with the evaluation of immune response to injections of the 9vHPV or qHPV vaccines. 
In the PPE population endpoint cases were counted starting after Month 7. 
To support the results of the analyses based on the PPE population, analyses were performed on the HPV-naïve 
type-specific (HN-TS), the full analysis set (FAS) and the All HPV Naïve Population (All-HN). The HN-TS 
population consisted of subjects who received at least 1 dose of the 9vHPV or qHPV vaccines, had at least 1 
follow-up visit after Day 1 and were HPV-naïve at Day 1 to the HPV type being analysed. To be included in the 
FAS, subjects should have received at least 1 dose of the 9vHPV or qHPV vaccines and had at least 1 follow-up 
visit after Day 1. The All-HN population included only subjects who were seronegative and PCR-negative at 
enrolment to all 9 vaccine HPV types; were PCR-negative at enrolment to all other non-vaccine HPV types for 
which PCR assays were available; and had a normal Pap test result at enrolment.   
Per Protocol Immunogenicity (PPI) populations consisted of subjects who were PPE-population-eligible and had 
their vaccination visits within acceptable day ranges relative to Day 1 and had at least one Month 7 serology 
result within 21 to 49 days post-dose 3. To support primary analyses they were repeated based on the All (HPV 
Type-specific) Naïve Subjects with Serology (ANSS) population. ANSS consisted of subjects who received all 3 
doses of 9vHPV or qHPV vaccine; had Month 7 PCR results within 14 to 72 days post-dose 3; were HPV-naïve to 
the vaccine HPV type being analysed (HPV-naïve to both types 6 and 11 in analysis of HPV 6-related and HPV 
11-related endpoints); and had an evaluable post-dose 3 serology result. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 43/128 
  
  
  
To support Part B immunogenicity secondary objectives analyses were also based on the following analysis 
populations; the Day 1 Seronegative and PCR Positive (S0P1), Day 1 Seropositive and PCR Negative (S1P0) and, 
Day 1 Seropositive and PCR Positive (S1P1).  
All safety analyses were performed on the All-Subjects-as-Treated (ASaT) population that included all 
randomized subjects who had received at least 1 injection of the 9vHPV or qHPV vaccine and had follow-up data. 
No multiplicity adjustments were implemented. Declaration of study success required demonstration of success 
on both the primary efficacy hypothesis and the primary Part B immunogenicity hypothesis. No efficacy data 
were summarized during the Part A interim analysis. The primary immunogenicity analysis in Part B was 
conducted independently from the analysis in Part A. Regarding the multiple hypotheses for HPV types 6, 11, 16 
and 18 this was addressed by requiring success for all 4 HPV types (thereby controlling the overall alpha level).  
A number of additional analyses that were not specified in the Statistical Analysis Plan were conducted in order 
to present additional and broader perspective on: 1) prophylactic efficacy expected to be conferred by the 
9vHPV vaccine; and 2) therapeutic efficacy that is not expected to be conferred by the 9vHPV vaccine. 
No interim analyses were planned nor performed for Part B. 
The primary analyses are based on data through the visit cut-off date (of 10-Apr-2013). The study database was 
locked at 26-Jul-2013.  
Study 002 
The primary and secondary immunogenicity analyses were performed in type-specific per-protocol 
immunogenicity populations. Each vaccine component (i.e. HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58) was 
analysed separately. The analysis of the Day 1 through Month 7 serum was conducted after the database for the 
Base Period (including analysis of Day 1 and Month 7 serum and safety follow-up through Month 12) was locked 
and unblinded for lot information. 
To be included in the primary immunogenicity analysis for the HPV 6 and HPV 11 components, subjects must be 
seronegative to both HPV 6 and 11 at Day 1 and (for 16- to 26-year-old women) must be PCR negative to HPV 
6 and 11 from Day 1 through Month 7. To be included in the primary immunogenicity analysis for the other 
vaccine HPV types, subjects were required to be seronegative at Day 1 and (for 16- to 26-year-old women) PCR 
negative from Day 1 through Month 7 only for the HPV type being analysed. In addition, subjects must have 
received all 3 doses and have at least 1 post-dose 3 serology result. Subjects with any protocol violation that 
could interfere with the evaluation of immune response was excluded from the primary immunogenicity 
analysis. 
The immunobridging and manufacturing lot consistency sub-studies were considered separately. 
Within the Immunobridging Sub study the primary non-inferiority hypothesis with respect to anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 
18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 GMTs at 4 weeks post dose 3 in 9- to 15-year-old boys or girls compared to 16- to 
26-year old young women was tested by constructing a 95% confidence interval for the ratio of GMTs. The 
statistical criterion for non-inferiority required that the lower bound of two-sided 95% CI of GMT ratio 
(boys/young women or girls/young women) be greater than 0.67 for each HPV type. 
The primary hypotheses of non-inferiority of GMTs for each of HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 
was addressed by 9 one-sided tests of non-inferiority (one corresponding to each HPV type) conducted at the 
α=0.025 level (1-sided). The test was performed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with a response 
of log individual titres and a fixed effect for comparison group. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 44/128 
  
  
  
For immunobridging primary hypotheses, success was required on all 9 vaccine HPV types. For the co-primary 
hypotheses of non-inferiority of GMTs a closed stepwise testing procedure was used with the non-inferiority 
hypothesis of GMTs in girls vs. young women tested first and in boys vs. young women tested second, to control 
the overall Type I error rate at 0.025 (1-sided).  
The secondary non-inferiority hypothesis with respect to seroconversion to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 
and 58 by 4 weeks post dose 3 in 9- to 15-year-old boys or girls compared to 16- to 26-year old young women 
was tested by constructing a 95% confidence interval for the difference in seroconversion percentages.  
Within the Manufacturing Lot Consistency Sub study the primary hypothesis regarding consistency of the 3 Final 
manufacturing process (FMP) lots of 9vHPV vaccine with respect to the GMTs to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 
52, and 58 at 4 weeks post-dose 3, was addressed by 3 pair-wise comparisons (Lot 1 vs. Lot 2, Lot 1 vs. Lot 3, 
and Lot 2 vs. Lot 3) for each HPV type (27 comparisons total). Each pair-wise comparison tested the equivalence 
of the 2 lots (within 2-fold) using 2 one-sided tests at the 0.025 level. An ANCOVA model was used with a 
response of log individual titres and fixed effects for vaccine lot and age strata. Lot consistency was to be 
concluded if the two-sided 95% CI of the ratio of GMTs for each of the three pairs of lots was contained within 
the interval (0.5, 2.0). 
The secondary hypothesis regarding consistency of the 3 FMP lots of 9vHPV vaccine with respect to the 
percentage of subjects who seroconvert for each HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 by 4 weeks post 
dose 3 was addressed by 3 pair-wise comparisons for each vaccine HPV type (27 comparisons total). Each 
pair-wise comparison tested the equivalence of the 2 lots (within an equivalence margin of 5 percentage points) 
using 2 one-sided tests at the 0.025 level. These comparisons were tested using the method of Miettinen and 
Nurminen, stratified by age strata. 
All subjects who received at least 1 study vaccination and had follow-up data were included in the primary safety 
analysis. 
There was no change in the analyses planned for this study. Protocol V503-002 has been extended through 
Month 36 to assess HPV antibody persistence in preadolescent and adolescent girls and boys. The analysis of the 
Month 12 through Month 36 serum was to take place at the end of the V503-002-10 Study Extension. The study 
extension 002-10 is complete. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
The primary hypotheses of non-inferiority of GMTs for HPV types 16 and 18 were addressed by 2 one-sided tests 
of non-inferiority (one corresponding to each HPV type) conducted at α=0.025 level (1-sided). Each test was 
conducted using an ANOVA model with a response of log individual titres and a fixed effect for group and age 
strata (as per randomization). No multiplicity adjustments were implemented based on that study success 
required that non-inferiority had been shown for both HPV types 16 and 18. 
The immunogenicity analyses of the primary and secondary endpoints were performed on the Per Protocol Set 
(PPS) in initially seronegative subjects (primary analysis) and on the All Type-Specific Naïve Subjects with 
Serology (ANSS) Set in initially seronegative subjects (supportive analysis). 
To be included in the PPS subjects were required to have received all 3 vaccinations, have provided Month 7 
serology result within 21 to 49 days post dose 3, be seronegative to the appropriate HPV type at Day 1 and, have 
no other protocol violations that could interfere with the evaluation of subject's immune response to the study 
vaccine. To be included in the PPS for HPV 6 and 11, subjects had to be seronegative to both HPV 6 and 11 at Day 
1.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 45/128 
  
  
  
To be included in ANSS subjects were required to have received all 3 vaccinations, have provided post dose 3 
serology data and be seronegative to the appropriate HPV type at Day 1. To be included in the ANSS set for HPV 
6 and 11, subjects had to be seronegative to both HPV 6 and 11 at Day 1.  
Secondary endpoints were evaluated by descriptive analysis in each group with within group two-sided 95% CIs 
for rates based on the exact method for binary variables (according to D. Collett) and with CI for GMT based on 
Students t distribution after log transformation of individual titres. The method of Miettinen and Nurminen 
stratified by age strata was used to determine the 95%CI of differences in seroconversion rates.  
Analyses of safety were based on all subjects who received at least 1 study vaccination and had safety follow-up 
data. 
No interim analysis was planned nor performed. 
There were no protocol amendments implemented during the course of the study. No changes in the conduct of 
the study and in the planned analyses were decided. As more than 98% of the subjects were white, the planned 
analysis of the immunogenicity endpoints by race was not performed. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Study 001 
The study participant distribution is summarised in the following tables: 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 46/128 
  
  
  
Table 2.  Disposition of Subjects (Day 1 to Month 7) (All Randomized Subjects, Dose-Ranging Substudy) 
Two subjects from the low-dose group were report as continuing into the next segment of the study and they did 
not receive further vaccinations. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 47/128 
  
  
  
 
 
Table 3.  Disposition of Subjects (Day 1 to Month 7) (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
There are no major differences between the groups, and no striking discontinuations. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 48/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Table 4.  Disposition of Subjects (> Month 7 to Month 42) (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
Table 5.  Disposition of Subjects (> Month 42 to Month 48) (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 49/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 6.  Disposition of Subjects (> Month 48 to Month 54) (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
The study was to be terminated when 30 cases had been retrieved and continued follow- up until month 42 for 
remaining subjects. This appears to be the explanation for the lower number of subjects in the two last follow-up 
periods.  
Study 002 
A total of 3111 subjects were screened for inclusion in this study, 3074 were randomized, and 3066 received at 
least 1 vaccination. A summary of the number of subjects who were randomized, vaccinated, who completed or 
discontinued during the study, by vaccination group, is provided in the table below. 
Table 7.  Disposition of Subjects (All Randomized Subjects) 
There are no major differences between the groups, and no striking discontinuations. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 50/128 
  
  
  
 
 
Study 009/GDS01C 
A total of 603 subjects entered the study between 23 February 2011 and 11 May 2011. A flow-chart of the 
number of subjects at each stage of the study is given below. 
Figure 1.  Flow-Chart of Subjects Participation 
The number of subjects completing the study was high, and similar between the two groups. 
Recruitment 
Study 001 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 51/128 
  
  
  
 
 
The first subject received the first dose on September 26, 2007, and the last subject received the third dose on 
October 3, 2011. Subjects were followed for efficacy through at least month 42. Further follow-up is planned.  
Study 002 
The first subject received the first dose on August 27, 2009, and the last subject received the third dose on 
August 18, 2011. Subjects were initially planned to be followed until Month 12, but the study was extended 
through month 36.  
Study 009/GDS01C 
The first visit for the first subject was February 23, 2011, and the last visit of the last subject was December 20, 
2011. The subjects were followed through month 7, i.e. 1 month after the last vaccination. 
Baseline data 
Study 001  
Table 7 displays the demographic characteristics of subjects randomized into the dose-ranging substudy, by 
vaccination group. Table 8 displays the demographic characteristics of subjects randomized into the efficacy 
substudy, by vaccination group. 
Pap tests were obtained in all subjects at Day 1. An abnormal Pap test at Day 1 was not a reason for exclusion 
from the study, and the results of this test were not part of the criteria to define the per protocol populations. 
Nonetheless, the results of this screening, which was mandated by the protocol, provided a general estimate of 
the burden of HPV-related cervical disease at enrolment. Table 9 displays the Pap test results at Day 1 for all 
randomized subjects in the efficacy substudy by vaccination group. 
HPV serostatus and HPV PCR status was tested in all subjects at Day 1 for all HPV vaccine types. Seropositivity 
and/or PCR positivity at Day 1 were not a reason for exclusion from the study. However, the results of this 
screening were part of the criteria to define the PPI and PPE populations for each vaccine HPV type. A subject 
was defined to be anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV-31, anit-HPV-33, anti-HPV 45, 
anti-HPV 52, or anti-HPV 58 seropositive to HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, or 58, respectively, if her 
anti-HPV serum cLIA level was greater than or equal to the established cut off defined for the specific HPV type. 
A subject was defined to be HPV DNA positive if at least one cervico-vaginal specimen was found to be positive 
for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and/or 58 by PCR. Table 10 summarize the composite HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 
31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 status by PCR and/or serology at Day 1 by vaccination group in the efficacy substudy. 
There were regional variations in the composite HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 status by PCR and/or 
serology at Day 1. In Latin America, the number of subjects positive to at least one of the 9 HPV types by 
serology, by PCR, and by serology and PCR was higher than subjects in the other regions. Fewer subjects in the 
Asia-Pacific region were positive to at least one of the 9 HPV types by PCR than subjects in the other regions. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 52/128 
  
  
  
Table 8.  Subject Characteristics (All Randomized Subjects, Dose-Ranging Substudy) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 53/128 
  
  
  
 
Table 9.  Subject Characteristics (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 54/128 
  
  
  
 
Table 10.  Summary of Pap Test Results at Day 1 by Vaccination Group (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy 
Substudy) 
Table 11.  Summary of Composite HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 Status by PCR and/or Serology at 
Day 1 by Vaccination Group (All Randomized Subjects, Efficacy Substudy) 
Study 002 
Table 11 displays the demographic characteristics of subjects randomized into this study, by vaccination group. 
The demographic characteristics of subjects who are in the PPI population for at least one HPV type were 
generally comparable with those of the all-randomized subject population.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 55/128 
  
  
  
 
 
As in study 001 Pap tests were obtained in all 16- to 26-year-old females at Day 1. Table 12 displays the Pap test 
results at Day 1 for all randomized 16- to 26-year-old females. 
Table 12.  Subject Characteristics (All Randomized Subjects)  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 56/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13.  Summary of Pap Test Results at Day 1 by Vaccination Group (16- to 26- Year-Old Females Only) (All 
Randomized Subjects) 
Table 14.  Summary of Composite HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 Status by PCR and/or Serology at 
Day 1 in 16- to 26-Year-Old Females by Vaccination Group (All Randomized Subjects) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 57/128 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Study 009/GDS01C 
Table 14 summarises the demographic characteristics at baseline for the subjects randomized in the study. 
Results on the Per Protocol Sets were comparable to the results on the Randomized Set. 
Table 15.  Summary of Demographic Characteristics – Randomized Set 
Baseline HPV serostatus is summarized in Table 15. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 58/128 
  
  
  
 
Table 16.  Baseline HPV status – Randomized Set 
Numbers analysed 
Study 001 
Dose-ranging substudy –The primary analysis population was the PPI population. A total of 1239 subjects 
received at least one dose of vaccine. A total of 789 (HPV 6), 789 (HPV 11), 798 (HPV 16), 903 (HPV 18), 862 
(HPV 31), 923 (HPV 33), 930 (HPV 45), 840 (HPV 52), and 886 (HPV 58) subjects, respectively representing 
63.7%, 637.7%, 64.4%, 72.9% 69.6%, %, 74.5%, 75.1%, 67,8% and 71.5% of the entire study population 
were eligible to be included in the PPI analysis. The most common reasons subjects were excluded from the PPI 
population were: 
  Being positive to a vaccine HPV type at or prior to Month 7: 
HPV types 6 and 11 L1 proteins are highly homologous, resulting in strong cross-reactivity between the 
2 types. Therefore, subjects positive for HPV Type 6 were also excluded from the analysis for HPV Type 
11, and vice versa. This approach to defining the HPV 6- and HPV 11- per protocol populations is applied 
to both the immunogenicity and efficacy per-protocol analysis populations, and is consistent with the 
approach previously used in the qHPV vaccine clinical program. 
  Missing Month 7 serology samples/results 
  Missing Day 1 or Month 7 swab samples/results 
 
Incomplete vaccinations or vaccinations done out of range 
  General protocol violations 
Immunogenicity substudy – The primary analysis population was the PPI population. A total of 13587 subjects 
received at least one dose of 9vHPV or qHPV. A total of 7968 (HPV 6), 7977 (HPV 11), 8094 (HPV 16), 9080 (HPV 
18), 8843 (HPV 31), 9393 (HPV 33), 9542 (HPV 45), 8790 (HPV 52), and 8932 (HPV 58) subjects, respectively 
representing 58.6%, 58.7%, 59.6%, 66.8% , 65.1%, 69,1%, 70.2%, 64.7%, and 65.8% of the entire study 
population were eligible to be included in the PPI analysis for these HPV types. The most common reasons 
subjects were excluded from the PPI population were the same as in the dose ranging PPI population described 
above.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 59/128 
  
  
  
 
 
Efficacy substudy –The primary analysis population for analysis of efficacy was the PPE population. A total of 
10,735 (HPV 31), 11,444 (HPV 33), 11,638 (HPV 45), 10,719 (HPV 52), and 10,888 (HPV 58) subjects, 
representing 75.5%, 80.5%, 81.9%, 75.4%, and 76.6% of the entire study population were eligible to be 
included in the PPE analysis for these HPV types. The numbers of subjects who were eligible for each endpoint 
for each HPV type were similar between the 9vHPV vaccine and qHPV vaccine groups. The most common 
reasons for excluding subjects from the PPE population were the same as for the dose-ranging and 
immunogenicity populations above.  
A total of 10,735 (HPV 31), 11,444 (HPV 33), 11,638 (HPV 45), 10,719 (HPV 52), and 10,888 (HPV 58) subjects, 
representing 75.5%, 80.5%, 81.9%, 75.4%, and 76.6% of the entire study population had disease and 
persistent infection follow-up after Month 7 and were eligible to be included in the PPE analysis for these HPV 
types. The numbers of subjects who were eligible for each endpoint for each HPV type were similar between the 
9vHPV vaccine and qHPV vaccine groups. 
Study 002 
The primary analysis population was the PPI population. A total of 3066 subjects received at least one dose of 
vaccine. . A total of 2521 (HPV 31), 2558(HPV 33), 2585 (HPV 45), 2547 (HPV 52), and 2528 (HPV 58) subjects, 
representing 82.2%, %, 83.4%, 84.3%, 83.0% and 82.5% of the entire study population were eligible to be 
included in the PPI analysis for these HPV types. The most common reasons subjects were excluded from the PPI 
population were: 
  Being positive to a vaccine HPV type at or prior to Month 7: 
o  HPV types 6 and 11 L1 proteins are highly homologous, resulting in strong cross-reactivity 
between the 2 types. Therefore, subjects positive for HPV Type 6 were also excluded from the 
analysis for HPV Type 11, and vice versa. This approach to defining the HPV 6- and HPV 11- per 
protocol populations is applied to both the immunogenicity and efficacy per-protocol analysis 
populations, and is consistent with the approach previously used in the qHPV vaccine clinical 
program. 
  Missing Month 7 serology samples/results 
  Missing Day 1 or Month 7 swab samples/results 
  Received non-study vaccination 
 
Incomplete vaccinations or vaccinations done out of range 
Study 009/GDS01C 
The Per Protocol set (PPS) included 547 subjects (91.2%): 276 subjects receiving 9vHPV vaccine and 271 
receiving qHPV vaccine. The HPV type-specific PPS included from 528 subjects (88.0%) for HPV 58 to 546 
subjects (91.0%) for HPV 16 and HPV 45. The most common reasons for exclusion from the PPS were:  
 
pre-vaccination seropositivity 
  Non compliance with blood sample requirements  
  Non compliance with vaccination schedule 
  General protocol deviations 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 60/128 
  
  
  
Overall, the most common reason for excluding subjects from the per protocol populations for Immunogenicity 
or efficacy was seropositivity for at least one of the HPV types. This was higher in study 001 than in the other 
studies, which is not unexpected considering the higher mean age in 001 compared to the other two studies. 
Overall, the numbers excluded are reasonable, and do not cause concern. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study 001 
Efficacy results - HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related Endpoints 
Table 16 presents the results of evaluation of efficacy against the primary efficacy endpoint of high 
grade cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in the PPE 
population with a median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3.  The point estimate of vaccine efficacy 
is statistically significant. The success criterion as pre-specified in the study protocol, i.e. that lower 
bound of the 95% confidence interval (CI) of vaccine efficacy (VE) be greater than 25%, has been met. 
The cumulative incidence distribution of the primary efficacy endpoint in the PPE population is shown in 
Figure 2. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 61/128 
  
  
  
Table 17.  Analysis of Efficacy Against HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and 
Vaginal Cancer – median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (Per-Protocol Efficacy Analysis Population) 
  HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical 
Endpoint 
9vHPV Vaccine 
(N=7,099) 
qHPV Vaccine 
(N=7,105) 
Number 
of 
Cases 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
1       19,005.1  
n 
6,016  
Incidence 
Rate per 
100 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
0.0   
Number 
of 
Cases 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
30      18,976.6  
n 
6,017  
Incidence 
Rate per 
100 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
0.2   
Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and Vaginal 
Cancer                                                                                          
Observed 
Efficacy 
(%) 
96.7                 
P-value† 
95% CI 
< 
(80.9, 
0.0001 
99.8)                   
  By HPV Type                                                                                                                                                                                             
0.0   
       HPV 31-Related                                                                                                                                                                                     
0       16,744.4  
7       16,560.7  
5,308  
5,252  
0.0   
0.0   
       HPV 33-Related                                                                                                                                                                                     
0       17,771.4  
7       17,803.0  
5,624  
5,628  
0.0   
0.0   
       HPV 45-Related                                                                                                                                                                                     
0       18,102.7  
2       18,079.2  
5,724  
5,724  
0.0   
0.1   
       HPV 52-Related                                                                                                                                                                                     
11      16,473.6  
0       16,777.1  
5,320  
5,216  
0.0   
0.0   
       HPV 58-Related                                                                                                                                                                                     
1       16,902.7  
6       16,842.4  
5,361  
5,340  
0.0   
  By Lesion Type                                                                                                                                                                                          
0.2   
       CIN 2 or worse                                                                                                                                                                                     
27      17,427.2  
1       17,407.0  
5,948  
5,943  
0.0   
0.2   
            CIN 2/3 or AIS                                                                                                                                                                                
27      17,427.2  
1       17,407.0  
5,943  
5,948  
0.0   
                 CIN 2/3                                                                                                                                                                                  
27      17,427.2  
1       17,407.0  
5,948  
5,943  
0.0   
0.2   
                     CIN 2                                                                                                                                                                                
23      17,430.9  
1       17,407.0  
5,943  
5,948  
0.0   
0.1   
                     CIN 3                                                                                                                                                                                
0       17,407.0  
5       17,438.1  
5,948  
5,943  
0.0   
0.0   
0.0   
                 AIS                                                                                                                                                                                      
            Cervical Cancer                                                                                                                                                                               
0.0   
0.0   
       VIN 2/3 or VaIN 2/3 or worse                                                                                                                                                                       
0       17,407.0  
0       17,407.0  
0       18,976.0  
0       17,441.7  
0       17,441.7  
3       18,988.0  
5,948  
5,948  
6,009  
5,943  
5,943  
6,012  
0.0   
0.0   
0.0   
            VIN 2/3 or worse                                                                                                                                                                              
0.0   
0.0   
                 VIN 2/3                                                                                                                                                                                  
                 Vulvar Cancer                                                                                                                                                                            
0.0   
0.0   
            VaIN 2/3 or worse                                                                                                                                                                             
0       18,976.0  
0       18,976.0  
0       18,976.0  
0       18,976.0  
0       18,991.0  
0       18,991.0  
0       18,991.0  
3       18,988.0  
6,009  
6,009  
6,009  
6,009  
6,012  
6,012  
6,012  
6,012  
0.0   
0.0   
0.0   
0.0   
                 VaIN 2/3                                                                                                                                                                                 
0       18,976.0  
3       18,988.0  
6,009  
6,012  
0.0   
0.0   
100                  
100                  
(40.1, 
100)                    
(39.3, 
100)                    
100                  
(-246.8, 
100                  
100)                  
(67.3, 
100)                    
83.4                 
(-23.9, 
99.3)                  
96.3                 
96.3                 
96.3                 
95.6                 
(79.5, 
99.8)                   
(79.5, 
99.8)                   
(79.5, 
99.8)                   
(76.3, 
99.8)                   
(-0.2, 
100)                    
100                  
NA                   NA                             
NA                   NA                             
100                  
(-71.5, 
100)                   
NA                   NA                             
NA                   NA                             
NA                   NA                             
100                  
(-71.5, 
100)                   
100                  
(-71.5, 
100)                   
                 Vaginal Cancer                                                                                                                                                                           
0.0   
 † P-value calculated for the lower bound of the two sided 95% confidence interval for the vaccine efficacy being greater than 25%. 
 Subjects are counted once in each applicable endpoint category.  A subject may appear in more than one category. 
 N = Number of subjects randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at  least 1 injection. 
 n = Number of subjects who have at least one follow-up visit after Month 7. 
 9vHPV = Nine-Valent Human papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58) Recombinant Vaccine; qHPV = Quadrivalent Human papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) 
0       18,976.0  
0       18,991.0  
6,009  
6,012  
0.0   
NA                   NA                             
Recombinant Vaccine  
 AIS = Adenocarcinoma in situ; CI = Confidence interval; CIN = Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia; HPV = Human papillomavirus; NA = Not available (i.e., not calculable); VaIN = Vaginal 
intraepithelial neoplasia; VIN = Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 62/128 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
Figure 2.  Time to HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar 
Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer - median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (Per-Protocol Efficacy Analysis 
Population) 
The single case of the primary efficacy endpoint in the 9vHPV group was a subject who was PCR-negative from 
Day 1 through the Month 7 study visit for HPV type 58 and hence eligible for inclusion in the HPV 58 PPE analysis; 
and at the same time was PCR-positive for HPV type 56 starting at Day 1 through Month 42. The subject had a 
definitive therapy procedure at 4 months after the scheduled Month 7 visit. One of 4 quadrants of the tissue 
sample obtained during the definitive therapy procedure was diagnosed as a case of CIN 2 by the Pathology 
Panel and was also PCR-positive for HPV type 58; hence the subject was counted as a case of the primary 
efficacy endpoint for HPV type 58 at approximately 11 months after vaccination dose 1. Except for the 
single-time PCR-positive for HPV 58 at Month 11, the subject was PCR-negative for HPV type 58 at all other time 
points through Month 42. 
Table 17 presents the results of evaluation of efficacy against the primary efficacy endpoint of high grade 
cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in the HNTS population. 
Consistent with the results in the PPE population, the 9vHPV vaccine is highly efficacious in preventing the 
incidence of the primary efficacy endpoint among subjects who were naïve to the relevant HPV type at the time 
of administration of dose 1 of the vaccine. All endpoint cases in the 9vHPV group occurred on or before 18 
months after vaccination dose 1. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 63/128 
  
  
  
 
 
Among the 6 cases of HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related high grade cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease in the 9vHPV 
group in the HNTS population: 
  5 subjects were PCR-positive at Day 1 for at least one oncogenic HPV type other than the HPV type to 
which the subject became an endpoint case; 
  1 subject was not detected at Day 1 as PCR-positive for any of the oncogenic HPV types tested; was then 
detected as PCR-positive for multiple oncogenic HPV types at 8 months post Day 1; and was diagnosed 
as a case HPV 31-related CIN 3 at 10 months post Day 1. 
One of the secondary objectives was efficacy against HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal 
Disease, i.e the same as the primary objective, but also including low-grade disease. The efficacy against this 
composite endpoint was 97.1% (95% CI 91.9; 99.2). 
Table 18.  Analysis of Efficacy Against HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, 
VaIN 2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer - median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (HPV-Naive 
Type-Specific Analysis Population) 
Table 18 presents the results of evaluation of efficacy against persistent infection related to HPV types 31, 33, 
45, 52, and 58 in the PPE and HNTS population. The persistent infection of ≥6 months (±1 month) duration 
endpoint corresponds to secondary efficacy objective #1. The persistent infection of ≥12 months (±1 month) 
duration endpoint corresponds to exploratory efficacy objective #1. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 64/128 
  
  
  
 
 
Table 19.  Analysis of Efficacy Against HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related Persistent Infection - median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (PPE and 
HN-TS Analysis Populations) 
9vHPV Vaccine 
(N=7,099) 
qHPV Vaccine 
(N=7,105) 
Incidence 
Rate per 
100 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
Incidence 
Rate per 
100 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
Analysis Population 
  Endpoint 
  Per-Protocol Efficacy (PPE)                                                                                                                                                                             
     Persistent Infection ≥6 Months‡                                                                                                                                                
         HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related                                                                                                                                                                       
15,451.6  
16,561.4  
5,953  
5,939  
810    
35     
5.2   
0.2   
n 
n 
Number 
of 
Cases 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
Observed 
Efficacy 
(%) 
Number 
of 
Cases 
Person- 
Years 
at Risk 
95% CI 
P-value† 
96.0                 (94.4, 
< 0.0001 
            HPV 31-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
14,316.9  
14,712.1  
5,198  
5,251  
150    
7      
1.0   
0.0   
            HPV 33-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
15,416.9  
15,565.6  
5,560  
5,553  
106    
1      
0.7   
0.0   
            HPV 45-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
15,633.4  
15,809.6  
5,658  
5,649  
124    
4      
0.8   
0.0   
            HPV 52-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
13,886.7  
14,737.8  
5,160  
5,263  
387    
11     
2.8   
0.1   
            HPV 58-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
14,464.9  
14,831.5  
5,284  
5,297  
225    
12     
1.6   
0.1   
97.2)                   
95.5                 (90.7, 
97.9)                   
99.1                 (95.2, 
100)                    
96.8                 (92.1, 
98.9)                   
97.3                 (95.3, 
98.7)                   
94.8                 (91.0, 
97.1)                   
     Persistent Infection ≥12 Months‡                                                                                                                                               
16,580.5  
         HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related                                                                                                                                                                       
15,761.9  
5,953  
5,939  
544    
21     
3.5   
0.1   
96.3                 (94.4, 
            HPV 31-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
14,374.1  
14,715.9  
5,198  
5,251  
97     
4      
0.7   
0.0   
            HPV 33-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
15,452.5  
15,565.6  
5,560  
5,553  
79     
1      
0.5   
0.0   
            HPV 45-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
15,686.8  
15,813.2  
5,658  
5,649  
73     
2      
0.5   
0.0   
            HPV 52-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
14,063.3  
14,746.0  
5,160  
5,263  
238    
7      
1.7   
0.0   
            HPV 58-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
14,553.4  
14,835.1  
5,284  
5,297  
145    
7      
1.0   
0.0   
97.7)                   
96.0                 (89.9, 
98.6)                   
98.7                 (93.5, 
99.9)                   
97.3                 (90.7, 
99.5)                   
97.2                 (94.2, 
98.7)                   
95.3                 (90.4, 
97.8)                   
  HPV-Naïve Type-Specific (HN-TS)                                                                                                                                                                         
     Persistent Infection ≥6 Months‡                                                                                                                                                
         HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related                                                                                                                                                                       
19,998.4  
21,635.5  
6,699  
1,150  
6,704  
148    
5.8   
0.7   
88.1                 (86.0, 
            HPV 31-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
19,150.7  
19,558.0  
5,953  
5,971  
234    
31     
1.2   
0.2   
            HPV 33-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
20,486.1  
20,579.6  
6,314  
6,281  
152    
12     
0.7   
0.1   
            HPV 45-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
20,783.2  
20,911.2  
6,412  
6,395  
170    
21     
0.8   
0.1   
            HPV 52-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
18,742.8  
19,545.6  
5,983  
5,991  
552    
58     
2.9   
0.3   
            HPV 58-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
19,310.6  
19,675.9  
6,040  
6,020  
324    
36     
1.7   
0.2   
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 65/128 
90.0)                   
87.0                 (81.3, 
91.4)                   
92.1                 (86.2, 
95.7)                   
87.7                 (80.9, 
92.3)                   
89.9                 (86.9, 
92.4)                   
89.1                 (84.7, 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
92.5)                   
     Persistent Infection ≥12 Months‡                                                                                                                                               
21,708.1  
         HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related                                                                                                                                                                       
20,509.3  
6,699  
6,704  
109    
802    
3.9   
0.5   
87.2                 (84.3, 
            HPV 31-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
19,263.8  
19,581.4  
5,953  
5,971  
159    
20     
0.8   
0.1   
            HPV 33-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
20,550.3  
20,580.3  
6,314  
6,281  
109    
11     
0.5   
0.1   
            HPV 45-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
20,872.3  
20,920.6  
6,412  
6,395  
101    
16     
0.5   
0.1   
            HPV 52-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
19,019.7  
19,577.6  
5,983  
5,991  
356    
43     
1.9   
0.2   
            HPV 58-Related                                                                                                                                                                                
19,457.9  
19,683.4  
6,040  
6,020  
218    
28     
1.1   
0.1   
89.6)                   
87.6                 (80.6, 
92.6)                   
89.9                 (81.8, 
94.9)                   
84.2                 (73.4, 
91.3)                   
88.3                 (84.0, 
91.7)                   
87.3                 (81.4, 
91.8)                   
 † P-value calculated for the lower bound of the two sided 95% confidence interval for the vaccine efficacy being greater than 25%. 
 ‡ ±1 month visit window. 
 Subjects are counted once in each applicable endpoint category.  A subject may appear in more than one category. 
 N = Number of subjects randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at  least 1 injection. 
 n = Number of subjects in the given population who have at least one follow-up visit after Month 7 in the per-protocol population; after Day 1 in all other analysis populations. 
 9vHPV = Nine-Valent Human papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58) Recombinant Vaccine; qHPV = Quadrivalent Human papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) 
Recombinant Vaccine -- CI = Confidence interval; HPV = Human papillomavirus  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 66/128 
  
  
  
       
       
          
      
       
       
          
      
                                                    
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
The results for the exploratory objectives relating to HPV-31/33/45/52/58-related Pap test abnormalities and 
cervical and external genital procedures and cervical definitive therapy were in agreement with the above 
efficacy endpoints. The composite endpoint HPV 31/33/45/52/58 ASC-US HR-HPV positive or worse had a risk 
reduction of 92.6% (95% CI 89.7; 94.8) in the PP population, and 87.1% (95% CI 84.0, 89.8) in the HNTS 
population. The risk reduction for HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related biopsy was 96.9% (95% CI 93.6, 98.6) in the PP 
population and 91.3% (95% CI 87.3, 94.3) in the HNTS population.  
In conclusion, the efficacy against the five new HPV types (31/33/45/53/58) was demonstrated using a 
composite endpoint for all types and CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and 
Vaginal Cancer combined. The use of a composite endpoint was discussed in scientific advice previously, and has 
been considered appropriate. The results are driven by HPV type 52, which was the most common type and 
CIN2, which was the most common lesion type. The conclusions regarding the primary objective is supported by 
related secondary objectives. The point estimates for efficacy in the HNTS population were consistently lower, 
but still considered relevant. The efficacy against milder disease endpoints and persistent infection are also 
considered supportive of the primary endpoint. Thus, taken together all data relating to the five new HPV types 
indicate that the 9vHPV is effective in preventing disease related to these types. 
Study 001 End of study results 
During the procedure for MAA, the Applicant has submitted the final clinical study report for study 001. The main 
results are briefly described below. The efficacy and safety results were consistent with previous reports. 
Table 20.  Summary of Efficacy Against HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related Persistent Infection, Cervical, Vulvar, 
and Vaginal Disease – median follow-up of 43 months post dose 3 (Per-Protocol Efficacy Analysis Population)  
Disease Endpoint 
Gardasil 9 
N=7099 
qHPV Vaccine 
N=7105 
n 
Number 
of cases* 
n 
Number 
of cases* 
%Efficacy** 
(95% CI) 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related CIN 2/3, AIS, 
Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar 
Cancer, and Vaginal Cancerα 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related CIN 2/3 or AISα 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related CIN2 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related CIN3 
6016 
5949 
5949 
5949 
1 
1 
1 
0 
5943 
5943 
5943 
35 
32 
7 
6017 
38 
97.4 
(85.0, 99.9) 
0 
6009 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related VIN 2/3, VaIN 
2/3 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related Persistent 
Infection ≥6 Months§ 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related Persistent 
Infection ≥12 Months¶ 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related ASC-US 
HR-HPV Positive or Worse Pap# Abnormality 
HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, 58-related cervical 
definitive therapy procedures† 
‡The PPE population consisted of individuals who received all 3 vaccinations within one year of enrolment, did not have major 
deviations from the study protocol, were naïve (PCR negative and seronegative) to the relevant HPV type(s) (Types 31, 33, 45, 
6012 
5955 
6014 
5882 
5955 
5941 
6013 
5883 
5941 
657 
506 
946 
41 
23 
41 
37 
4 
3 
97.1 
(83.5, 99.9) 
96.9 
(81.5, 99.8) 
100 
(39.4, 100) 
100.0 
(-71.5, 100.0) 
96.0 
(94.6, 97.1) 
96.7 
(95.1, 97.9) 
92.9 
(90.2, 95.1) 
90.2 
(75.0, 96.8) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 67/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52, and 58) prior to dose 1, and who remained PCR negative to the relevant HPV type(s) through one month postdose 3 
(Month 7). 
N=Number of individuals randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at least one injection 
n=Number of individuals contributing to the analysis 
§Persistent infection detected in samples from two or more consecutive visits 6 months (±1 month visit windows) apart. 
¶Persistent infection detected in samples from three or more consecutive visits 6 months (±1 month visit windows) apart . 
#Papanicolaou test. 
CI=Confidence Interval. 
ASC-US=Atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance. 
HR=High Risk. 
* Number of individuals with at least one follow-up visit after Month 7 
** Subjects were followed for up to 54 months postdose 1 (median 4 years) 
α no cases of cervical cancer, VIN2/3, vulvar and vaginal cancer were diagnosed in the PPE population 
† loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) or conisation 
Over 25% of study subjects completed the Month 54 visit before the end of the study and high vaccine efficacy 
was maintained up to that time point.   
HPV 6/11/16/18-Related Endpoints  
It is expected that the 9vHPV vaccine is similarly efficacious in preventing persistent infection and disease 
related to these four HPV types as the qHPV. Consequently, the risk reduction presented in the following tables 
19-21 has no clinical relevance. The comparison of the 9vHPV vaccine group with the qHPV vaccine group with 
respect to HPV 6/11/16/18-related endpoints is an assessment of similarity of the incidences of these endpoints 
in the two vaccine groups.  
Table 20 presents the results of comparison of the 9vHPV vaccine group with the qHPV vaccine group with 
respect to cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the PPE population. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 68/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 21.  Impact of 9vHPV Vaccine on the Incidence of HPV 6/11/16/18-Related Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal 
Disease - median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (Per-Protocol Efficacy Analysis Population) 
Table 21 presents the results of comparison of the 9vHPV vaccine group with the qHPV vaccine group with 
respect to cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the HNTS population. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 69/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22.  Impact of 9vHPV Vaccine on the Incidence of HPV 6/11/16/18-Related Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal 
Disease - median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (HPV-Naive Type-Specific Analysis Population) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 70/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 presents the results of comparisons of the 9vHPV and the qHPV vaccine groups with respect to the 
incidence of persistent infection related to HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the PPE and HNTS populations. 
Table 23.  Impact of 9vHPV Vaccine on the Incidence of HPV 6/11/16/18-Related Persistent Infection - median 
follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (PPE and HN-TS Analysis Populations) 
The results for Pap abnormalities and Cervical and External Genital Procedures and Cervical Definitive Therapy 
related to HPV 1/11/16/18 were in agreement with the primary and other secondary and exploratory endpoints, 
i.e. there were only small differences between the groups, with slightly lower incidences of disease endpoints 
related to HPV 16 in the 9vHPV group compared to the qHPV group and higher incidence of HPV 6 related 
outcomes in the9vHPV group compared to the qHPV group.  
In summary, the number of cases of the clinical endpoints related to HPV6/11/16/18 in the PP population was 
low, as expected. Of the 6 cases in the 9vHPV group 4 were condyloma related to HPV6. In the qHPV group 6 of 
the 7 cases were related to HPV16, and they were also co-infected with non-vaccine high-risk HPV types on or 
before the time of becoming a case of HPV16-related disease. The number of cases in the HNST population was 
higher, but the results were consistent with the PP population results. The results for persistent infections are 
also in agreement with the results for the primary endpoints, i.e. there are only small differences between the 
groups and the 9vHPV group had higher incidences of persistent infections with HPV 6/11 compared to the qHPV 
group, and lower incidence of persistent infection with HPV 16/18 compared to the qHPV group. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 71/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Efficacy of 9vHPV compared to historical placebo 
These supportive analyses consist in the assessment of 9vHPV vaccine efficacy relative to historic placebo (i.e. 
placebo arm of the qHPV vaccine clinical program) to prevent HPV 6-, HPV 11-, HPV 16-, and HPV 18-related 
persistent infection and cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease. They intend to demonstrate that 
placebo-normalized efficacy of 9vHPV vaccine is non-inferior to placebo-normalized efficacy of qHPV vaccine to 
prevent HPV 16- and HPV 18-related persistent infection and disease, which would show high efficacy of the 
9vHPV vaccine and no negative trend in efficacy compared with qHPV vaccine. 
Results presented in this section represent the efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine in preventing HPV 
6/11/16/18-related persistent infection and disease relative to an unvaccinated (with HPV vaccine) population 
(i.e. compared to a historical placebo group).  
Table 23 shows the results of evaluation of the efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine relative to historical placebo with 
respect to persistent infection, cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 16 and 18 for each of 
the PPE and HNTS populations. 
Table 24.  Analysis of Efficacy Against HPV 16/18-Related Persistent Infection ≥6 Months (±1 Month Visit 
Window), Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal Disease 9vHPV Vaccine versus Historical Placebo (PPE and HN-TS 
Analysis Populations) 
Table 24 shows the results of evaluation of the efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine relative to historical placebo with 
respect to persistent infection, cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 6 and 11 for each of the 
PPE and HNTS populations. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 72/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Table 25.  Analysis of Efficacy Against HPV 6/11-Related Persistent Infection ≥6 Months (±1 Month Visit 
Window), Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal Disease 9vHPV Vaccine versus Historical Placebo (PPE and HN-TS 
Analysis Populations) 
The confidence intervals are very wide for most endpoints, although the point estimates do not indicate a 
negative trend in protection against any endpoint.  
Results presented in Table 25 addresses the exploratory efficacy objective #2. The analysis is a comparison of 
the efficacy of each of the 9vHPV and qHPV vaccines relative to a historical placebo (i.e., efficacy is the percent 
reduction in the historical placebo group incidence that is observed in each vaccination group). The pre-specified 
success criterion is the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval for the difference of efficacy (9vHPV – qHPV) 
should be greater than −15 percentage points. As shown in Table 24, the lower bound of the 95% CI for the 
difference of efficacy between the 9vHPV and qHPV vaccines is 0.8%, which is greater than −15%, thus 
demonstrating the non-inferiority of the 9vHPV vaccine compared to the qHPV vaccine in preventing persistent 
infection, cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to HPV types 16 and 18. 
Table 26.  Non-Inferiority Analysis: Comparison of 9vHPV versus qHPV Vaccine Efficacy Against HPV 
16/18-Related Persistent Infection > 6 Months (+1 Month Visit Window), Cervical, Vulvar, and Vaginal Disease 
- median follow-up of 40 months post dose 3 (Per-Protocol Efficacy Population) 
The comparison of the efficacy results of 9vHPV and historical placebo controls are of interest, although there 
are limitations of this type of comparison as other biases may interfere. The incidence of disease outcomes 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 73/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
related to HPV 16/18 in the qHPV group was for instance higher in the current study compared to the historical 
qHPV group as seen in table 23 above. However, non-inferiority of the 9HPV compared to qHPV in table 25 was 
clearly demonstrated, although the absolute risk reductions should be interpreted with caution.  
Additional efficacy analysis related to all 9 vaccine HPV types (end of study results) 
Further exploratory analyses were conducted in PPE population to evaluate vaccine efficacy against disease and 
invasive procedures causally related to all 9 vaccine HPV types: relative to the qHPV vaccine, the 9vHPV vaccine 
demonstrated efficacy of: 
  94.4% (95% CI 78.8 ; 99.0) against CIN2 and worse (with 2/5,952 versus 36/5,947 cases - 9vHPV vs. 
qHPV respectively), and 100% (95% CI 46.3 ; 100.0) against CIN3 (with 0/5,952 versus 8/5,947 cases 
respectively).  
  95.9% (95% CI 92.7 ; 97.9) against cervical biopsy (with 11/6016 versus 262/6018 cases respectively) 
and 90.7% (95% CI 76.3 ; 97.0)  against cervical definitive therapy (with 4/6016 versus 43/6018 cases 
respectively). 
HPV 35/39/51/56/59-Related Endpoints 
Neither the 9vHPV vaccine nor the qHPV vaccine contains virus-like particles of HPV types 35, 39, 51, 56, and 59. 
As such, neither vaccine is expected to confer prophylactic efficacy against persistent infection and disease 
endpoints related to these 5 HPV types. Similar to the above section the comparison of the 9vHPV vaccine group 
with the qHPV vaccine group with respect to HPV 35/39/51/56/59-related endpoints is an assessment of 
similarity of the incidences of these endpoints in the two vaccine groups. In summary: 
 
For each of HPV types 35, 39, 51, 56, and 59, the incidences of HPV type-related persistent infection, 
cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease endpoints were similar in each of the two vaccine groups. 
The cumulative incidence distribution of the composite endpoint of persistent infection, cervical, vulvar, and 
vaginal disease related to any of HPV types 35, 39, 51, 56, and 59 in the All-HN population is shown in Figure 3. 
The 9vHPV and qHPV vaccine groups have similar cumulative incidence distribution with respect to this 
composite endpoint. As expected there were no relevant differences between 9HPV and qHPV in incidence of 
HPV35/39/51/56/59-related endpoints.  
Therapeutic efficacy against HPV vaccine types 
The qHPV vaccine has not been shown to confer a therapeutic efficacy benefit. It is not expected that the 9vHPV 
vaccine will confer a therapeutic efficacy benefit. The data are not presented in detail but in summary: 
 
There is no consistent efficacy trend suggesting that the 9vHPV vaccine is efficacious in reducing the 
incidences of HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related persistent infection and disease endpoints in S1P0, S0P1, 
and S1P1 populations. 
 
There is no consistent efficacy trend suggesting that the 9vHPV vaccine is efficacious in preventing HPV 
6/11/16/18-related persistent infection and disease endpoints in S1P0, S0P1, and S1P1 populations. 
 
In each of S1P0, S0P1, and S1P1 analysis populations, the incidences of HPV 6/11/16/18-related 
persistent infection, cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease in a 9vHPV vaccinated population are at least 
comparable and no worse than the corresponding incidences in a qHPV vaccinated population. 
Immunogenicity results 
Dose-Ranging Substudy 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 74/128 
 
  
  
  
The primary immunogenicity objective for the dose-ranging substudy was to evaluate the selected dose of 
9vHPV vaccine for use in efficacy evaluation. Table 26 presents a per-protocol summary of observed anti-HPV 6, 
anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 
GMTs at Day 1, Month 3, and Month 7, with associated 95% CI's, by vaccination group. The table shows that 
GMTs for HPV Types 6, 11, 16 and 18 increased substantially following the 2nd and 3rd vaccine administrations 
in both the qHPV vaccine and the 9vHPV vaccine groups. Likewise, GMTs for HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 
increased substantially following each vaccine administration in the 9vHPV vaccine groups. Marked immune 
responses were generally observed as early as Month 3. The highest GMTs for all HPV types were observed at 
Month 7 in all vaccine groups. 
Table 27.  Summary of Anti-HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres by Vaccination Group (Per-Protocol 
Immunogenicity Population - Dose-Ranging Substudy) 
Seropositivity: Vaccinated subjects were considered seropositive for a given HPV type if their HPV-9 cLIA titre for 
this HPV type was greater than the serostatus cut-off. At Day 1, all subjects were seronegative to all HPV types 
tested. Seroconversion rates for HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 increased substantially following the 2nd vaccine 
injection in both the qHPV vaccine and the 9vHPV vaccine groups. Likewise, seroconversion rates for HPV Types 
31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 increased substantially following the 2nd vaccine injection in the 9vHPV vaccine groups. 
At Month 7, more than 99% of subjects had seroconverted for HPV Types 6, 11, 16 and 18 in both the qHPV 
vaccine group and the 9vHPV vaccine groups, and over 98% of subjects had seroconverted for HPV Types 31, 
33, 45, 52, and 58 in the 9vHPV vaccine groups. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 75/128 
 
  
  
  
 
In summary, the differences in GMTs between the three dose levels of 9vHPV were small for all HPV types. The 
selected dose was the mid-dose, which was compared to the qHPV in a non-inferiority analysis as shown below.  
In order to address the primary immunogenicity objective of dose-ranging study, GMTs at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 
were compared between the qHPV vaccine group and the selected 9vHPV vaccine group for use in efficacy 
analyses. A statistical analysis was conducted (at a multiplicity-adjusted [due to the dose-selection interim 
analysis] 1-sided α=0.0247 level) to assess whether or not anti-HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 cLIA GMTs at 4 weeks 
Post-dose 3 in subjects vaccinated with selected 9vHPV vaccine were non-inferior to anti-HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 
cLIA GMTs at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 in subjects vaccinated with qHPV vaccine. Table 27 presents the results of the 
per-protocol analysis of non-inferiority comparing Month 7 cLIA GMTs between subjects who received the 
selected 9vHPV vaccine and subjects who received qHPV vaccine. The statistical criterion for non-inferiority with 
respect to GMT required that the lower bound of the 95.06% CI for the fold-difference in anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 
11, anti-HPV 16, and anti-HPV 18 GMTs (selected 9vHPV vaccine/qHPV vaccine) was above 0.5, to exclude a 
decrease of 2-fold or more. The table shows that the non-inferiority hypothesis of GMT responses for each of the 
HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the selected 9vHPV vaccine relative to GMT responses in the qHPV vaccine group 
at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 was met in the PPI population with p-values < 0.001. The confidence intervals for HPV 
types 6, 16 and 18 were above 1 and for HPV type 11 the confidence interval were below 1. 
Table 28.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority Comparing Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres 
(HPV-types 6, 11, 16 and 18) Between Subjects Who Received the Selected Dose Formulation of 9vHPV Vaccine 
and Subjects Who Received qHPV Vaccine (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population - Dose-Ranging Substudy) 
The above non-inferiority analysis served to confirm the choice of dose for the continuation into part B (Efficacy 
part) of the study. 
Immunogenicity substudy 
The primary immunogenicity objective for the immunogenicity substudy was to demonstrate that the 9vHPV 
vaccine induces non-inferior GMTs for anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18 compared to qHPV vaccine. The secondary 
immunogenicity objectives for the immunogenicity substudy were to demonstrate that the 9vHPV vaccine is 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 76/128 
 
  
  
  
 
immunogenic with respect to HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58, to demonstrate that the 9vHPV vaccine induces 
non-inferior immune responses with respect to seroconversion percentages for HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 
compared to the qHPV vaccine, and to evaluate the persistence of anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 
immune responses generated by the 9vHPV vaccine. 
Table 28 presents a summary of the per-protocol (PPI) observed anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 
18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 GMTs from  Day 1 until Month 42, with 
associated 95% CI's, by vaccination group. The observed GMTs in the All (HPV Type-specific) Naïve Subjects 
with Serology (ANSS) analysis population are generally consistent with those observed in the PPI population. 
In order to address the primary immunogenicity objective of immunogenicity substudy, GMTs at 4 weeks 
Post-dose 3 were compared between the qHPV vaccine group and the selected 9vHPV vaccine group for use in 
efficacy analyses. A statistical analysis was conducted (at 1-sided α=0.025 level) to assess whether or not 
anti-HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 cLIA GMTs at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 in subjects vaccinated with selected 9vHPV vaccine 
were non-inferior to anti-HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 cLIA GMTs at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 in subjects vaccinated with 
qHPV vaccine. 
Table 29.  Summary of Anti-HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres by Vaccination Group (Per-Protocol 
Immunogenicity Population PPI - Immunogenicity Substudy) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 77/128 
 
  
  
  
The per-protocol immunogenicity population includes all subjects who were not general protocol violators, received all 3 vaccinations within acceptable day 
ranges, were seronegative at Day 1 and PCR negative Day 1 through Month 7 for the relevant HPV type, and had a Month 7 serum sample collected within an 
acceptable day range. 
N = Number of subjects randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at least 1 injection. 
n = Number of subjects contributing to the analysis. 
9vHPV = Nine-Valent Human papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58) Recombinant Vaccine; qHPV = Quadrivalent Human papillomavirus 
(Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine 
CI = Confidence interval; cLIA = Competitive Luminex immunoassay; GMT = Geometric mean titre; IgG = Immunoglobulin G; mMU = Milli Merck units. 
Concerning anti-HPV immunogenicity up to Month 42, comparable seropositivity rates (cLIA) were noted 
between 9vHPV and qHPV groups for each of 4 original vaccine HPV types. For 5 new vaccine HPV types the 
seropositivity rates were clearly higher in 9vHPV group than in qHPV group. At Month 42, percentage of 
seropositivity (cLIA assay) in 9vHPV recipients remained high and was 93.6% (95%CL: 91.7, 95.2) for HPV-31, 
94.6% (95%CI: 92.9, 96.0) for HPV-33, 78.8% (95%CI: 75.9, 81.5) for HPV-45, 95.2% (95%CI: 93.5, 96.6) 
for HPV-52, and 94.4% (95%CI: 92.5, 95.9) for HPV-58. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 78/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Anti-HPV GMTs (cLIA) were highest at Month 7 and declined drastically at Month 12, and appeared to reach 
plateau at Month 36 for each of the 9 vaccine types. Notably, anti-HPV 11 cLIA titres were consistently lower 
from Month 3 through Month 42 in 9vHPV group than in qHPV group. 
Table 29 presents the results of the per-protocol analysis of non-inferiority comparing Month 7 cLIA GMTs 
between subjects who received the selected 9vHPV vaccine and subjects who received qHPV vaccine. The 
statistical criterion for non-inferiority with respect to GMT required that the lower bound of the 95% CI for the 
fold difference in anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, and anti-HPV 18 GMTs (selected 9vHPV vaccine/qHPV 
vaccine) was above 0.67, to exclude a decrease of 1.5-fold or more. The table shows that the non-inferiority 
hypothesis of GMT responses for each of the HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the selected 9vHPV vaccine relative 
to GMT responses in the qHPV vaccine group at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 was met in the PPI population with p-values 
< 0.001. 
The non-inferiority criteria for GMT responses for each of the HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the 9vHPV vaccine 
relative to GMT responses in the qHPV vaccine group at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 were met in the ANSS population 
with p-values < 0.001. 
Table 30.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority Comparing Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres 
(HPV-types 6, 11, 16 and 18) Between Subjects Who Received 9vHPV Vaccine and Subjects Who Received qHPV 
Vaccine (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population - Immunogenicity Substudy) 
The differences between the two groups were small, and it is agreed that non-inferiority of GMTs has been 
demonstrated.  
In order to address a secondary immunogenicity objective of the immunogenicity substudy, seroconversion 
percentages at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 were compared between the qHPV vaccine group and the selected 9vHPV 
vaccine group for use in efficacy analyses. A statistical analysis was conducted (at 1-sided α=0.025 level) to 
assess whether or not seroconversion percentages at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 for HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in 
subjects vaccinated with selected 9vHPV vaccine were non-inferior to the seroconversion percentages at 4 
weeks Post-dose 3 for HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in subjects vaccinated with qHPV vaccine. The statistical 
criterion for non-inferiority with respect to seroconversion percentages required that the lower bound of the 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 79/128 
 
  
  
  
 
95% CI for the percentage point difference in anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, and anti-HPV 18 
seroconversion percentages (9vHPV vaccine-qHPV vaccine) was above -5 percentage points. The non-inferiority 
hypothesis of seroconversion percentages for each of the HPV Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in the selected 9vHPV 
vaccine relative to seroconversion percentages in the qHPV vaccine group at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 was met in the 
PPI population with p-values < 0.001. Numerically the differences of seroconversion percentages between the 
vaccine groups were close to 0 and all related confidence intervals covered 0 and no confidence interval covered 
-5. 
In order to address a secondary immunogenicity objective of the immunogenicity substudy, seroconversion 
percentages at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 for the selected 9vHPV vaccine group for use in efficacy analyses were 
analysed. A statistical analysis was conducted (at 1-sided α=0.025 level) to assess whether or not 
seroconversion percentages at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 for HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 in subjects vaccinated 
with selected 9vHPV vaccine were acceptable (acceptability was defined as the lower bound of the 95% 
confidence interval is greater than 90%). 
Table 30 presents the results of the per-protocol analysis of acceptability for Month 7 seroconversion 
percentages for HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 for subjects who received the selected 9vHPV vaccine. The 
statistical criterion for acceptability with respect to seroconversion percentages required that the lower bound of 
the 95% CI for the percentage point difference in anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 52, and 
anti-HPV 58 seroconversion percentages was above 90 percentage points. The table shows that the acceptability 
hypothesis of seroconversion percentages for each of the HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in the selected 
9vHPV vaccine at 4 weeks Post-dose 3 was met in the PPI population with p-values < 0.001. The confidence 
intervals for the seroconversion 4 weeks Post-dose 3 were above 99% for all HPV types. 
Table 31.  Statistical Analysis of Acceptability of Anti-HPV cLIA Seropositivity Percentages for HPV-types 31, 
33, 45, 52 and 58 at Month 7 (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population - Immunogenicity Sub-study) 
In addition to the above immunogenicity analyses, the MAH also presented the results of PBNA analyses in a 
subset of the immunogenicity population. The PBNA was requested by the CHMP in a Scientific Advice. The 
results were in agreement with the cLIA results, and thus considered supportive of the immunogenicity 
conclusions. A strong correlation between the PBNA and cLIA was also demonstrated in the analysis (data not 
shown). The PBNA was only used for HPV 16 and 18, which are considered the most important types to 
demonstrate non-inferiority for a female population. 
Immunological correlates of protection 
It is acknowledged that there is no established correlate of protection. Within the range of anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 
11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 responses 
observed in this study (lower quartiles and upper quartiles), there was no apparent association between 
increased risk of HPV 6-, 11-, 16-, 18-, 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, or 58-related infection and disease and lower 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 80/128 
 
  
  
  
 
anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and 
anti-HPV 58 cLIA titres. This indicates that even subjects with lower antibody responses exhibit a high degree of 
protection from HPV 6-, 11-, 16-, 18-, 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, or 58-related infection and disease. 
Study 002  
The immunogenicity results from study 002 are presented according to the two sub-studies: adolescent-adult 
immunobridging and manufacturing lot consistency.  
Adolescent-Adult Immunobridging Substudy 
To test the primary and secondary immunogenicity hypotheses, the immune responses among 9- to 15-year-old 
girls were compared to the immune responses among 16- to 26-year-old women, and the immune responses 
among 9- to 15-year-old boys were compared to the immune responses among 16- to 26-year-old women. 
These comparisons were performed for both GMTs and the proportions of subjects who seroconverted based on 
the anti-HPV cLIAs. 
Table 31 displays the statistical analysis of non-inferiority of Month 7 HPV cLIA GMTs comparing 9- to 
15-year-old girls to 16- to 26-year-old young women for each vaccine HPV type in the PPI population. For each 
HPV type, the statistical criterion for success required that the lower confidence bound exceed 0.67. The lower 
bound exceeded 0.67 for all HPV types, with p-values <0.001. Therefore, the criterion was met, supporting the 
conclusion that GMTs in 9- to 15-year-old girls are non-inferior to those in 16- to 26-year-old young women. 
Numerically, the GMT ratios for HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 ranged from 1.83 to 2.62, with 
related lower bound of confidence intervals exceeding 1. 
Table 32.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority of Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean titres Comparing 9- to 
15-Year-Old Females (Lot 1) and 16- to 26-Year-Old Females (Lot 1) (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population) 
Table 32 displays the statistical analysis of non-inferiority of Month 7 HPV cLIA GMTs comparing 9- to 
15-year-old boys to 16- to 26-year-old young women for each vaccine HPV type in the PPI population. The 
statistical criterion for the comparison of 9-to 15-year-old boys to 16- to 26-year-old young women was 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 81/128 
 
  
  
  
 
analogous to that for 9- to 15-year-old girls to 16- to 26-year-old young women. The lower bound exceeded 
0.67 for all HPV types, with p-values < 0.001. Therefore, the criterion was met, supporting the conclusion that 
GMTs in 9- to 15-year-old boys are non-inferior to those in 16- to 26-year-old young women. Numerically the 
GMT ratios for HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 ranged from 2.10 to 3.33 with related lower bound 
of confidence intervals exceeding 1. 
The results from the analysis in the ANSS population were similar to the results from the per-protocol analysis. 
Table 33.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority of Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres Comparing 9- to 
15-Year-Old Males (Lot 1) and 16- to 26-Year-Old Females (Lot 1) (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population) 
The GMTs in girls and boys 9-15 years were clearly non-inferior to the GMTs in the efficacy population, i.e. 
women 16-26 years of age.  
Table 33 displays the statistical analysis of non-inferiority comparing 9- to 15-year-old girls to 16- to 
26-year-old young women with regard to the proportion who became seropositive to each vaccine HPV type by 
Month 7 in the PPI population. The statistical criterion for success required that the lower confidence bound 
exceed -5.0 percentage points. The lower bound exceeded -5.0 percentage points for all HPV types, with 
p-values <0.001. Therefore, the criterion was met, supporting the conclusion that the proportions of 9- to 
15-year-old girls who became seropositive to vaccine HPV types were non-inferior to those observed in 16- to 
26-year-old young women. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 82/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 34.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority With Regard to the Proportions of 9- to 15-Year-Old Females 
(Lot 1) and 16- to 26-Year-Old Females (Lot 1) Who Became Seropositive to Vaccine HPV Types at Month 7 
(Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population) 
Table 34 displays statistical analyses of non-inferiority comparing 9- to 15-year-old boys to 16- to 26-year-old 
young women with regard to the proportion who became seropositive to each HPV type by Month 7 in the PPI 
population. The statistical criterion for the comparison of 9- to 15-year-old boys to 16- to 26-year-old young 
women was analogous to that for 9- to 15-year-old girls to 16- to 26-year-old young women. The lower bound 
exceeded -5.0 percentage points for all HPV types, with p-values <0.001. Therefore, the criterion was met, 
supporting the conclusion that the proportions of 9- to 15-year-old boys who became seropositive to vaccine 
HPV types by Month 7 were non-inferior to those observed in 16- to 26-year-old young women. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 83/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 35.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority With Regard to the Proportions of 9- to 15-Year-Old Males (Lot 
1) and 16- to 26-Year-Old Females (Lot 1) Who Became Seropositive to Vaccine HPV Types at Month 7 
(Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population) 
The analysis of proportion of seroconverters supports the non-inferiority analysis of GMTs. 
Table 35 shows the results from the End of study report of protocol 002 (V503-002-10 Study Extension) in boys 
and girls up to 36 months post-vaccination (dose 1). Anti-HPV response induced by 9vHPV to each of the vaccine 
HPV types generally persisted through Month 36 post-vaccination onset. A similar anti-HPV response kinetic as 
seen in V503-001 (extension study of protocol 001) was noted for 9-15 year of age preadolescents and 
adolescents. Safety results of this report further indicated that a 3-dose regimen of 9vHPV vaccine was generally 
well tolerated through Month 36 post-vaccination onset in (pre)adolescent girls and boys. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 84/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 36.  Summary of Anti-HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres by Age Group (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity 
Population) 
The results were in agreement with previously reported results, and did not raise concern regarding waning 
immunogenicity. 
Manufacturing Lot Consistency Sub-study 
The objective of the substudy is to demonstrate that 3 separate lots of 9vHPV vaccine induce similar immune 
responses, as measured by the serum GMTs to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 at Week 4 post-dose 
3 (month 7). The results of type-specific Month 7 GMT comparisons among subjects randomized to the 3 
manufacturing lots of 9vHPV vaccine in the PPI population showed that, for each comparison, the lower bound 
of the 95% CI of GMT ratio between the comparison lots was greater than 0.5 and the upper bound was less than 
2.0. Therefore, equivalence can be established in all 3 pairwise comparisons for each vaccine HPV type. Overall, 
for all HPV vaccine types, the Month 7 anti-HPV GMT responses from the 3 manufacturing lots of 9vHPV vaccine 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 85/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
were consistent. The secondary endpoint looked at percentage of subjects achieving seroconversion. These 
results demonstrate that for all vaccine components, the type-specific Month 7 seroconversion rates from the 3 
manufacturing lots of 9vHPV vaccine were consistent.  
Overall the lot-to-lot consistency is considered demonstrated in terms of immune responses in the target 
population. 
Study 009/GDS01C 
The main analysis was the non-inferiority comparison of post-dose 3 anti-HPV types 16 and 18 GMTs - 9vHPV 
versus qHPV vaccine. Table 36 summarizes the results. Antibody titres to each HPV type are determined by cLIA. 
The non-inferiority of the 9vHPV vaccine compared to qHPV vaccine was demonstrated for HPV16 and HPV18 
since the lower bound of the two-sided 95% CI around the post-dose 3 GMT ratio (9vHPV vaccine/qHPV vaccine) 
was greater than 0.67 (2/3) for both HPV types. 
Similar values of GMT were observed on the HPV specific ANSS and the estimate GMT ratio was almost identical 
to the one reported on the PPS. 
Table 37.  Non-Inferiority Comparison of Post-Dose 3 anti-HPV Types 16 and 18 GMTs -9vHPV versus qHPV 
Vaccine - HPV Specific Per Protocol Set 
The secondary objective concerned the post-dose 3 anti-HPV 6 and anti-HPV11 GMTs in subjects administered 
9vHPV vaccine or qHPV vaccine. The results are presented in Table 37.  
Similar results of post-dose 3 anti-HPV 6 and anti-HPV 11 GMTs were observed on the HPV specific ANSS. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 86/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 38.  Comparison of Post-Dose 3 Anti-HPV Types 6 and 11 GMTs by Vaccination Group - HPV Specific Per 
Protocol Set 
The immune responses against the four common HPV types were very similar in the two groups, and 
non-inferiority was clearly demonstrated.  
All subjects seroconverted to HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18 with both vaccines. 
GMTs were analysed according to age strata: 9-12 years old and 13-15 years old. The GMTs were numerically 
higher for younger girls and comparable in both vaccination groups. Similar results of post-dose 3 anti-HPV 6 
and anti-HPV 11 GMTs were observed on the HPV specific ANSS. 
Post-dose 3 anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52 and anti-HPV 58 GMTs are summarized in Table 
38. All subjects seroconverted to the 9 HPV types after receiving the 3-dose schedule of the 9vHPV vaccine, 
except one subject who did not seroconvert to one HPV type, HPV45. This subject, with no medical history 
reported at baseline, also had low immune response to the other 8 HPV types with antibody titres generally 
much lower than the GMTs.  
Although the GMTs are low, qHPV vaccine induces some level of post-dose 3 immune responses to the HPV types 
not included in the vaccine, including a seroconversion rate of 73.5% for HPV31, 54.8% for HPV58, 21.0% for 
HPV45, 20.4% for HPV33, and 3.3% for HPV52. 
Table 39.  Summary of Post-Dose 3 Anti-HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58 GMTs by Vaccination Group - HPV 
Specific Per Protocol Set 
Overall, the results from the 9vHPV group in study 009/GDS01C are well in agreement with the results from the 
corresponding group in study 002.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 87/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Study 003 
During the procedure for MAA, the Applicant has submitted preliminary results and then the final clinical study 
report for study 003. The study design, methods and main results are briefly described. 
Study title 
A Phase III Clinical Trial to Study the Tolerability and Immunogenicity of V503, a Multivalent Human 
Papillomavirus (HPV) L1 Virus-Like Particle (VLP) Vaccine, in 16- to 26-Year-Old Men and 16- to 26-Year-Old 
Women 
Objectives 
Primary Objective 1: To evaluate the tolerability of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine in young men and women 
16 to 26 years of age.  
Primary Objective 2: To demonstrate that administration of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces 
non-inferior Geometric Mean Titres (GMTs) for serum anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, 
anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 in young heterosexual men 16 to 26 years 
of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years of age. 
Secondary objective 1: To demonstrate that the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine induces non-inferior antibody 
responses with respect to seroconversion percentages to HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in 
young heterosexual men 16 to 26 years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years of age. 
Secondary objective 2: To evaluate serum anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, 
anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 antibody responses at 4 weeks post-dose 3 in MSM 
subjects. 
Treatment 
All subjects received the same formulation of 9vHPV vaccine. Study vaccine was administered as a 0.5-mL 
intramuscular injection at Day 1, Month 2 and Month 6. The deltoid muscle of the non-dominant arm was the 
preferred site of vaccination. 
Treatment groups 
16-26 year-old males (HM) 
1,106 Subjects Randomized 
16-26 year-old males (MSM) 
313 Subjects Randomized 
16-26 year-old females 
1,101 Subjects Randomized 
Endpoints 
The primary immunogenicity endpoints for evaluating antibody response to 9vHPV vaccine are geometric mean 
titres (GMTs) to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 at Week 4 Post-dose 3.  
The secondary endpoints for evaluating antibody response to 9-valent HPV L1 VLP are the percentages of 
subjects who seroconvert for each HPV type (6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58) by Week 4 Post-dose 3. 
(Seroconversion is defined as changing serostatus from seronegative at baseline to seropositive by Week 4 
Post-dose 3. A subject with a cLIA titre at or above the serostatus cut-off for a given HPV type is considered 
seropositive for that type.) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 88/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Immunogenicity Results 
Disposition of Subjects (All Randomized Subjects) (Day 1 to Month 12): 
Immunological Bridging from the Primary Efficacy Population (Females 16 to 26 Years of Age to 
Males 16 to 26 Years of Age) 
Administration of 9vHPV vaccine to heterosexual males (HM) 16 to 26 years of age seronegative at baseline for 
9vHPV vaccine types  results in anti-HPV (vaccine types) antibody responses (GMTs) at 4 weeks post- dose 3 
that are 1.09- to 1.25-fold higher than those observed among females 16 to 26 years of age seronegative at 
baseline for 9vHPV vaccine types. The statistical criterion for non-inferiority with respect to GMT required that 
the lower bound of the 95% CI for the fold-difference in anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, 
anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti-HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and anti-HPV 58 GMTs (males vs. females) be above 0.67. 
These results are displayed in Table 39. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 89/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 40.  Non-Inferior Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres in Males 16 to 26 Years of Age Who Received 
9vHPV Vaccine vs. Females 16 to 26 Years of Age Who Received 9vHPV Vaccine (Per-Protocol Immunogenicity 
Population) (Protocol V503-003) 
Males  
Females 
16 to 26 Years of 
16 to 26 Years of 
Males 16 to 26/ 
Age 
Age 
Females 16 to 26  
(N = 1,103) 
(N = 1,099) 
Assay 
n 
GMT 
mMU/mL 
n 
GMT 
mMU/mL 
GMT 
Ratio 
95% CI* 
Anti-HPV 6 
847 
782.0 
708 
703.9 
1.11 
(1.02, 1.21) 
Anti-HPV 11 
851 
616.7 
712 
564.9 
1.09 
(1.00, 1.19) 
Anti-HPV 16 
899 
3346.0 
781 
2788.3 
1.20 
(1.10, 1.30) 
Anti-HPV 18 
906 
808.2 
831 
679.8 
1.19 
(1.08, 1.31) 
Anti-HPV 31 
908 
708.5 
826 
570.1 
1.24 
(1.13, 1.37) 
Anti-HPV 33 
901 
384.8 
853 
322.0 
1.19 
(1.10, 1.30) 
Anti-HPV 45 
909 
235.6 
871 
185.7 
1.27 
(1.14, 1.41) 
Anti-HPV 52 
907 
386.8 
849 
335.2 
1.15 
(1.05, 1.26) 
Anti-HPV 58 
897 
509.8 
839 
409.3 
1.25 
(1.14, 1.36) 
* p-value <0.001 
N = Number of individuals randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at 
least one vaccination 
n = Number of individuals contributing to the analysis 
GMT = Geometric mean titre; mMU = milli-Merck units; CI = Confidence interval; HPV = 
Human papillomavirus   
Immunogenicity Assessment in Men-Having-Sex-With-Men (MSM) 
Administration of 9vHPV vaccine to baseline 9vHPV vaccine type-naïve MSM 16 to 26 years of age results in 
anti-HPV 6, anti-HPV 11, anti-HPV 16, anti-HPV 18, anti-HPV 31, anti-HPV 33, anti- HPV 45, anti-HPV 52, and 
anti-HPV 58 antibody responses (GMTs) at 4 weeks post- dose 3 that are numerically lower than those for HM.  
These results are consistent with those seen in prior studies of qHPV vaccine. Seroconversion rates at Month 7 
in both MSM and HM are >99%.  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 90/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Table 41.  Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres in HM and MSM Who Received 9vHPV Vaccine (Per-Protocol 
Immunogenicity Population) (Protocol V503-003) 
HM  
MSM 
16 to 26 Years of Age 
16 to 26 Years of Age 
(N = 1,103) 
(N = 313) 
GMT 
GMT 
n 
mMU/m
95% CI 
n 
mMU/m
95% CI 
Assay 
L 
L 
Anti-HPV 6 
847 
782.0 
(738.0, 828.7)  164 
568.9 
(498.7, 649.0) 
Anti-HPV 11 
851 
616.7 
(582.4, 653.0)  165 
437.7 
(384.4, 498.5) 
Anti-HPV 16 
899 
3346.0 
(3158.9, 
3544.1) 
212 
2294.0 
(2037.8, 
2582.5) 
Anti-HPV 18 
906 
808.2 
(754.9, 865.4)  220 
608.1 
(529.4, 698.5) 
Anti-HPV 31 
908 
708.5 
(662.7, 757.6)  227 
420.7 
(368.0, 480.9) 
Anti-HPV 33 
901 
384.8 
(362.5, 408.4)  230 
252.3 
(224.2, 283.8) 
Anti-HPV 45 
909 
235.6 
(219.0, 253.6)  232 
157.5 
(136.2, 182.2) 
Anti-HPV 52 
907 
386.8 
(363.4, 411.6)  232 
233.1 
(206.0, 263.7) 
Anti-HPV 58 
897 
509.8 
(479.9, 541.6)  223 
319.8 
(283.2, 361.0) 
N = Number of individuals randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at 
least one vaccination 
n = Number of individuals contributing to the analysis 
GMT = Geometric mean titre; mMU = milli-Merck units; CI = Confidence interval; HPV = 
Human papillomavirus   
The immunogenicity results do not indicate any differences in antibody responses that could indicate differences 
in efficacy for clinical endpoints relevant to males. The results are overall in agreement with the expected 
outcome based on the experience with qHPV.  
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk 
assessment (see later sections). 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 91/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Table 42.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 001 (Part B) 
Title: Randomized, International, Double-Blinded (With In-House Blinding), Controlled With 
GARDASIL™, Dose-Ranging, Tolerability, Immunogenicity, and Efficacy Study of a Multivalent Human 
Papillomavirus (HPV) L1 Virus-Like Particle (VLP) Vaccine Administered to 16- to 26-Year-Old Women 
Study identifier 
001 
Design 
Randomized, double-blind (operating under in-house blinding procedures), 
controlled with qHPV vaccine, multicenter, multinational, dose-ranging, safety, 
immunogenicity and efficacy study  
Duration of main phase: 
Subjects received 9vHPV vaccine or qHPV 
vaccine at Day 1, Month 2, and Month 6. All 
subjects were followed for safety Day 1 
through Month 7. Subjects were assessed for 
immunogenicity at Month 7. 
Duration of Extension phase:  ongoing 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Part B 
Part A: dose finding 
Part B: Non-inferiority of 9vHPV compared to qHPV in women 16-26 years old 
All subjects received 3 doses of the respective dose: 
Mid-dose 9vHPV: 30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 
VLP with 500 μg aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL (n=7106) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
qHPV: 20/40/40/20 ug HPV 6/11/16/18 VLP with 225 ug aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL 
(n=7109) 
Primary 
efficacy 
endpoint 
Combined incidence of HPV 31-, 33-, 45-, 52-, and 58-related 
high-grade cervical abnormalities (CIN 2/3), Adenocarcinoma 
In Situ (AIS), invasive cervical carcinoma, high-grade Vulvar 
Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN 2/3), high-grade Vaginal 
Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VaIN 2/3), vulvar cancer, or vaginal 
cancer.  
Immunogenici
ty endpoint 
GMTs and seroconversion rates for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 
45, 52, and 58 at 4 weeks post-dose 3 
Database lock 
10 April 2013 (Clinical Study report data – median follow-up of 40 months post 
dose 3) 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Per protocol efficacy  
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of subjects 
9vHPV 
6016 
Cases of HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, 
1  
AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar 
Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer 
qHPV  
6017 
30  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 92/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
Primary endpoint 
comparison 
HPV31/33/45/52/ 
58 -related CIN 2/3, 
AIS, Cervical 
Cancer, VIN 2/3, 
VaIN 2/3, Vulvar 
Cancer, and Vaginal 
Cancer 
Secondary 
efficacy analysis 
for 
HPV 6/11/16/18 
-related Cervical, 
Vulvar, and 
Vaginal Disease  
Secondary 
efficacy analysis 
for HPV16/18 
related persistent 
infection, cervical, 
vulvar, vaginal 
disease 
Comparison groups 
9vHPV and qHPV 
Observed efficacy (point 
estimate vs. qHPV)  
95% CI  
P-value 
96.7%  
80.9%; 99.8% 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
9vHPV and qHPV 
Risk reduction in 
incidence of endpoint  
compared to qHPV group 
95% CI 
P-value 
Interpretation 
Comparison groups 
Risk reduction in 
incidence of endpoint 
relative to historical 
placebo   
Non-inferiority  criterion: 
lower  bound  of  the  95% 
CI  for  the  difference  of 
efficacy  (9vHPV  –  qHPV) 
should  be  greater  than 
−15 % points 
P-value 
Interpretation 
14.1% 
-185; 71 
N/A 
A 95% CI of RR that 
includes 0% indicates that 
the incidences of the 
endpoint in the two vaccine 
groups are similar, i.e. the 
difference is not statistically 
significant 
9vHPV and qHPV 
9vHPV: 93.5% (91.5%, 
95.3%) 
qHPV: 89.8% (87.0%, 
92.0%)  
Difference: 3.8% (0.8%, 
7.2%) 
Fulfilled 
N/A 
RR represents the efficacy 
of a HPV vaccine relative to 
an unvaccinated population. 
When the point estimate of 
RR is positive and the lower 
limit of the 95% CI of RR is 
also positive, the estimate 
of RR is suggestive of an 
incremental prophylactic 
protection conferred by 
9vHPV vaccine in addition to 
the prophylactic protection 
conferred by qHPV vaccine 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 93/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
Primary  endpoints    for 
Anti-HPV6 1.02 (0.99, 
Non-inferiority for GMTs 
results to extrapolate 
protection against HPV 
types 6-11-16-18 
comparison  of  immune 
1.06) 
is defined as the lower 
responses  based  on 
Anti-HPV11 0.80 (0.77, 
bound of the two-sided 
cLIA titres (GMTs at M7) 
0.83) 
95% confidence interval 
between  9v-HPV  vs. 
Anti-HPV16 0.99 (0.96, 
for the GMT ratio of 
qHPV  vaccine 
1.03) 
9-valent vaccine vs. 
Anti-HPV18 1.19 (1.14, 
qHPV being greater than 
1.23) 
0.67 
Notes 
In conclusion the 9vHPV vaccine was shown in women 16-26 years of age to:  
 
protect against the composite clinical endpoint of HPV 
31/33/45/52/58-Related CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 
2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer compared to qHPV; 
 
provide similar protection against HPV 6/11/16/18-Related Cervical, 
Vulvar, and Vaginal Disease compared to qHPV; 
 
demonstrate non-inferior immune responses to HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 
for the 9vHPV vaccine compared to the qHPV vaccine in women 16-26 
years. 
Table 43.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 002 (immunogenicity endpoints) 
Title: A Phase III Clinical Trial to Study the Immunogenicity, Tolerability, and Manufacturing 
Consistency of V503 (A Multivalent Human Papillomavirus [HPV] L1 Virus-Like Particle [VLP] Vaccine) in 
Preadolescents and Adolescents (9 to 15 year olds) with a Comparison to Young Women (16 to 26 year 
olds) 
Study identifier 
Study 002 
Design 
International, multi-centred, immunogenicity, safety, and manufacturing 
consistency study of the 9vHPV vaccine. Two immunogenicity substudies were 
conducted: an adult-adolescent immunobridging substudy, and a lot 
manufacturing consistency substudy. 
Duration of main phase: 
Subjects received 9vHPV vaccine or qHPV 
vaccine at Day 1, Month 2, and Month 6. All 
subjects were followed for safety Day 1 
through Month 12. Subjects were assessed for 
immunogenicity at Month 7. 
Duration of Extension phase:  Ongoing. Follow-up planned up to month 36. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 94/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Immunogenicity1: Non-inferior immune responses to all 9 HPV vaccine types in 
preadolescent and adolescent girls 9 to 15 years of age compared to young 
women 16 to 26 years of age.  
Immunogenicity 2: To demonstrate that the Final Manufacturing Process 
results in 9-valent HPV L1 VLP vaccine that induces consistent serum responses 
to all 9 vaccine HPV types. (data not shown in this table)  
Treatments groups 
Boys and girls 9-15 
All subjects received 3 doses of either:  
years 
9vHPV: 30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 
6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg aluminum 
Women 16-26 years 
adjuvant/0.5 mL; three different consistency lots were 
used. 
qHPV: 20/40/40/20 ug HPV 6/11/16/18 VLP with 225 ug 
aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL  
Endpoints and 
Immunogenicity 
Serum anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 
definitions 
titres were measured using a competitive Luminex 
Immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA). The following 
endpoints were collected from each study subject to 
assess immunogenicity: 1) cLIA titres for each of the 
vaccine HPV types; 2) seroconversion status (i.e., 
above or below serostatus cutoff) for each of the 
vaccine HPV types.  
Database lock 
August 18, 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Per protocol Immunogenicity population  
and time point 
description 
Primary time point: month 7  
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group  9-15 year old 
9-15 year old 
16-26 year old 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subject 
females  
males  
females 
646 
666 
468 
Anti HPV 6 GMT  
1,715 
2,085 
900.8 
95% CI  
1,595; 1,845 
1,944; 2,236 
822.3; 986.9 
Anti HPV 11 GMT  
1,295 
1,487 
706.6 
95% CI  
1,204; 1,393 
1,386; 1,595 
645.2, 773.8 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 95/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti HPV 16 GMT  
6,980 
8,629 
3,523 
95% CI  
Anti HPV 18 GMT  
95% CI  
Anti HPV 31 GMT  
95% CI  
Anti HPV 33 GMT  
95% CI  
Anti HPV 45 GMT  
95% CI  
Anti HPV 52 GMT  
95% CI  
Anti HPV 58 GMT  
95% CI  
6,508; 7,486 
8,066; 9,231 
3,224; 3,850 
2,154 
2,823 
882.7 
1,980; 2,342 
2,603; 3,062) 
795.4; 979.5 
1,892 
2,221 
753.9 
1,746; 2,050 
2,056; 2,400 
682.5; 832.7 
980.4 
1,199 
466.8 
911.7; 1,054 
1,117; 1,286 
426.9; 510.3 
714.4 
907.0 
272.2 
651.9; 782.8 
830.2; 991.0 
243.8; 303.9 
932.9 
1,038 
419.6 
864.8; 1,006 
964.4; 1,117 
381.4, 461.5 
1,287 
1,568 
590.5 
1,196; 1,385 
1,460; 1,683 
538.2, 647.9 
 Effect estimate per 
Primary endpoint 
Comparison groups 
9- to 15-Year-Old Females  
comparison 
16- to 26-Year-Old Females  
HPV 6 
Fold Difference of GMT 
1.90 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.70; 2.14 
<0.001 
HPV 11 
Fold Difference of GMT 
1.83  
95% CI 
P-value 
1.63; 2.06 
<0.001 
HPV 16 
Fold Difference of GMT 
1.98 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.77; 2.22 
<0.001 
HPV 18 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.44 
95% CI 
P-value 
2.13; 2.80 
<0.001 
HPV 31 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.51  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 96/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95% CI 
P-value 
2.21; 2.85 
<0.001 
HPV 33 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.10 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.87; 2.36 
<0.001 
HPV 45 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.62 
95% CI 
P-value 
2.27; 3.03 
<0.001 
HPV 52 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.22 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.97; 2.51 
<0.001 
HPV 58 
Fold Difference of GMT 
2.18 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.93; 2.45 
<0.001 
Notes 
In conclusion, non-inferior antibody responses to all HPV types were 
demonstrated in 9-15 year olds compared to 16-26 year olds (i.e. the 
population in which efficacy was established). In addition, manufacturing lot 
consistency was demonstrated for the three consistency lots (data not 
included in this table) 
Table 44.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 009/GDS01C (immunogenicity endpoints) 
Title: A Randomized, Double-Blinded, Controlled with GARDASIL (Human Papillomavirus Vaccine [Types 
6, 11, 16, 18] (Recombinant, adsorbed)), Phase III Clinical Trial to Study the Immunogenicity and 
Tolerability of V503 (9-Valent Human Papillomavirus [HPV] L1 Virus-Like Particle [VLP] Vaccine) in 
Preadolescent and Adolescent Girls (9- to 15-year-olds) 
Study identifier 
009 / GDS01C 
Design 
European, multi-centre, double-blinded, randomized, controlled with qHPV 
vaccine, immunogenicity and tolerability study of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP 
vaccine in preadolescent and adolescent girls (9 to 15 years of age) 
Duration of main phase: 
Subjects received 9vHPV vaccine or qHPV 
vaccine at Day 1, Month 2, and Month 6. All 
subjects were followed for safety Day 1 through 
Month 7. Subjects were assessed for 
immunogenicity at Month 7. 
Duration of Extension phase:  None. 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority of immune responses to 9vHPV compared to QHPV in 9-15 year 
old girls 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 97/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments groups 
9vHPV 
All subjects received 3 doses of: 
30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 
6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg 
aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL  
qHPV  
All subjects received 3 doses of:  
 20/40/40/20 ug HPV 6/11/16/18 VLP with 225 ug 
aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL 
Endpoints and 
Primary endpoint: 
Serum anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 
definitions 
Immunogenicity 
and 58 titres were measured using a competitive 
Luminex Immunoassay (HPV-9 cLIA). The 
following endpoints were collected from each 
study subject to assess immunogenicity: 1) cLIA 
titres for each of the vaccine HPV types; 2) 
seroconversion status (i.e., above or below 
serostatus cutoff) for each of the vaccine HPV 
types.  
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Per protocol immunogenicity population. Month 7.  
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
9vHPV vaccine  
qHPV vaccine 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subjects 
Anti HPV 6 GMT  
276 
1679 
271 
1566  
95% CI  
1519; 1857 
1412; 1736 
Anti HPV 11 GMT  
1316 
1417 
95% CI  
1184; 1462 
1274; 1576 
Anti HPV 16 GMT  
6740 
6887 
95% CI  
1737; 2204 
1567; 2057 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 98/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti HPV 18 GMT  
95% CI  
1957 
1796 
1737; 2204 
1567; 2057 
Effect estimate per 
Primary endpoint  Comparison groups 
9vHPV vaccine 
comparison 
qHPV vaccine   
HPV 6 
Estimated GMT ratio 9vHPV 
1.07 
/ qHPV 
95% CI  
P-value 
HPV 11 
Estimated GMT ratio 9vHPV 
/ qHPV 
95% CI  
P-value 
HPV 16 
Estimated GMT ratio 9vHPV 
/ qHPV 
95% CI  
P-value 
HPV 18  
Estimated GMT ratio 9vHPV 
/ qHPV 
95% CI  
P-value 
0.93; 1.23 
<0.001 
0.93 
0.80; 1.08 
<0.001 
0.97  
0.85;1.11 
<0.001 
1.08 
0.91; 1.29 
<0.001 
Notes 
In conclusion, the immune responses to HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 after vaccination 
with 9vHPV vaccine were found to be non-inferior to the responses to qHPV 
vaccine in girls 9-15 years of age.  
Table 45.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 003 (immunogenicity endpoints) 
Title: A Phase III Clinical Trial to Study the Tolerability and Immunogenicity of V503, a Multivalent 
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) L1 Virus-Like Particle (VLP) Vaccine, in 16- to 26-Year-Old Men and 16- to 
26-Year-Old Women 
Study identifier 
003 
Design 
This was a Phase III, open-label, international, multicenter, clinical study to 
evaluate the immunogenicity and tolerability of the 9-valent HPV L1 VLP 
(9vHPV) vaccine in healthy young HM men (16 to 26 years of age) in 
comparison to healthy young women (16 to 26 years of age). 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 99/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of main phase: 
Subjects received 9vHPV vaccine or qHPV 
vaccine at Day 1, Month 2, and Month 6. All 
subjects were followed for safety Day 1 
through Month 12. Subjects were assessed for 
immunogenicity at Month 7. 
Duration of Extension phase:  None. 
Hypothesis 
 Non-inferior immune responses to all 9 HPV vaccine types in males 16-26 
years of age compared to young women 16 to 26 years of age.  
Treatments groups 
9vHPV 
All subjects received 3 doses of: 
30/40/60/40/20/20/20/20/20 μg HPV 
6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 VLP with 500 μg 
aluminum adjuvant/0.5 mL  
Endpoints and 
Primary endpoint: 
Serum anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 
definitions 
Immunogenicity 
and 58 titres were measured using a 
competitive Luminex Immunoassay (HPV-9 
cLIA). The following endpoints were collected 
from each study subject to assess 
immunogenicity: 1) cLIA titres for each of the 
vaccine HPV types; 2) seroconversion status 
(i.e., above or below serostatus cutoff) for 
each of the vaccine HPV types.  
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Per protocol immunogenicity population. Month 7.  
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
16-26 year old 
16-26 year old 
16-26 year old 
and estimate 
variability 
males (HM) 
males (MSM 
females 
Number of 
subjects 
Anti HPV 6 GMT  
1103 
782.0 
313 
568.9 
1099 
703.9 
95% CI  
738.0, 828.7 
498.7, 649.0 
660.6; 749.9 
Anti HPV 11 GMT  
616.7 
437.7 
564.9 
95% CI  
582.4, 653.0 
384.4, 498.5 
530.6; 601.3 
Anti HPV 16 GMT  
3346.0 
2294.0 
2788.3 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 100/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95% CI  
3158.9, 3544.1 
2037.8, 2582.5 
2621.4; 2965.8 
Anti HPV 18 GMT  
808.2 
608.1 
679.8 
95% CI  
754.9, 865.4 
529.4, 698.5 
633.1; 730.1 
Anti HPV 31 GMT  
708.5 
420.7 
570.1 
95% CI  
662.7, 757.6 
368.0, 480.9 
531.5; 611.5 
Anti HPV 33 GMT  
384.8 
252.3 
322.0 
95% CI  
362.5, 408.4 
224.2, 283.8 
302.9; 342.3 
Anti HPV 45 GMT  
235.6 
157.5 
185.7 
95% CI  
219.0, 253.6 
136.2, 182.2 
172.3, 200.2 
Anti HPV 52 GMT  
386.8 
233.1 
335.2 
95% CI  
363.4, 411.6 
206.0, 263.7 
314.3; 357.6 
Anti HPV 58 GMT  
509.8 
319.8 
409,3 
95% CI  
479.9, 541.6 
283.2, 361.0 
384.5; 435.7 
Effect estimate per 
Primary endpoint 
  Estimated GMT ratio (95% CI)  
comparison 
16-26 year old males/16-26 year old females   
HPV 6 
HPV 11 
HPV 16 
HPV 18  
HPV 31 
HPV 33 
HPV 45 
HPV52 
HPV58 
  1.11 (1.02; 1.21) 
  1.09 (1.02, 1.21) 
  1.20 (1.10, 1.30) 
  1.19 (1.08, 1.31) 
  1.24 (1.13, 1.37) 
  1.19 (1.10, 1.30) 
  1.27 (1.14, 1.41) 
  1.15 (1.05, 1.26) 
  1.25 (1.14, 1.36) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 101/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
In conclusion, anti-HPV vaccine types GMTs and seroconversion rates at 4 
weeks post-dose 3 in heterosexual men (HM) were non-inferior to those 
observed in 16- to 26-year-old women. 
Analysis performed across trials 
Immunogenicity of 9vHPV vaccine in subjects not previously vaccinated with HPV vaccine was analysed across 
study protocols in the PPI population by age and gender (measured by GMTs and by percentage of individuals 
who were seropositive against the relevant vaccine HPV type): 
 
For females 16-26 years of age (studies P001 and P002), the overall Month 7 cLIA GMTs were 893.7 for 
HPV 6, 669.3 for HPV-11, 3,159.0 for HPV 16, 809.9 for HPV 18, 664.8 for HPV 31, 419.2 for HPV 33, 
254.1 for HPV 45, 382.4 for HPV 52, and 489.2 for HPV 58. The overall Month 7 seroconversion rates 
were ≥ 99.5% for each vaccine HPV type. 
 
For females 9-15 years of age (studies P002, P005, P007, P009), the overall Month 7 cLIA GMTs were 
1,744.6 for HPV 6, 1,289.7 for HPV-11, 7,159.9 for HPV 16, 2,085.5 for HPV 18, 1,883.3 for HPV 31, 
960.6 for HPV 33, 728.7 for HPV 45, 978.2 for HPV 52, and 1,306.0 for HPV 58. The overall Month 7 
seroconversion rates were ≥ 99.6% for each vaccine HPV type. 
 
For males 9-15 years of age (studies P002, P005, P007), the overall Month 7 cLIA GMTs were 2,085.3 for 
HPV 6, 1,469.2 for HPV-11, 8,444.9 for HPV 16, 2,620.4 for HPV 18, 2,173.5 for HPV 31, 1,178.6 for HPV 
33, 841.7 for HPV 45, 1,062.2 for HPV 52, and 1,545.8 for HPV 58. The overall Month 7 seroconversion 
rates were ≥ 99.8% for each vaccine HPV type. 
Supportive studies 
Studies 005, 006, and 007 are summarised in this section. Study 005 and 007 investigate concomitant 
vaccinations and study 006 investigate the effects of 9vHPV in prior qHPV recipients.  
Study 005 
This study was an open-label, randomized, multicentre, comparative study to evaluate the tolerability and 
immunogenicity of the concomitant administration of the first dose of the 9vHPV vaccine with Menactra and 
Adacel versus the non-concomitant administration of the 9vHPV vaccine with Menactra and Adacel. A total of 
1254 subjects were screened for inclusion in this study; 1241 were randomized (621 in the Concomitant Group 
and 620 in the Non-concomitant Group) and 1,237 received vaccination.  
GMTs for each vaccine HPV type of the 9vHPV vaccine were measured at 4 weeks post-dose 3 (Month 7). Table 
45 presents the results of the PP analysis, which showed non-inferiority of anti-HPV responses in the group that 
received concomitant injections compared with the group that received non-concomitant injections (i.e. 
Menactra and Adacel were given one month after 9vHPV).  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 102/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Table 46.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority Comparing Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres 
(HPV-types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58) Between Concomitant vs. Non-concomitant Vaccination Group 
(Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population - HPV) 
9vHPV Vaccine + [Menactra™ + 
9vHPV Vaccine + [Menactra™ + 
Adacel™]        
(Concomitant)     
(Comparison Group A)  
(N = 619)      
Estimated GMT  
Adacel™]        
(Non-concomitant)     
(Comparison Group B)  
(N = 618)      
Estimated GMT  
Assay (cLIA) 
 Anti-HPV  6                                                                                
(mMU/mL)     
2,198.7      
514          
501          
(mMU/mL)     
2,260.7      
n  
n  
 Anti-HPV 11                                                                                
1,495.0      
514          
502          
1,547.2      
 Anti-HPV 16                                                                                
8,882.6      
530          
513          
9,027.6      
 Anti-HPV 18                                                                                
2,610.4      
535          
516          
2,633.9      
 Anti-HPV 31                                                                                
2,439.4      
536          
514          
2,334.3      
 Anti-HPV 33                                                                                
1,268.5      
537          
520          
1,276.3      
 Anti-HPV 45                                                                                
947.8        
539          
523          
863.8        
 Anti-HPV 52                                                                                
1,082.7      
538          
521          
1,103.7      
 Anti-HPV 58                                                                                
1,532.8      
537          
519          
1,555.1      
Estimated  
Fold Difference  
Group A / Group 
B  
(95% CI)      
0.97 (0.88, 
1.08)              
p-Value for        
Non-Inferiority‡ 
<0.001          
0.97 (0.87, 
<0.001          
1.07)              
0.98 (0.89, 
<0.001          
1.09)              
0.99 (0.88, 
<0.001          
1.12)              
1.04 (0.93, 
<0.001          
1.17)              
0.99 (0.89, 
<0.001          
1.11)              
1.10 (0.97, 
<0.001          
1.25)              
0.98 (0.88, 
<0.001          
1.10)              
0.99 (0.88, 
<0.001          
1.10)              
 Overall conclusion: The non-inferiority criterion was met for all 9 HPV types.        
 ‡The noninferiority criterion for endpoints reported in this table is defined as statistically less than a 2-fold decrease in Group 
A compared to Group B. Noninferiority of GMT in Group A relative to Group B is demonstrated if the lower limit of the 95% 
CI for the fold difference is greater than 0.5. 
 The estimated GMT, fold difference, associated confidence intervals, and p-values are based on a statistical analysis model. 
 N = Number of subjects randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at least 1 injection. 
 n = Number of subjects contributing to the analysis. 
 CI = Confidence interval; GMT = Geometric mean titre; mMU = Milli Merck units; cLIA = Competitive Luminex immunoassay; 
9vHPV = Nine-Valent Human Papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58) Recombinant Vaccine. 
In addition, serological non-inferiority was also demonstrated for Menactra and Adacel between the 2 treatment 
groups. 
Study 007 
This study was an open-label, randomized, multicentre, comparative study to evaluate the tolerability and 
immunogenicity of the concomitant administration of the first dose of the 9vHPV vaccine with Repevax versus 
the non-concomitant administration of 9vHPV vaccine with Repevax. A total of 1,074 subjects were screened for 
inclusion in this study and 1,054 were randomized (526 in the Concomitant Group and 528 in the 
Non-concomitant Group) and 1,053 received vaccination. 
GMTs for each vaccine HPV type of the 9vHPV vaccine were measured 4 weeks post-dose 3 (Month 7). Table 46 
presents the results of the PP analysis, which showed non-inferiority of anti-HPV responses in the group that 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 103/128 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                               
received the 9vHPV vaccine and Repevax injections concomitant vs. the group that received non-concomitant 
9vHPV vaccine and Repevax injections.   
Table 47.  Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority Comparing Month 7 HPV cLIA Geometric Mean Titres 
(HPV-types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58) Between Concomitant vs. Non-concomitant Vaccination Group 
(Per-Protocol Immunogenicity Population - HPV) 
9vHPV Vaccine + Repevax™        9vHPV Vaccine + Repevax™        
(Concomitant)     
(Comparison Group A)  
(Non-concomitant)     
(Comparison Group B)  
(N = 525)      
(N = 528)      
Assay (cLIA) 
 Anti-HPV  6                                                                                
461          
477          
n  
n  
Estimated GMT  
(mMU/mL)     
1,637.9      
Estimated GMT  
(mMU/mL)     
1,725.0      
 Anti-HPV 11                                                                                
1,170.3      
462          
479          
1,212.6      
 Anti-HPV 16                                                                                
6,529.4      
479          
489          
6,940.6      
 Anti-HPV 18                                                                                
1,854.1      
475          
486          
1,954.8      
 Anti-HPV 31                                                                                
1,646.2      
473          
485          
1,750.6      
 Anti-HPV 33                                                                                
823.8        
478          
487          
915.5        
 Anti-HPV 45                                                                                
658.2        
478          
489          
675.6        
 Anti-HPV 52                                                                                
965.4        
479          
490          
1,015.3      
Estimated  
Fold Difference  
Group A / Group B  
p-Value for        
(95% CI)      
Non-Inferiority‡ 
0.95 (0.86, 1.05)               <0.001          
0.97 (0.87, 1.07)               <0.001          
0.94 (0.85, 1.04)               <0.001          
0.95 (0.84, 1.07)               <0.001          
0.94 (0.84, 1.06)               <0.001          
0.90 (0.81, 1.00)               <0.001          
0.97 (0.86, 1.11)               <0.001          
0.95 (0.85, 1.06)               <0.001          
484          
 Anti-HPV 58                                                                                
 Overall conclusion: The non-inferiority criterion was met for all 9 HPV types.        
 ‡The noninferiority criterion for endpoints reported in this table is defined as statistically less than a 2-fold decrease in Group 
A compared to Group B. Noninferiority of GMT in Group A relative to Group B is demonstrated if the lower limit of the 95% 
CI for the fold difference is greater than 0.5. 
0.89 (0.80, 0.99)               <0.001          
1,334.8      
1,188.8      
469          
 The estimated GMT, fold difference, associated confidence intervals, and p-values are based on a statistical analysis model. 
 N = Number of subjects randomized to the respective vaccination group who received at least 1 injection. 
 n = Number of subjects contributing to the analysis. 
 CI = Confidence interval; GMT = Geometric mean titre; mMU = Milli Merck units; cLIA = Competitive Luminex immunoassay; 
9vHPV = Nine-Valent Human Papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58) Recombinant Vaccine. 
In addition, serological non-inferiority between the 2 treatment groups was also demonstrated for Repevax.  
Study 006 
This study was a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, international, multi-centre study 
investigating safety/tolerability and immunogenicity of the 9vHPV vaccine in females 12 to 26 years of age who 
were previously vaccinated with qHPV. A total of 935 subjects were screened for inclusion in this study, of which 
921 were randomized to have 615 subjects in the 9vHPV vaccine group and 306 subjects in the placebo group. 
Table 47 presents a summary by vaccination group of the GMTs and associated 95% CIs for the immune 
responses to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 at Day 1, Month 2, and Month 7. The GMTs for the 4 
common HPV types were as expected very high. However, the GMTs for the 5 new HPV types were considerably 
lower in this study compared to the other studies. Thus, some interference of the immune responses to the new 
vaccine types included in 9vHPV could be hypothesised as a cause, when qHPV is given previously. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 104/128 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
                                                                                            
             
             
             
             
                                                
Table 48.  Summary of Anti-HPV cLIA Geometric Mean titres by Vaccination Group (Modified Per-Protocol 
Immunogenicity Population†) 
In addition, seropositivity to HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in the per protocol population 
ranged from 98.3 to 100% by Month 7 in individuals who received 9vHPV vaccine. 
2.2.7.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Four main studies were assessed in the context of this application: 
  001: dose-ranging, efficacy and immunogenicity of 9vHPV and qHVP vaccines in women 16-26 years; 
  002: immunobridging study from adolescents 9-15 years to women 16-26 years receiving 9vHPV 
vaccine; 
  003: immunobridging study from males 16-26 years to women 16-26 years receiving 9vHPV vaccine; 
  009/GDS01C: comparative study between 9vHPV and qHPV vaccines in girls 9-15 years of age; 
In addition, three supportive studies were included in the application: 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 105/128 
 
  
  
  
 
  005: concomitant vaccination with Adacel and Menactra (diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis and 4-valent 
meningococcal conjugate); 
  007: concomitant vaccination with Repevax (diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis-polio); 
  006: safety and immunogenicity of 9vHPV vaccine in prior qHPV vaccine recipients. 
In response to the Day 120 List of questions , the Applicant submitted an end-of-study report for study 001, and 
a statistical report for study 002-010 (extension of study 002) and some preliminary data for study 003 (a study 
comparing immune responses in males and females 16-26 years). The final study report for study 003 was 
submitted with the responses to the Day 180 List of Outstanding issues. 
The overall ethics, conduct and design of the studies was satisfactory. Efficacy and immunogenicity of the 
vaccine were studied in the most important target populations for vaccination (9 to 26 year-olds) and the 
European population was well represented. Five out of 7 studies were conducted in multiple continents ensuring 
sufficient diversity of the population investigated. All studies were adequately sized, relevant primary endpoints 
and appropriate follow-up periods were chosen to address efficacy and immunogenicity objectives. Dropout 
rates in each study were low, and the objectives were achieved for all studies. 
There were no major deficiencies identified either in the randomization and blinding procedures or in the 
statistical methods. The use of a seamless phase IIb/phase III design in study 001 was in general acceptable. 
However, there was a concern that pooling subjects from Part A and Part B of the study for efficacy analysis 
could impact on the type I error. Therefore during the evaluation the Applicant submitted the results of the 
analysis of the primary efficacy outcome variable restricted to subjects recruited only to part B of the study. The 
results of this analysis only marginally differed from the results based on the pooled study population as 
provided with the CSR. Thus the effect of pooling data from part A and part B of the study can be considered 
negligible. 
The clinical development program did not include any study in women ≥ 27 years of age, representing a 
shortcoming of this MAA. This is reflected in section 4.2 of SmPC, as a warning note for vaccine prescribers and 
consumers. The major risks are that the 9vHPV vaccine may induce lower GMTs for the 5 new vaccine HPV types 
in this age group vs. the younger age groups; however the clinical significance of this and how long these 
immune responses would last for is unknown. Therefore, a plan for a post-marketing immunogenicity and safety 
study in women 27-45 years of age was discussed and agreed with the Applicant (see RMP section).      
The potential of vaccinating with 9vHPV previous qHPV recipients was also addressed during the procedure and 
sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC are accurately reflecting the data. In addition, this issue is reflected in the 
RMP as an important identified risk (see RMP section). Briefly, Study 006 evaluated the immunogenicity of 
9vHPV in 921 girls and women (12 through 26 years of age) who had previously been vaccinated with qHPV 
vaccine. For subjects receiving 9vHPV after receiving 3 doses of qHPV vaccine, there was an interval of at least 
12 months between completion of vaccination with qHPV vaccine and the start of vaccination with 9vHPV with a 
3 dose regimen (the time interval ranged from approximately 12 to 36 months). Seropositivity to HPV Types 6, 
11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 in the per protocol population ranged from 98.3 to 100% by Month 7 in 
individuals who received 9vHPV. The GMTs to HPV Types 6, 11, 16, 18 were higher than in the population who 
had not previously received qHPV vaccine in other studies whereas the GMTs to HPV Types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 
58 were lower. The clinical significance of this observation is not known. There are no safety, immunogenicity or 
efficacy data to support interchangeability of Gardasil 9 with bivalent or quadrivalent HPV vaccines. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 106/128 
 
  
  
  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine has been demonstrated either directly or indirectly through serological 
bridging.  
Efficacy in women 16-26 years of age 
Direct efficacy in this age group was demonstrated for a composite endpoint of disease related to HPV types 31, 
33, 45, 52 and 58 in study 001. The composite endpoint included CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, VIN 2/3, VaIN 
2/3, Vulvar Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer. The analysis population (PP) included subjects who were naïve at 
enrolment to all the HPV vaccine types and remained PCR negative through to Month 7, and who received all 3 
vaccine doses and did not violate the study protocol. The majority of cases were CIN2/3, and the most common 
HPV type was HPV 52 (11 cases in the qHPV group, which included 6017 subjects) followed by HPV 31 and 33 (7 
cases each in the qHPV group). Efficacy against the composite endpoint was satisfactorily demonstrated with a 
point estimate of protective efficacy of 96.7% (95% CI: 80.9; 99.8) relative to qHPV as control (see table 16), 
which does not include the 5 serotypes of the primary analysis. In addition, statistically significant protection 
was demonstrated for HPV vaccine types 31, 33 and 52 against the endpoints of disease. Protective efficacy was 
also demonstrated against the endpoint of lack of persistent infection at 6 and 12 months post-vaccination. For 
all endpoints, clinical and virological, the protective efficacy was higher in the PP population compared to the 
HPV naïve population. This is not unexpected based on the criteria used to define the different populations (e.g. 
higher number of vaccine doses received in the PP population), and similar results were also seen for qHPV.  
Subjects in study 001 were followed up to month 54 (over 25% of subjects completed the Month 54 visit) and 
high vaccine efficacy was maintained up to that time point.   
There were fewer CIN3 and VaIN2/3 cases contributing to the primary efficacy analysis, whilst no cases of AIS, 
VIN2/3, or cancers could be detected. This is not considered an issue, because the efficacy study was not 
designed to generate precise efficacy estimate for important individual diseases due to feasibility regarding 
duration and sample size in a pre-authorisation context. On the other hand, this lack of cases positively 
reinforces the knowledge that the 5 new HPV types included in 9vHPV are associated with lower oncogenicity and 
slower disease progression than e.g. 16 or 18 types. To address this point further, the Applicant will conduct an 
effectiveness study in the Scandinavian countries, which will contribute to further substantiate the efficacy of 
9vHPV on long term disease progression. The study is included in the RMP.  
Protection against the old HPV types, i.e. HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18, already included in qHPV, was demonstrated by 
serological bridging based on non-inferior immune response (GMTs as primary endpoint and seroconversion as 
secondary) of the 9vHPV vaccine vs. qHPV in women 16-26 years of age, for which efficacy against clinical 
endpoints was previously demonstrated. In addition, clinical and virological outcomes were compared between 
the 9vHPV and qHPV groups and with historical qHPV and placebo groups in exploratory analyses. Several 
secondary and exploratory analyses using various clinical endpoints were conducted, either related to 5 new 
vaccine types, all vaccine types, or irrespective of HPV type (not shown). These results provided supportive 
evidence for efficacy of 9vHPV vaccine in preventing all vaccine HPV types-related disease. As mentioned above, 
even using all vaccine types-related endpoints, vaccine efficacy against VIN2/3, AIS, cervical, vulvar and vaginal 
cancers could not be established in PPE population (no cases). Also, efficacy of the 9vHPV vaccine was evaluated 
relative to historical placebo with respect to persistent infection, cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease related to 
HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 for each of the PPE and HNTS populations. For these analyses, efficacy was defined 
as the percent reduction in the historical placebo group incidence that is observed in each vaccination group. The 
point estimates obtained do not indicate a negative trend in protection against any endpoint, although 
confidence intervals are very wide for most endpoints (see further below).  
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 107/128 
 
  
  
  
As mentioned, non-inferior immune responses in terms of cLIA (Competitive Luminex Immunoassay) GMTs 
were demonstrated for HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 types in women 16-26 years old. There were only minor differences 
in GMTs across virus types. In support of this analysis, PBNA assay (Pseudovirion-based neutralization assay) 
was also used and these results were in line with the cLIA results.  However, the 9vHPV vaccine induced anti-HPV 
11 GMTs that were 20% lower than the qHPV vaccine at Month 7 (P001). The per protocol analyses presented 
in study 001 showed that for HPV type 11 the estimated GMT ratio between subjects in 9vHPV group and 
subjects in qHPV group was 0.80 with an associated 95% confidence interval of (0.77, 0.83) (see table 41); the 
criterion for non-inferiority, which required that the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval be greater than 
0.67, was met. Study 001 enrolled subjects 16 to 26 years of age. Given that antibody response to the vaccine 
may decrease with age, additional analyses were conducted to assess whether the non-inferiority criteria was 
met in two age strata 16-20 and 21-26 years of age, as requested by the CHMP during the procedure (not 
shown). Non-inferiority could still be demonstrated in the older age stratum for HPV type 11, which is reassuring 
also considering that no cases of HPV 11-related disease or persistent infection was found in the per protocol 
efficacy population. At present, such GMTs reduction did not translate into reduced vaccine efficacy against HPV 
type 11. Seroconversion rates were above 99% at month 7 in adolescents 9-15 years and women 16-26 years 
of age (similar results were observed for the new HPV types). The long-term persistence of anti-HPV response 
will be further evaluated in the long term follow-up (LTFU) effectiveness study V503-021 (see below and RMP 
section).  
The number of cases of the clinical endpoints related to HPV 6/11/16/18 in the per protocol population was low 
(6 cases in 7000 subjects), as expected based on the efficacy demonstrated for qHPV (7 cases in 7000 subjects). 
Of the 6 disease cases identified in the 9vHPV group, 4 were diagnosed as condyloma related to HPV type 6. In 
the qHPV group, 6 of the 7 cases were related to HPV16, and they were also co-infected with non-vaccine 
high-risk HPV types at the time of or before the time of being diagnosed with the HPV16-related disease. The 
number of cases in the HPV naïve (HN-TS) population was higher (18 cases for 9vHPV and 17 cases for qHPV), 
but the results were consistent with the PP population results. The results for persistent infections are also in line 
with the results for the primary endpoints, i.e. there are only small differences between the two vaccines groups, 
with the 9vHPV group showing higher incidences of persistent infections by HPV 6/11 (e.g. 13 cases at 6 months 
PP population) and lower incidence of persistent infection by HPV 16/18 (e.g. 46 cases at 6 months PP population) 
as compared to the qHPV group (7 cases and 73 cases respectively, PP population).  
As already mentioned, in support of demonstration of protection against HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18 by the 9vHPV 
vaccine, an exploratory efficacy analysis to compare the efficacy of 9vHPV and qHPV to historical placebo control 
(i.e. an unvaccinated population) and historical qHPV data was made. This comparison is of interest, although 
there are limitations and biases in this type of analysis, which need to be taken into account. For example the 
incidence of disease outcomes related to HPV 16/18 in the qHPV group was higher in the current study compared 
to the historical qHPV group. Overall, non-inferiority of 9HPV efficacy against HPV 16/18-related persistent 
infection at month 6, and against cervical, vulvar, and vaginal disease compared to qHPV was satisfactorily 
demonstrated; however the absolute risk reductions vs. historical placebo group (9vHPV: RRh 93.5%, 95% CI 
(91.5%, 95.3%); qHPV: RRh 89.8%, 95% CI (87.0%, 92.0%)) should be interpreted with caution due to the 
inherent limitations of this type of analyses. 
The lack of cross-protection against non-vaccine HPV types might result in serotype replacement when the 
9vHPV vaccine will be widespread used. For qHPV, no increase in disease incidence caused by non-vaccine HPV 
types occurred up to at least 6 years post-dose 3. However, it remains unknown whether the 9vHPV vaccine will 
behave similarly, but this will be monitored in long-term follow-up studies.  
Efficacy in boys and girls 9-15 years of age 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 108/128 
 
  
  
  
As for qHPV, protection cannot be demonstrated in a 9-15 year old population due to sexual naivety. Therefore, 
serological bridging to the efficacy population has been accepted as a surrogate for demonstration of protection 
in this target population. Non-inferior immune responses were demonstrated between girls and boys 9-15 years 
of age compared to women 16-26 years of age, in which vaccine efficacy was demonstrated with clinical disease 
endpoints. In addition, non-inferiority of GMTs to HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18 in girls 9-15 years of age receiving 
9vHPV compared to the same population receiving the qHPV was also demonstrated. Thus, it can be concluded 
that the 9vHPV is highly likely to protect girls 9-15 years of age against the 9 HPV types included in the vaccine 
and also to protect boys 9-15 years of age against relevant endpoints, i.e. condyloma related to HPV 6 and 11, 
and anal cancer related to the high-risk types, also based on the efficacy data generated with qHPV (see below, 
efficacy in males).  Concerning the new HPV types, since the 9vHPV vaccine is highly efficacious in preventing 
HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related cervical, vulvar and vaginal disease, it is reasonable to assume that the 9vHPV 
vaccine is also efficacious in preventing HPV 31/33/45/52/58-related anal lesions since pathophysiology and 
mechanisms of protection elicited by HPV vaccination are the same for anal disease as for cervical, vulvar, and 
vaginal disease. 
Efficacy in males 16-26 years of age 
Serological non-inferiority in males 16-26 years of age compared to women 16-26 years of age was 
demonstrated in study 003. Based on the experience with qHPV (efficacy was demonstrated in men 16-26 years 
of age in reducing the incidence of genital warts and AIN grades 2 and 3) this can be acceptable as a surrogate 
for clinical protection. The immune responses in the MSM population were lower compared to the general male 
and female populations. This observation was also made for qHPV, but its clinical relevance is unknown. As for 
the new HPV types included in 9vHPV, the same reasoning mentioned above for boys apply to men. 
Duration of protection 
To date, persistence of antibody response induced by the 9vHPV vaccine was demonstrated for up to 3.5 years 
in women 16-26 years old (study 001), with waining immunity noted for each vaccine type. It is not certain 
whether individual GMT responses reached their plateau levels, which is the best predictor of durability of 
protection. In subjects 9-15 years of age, immunogenicity follow-up is available for up to 3 years after 
vaccination with similar results. Percentage of seropositivity in 9vHPV recipients remained high up to Month 42 
in study 001: depending on HPV type, 78-98% of subjects was seropositive. Similar result are seen in adolescent 
at month 36: depending on HPV type, 93 to 99% of subjects was seropositive. 
There is more uncertainty regarding duration of protection for the 5 new HPV types compared to the original 4 
HPV types, as there are no previous data for the new types on duration of protection or antibody persistence. In 
addition the antibody levels appear to be lower than for the 4 original HPV types, however a direct comparison 
among the GMTs of different virus types is limited by the fact that the amount of antigen for the 5 new virus 
types in the 9vHPV vaccine is lower compared to the 4 old virus types. Follow-up immunogenicity data, including 
persistence, are expected from the LTFU extension of studies 001 and 002. 
Concomitant vaccinations 
Three supportive studies were included in this application. In two studies (005 and 007) the concomitant 
vaccination of 9vHPV with Adacel and Menactra or Repevax was compared vs. non-concomitant vaccinations. In 
all studies, the immune responses were satisfactory in the concomitant vaccination groups compared to the 
non-concomitant vaccination groups. The third study is discussed below. 
Data on use of 9vHPV in previous qHPV recipients 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 109/128 
 
  
  
  
In the third supportive study (006), the 9vHPV vaccine was given to prior qHPV recipients. The immune 
responses to the 4 common HPV types were very high. However, the responses to the 5 new types were low 
compared to naïve 9vHPV vaccine recipients, which might be theoretically explained with immune interference 
mechanisms induced by prior vaccination with qHPV. From a clinical point of view, it can be concluded that the 
immune responses to the four old HPV types 6-11-16-18 following three doses of 9vHPV in qHPV-primed 
subjects are fully adequate, which means that if a booster vaccination is needed, 9vHPV can be administered. 
The clinical relevance of the lower immune responses to the 5 new HPV types in qHPV-primed subjects vs. 
non-primed subjects is unknown. 
Claimed indication and posology 
The proposed indication for Gardasil 9 is the same as was for Gardasil.  
However, the proposed posology differs: the qHPV vaccine now has a 2-dose schedule for 9-13 year olds, which 
is likely to be used in many national vaccination programs, while the 9vHPV vaccine so far only has data 
supporting a 3-dose schedule for all age groups. The Applicant has described the plans to study a 2-dose 
schedule in 9-14 year olds and data are expected approximately 1 year after approval of Gardasil 9. Thus there 
is a risk of confusion concerning the newly approved 2-dose schedule for Gardasil in 9-13 year olds. The 
proposed strategy to avoid potential medication errors is considered adequate and was addressed in the RMP 
(see related section of this report), although a risk of confusing the products and the posologies is inevitable for 
the transition period. 
2.2.8.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Efficacy against the 5 new HPV types was demonstrated using a composite clinical endpoint in women aged 
16-26 years. It was not planned to demonstrated statistically significant protection against all individual HPV 
types, or against less common clinical outcomes, which is acceptable given the characteristics of the virus and 
the pathogenesis of the disease. Nevertheless, because the results were consistent across all endpoints and in 
light of the supportive analyses conducted, the overall protective efficacy against the new HPV types is 
considered adequately proven.  
Protection against the old HPV types is also considered adequately demonstrated in women 16-26 years of age, 
considering both clinical and virological outcomes for 9vHPV and qHPV vaccines and exploratory efficacy 
analyses vs. (historical) qHPV and placebo groups. Serological non-inferiority of 9vHPV vs. qHPV, for which 
clinical efficacy was already shown in this age group, was demonstrated.  
Based on serological comparison to women 16-26 years of age, it can be concluded that the 9vHPV is highly 
likely to protect girls 9-15 years of age against the 9 HPV types included in the vaccine, and also against relevant 
endpoints in boys (i.e. condyloma related to HPV 6 and 11, and anal cancer related to the high-risk types). Based 
on serological comparisons, it can also be concluded that protection against relevant endpoints is highly likely in 
men 16-26 years of age too.  
No data have been provided in HIV infected or immunosuppressed subjects for Gardasil 9. The available data 
with qHPV have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and highly immunogenic in HIV-infected children, men 
and women (>96% children who received qHPV seroconverted to all vaccine types). Given the similar 
immunogenicity and safety profile of qHPV vs. Gardasil 9 in healthy individual, it is reasonable to infer that 
Gardasil 9 is safe and immunogenic also in HIV-infected patients. A new study in HIV patients would only confirm 
a similar or expectedly slightly lower antibody response in subject with adequate HIV treatment vs. healthy 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 110/128 
 
  
  
  
subjects; therefore it is agreed that such study would not provide an added value and it is thus not required. 
However breakthrough cases in HIV infected individuals should be specifically followed up in future PSURs. 
With respect to the clinical program, neither efficacy nor immunogenicity of Gardasil 9 was assessed in women 
older than 26 years of age. Efficacy can be expected based on the efficacy of qHPV in women 16-45 years of age 
and on comparable immunogenicity between 9vHPV and qHPV up to 26 years, however the magnitude and 
durability of vaccine-induced anti-HPV immunity in this age group is unknown, especially for the 5 new vaccine 
HPV types. However the Applicant committed to conduct a post-marketing immunogenicity and safety study of 
Gardasil 9 in women 27 to 45 years of age. Based on the proposal assessed, the study should be able to provide 
adequate evidence in terms of vaccine immunogenicity in this age group. To test for comparison against qHPV 
is not considered necessary in women 27 to 45 years of age, because equivalent immunogenicity can be 
extrapolated based on the results obtained in the 9-26 year-olds and because the addition of 5 new types does 
not affect the responses to the other 4 types.     
Given the robustness of the data and the most critical populations studied, the limitations noted when discussing 
the efficacy and immunogenicity results can be considered secondary. The protective efficacy of Gardasil 9 is 
overall considered satisfactorily demonstrated in the approved indication. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to further confirm the efficacy of the Gardasil 9:  
 
long term follow up studies to monitor long-term effectiveness and immunogenicity of 9vHPV vaccine 
and to obtain information on duration of effect in women and adolescents 9-26 years of age.  
  A post-marketing immunogenicity and safety study of the 9vHPV vaccine in women 27 to 45 years of 
age. 
These measures are included in the RMP (see RMP section). 
Clinical safety 
The safety of the 9-valent human papillomavirus (HPV) [Types 6,11,16,18,31,33,45,52,58] L1 Virus-Like 
Particle [VLP] vaccine (9vHPV vaccine) was assessed in 7 clinical trials conducted in support of this Application.   
Studies 003, 005, 006, 007, and 009/GDS01C are complete. Extension phases of studies 001 and 002 are 
ongoing.  In each study, investigators were instructed to assess clinical safety, including reviewing adverse 
events and new medical conditions, at every study visit for all study participants.  Briefly, the following safety 
events were collected in the Phase III studies:  
 
Injection-site and Systemic Adverse Events occurring Days 1 to 15 following any vaccination and 
Temperatures Days 1 to 5 following any vaccination were collected using a Vaccination Report Card 
(VRC) for all study subjects.  
  Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) occurring Day 1 through 180 days post-dose 3 (for studies lasting more 
than 12 months) or Day 1 through end-of-study (for studies of 7-month duration) regardless of 
causality. 
  Deaths and vaccine-related SAEs occurring at any time during the study  
  New Medical History, representing medical events that occurred outside the 15 days post-vaccination 
period and were not reportable as a Serious Adverse Event. New Medical History allowed broad 
collection of potential safety events including new conditions, symptoms, and laboratory or imaging 
tests thereby allowing comprehensive safety assessment. New Medical History was collected at every 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 111/128 
 
  
  
  
scheduled study visit for all study subjects for the entire study period; collection of New Medical History 
occurred at each study visit and was mandatory for all study subjects. 
 
Pregnancies (including outcomes), lactation, and SAEs occurring in infants born to study participants 
during the studies were collected for the duration of all studies. 
Patient exposure 
A total of 23,266 subjects were vaccinated in 7 clinical trials.  A total of 15,776 subjects received at least 1 dose 
of 9vHPV vaccine, and 7391 subjects received at least 1 dose of qHPV vaccine. There were 1,809 males aged 
9-15 years; 3,498 females aged 9-15 years; 1,416 males aged 16-26 and 8,053 females aged 16-26 years who 
received 9vHPV. In contrast, there were 298 females aged 9-15 years and 7,093 females aged 16-26 years 
receiving qHPV. Given that the qHPV population is less diverse in age and gender, an integrated comparison 
between 9vHPV and qHPV was not performed. Therefore, the review of the clinical safety database is largely only 
descriptive in nature. 
The study population was predominately white (58.7%) and fairly equally distributed over Europe, Latin America, 
and North America. Black subjects are less well represented, accounting for only 4.5% of the population that 
received 9vHPV.   
The overall level of health in the study population was high, as expected, with the most commonly reported 
medical conditions being dysmenorrhea, headache, and seasonal allergies. 
3.8% of subjects who received 9vHPV discontinued the trial with only a minority of those being secondary to an 
adverse event (15 subjects, 0.1%). The proportions of subjects discontinuing the trial were comparable across 
the demographic groups. 
Adverse events 
Overall, 90.6% of subjects who received 9vHPV vaccine reported an adverse experience. Most adverse 
experiences were injection-site adverse experiences (86.2%), and the majority were assessed to be 
vaccine-related (89.9%). 
Injection site events 
The proportion of subjects reporting an injection site adverse experience within 5 days of any vaccination was 
84.8%. The most common injection site events were pain (83.2%), swelling (36.1%), and erythema (30.8%).  
3.6% of all injection site events were reported as severe; the most common event classified as severe was 
injection site pain. 
Over successive doses there was an increase in the incidence of injection site swelling and erythema.  
Furthermore, there was an increase in reporting of both moderate and severe events. 
Systemic events 
The proportion of subjects reporting a systemic adverse experience within 15 days of any vaccination was 
51.9%; 26.7% of subjects reported at least one systemic event which was considered to be vaccine-related.  
The most commonly reported events were headache (23.3%), pyrexia (8.2%), and nausea (5.2%). 
The proportions of subjects reporting systemic adverse experiences decreased over successive doses. 
The majority of subjects experienced adverse experiences which were of mild or moderate severity; however 
9.7% reported severe events.   
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 112/128 
 
  
  
  
The most commonly reported severe events assessed as vaccine-related are headaches (204 subjects), pyrexia 
(66 subjects), nausea (40 subjects), and dizziness (27 subjects), all of which are included in the SmPC.  
There were a number of severe AEs also assessed as vaccine-related which may be significant based upon their 
reporting rate relative to those events included in the System Organ Class (SOC): abdominal pain and 
abdominal pain upper. However there were less than 1% of the total of these events assessed as vaccine-related 
overall and thus these terms are not included in the SmPC. It appears that the overall reporting of 
vaccine-related systemic AEs reported to have a severe intensity are consistent with the overall expected 
adverse event profile. 
Events which occurred at an increased frequency compared to all other reported events, and which are not 
included in the SmPC, include events of abdominal pain (2.0%, 0.6% vaccine-related), abdominal pain upper 
(2.6%, 0.9% vaccine-related), diarrhoea (2.7%, 0.9% vaccine-related) and vomiting (2.0%, 0.7% 
vaccine-related). While rates of these events were between 2-3% within 15 days after vaccination, those events 
assessed as vaccine-related were less than 1% for each term. Furthermore, incidence rates decreased with 
successive doses of vaccine. The use of medication related to such conditions was constant over successive 
vaccinations (both pre- and post-vaccination), while rates of abdominal pain/upper abdominal pain decreased.  
Furthermore, there is data to suggest that these agents were used for other reasons than abdominal pain, such 
as migraines and headaches. There is no clear evidence to support the need for inclusion of abdominal pain into 
the SmPC at the present time. 
Events which had few or isolated occurrences, but could be linked to potential safety concerns, included events 
of facial paresis (1 event, vaccine-related), neuralgia (2 events, 1 vaccine-related), sensory disturbance (1 
event, vaccine-related), VIIth nerve paralysis (3 events, 2 vaccine-related), vagus nerve disorder (1 event, 
vaccine-related), sleep disorder (7 events, 1 vaccine-related), butterfly rash (1 event, vaccine-related), 
hyperhidrosis (24 events, 18 vaccine-related). Regarding the various neurological events, it is acknowledged 
that the majority of cases did not exhibit a pattern of positive re-challenge, and the assessment of these cases 
is, overall, reassuring. At the current time, there is not enough data to suggest the need for inclusion of any of 
the individual events into the SmPC. Review of the cases of hyperhidrosis did not reveal any pattern causing 
concern and inclusion in the SmPC is not considered warranted. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
2.5% of subjects reported a serious adverse event. Since the Applicant required that events of foetal loss were 
to be reported as SAEs, most SAEs were related to pregnancy. 
Only 5 SAEs were assessed as related to 9vHPV vaccine: pyrexia, allergy to vaccine, asthmatic crisis, headache 
and tonsillitis. 
There were a number of SAEs occurring in the clinical trial program which are considered adverse events of 
special interest or are related to previously identified safety concerns: ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, 
multiple sclerosis (2 events), sarcoidosis, intracranial venous thrombosis, deep venous thrombosis, syncope (5 
events), and orthostatic hypotension. Upon review these do not raise any new safety concerns. The occurrence 
of cases of POTS, CRPS, pulmonary vasculitis, and leukaemia are discussed separately below.    
Within the clinical safety database for 9vHPV, there are 3 cases of POTS (Postural Tachycardia Syndrome) and 
1 case of CRPS (Complex Regional Pain Syndrome), which are both on-going signals identified in the 
post-marketing period for quadrivalent Gardasil. Both signals have been the subject of extensive assessment in 
the most recent and previous PSURs for quadrivalent Gardasil. It has been concluded in the recent PSUR 
procedure (EMEA/H/C/000703/PSUV/0052) that there is currently insufficient evidence to support a possible 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 113/128 
 
  
  
  
causal association between qHPV vaccine and CRPS and POTS. In light of this and given the uncertainty 
surrounding the background incidence of these syndromes, especially for POTS, these conditions were not 
included into the RMP. It is instead suggested that these safety concerns are closely monitored within PSURs 
during the post-marketing period.  
One case describes an adolescent subject who was diagnosed with pulmonary vasculitis with a positive 
antinuclear antibody test (ANA) and for which there was a temporal relationship with receipt of 2 doses of 
vaccine. The vasculitis was diagnosed based on a pulmonary biopsy but was transient in nature. The case does 
not fulfil the criteria for a systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) diagnosis. Low ANA / Anti-dsDNA titres were 
detected in pre-vaccination serum and could be interpreted as a pre-existing “silent” autoimmune state, which 
does not exclude a causal relation with 9vHPV vaccine exposure but introduces confounding. Whereas there is a 
temporal relation, the overall assessment of this case does not warrant inclusion of vasculitis as a potential 
safety concern into the RMP safety specification.  
Finally, there were a total of 5 cases of leukaemia (4 exposed to 9vHPV and 1 exposed to qHPV) in a clinical 
safety database with 13,360 exposed to 9vHPV. There is a potential concern that the number of observed cases 
in the study populations could be greater than expected. It is acknowledged that the time to onset in 4-5 cases 
is prolonged (482-1285 days); however leukaemia may have a prolonged latent phase prior to clinical 
manifestation of symptoms. Data from the post-marketing experience with qHPV do not show evidence of a 
signal for leukaemia. However, due to the potential prolonged latency prior to presentation coupled with the 
underreporting inherent in passive surveillance systems, this might not be unexpected. Multiple reports 
generally show that infant vaccinations may reduce the risk of subsequent childhood leukaemia. However, these 
studies have been limited to vaccinations received by infants and young children in routine immunisation 
programs. There appears to be no report involving older children /adolescents and human papilloma virus 
vaccination. 
Of the five cases of leukaemia, three cases were diagnosed as acute leukaemia and were reported in subjects 
less than 20 years of age at diagnosis in the 9vHPV groups of studies 001 and 002 (a total of 12,319 
person-years) with a time to onset of 27, 482 and 705 days post-dose 3.  
Background leukaemia incidence rates are fairly consistent across geographic regions. A reasonable lower and 
upper bound of acute leukaemia incidence (lymphoid and myeloid combined) in the 10-20 year old age is 
approximately 2 to 4 per 100,000 person-years. Two of the cases below 20 years of age were acute myeloid 
leukaemia, while acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is expected to be the most common type in this age group. 
Time of onset is not very informative for causality assessment for this type of outcome, since long induction 
times have to be expected. 
Whereas the number of cases of leukaemia may be seen as in excess to what is expected, this is based on a few 
observed cases in relation to a very low background risk for leukaemia in this age group. Such a comparison will 
inevitably be sensitive to random occurrences of single cases and is not considered sufficient to implicate a 
causal relation in this case. There is no sufficient evidence to support biological plausibility for a causal relation. 
While it is considered that the finding is most likely a random occurrence, further reassurance can be gained 
from the ongoing study program, which will add substantially to the total exposed person-time.  
Occurrence of any further cases of leukaemia, with a main focus on the ongoing/planned studies, should be 
reported as a part of close monitoring of leukaemia in the PSURs. 
Deaths 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 114/128 
 
  
  
  
A total of 5 subjects administered 9vHPV vaccine died during the entire study period. Two additional cases have 
been reported after the data cut-off in the original application. None of the deaths were considered related to the 
9vHPV vaccine.   
New Medical History 
49.8% of subjects reported at least one new medical condition. The most commonly reported new medical 
conditions were nasopharyngitis (5.7%) and influenza (5.1%). The review of cases with very low frequency 
“new medical condition” did not reveal any concerns regarding the majority of autoimmune diseases that have 
been subject to close monitoring, such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis, whose incidence peaks at 
the age represented in the study population. 
Safety in special populations 
Age 
An increased proportion of female subjects 16-26 years of age experienced injection site events (90.6%) and 
systemic events (54.2%, 28.2% considered vaccine-related) compared to female subjects 9-15 years of age 
(injection site events 86.4%; systemic events 49.7%, 25.4% considered vaccine-related).  
Gender 
In the group 9-15 years of age, females experienced more injection site erythema, pain, and swelling compared 
to males. However, females and males experienced similar rates of systemic adverse events. 
Race / Ethnicity 
Overall there were no large differences in the proportions of subjects experiencing adverse events between 
different racial or ethnicity groups. Black subjects reported fewer local and systemic events but had a higher 
percentage of subjects recording higher temperatures. 
HPV Status at Baseline 
There was no difference in the frequency of adverse events between those who were PCR and/or sero-negative 
and those who were PCR and/or sero-positive to at least 1 of the HPV vaccine type at baseline. 
Prior qHPV vaccination 
There was an increased proportion of injection site adverse experiences in subjects who received prior qHPV as 
well as a greater proportion of subjects who discontinued due to an adverse experience (0.5% versus 0.1%). In 
contrast, the review of new medical history reveals a smaller proportion of subjects who received 9vHPV with a 
prior qHPV vaccination. There is no difference in the proportion of new medical events potentially related to a 
systemic autoimmune disease.   
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Overall, there were no large differences in pregnancy outcomes between 9vHPV and qHPV nor were there 
differences based upon baseline HPV status. In Study 001 most of the pregnancy outcomes are known (around 
80% for both vaccines). The high foetal loss rate in study 002 in the young women aged 9 to 15 years mostly 
induced by elective abortion was already reported in the literature. All data regarding pregnancy outcomes were 
reported and the future pregnancy outcomes will be reported in safety reports. 
Use during Lactation 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 115/128 
 
  
  
  
The adverse experience profile in women administered the 9vHPV vaccine who were breastfeeding during the 
vaccination phase of the clinical studies was generally comparable to the adverse experience profile in the 
overall Safety Population. 
There were no SAEs reported in infants whose mothers were breastfeeding during the vaccination phase of the 
clinical studies. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Concomitant medications and contraceptive use 
The proportion of subjects who received the 9vHPV vaccine concomitantly with systemic immunosuppressive 
drugs or with medications with anti-inflammatory/anti-pyretic properties and who reported adverse events, was 
greater than the proportion of subjects who received the 9vHPV vaccine alone. This pattern was observed for 
both the 9-15 and the 16-26 year olds. Rates of at least one adverse event were 99.5% and rates of 
vaccine-related events were 96.6%. It is noted that use of immunosuppressive drugs was prohibited for 3 days 
prior to receipt of vaccination. The most common uses for these agents (primarily corticosteroids) were for 
infections, allergies and skin conditions. It is likely that AEs reported for these agents are related to the 
underlying conditions which they are intended to treat, and that they are reported most commonly post 
vaccination, given that the use of immunosuppressive drugs was not permitted prior to vaccination. Regarding 
anti-inflammatory/anti-pyretic therapy it is noted that the use of these products was mostly secondary to the 
treatment of the common adverse events reported after vaccination (headaches and pyrexia). The increase in 
systemic AEs observed for subjects receiving either immunosuppressive or anti-inflammatory/anti-pyretic 
therapy after vaccination are therefore not considered to be a safety concern.    
Also, the proportion of vaccinated female subjects 16-26 years old reporting adverse events was greater among 
those that were concomitantly using hormonal contraceptives compared to those who were not using hormonal 
contraceptives. Furthermore, it appears that the concomitant use of contraceptives was also linked to a greater 
proportion of adverse events in the Gastrointestinal disorders SOC (7.1% compared to 5.3%) and in the 
Nervous System disorders SOC (18.1% compared to 13.5%). 
Use with concomitant vaccinations 
Overall, concomitant administration with Menactra/Adacel or Repevax was well tolerated. In both studies there 
was a statistically significant increase in the amount of injection site swelling with the concomitant vaccine 
administration compared to the single administration. There were no cases of new onset vaccine-related 
autoimmune disease observed in either study. 
Comparative data of 9vHPV and qHPV 
Comparative analyses between 9vHPV and qHPV were performed separately for the age groups 9-15 years and 
16-26 years. 
9-15 years of age 
Rates of injection-site adverse experiences were generally comparable between groups receiving 9vHPV and 
qHPV. However, a higher frequency of injection-site swelling was noted in the 9vHPV vaccine group (47.8%) 
compared with the qHPV vaccine group (36.0%). The comparison of injection-site adverse reactions showed a 
statistically significant difference for swelling with a risk difference of 11.8% [95% CI: 3.9; 19.6] between 
9vHPV and qHPV.   
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 116/128 
 
  
  
  
The frequency of systemic adverse events was slightly lower in the 9vHPV cohort than in the qHPV cohort 
(20.7% versus 24.3%). 
16-26 years of age 
A higher frequency of injection-site adverse experiences was noted in the 9vHPV vaccine group (90.8%) 
compared with the qHPV vaccine group (85.1%). Moreover, injection-site adverse experiences of severe 
intensity were more frequent in the 9vHPV vaccine group compared with the qHPV vaccine group. 
The frequency of systemic adverse events was slightly increased in the 9vHPV cohort compared to the qHPV 
cohort (55.8% versus 54.9%). 
2.2.9.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the most commonly occurring adverse events with the 9vHPV vaccine are injection site events. The 
intensity of these events and the incidence of injection site swelling tended to increase over successive doses of 
the vaccine. Furthermore, injection site events were observed to be more common with the 9vHPV vaccine 
compared to the qHPV vaccine, and when the 9vHPV vaccine was administered with concomitant vaccinations. 
The increased local reactogenicity is more evident in females 16 to 26 years of age compared to both females 
and males 9 to 15 years of age. 
The most commonly reported systemic events were headache and pyrexia.  
Three cases coded with the PT of POTS have been reviewed, in light of the on-going review of POTS in the PSURs 
for qHPV as a potential safety signal. The diagnosis of one of the cases is not clear. The two well characterized 
cases have both a long time to onset, and are confounded by media attention and stimulated late reporting. At 
this time, the findings evaluated do not support a possible causal relation between the 9vHPV vaccine and POTS. 
While the background incidence may be uncertain, report of spontaneous cases are expected simply due to 
temporal association with vaccination. Continued monitoring within the PSURs is considered warranted as it is 
for qHPV.   
An isolated case of transient pulmonary vasculitis within a plausible time window after vaccination has been 
thoroughly reviewed. The finding of low ANA / Anti-dsDNA titres before vaccination could be interpreted as a 
pre-existing “silent” autoimmune state. While there is a temporal relation, the overall assessment points to the 
conclusion that this case does not warrant inclusion of vasculitis as a potential safety concern in the RMP safety 
specification. Vasculitis and related conditions should therefore be monitored within the PSURs but presently no 
other regulatory action is considered warranted. 
Five cases (4 with 9vHPV vaccine and 1 with qHPV vaccine) of acute leukaemia have been reported, three of 
which occurred in subjects younger than 20 years of age at diagnosis. While the observed number of cases of 
leukaemia exceeded the expected number of cases, this observation is based on a few cases in relation to a very 
low background risk for leukaemia in this age group. Such a comparison will inevitably be sensitive to random 
occurrences of single cases and it is not considered sufficient to implicate a causal relation at this stage. There 
is no sufficient evidence to support a biological plausibility for a causal relation. While it is considered that the 
finding is most likely a random occurrence, further reassurance can be gained from the ongoing study program, 
which will add substantially to the total exposed person-time. Occurrence of any further cases of leukaemia, with 
a main focus on the ongoing/planned studies, should be reported as a part of close monitoring of leukaemia in 
PSURs. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 117/128 
 
  
  
  
Overall, reported pregnancy outcomes were as expected in line with the normal background for the treated 
population. A large amount of data (more than 1000 pregnancy outcomes) indicates no malformative nor foeto/ 
neonatal toxicity. However, the data are not considered sufficient to recommend the use of Gardasil 9 during 
pregnancy. 
9vHPV vaccine was administered to a limited number of breastfeeding women. There were no serious adverse 
events reported in subjects who were breastfeeding during the vaccination period. The safety profile in 
breastfeeding women was comparable to that of women in the overall safety population.  
Gardasil 9 was not studied in immunocompromised subjects but from a safety perspective this does not 
represent an issue, since safety is expected to be the same as in a healthy population. 
Study 003 in males 16-26 years of age was assessed separately as it was provided during the procedure. The 
safety results are briefly summarized as follows: 
 
The proportion of subjects reporting at least one adverse experience, injection-site adverse experience, 
or systemic adverse experience within 15 days of any vaccination was numerically lower in 16-26 
year-old males (HM and MSM) compared to 16-26 year-old females. 
 
 
Five subjects (2 men and 3 women) discontinued from the study due to vaccine-related adverse 
experience. 
Forty-nine (49) subjects (23 men, 26 women) reported SAEs during the entire course of the study. 
There were no vaccine-related SAEs. 
  No subject died during the entire course of the study.  
No new safety concern was raised by the safety data in this study. The results from study 003 are in line with the 
other studies. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported after the 9vHPV vaccine in clinical trials and 
post-marketing for qHPV have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment of paediatric data on clinical safety 
From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  after  the  9vHPV  vaccine  in  clinical  trials  and 
post-marketing for qHPV have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.2.10.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Overall, the most commonly occurring AEs with the 9vHPV vaccine are injection site events, whose intensity and 
incidence tended to increase over successive doses of the vaccine. The systemic events most commonly 
reported were headache and pyrexia. 
2.5% of subjects reported a serious adverse event. Only 5 SAEs were assessed as related to 9vHPV vaccine: 
pyrexia, allergy to vaccine, asthmatic crisis, headache and tonsillitis.  
There was one case of pulmonary vasculitis and few cases of leukaemia, which upon assessment do not 
constitute sufficient evidence to raise a specific safety concern at the moment. In addition, within the clinical 
safety database for Gardasil 9 three cases of POTS and 1 case of CRPS were reported, and both are on-going 
signals identified in the post-marketing period for qHPV. Overall the low number of SAEs reported and the 
confounding associated with the reported cases indicate that there is no signal ongoing for Gardasil 9, but 
nevertheless given the seriousness of the conditions, they should be closely monitored in future PSURs. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 118/128 
 
  
  
  
Concerning the use in pregnancy, although the assessment of pregnancy outcomes so far did not raise any 
safety concern, since the data are sparse the use of Gardasil 9 is not recommended during pregnancy. The 
safety profile of Gardasil 9 in breastfeeding women is acceptable. 
In conclusions, Gardasil 9 was well tolerated in the population studied and the overall safety profile of the 
vaccine is considered acceptable. Long term follow up studies are outstanding at present. The Applicant will 
submit the results as indicated in the RMP (see RMP section). 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the legislative 
requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 could be acceptable if the applicant implements 
the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report.  
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.4 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Hypersensitivity (Type 1) 
Important potential risks 
•  Product confusion between Gardasil and Gardasil®9 
•  Mixed regimen between Gardasil/ Silgard and Gardasil®9 
Missing information 
•  Long term effectiveness and immunogenicity 
•  Exposure during Pregnancy 
•  Viral type replacement 
Immunogenicity and safety in females greater than 26 years of 
• 
age 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Study / Activity 
Objectives 
Safety 
Concerns 
Addressed 
Status 
Date for 
Submission of 
Interim / 
Final Reports 
(target dates) 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 119/128 
 
  
  
  
Pregnancy Registry 
(category 3) 
To monitor pregnancy 
outcomes in women 
exposed to 9vHPV 
vaccine during 
pregnancy. 
Exposure to vaccine 
during pregnancy 
Planned 
Interim Reports: 
31-AUG-2016 
31-AUG-2017 
31-AUG-2018 
31-AUG-2019 
31-AUG-2020 
Final Report: 
~18 months after 
enrolment of the last 
patient. 
Viral type replacement 
Planned 
Interim Reports: 
Long-term Effectiveness/ 
Immunogenicity 
Long-term Effectiveness/ 
Immunogenicity 
Planned 
~4Q2017 
~4Q2019 
~4Q2021 
~4Q2023 
Final Report 
Submission: 
~31-Dec-2026 
Interim 72-Month 
Report: 
~4Q2017 
Interim 96 Month 
Report: 
~4Q2019 
Final Report 
Submission: 
~31-Mar-2023 
Immunogenicity and 
safety in females 
greater than 26 years of 
age 
Planned 
Final Report: 
~1Q 2019 
V503-021 Nordic 
Long-term Follow- 
Up Study (10-Year 
extension in subjects 
from V503-001) 
(category 3) 
To monitor the long 
term safety of 
9vHPVvaccine 
To monitor long-term 
effectiveness and 
immunogenicity of 
9vHPV vaccine 
To obtain information on 
duration of effect 
V503-002-20 
Adolescent Long- 
term Follow-Up 
Study (10-Year 
Post-dose 3 
Extension) 
(category 3) 
To monitor long-term 
effectiveness and 
immunogenicity of 
9vHPV vaccine 
To obtain information on 
duration of effect 
A post-marketing 
immunogenicity and 
safety study of the 
9vHPV vaccine in 
women 27 to 45 
years of age 
- To demonstrate 
immunogenicity for 
each of the 9 vaccine 
HPV types in women 
27 to 45 years of age. 
- To collect data on the 
safety profile of 
9vHPV vaccine in women 
27 to 45 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety Concern 
Routine Risk Minimization Measures 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measures 
Important Identified Risks 
Hypersensitivity (Type 
Hypersensitivity to Gardasil or Gardasil 9 vaccines’ 
components is included as a contraindication in section 
None 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 120/128 
 
  
  
  
1) 
4.3; hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic/ 
anaphylactoid reactions are also included as an ADR 
reported during post-approval use of qHPV vaccine, in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Important Potential Risks 
Product confusion 
between Gardasil and 
Gardasil®9 
Distinctive name and packaging of product 
None 
The MAH, in agreement and in consultation with Member 
States’ National Competent Authorities, will consider 
whether nationally specific and healthcare system specific 
additional measures are required (e.g. communication to 
HCPs - prescribers and vaccinators - regarding distinctive 
characteristics between 9vHPV vaccine and qHPV vaccine. 
Mixed regimen 
between Gardasil/ 
Silgard and 
Gardasil®9 
Text is included in the SmPC to indicate that Gardasil9 is 
not interchangeable with other HPV vaccines and that 
studies using a mixed regimen of HPV vaccines were not 
performed for Gardasil9 (Section 4.2 and 4.4). 
None 
The MAH, in agreement and in consultation with Member 
States’ National Competent Authorities, will consider 
whether nationally specific and healthcare system specific 
additional measures are required (e.g. communication to 
HCPs - prescribers and vaccinators - regarding distinctive 
characteristics between 9vHPV vaccine and qHPV vaccine. 
Missing Information 
Exposure during 
pregnancy 
SmPC Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
includes language stating that Gardasil 9 is not 
recommended for use during pregnancy. 
Long-term 
effectiveness and 
immunogenicity 
None 
Viral type replacement 
None 
Immunogenicity and 
safety in females 
greater than 26 years 
of age 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Product information - User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 121/128 
 
  
  
  
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Gardasil 9 is a ninevalent vaccine against premalignant lesions and cancers affecting the cervix, vulva, vagina 
and anus, and external genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58. Gardasil 9 
contains 5 new HPV types compared to a qHPV vaccine. Considering that it is not possible to investigate efficacy 
in boys or girls 9-15 years of age due to sexual naivety, the agreed strategy to demonstrate the efficacy of the 
vaccine was to generate efficacy data in 16-26 years old women and to extrapolate this data to younger subjects 
based on immunogenicity (bridging) data. This approach was already proved valuable for previously authorised 
HPV vaccines. 
Overall, efficacy against the 5 new HPV types has been demonstrated in 16-26 year old women based on a 
composite clinical efficacy endpoint and on immunogenicity data. Efficacy in women 16-26 years against the old 
HPV types 16, 18, 11 and 6 (also present in qHPV) was extrapolated on the basis of serological non-inferiority, 
which was demonstrated by comparing immunological responses of individuals vaccinated with 9vHPV to 
individuals vaccinated with qHPV in the same age group. Additionally no evidence for a negative trend in 
protection against clinical endpoints was identified in study 001 for the old HPV types, supporting the 
immunogenicity results. In fact, there were fewer cases of disease endpoints related to HPV 16/18 in the 9vHPV 
group compared to the qHPV group. There were slightly more cases of disease endpoints (condyloma) related to 
HPV 6/11 (low-risk types for cancer, but causing condyloma) in the 9vHPV group compared to the qHPV group, 
but there is still a relevant protection.  
For girls and boys 9-15 years of age, serological non-inferiority for all HPV types was demonstrated compared to 
women 16-26 who received 9vHPV (study 002). In addition, serological non-inferiority for the old HPV types was 
demonstrated in girls receiving 9vHPV compared to girls of the same age group receiving qHPV (study 
009/GDS01C).  
Concerning demonstration of efficacy in the male population against relevant endpoints (i.e. premalignant anal 
lesions and anal cancer), the Applicant submitted during the evaluation the final results of an immunogenicity 
and safety study conducted in women and in men 16-26 years of age vaccinated with 9vHPV (study 003). This 
study was designed to extend the efficacy observed in females 16 to 26 years of age to males 16 to 26 years of 
age based on immunological bridging. The results indicate that Gardasil 9 is equally immunogenic and has a 
similar safety profile in both sexes, thus allowing to conclude that Gardasil 9 is expected to be efficacious against 
premalignant lesions and cancers of the anus in females as well as in males. Up to 90% of the cases of anal 
cancers worldwide are attributable to HPV types 6-11-16 and 18.  
Long term follow up (for 10 years after protocol completion of the primary study) for breakthrough disease cases 
is expected post-authorisation for Gardasil 9. Long term effectiveness is being assessed in long-term follow-up 
of clinical study cohorts for qHPV vaccines. Interim analyses showed no breakthrough of HPV-related disease 
after up to 6 years of follow-up. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The incremental efficacy of Gardasil 9 relative to qHPV was demonstrated for the composite efficacy endpoint, 
with most endpoint cases diagnosed as CIN2. The cases of CIN3 were few, but statistically significant protection 
against CIN3 related to the 5 new HPV types was demonstrated. The incremental benefit of Gardasil 9 against 
AIS and VIN2/3 surrogate endpoints has not been established. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 122/128 
 
  
  
  
Efficacy for specific HPV types was demonstrated only against HPV types 31, 33 and 52, because there were 
insufficient numbers of cases against two of the new HPV types (45 and 58) to demonstrate statistically 
significant protection for these. However, there was no negative trend in protective efficacy across virus types 
as indicated by secondary and exploratory efficacy analysis against disease endpoints, and the results were 
consistent across all endpoints. In addition the antibody GMTs were high against all HPV vaccine types and, 
although there is currently no serological correlate of protection established, it is generally agreed that 
circulating specific antibodies are associated with the likely protective mechanism induced by the vaccine. 
Therefore, looking at the totality of the existing data, it is considered reasonable to assume that 9vHPV provides 
protection against all individual new HPV types.  
Gardasil 9 did not confer apparent protection against non-vaccine HPV types. It is not immediately clear whether 
the widespread use of Gardasil 9 will result in increase of disease caused by non-vaccine HPV types, although 
this is considered a theoretical concern based on the present experience with Gardasil, since no signs of HPV 
type replacements have been observed so far. This theoretical concern will be addressed in the Nordic 
Long-term Follow-Up Study V503-021 (10-Year extension in subjects from the efficacy study 001). 
The antibody persistence data assessed so far have demonstrated a similar pattern compared to authorised HPV 
vaccines, i.e. antibody levels increased substantially upon vaccination followed by a decline to a plateau level, 
with very slow further decline thereafter. The available data include immunogenicity follow-up up to 3.5 years in 
women 16-26, and 3 years in boys and girls 9-15 years of age, and longer follow-up is planned (up to 10 
additional years in the LTFU extension of study 001 and 002). The uncertainty is mostly related to the 5 new HPV 
types, as no previous data for these types exist on duration of protection or antibody persistence, and their 
antibody levels appear to be lower than those for the 4 old HPV types. The Applicant committed to generate new 
data post-authorisation to further investigate this (LTFU studies V503-021 and V503-002-20).    
The observed 20% decrease in anti-HPV 11 immune responses induced by Gardasil 9 compared to qHPV in 
young women could raise a similar concern of waning immunity; however the protection afforded by Gardasil 9 
against HPV 11 has been adequate so far, which is reassuring.  
Gardasil 9 efficacy and immunogenicity were not assessed in women older than 26 years of age. Thus, the 
magnitude and durability of vaccine-induced anti-HPV immunity in this age group is unknown, especially for the 
5 new vaccine HPV types. The Applicant committed to conduct a post-marketing immunogenicity and safety 
study of Gardasil 9 in women 27 to 45 years of age.     
Concerning demonstration of efficacy in the male population, in addition to the data already available from study 
003, a new study is ongoing to demonstrate that anti-HPV responses to 9vHPV are non-inferior to anti-HPV 
responses to qHPV in males 16 to 26 years of age. One phase III study of qHPV vaccine in males 16 to 26 years 
of age showed that qHPV vaccine prevented persistent infection and disease due to HPV vaccine types in this 
study population (Giuliano/Palefsky et al., N Engl J Med 2011; Palefsky/Giuliano et al N Engl J Med 2011). 
Therefore the new immunogenicity data will allow to bridge efficacy data from qHPV to 9vHPV to further confirm 
the current knowledge and expectations for Gardasil 9 efficacy in males. 
No data have been provided in HIV infected or immunosuppressed subjects for Gardasil 9, but available data 
with qHPV show that the vaccine is safe and highly immunogenic in HIV-infected children, men and women 
(>96% children who received qHPV seroconverted to all vaccine types). Based on this, it is reasonable to infer 
that Gardasil 9 is safe and immunogenic also in HIV-infected patients. A new study in HIV patients is not 
required but breakthrough cases in HIV infected individuals should be specifically followed up in PSURs. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 123/128 
 
  
  
  
 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Injection site events were reported by > 80% of clinical trial subjects, the most commonly reported were 
injection site pain and injection site swelling.  Injection site events occur more commonly than with qHPV, as 
expected due the higher antigen content of the 9vHPV vaccine. Furthermore, the intensity of injection site 
events tended to increase over successive doses as did the incidence of injection site swelling. No new major 
safety concern has been identified. The most commonly reported systemic events were headache and pyrexia. 
Pyrexia was reported as adverse event in 8.2% of subjects receiving the vaccine in the pooled safety analysis 
from 7 studies (>15,000 subjects), whereas only one report of pyrexia as SAE was observed.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The remaining safety concerns relate to the risk of rare unexpected adverse events. 
Five cases (4 with 9vHPV and 1 with qHPV) of acute leukaemia have been reported, three in subjects younger 
than 20 years of age at diagnosis. While the observed number of cases of leukaemia exceeded the expected 
number of cases, this is based on a few observed cases in relation to a very low background risk for leukaemia 
in this age group. Such a comparison will inevitably be sensitive to random occurrences of single cases and is not 
considered sufficient to implicate a causal relation in this case. In addition there is no substantial evidence to 
support biological plausibility for a causal relationship. While it is considered that the finding is most likely a 
random occurrence, further reassurance can be gained from the ongoing study program (2 long term follow up 
studies will run for 10 years, in addition to post-marketing pharmacovigilance and PSUR monitoring), which will 
add substantially to the total exposed person-time. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
HPV infection causes benign and malignant diseases localized in the anogenital area and the aerodigestive tract, 
in both men and women. Gardasil 9 provides broader cancer coverage than qHPV, and is anticipated to prevent 
~90% of cervical cancer and 75-85% of premalignant cervical lesions, 85-90% of vulvar cancer and 90-95% of 
premalignant vulvar lesions, 80-85% of vaginal cancer and 75-85% of premalignant vaginal lesions, and 90% of 
external genital warts. 
It is considered most important that Gardasil 9 is able to provide protection against disease endpoints related to 
HV 16 and 18 at least to the same extent as seen for Gardasil, because HPV 16 and 18 are by far the most 
common high-risk HPV types. The protection against disease caused by HPV 6 and 11, which is mainly 
condyloma, is also considered important but to a lesser extent than protection against HPV types 16/18, since 
condyloma is a disease with non-serious consequences.  
The protection against the 5 new types is considered important because these are also high-risk HPV types, 
although each one of them is less common in cancers and pre-cancerous lesions than 16 and 18 types.  
Gardasil 9 exhibits a high percentage of injection-related local adverse events, specifically injection site pain and 
swelling; however numbers are only slightly elevated vs. approved qHPV vaccines. Furthermore, the intensity of 
the injection site events showed a tendency to increase over successive doses as did the incidence of injection 
site swelling. Such events are of limited clinical relevance.
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 124/128 
 
  
  
  
Effect 
Short Description 
Unit 
9vHPV  control  Additional 
References 
Clarifications 
Protection against 
HPV 31/33/45/52/58-Related 
new HPV 
CIN 2/3, AIS, Cervical Cancer, 
types-related 
VIN 2/3, VaIN 2/3, Vulvar 
disease 
Cancer, and Vaginal Cancer  
Protective 
efficacy: 
96.7%  
(95% CI): 
80.9%, 
99.8% 
9vHPV 
qHPV 
Efficacy studied in 
Study 001 
women 16-26 years. 
(n=7000/arm) 
No trend of less 
protection against HPV 
16/18 disease 
Protection against 
Comparison of immune 
Geometric 
Anti-HPV6 1.02 
compared to Gardasil. 
HPV types 
6-11-16-18 
responses based on cLIA titres 
(GMTs at M7) between 9v-HPV 
vs. qHPV  
Non-inferiority for GMTs is 
defined as the lower bound of 
the two-sided 95% confidence 
interval for the GMT ratio of 
9-valent vaccine vs. qHPV being 
greater than 0.67 
Mean Titre 
(0.99, 1.06) 
Serological bridging to 
(GMT) ratio 
(95% CI) 
Anti-HPV11 0.80 
9-15 years old boys 
(0.77, 0.83) 
and girls.  
Anti-HPV16 0.99 
(0.96, 1.03) 
Anti-HPV18 1.19 
(1.14, 1.23) 
Injection-related 
Adverse events coded with the 
Proportion of 
91.6% 
88.3% 
No comparison 
Study 
local reactions 
Preferred Term beginning 
“Injection site X” 
90.8% 
85.1% 
females 
9-15y or 
16-26y who 
had at least 1 
or more 
injection site 
AE 
between 9vHPV and 
009/GDS01C for 
qHPV was made on 
girls 9-15 years 
pooled data. The 
(n=300/arm) 
presented figures are 
from individual 
studies. 
Study 001 for 
women 16-26 
(n=7000/arm) 
Systemic adverse 
Adverse events in any system 
Proportion of 
20.7% 
24.3% 
reactions 
organ class assessed as 
vaccine-related 
girls 9-15y 
who had at 
least 1 or 
more 
l
e
b
a
r
u
o
v
a
F
l
e
b
a
r
u
o
v
a
f
n
U
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 125/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Systemic adverse 
Adverse events in any system 
Proportion of 
29.5% 
27.3% 
reactions 
organ class assessed as 
women 16-26  
systemic AE 
vaccine-related 
who had at 
least 1 or 
more 
systemic AE 
Serious Adverse 
Overall SAEs regardless of 
Proportion of 
3.3% 
2.6% 
Events 
causality for study 001 
women 16-26 
(n=7000) 
years of age 
with one or 
more serious 
adverse 
events 
Serious Adverse 
Vaccine-related Serious 
Proportion of 
<0% 
N/A 
S-ADRs: pyrexia, 
Reactions 
Adverse Events in the pooled 
sbj 9-26 
(5subj) 
safety analysis of 13.000 sbj (6 
years of age 
studies) 
allergy to vaccine, 
asthmatic crisis, 
headache, and 
tonsillitis 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 126/128 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
The benefit-risk balance for Gardasil 9 is overall positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The most important beneficial effect of Gardasil 9 is the protection against disease caused by HPV types 16 and 
18, which is maintained both in females and in males as compared to qHPV. This was demonstrated based on 
lack of negative trend in clinical outcomes, and on serological bridging between qHPV and 9vHPV in women 
16-26 years of age. The immune responses to the old HPV types (6, 11, 16 and 18) were non-inferior in the 
9vHPV group compared to the qHPV group, which allowed for extrapolation of the efficacy data previously 
established for qHPV vaccine in the same age group.  
The added protection against the 5 new HPV types was also demonstrated. A composite endpoint of several 
relevant disease endpoints related to any of the 5 new types was chosen for the primary analysis. In addition 
immunogenicity data confirmed the protective efficacy.  
The majority of subjects who received Gardasil 9 experienced injection-site related adverse events which tended 
to increase in intensity over successive doses. The safety profile of Gardasil 9 is considered acceptable, although 
there is a slightly higher risk of local and systemic reactions compared to qHPV.  
Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of Gardasil 9 in the prophylaxis of the following HPV diseases: 
  Premalignant lesions and cancers affecting the cervix, vulva, vagina and anus caused by vaccine HPV 
types 
  Genital warts (Condyloma acuminate) caused by specific HPV types 
 is favourable, and therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
Official batch release  
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken by a state 
laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety 
update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates 
(EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European 
medicines web-portal. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 127/128 
 
  
  
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same time. 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP considers that the 
active substances Human Papillomavirus Type 31 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 33 L1 protein, Human 
Papillomavirus Type 45 L1 protein, Human Papillomavirus Type 52 L1 protein and Human Papillomavirus Type 
58 L1 protein are qualified as new active substances. 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan P/0196/2013 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
EMA/CHMP/76591/2015 
Page 128/128 
 
  
  
  
