26 January 2023 
EMA/183707/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine (recombinant, 
adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010389/202206 
Period covered by the PSUR: 09 June 2021 to 09 June 2022
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for human papillomavirus 9-valent 
vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In 2014 Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis was included as an adverse event for qHPV (Gardasil) in 
the post-marketing Adverse Events section as based on the available evidence, a causal relationship 
between qHPV and the adverse event was at least a reasonable possibility. At the time of the Marketing 
Authorisation of 9HPV (Gardasil 9) a sentence was included in the SmPC section 4.8 to indicate that some 
adverse experiences had been spontaneously reported during post-approval use of qHPV vaccine and may 
also be seen in post-marketing experience with Gardasil 9. This latest sentence was relevant when the 
post-marketing experience with HPV9 was limited since the vaccines contain L1 HPV proteins of 4 of the 
same HPV types.  
The MAH has continuously reviewed cases of Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis (ADEM). During this 
procedure, it has been concluded that this review has not raised new safety signal. 
 In view of available data on the reports and the comprehensive analysis of post-marketing experience to 
date, the PRAC considers that scientific evidence does not support a causal relationship between human 
papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed) and Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis 
(ADEM).  Based on this, a change to the SmPC section 4.8 to remove the sentence that refers to the 
possibility of observing the same adverse events for Gardasil and Gardasil 9 is agreed.  
The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing human papillomavirus 9-valent 
vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed) should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine (recombinant, 
adsorbed) the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing 
human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed) is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/183707/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
