V501
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 14.0
PAGE 57
QUADRIVALENT HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS
(TYPES 6, 11, 16, 18) RECOMBINANT VACCINE
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
This is a summary of the risk  management plan (RMP) for Gardasil
(Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus 4-valent Vaccine, Recombinant 
or qHPV vaccine).
The RMP details important risks of Gardasil, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about qHPV's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Gardasil's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Gardasil should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Gardasil should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Gardasil's 
RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What It Is Used For
Gardasil is authorised for use from the age of 9 years for the prevention of: premalignant genital 
lesions  (cervical,  vulvar  and  vaginal),  premalignant  anal  lesions,  cervical  cancers  and  anal 
cancers causally related to certain oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types, and genital 
warts (condyloma acuminate) causally related to specific HPV types (see SmPC for the full 
indication).  It  contains  human  papillomavirus  (HPV)  vaccine  [types  6,  11,  16,  18] 
(recombinant, adsorbed) as the active substance and it is given by intramuscular injection. The 
preferred site is the deltoid area of the upper arm or in the higher anterolateral area of the thigh. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Gardasil’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Gardasil’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the
medicine’s webpage [Ref. 5.4: 053BQD]. 
II.
Risks  Associated  With  the  Medicine  and  Activities  to  Minimise  or  Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Gardasil, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Gardasil's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
057F2L
 
 
V501
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 14.0
PAGE 58
QUADRIVALENT HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS
(TYPES 6, 11, 16, 18) RECOMBINANT VACCINE
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Gardasil is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important  risks  of  qHPV  vaccine are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can be regarded  as  identified or  potential.  Identified risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of qHPV vaccine. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Based on scientific information to date and the latest guidance on Risk Management Planning 
from the EMA, the Important Identified Risks of Exposure During Pregnancy; Syncope with 
Fall  Resulting  in  Injury;  and  Hypersensitivity  Type I,  Potential  Risks of  Viral  Type 
Replacement;  Guillain-Barre  Syndrome;  ADEM;  and Convulsions  (condition  of  special 
interest) and Missing  Information of  Immunogenicity; Long-term safety; and Unanticipated 
safety signals have been removed:
• Analysis of the post-marketing data gathered on qHPV vaccine over the past 12 years shows 
that there are no outstanding additional pharmacovigilance activities to address the previous
identified and potential risks, and missing information listed above.
• The risks are fully characterized and appropriately managed through labelling.
•  There  is  no  reasonable  expectation  that  any  pharmacovigilance  activity  can  further
characterize  the  previously  listed  Important  identified  and  potential  risks  and  missing 
information listed above.
057F2L
 
 
V501
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 14.0
PAGE 59
QUADRIVALENT HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS
(TYPES 6, 11, 16, 18) RECOMBINANT VACCINE
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks
None

Conditions of Special Interest: 
o Multiple sclerosis 
o Autoimmune thyroiditis
o Optic neuritis
o Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
o Rheumatoid Arthritis
o Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
o Arthritis
o Ankylosing Spondylitis
o Crohn’s Disease
Missing information

Long-term effectiveness 
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Table II.B.1:
Important Potential Risk: Conditions of Special Interest
Risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance
activities
None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Post-licensure Safety Study in Males (P070)
Table II.B.2:
Missing Information: Long-Term Effectiveness
Risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance
activities
Routine risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Feasibility assessment of effectiveness study for 2-dose 
regimen
057F2L
 
 
V501
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 14.0
PAGE 60
QUADRIVALENT HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS
(TYPES 6, 11, 16, 18) RECOMBINANT VACCINE
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of qHPV vaccine.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
Table II.C.2.1:
Studies in Post Authorisation Development Plan
Study Status
Summary of Objectives
Safety Concern
Addressed
Milestones
Due Dates
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of the marketing
authorisation
None
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific Obligations in the context 
of a
conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances
None
Category 3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance activities
Feasibility assessment 
to conduct an 
effectiveness/impact of 
2-dose regiment in 
adolescent girls 
Feasibility assessment to 
conduct an 
effectiveness/impact of 2-
dose regimen in adolescent 
girls in European Union 
countries 
Update September 
2019 (and annually 
thereafter as needed)
Impact/Long-
term effectiveness
Started
CHMP Updates:
Within 6 months 
of approval and 
then submitted 
annually 
thereafter
Final Study 
Report
CHMP Updates 
Submitted: 1Q2014, 
3Q2104, 3Q2015, 
3Q2016, 3Q2017,
3Q2018.
Dec 2019
Supplemental 
report
1Q2022
Conditions of 
Special Interest
Interim Study 
reports
Submitted 4Q2012, 
4Q2013, 4Q2014, 
4Q2015, 4Q2016.
Protocol 070 Post-
licensure safety study in 
males
To monitor for potential 
safety signals related to 
certain 
autoimmune/rheumatologic 
conditions of special 
interest, including immune 
thrombocytopenic purpura, 
autoimmune hemolytic 
anemia, uveitis, type 1 
diabetes, systemic lupus 
erythematosus, Guillain 
Barre syndrome, 
rheumatoid arthritis, 
juvenile rheumatoid 
arthritis, Hashimoto's 
disease, Grave's disease, 
multiple sclerosis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, 
Crohn's disease, other 
demyelinating conditions 
of CNS, ADEM, and optic 
neuritis in males.
057F2L
 
 
