16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/41191/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Gavreto 
International non-proprietary name: pralsetinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005413/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the  CHMP with  all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure 
1.1. Submission of the dossier 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
2. Scientific discussion 
2.1. Problem statement 
2.1.1. Disease or condition 
2.1.2. Epidemiology 
2.1.3. Biologic features 
2.1.4. Clinical presentation, diagnosis and stage/prognosis 
2.1.5. Management 
2.2. Quality aspects 
2.2.1. Introduction 
2.2.2. Active Substance 
General information 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Specif ication 
Stability 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Product specif ication 
Stability of the product 
Adventitious agents 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.7. Introduction 
2.2.8. Pharmacology 
2.2.9. Pharmacokinetics 
2.2.10. Toxicology 
2.2.11. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
2.2.12. Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
2.2.13. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
2.3. Clinical aspects 
2.3.1. Introduction 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
7 
7 
8 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
10 
12 
12 
13 
13 
14 
15 
15 
16 
16 
17 
18 
18 
19 
19 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
37 
38 
52 
53 
55 
55 
55 
Page 2/139 
 
 
 
      
 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics 
2.3.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
2.3.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
2.4. Clinical eff icacy 
2.4.1. Dose response study 
2.4.2. Main study 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy 
2.4.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
2.5. Clinical safety 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety 
2.5.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety 
2.6. Risk Management Plan 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance 
2.8. New Active Substance 
2.9. Product inf ormation 
2.9.1. User consultation 
2.9.2. Additional monitoring 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance 
3.1. Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1. Disease or condition 
3.1.2. Available therapies and unmet medical need 
3.1.3. Main clinical studies 
3.2. Favourable effects 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
3.4. Unfavourable effects 
3.5. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
3.6. Effects Table 
3.7. Benef it-risk assessment and discussion 
3.7.1. Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
3.7.2. Balance of benef its and risks 
3.7.3. Additional considerations on the benefit-risk balance 
3.8. Conclusions 
4. Recommendations 
55 
55 
79 
82 
82 
83 
83 
87 
87 
88 
106 
109 
110 
113 
113 
113 
113 
113 
115 
115 
115 
115 
115 
115 
116 
116 
116 
116 
117 
117 
118 
118 
119 
119 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 3/139 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADME 
ADR 
AE 
AESI 
ALK 
ALT 
AST 
AUC 
AUC0-24 
AUC0-∞ 
BCRP 
BICR 
BID 
BLQ 
BOIN 
BOR 
BW 
Cave 
CBR 
CCDC6 
CHMP 
CLplasma 
CL/F 
Cmax 
CMA 
CNS 
CR 
CSR 
ctDNA 
Ctrough 
%CV 
CxDy 
CYP 
DCR 
DDI 
DLT 
DOR 
DUSP6 
ECG 
ECOG 
EGFR 
EFD 
EMA 
E-R 
ESMO 
Absorption, distribution,  metabolism, excretion 
Adverse drug reaction 
Adverse event 
Adverse event of special interest 
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Area under the plasma concentration vs time curve  
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 24  hours 
Area under the plasma concentration vs time curve from time 0 to  infinity  
Breast cancer resistance protein 
Blinded independent central review 
Twice daily 
Below the  limit of quantification   
Bayesian optimal interval 
Best overall response 
Body weight 
Average plasma concentration 
Clinical benefit rate 
Coiled-coil domain-containing  6 
Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human Use  
Plasma clearance 
Apparent oral clearance, unadjusted for bioavailability  
Maximum plasma concentration 
Conditional marketing authorisation 
Central nervous system 
Complete response 
Clinical study report 
Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid 
Trough plasma concentration 
Percent coefficient of variation 
Cycle x Day y 
Cytochrome P450 
Disease control rate 
Drug-drug interaction 
Dose-limiting toxicity 
Duration of response 
Dual specificity phosphatase 6 
Electrocardiogram 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Endothelial growth  factor receptor 
Embryofoetal development 
European Medicines Agency 
Exposure-response 
European Society for Medical Oncology  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 4/139 
 
 
 
 
 
EU 
F 
FDA 
European Union 
Oral bioavailability 
Food and Drug Administration  of the  United States 
FGFR2 
Fibroblast growth  factor receptor 2 
GCP 
GLP 
GoF 
hERG 
HV 
IC50 
IC90 
ICH 
ILD 
ISF 
JAK 
Kd 
KDR 
KIF5B 
K-M 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Goodness-of-fit plots 
Human ether à go go–related gene 
Healthy volunteers 
50% of maximal inhibition  concentration 
90% of maximal inhibition  concentration 
International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human  Use 
Interstitial lung  disease 
Interstitial fluid 
Janus kinase 
Dissociation constant 
Kinase insert domain receptor 
Kinesin family member 5B 
Kaplan-Meier 
LC-MS/MS 
Liquid  chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry  
MATE 
MDP 
Multidrug  and toxin extrusion protein 
Measurable disease population 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MKI 
MTC 
MTD 
NCCN 
NE 
NGS 
NOEL 
NOAEL 
NPC 
NSCLC 
OAT 
OATP 
OCT 
ORR 
OS 
PBT 
PD 
PDX 
PFS 
P-gp 
PK 
Multikinase inhibitor 
Medullary thyroid cancer 
Maximum tolerated dose 
National Comprehensive Cancer Network  
Not  evaluable 
Next generation sequencing 
No-observed-effect-level 
No-Observed-Adverse-Effect-Level 
Numerical predictive checks  
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Organic anion transporter 
Organic anion transporting  polypeptide  
Organic cation transporter 
Overall response rate 
Overall survival 
Persistence, Bioaccumulation and Toxicity  
Progressive disease 
Patient-derived xenograft 
Progression-free survival 
P-glycoprotein 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Pop PK 
Population pharmacokinetics 
PPI 
PR 
Proton pump inhibitor 
Partial response 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 5/139 
 
 
 
PS 
PT 
PTC 
Performance status 
Preferred Term 
Papillary thyroid cancer 
pvcVPCs 
Prediction and variance corrected visual predictive checks  
PXR 
QD 
QoL 
QTc 
QTcF 
QWBA 
RECIST 
RET 
RMP 
RP2D 
SA 
SAE 
SAP 
SCLC 
SD 
SmPC 
SPRY4 
STAT5 
Pregnane X receptor 
Once daily 
Quality of life 
QT interval corrected for heart rate 
QT corrected for heart rate by the Fridericia method 
Quantitative whole-body autoradiography 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 
Rearranged during transfection 
Risk Management Plan 
Recommended Phase 2 dose 
Scientific advice 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan 
Small cell lung  cancer 
Stable disease 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Sprout receptor tyrosine kinase signaling antagonist 4 
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 
StdDev 
Standard deviation 
t1/2 
TEAE 
TGI 
Tmax 
TK 
TKI 
TRKC 
TTR 
UGT 
USA 
V/F 
Apparent elimination  half-life 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Tumour growth inhibition 
Time of maximum plasma concentration 
Toxicokinetics 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor 
Tropomyosin receptor kinase C 
Time to response 
uridine 5’-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase 
United  States of America 
Apparent volume of distribution, unadjusted for bioavailability 
VEGFR2 
 Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 
Vss 
Vz/F 
 Apparent volume of distribution  at steady -state 
Apparent volume of distribution during the  terminal phase, unadjusted for 
bioavailability 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 6/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.   Background information on the procedure 
1.1.   Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Blueprint Medicines (Netherlands) B.V. submitted  on 30 April 2020 an application for 
marketing authorisation  to the European Medicines Agency (EMA)  for Gavreto, through  the centralised 
procedure falling within  the Article 3(1) and point 3  of Annex of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004.  The 
eligibility to  the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP  on 25  July 2019.   
During the procedure, the applicant has changed from Blueprint Medicines (Netherlands)  B.V. to Roche 
Registration GmbH. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Gavreto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment  of adult  patients with  rearranged during 
transfection (RET)-positive locally advanced or metastatic  non-small cell lung  cancer (NSCLC) 
previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC  - complete and independent application  
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non -
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting  certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006,  the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0266/2019  on the granting  of a product-specific waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000  and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000,  the applicant  did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a  
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s requests for consideration 
Conditional marketing authorisation 
The applicant requested consideration of its  application for a Conditional marketing authorisation  in 
accordance with Article 14-a of the above mentioned Regulation. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance pralsetinib contained in the  above medicinal product to 
be considered as a new active substance, as the applicant claims that  it  is not a constituent  o f a 
medicinal product previously authorised within  the European Union.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 7/139 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received the following  Scientific Advices on the development of treatment  of RET -fusion 
positive metastatic NSCLC subject to the present application: 
●  EMEA/H/SA/4091/2/2019/SME/I   
●  EMEA/H/SA/4091/1/2019/SME/III   
The Scientific Advices pertained to the following  Quality, Non-Clinical and Clinical aspects:  
●  designation of starting materials for the drug substance  
● 
specifications including  stability of drug substance 
●  proposed analytical tests and specification strategy for the  drug product  release and stability   
●  nonclinical safety data package 
●  efficacy data set obtained from the single-arm trial 
●  patient population  from the single-arm trial 
● 
● 
safety database 
study design of the confirmatory trial 
1.2.   Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the  CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Sinan B. Sarac 
Co-Rapporteur: Blanca Garcia-Ochoa 
The application was received by the EMA on 
30 April 2020                  
The procedure started on 
21 May 2020                     
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
10 August 2020                  
members on 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
17 August 2020                  
CHMP  members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
24 August 2020                  
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
17 September 2020               
the applicant during the  meeting on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP consolidated List 
25 November 2020 
of Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
08 January 2021 
responses to the List  of Questions to all CHMP  members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
  14 January 2021 
CHMP  during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding  issues in writing  to be sent 
28 January 2021                
to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP List  of 
 23 March 2021 
Outstanding  Issues on  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 8/139 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
07 April 2021 
responses to the List  of Outstanding  Issues to  all CHMP  members o n  
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding  issues in writing  to be sent 
22 April 2021 
to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP List  of 
25 May 2021 
Outstanding  Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
09 June 2021 
responses to the List  of Outstanding  Issues to  all CHMP  members on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding  issues in writing  to be sent 
24 June 2021 
to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP List  of 
16 August 2021 
Outstanding  Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
01 September 2021 
responses to the List  of Outstanding  Issues to  all CHMP  members on 
A SAG on Gavreto has taken place on  
07 September 2021 
The outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during an 
N/A 
oral explanation before the CHMP  during the meeting on 
The CHMP, in the  light of the overall data submitted  and the scientific 
16 September 2021 
discussion within  the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a marketing authorisation  to Gavreto on  
2.   Scientific discussion 
2.1.   Problem statement 
2.1.1.  
Disease or condition 
The applicant is seeking a Marketing Authorisation  for the treatment  of adult  patients with  rearranged 
during transfection (RET)-positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung  cancer (NSCLC) 
previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
2.1.2.  
Epidemiology 
With  an estimated 1.8  million deaths per year, lung  cancer is the  leading cause of cancer death 
worldwide. In Europe, about  470,000 patients  developed lung cancer in 2020  and more than 380,000 
people died from lung cancer, which represents one fifth (19.6% )  of all deaths from cancer in the  EU 
(Globocan, 2020).  The two main categories of lung cancer are NSCLC (approximately 85%  of lung 
cancers) and small cell lung  cancer (SCLC) (Zappa and Mousa, 2016). NSCLC subtypes include 
adenocarcinoma (most common for both men and women in Europe with  up to 68% of NSCLC), 
squamous cell carcinoma (25%  to 30% of all lung cancer) and large cell carcinoma (5% to  10% of lung 
cancer) (Szumera-Ciećkiewicz et al, 2013;  Zappa and Mousa, 2016).   
Approximately 75% of lung adenocarcinomas harbour genetic alterations that  promote the 
RTK/RAS/RAF signalling pathway including drivers such as KRAS, EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, MET,  NTRK, 
and RET, among others (Inamura, 2017;  Rosell and Karachaliou, 2016).  Oncogenic RET fusions have 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 9/139 
 
 
 
been identified  in 1 to 2% of NSCLC and the RET fusions are typically found in adenocarcinoma 
histology, though  occasionally also in squamous cell carcinoma (Lin  et al, 2015; Takeuchi et  al, 2019). 
2.1.3.  
Biologic features 
RET is a receptor tyrosine kinase expressed in seve ral neural, neuroendocrine and genitourinary tissue 
types that normally requires ligand and co-receptor binding  for activation (Mulligan,  2014).  Aberrant 
activation of RET is a critical driver of tumour growth and proliferation across several solid tumours  
(Mulligan,  2014).   
Oncogenic activation of RET can occur via two primary mechanisms (Drilon  et al, 2018).  First, 
chromosomal rearrangements can produce hybrid proteins that fuse the RET kinase domain with  a 
partner protein that often contains a dimerization domain (Romei et al, 2016; Kohno et al, 2012; 
Takeuchi et al, 2012;  Lipson et al, 2012).  Second, point mutations  can directly or indirectly activate 
the kinase (Donis-Keller et al, 1993;  Mulligan  et al, 1993; Hofstra et al, 1994).  Both mechanisms of 
oncogenic activation result in constitutively  active, ligand-independent RET kinase activity and 
activation of downstream signalling  pathways (Drilon et al, 2018).   
2.1.4.  
Clinical presentation, diagnosis and stage/prognosis 
Most  patients with  NSCLC present with  advanced stage unresectable disease (ESMO Guidelines 2019) 
and, if untreated, these patients are expected to  die within  an average of 9.4  months of diagnosis; 
only 18% of all patients with  lung cancer are alive five ye ars or more after diagnosis (Campbell et al, 
2018;  NCCN 2020).   
In addition, the disease itself is associated with  many symptoms that  need to  be managed ( e.g., 
cough, dyspnoea, weight loss, chest pain, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bone pain, 
headaches, anaemia and paraneoplastic syndromes) (Simoff et al, 2013;  Spiro et al, 2007). 
RET-fusion positive NSCLC tumours tend to lack mutations  in other known driver genes and are 
commonly found in a younger population  of non-smokers (Michels et al, 2016;  Lin et al, 2015;  Tsuta et 
al, 2014;  Lipson et al, 2012; Takeuchi et al, 2012; Stransky et al, 2014;  Jordan et al, 2017).  For 
NSCLCs, including lung  adenocarcinomas, no significant difference has been reported in progression -
free survival (PFS) or overall survival (OS) between untreated patients  with RET-positive and RET-
negative tumours (Wang  et al, 2012). 
2.1.5.  
Management 
Patients with  RET fusion-positive NSCLC typically receive the same standard-of-care treatment as 
patients with  NSCLC who do not have a driver mutation  (ESMO guidelines, 2020;  Belli et al, 2021). 
Standard first-line systemic treatment for patients with  advanced, non-resectable NSCLC lacking a 
driver mutation  is platinum doublet-based cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy with 
checkpoint inhibitor. Currently recommended subsequent therapies after progression on platinum 
doublet-based therapy consist generally of immune checkpoint inhibitor  monotherapy, single agent 
chemotherapy, or docetaxel in combination with  ramucirumab (Planchard et al, 2018).  Subsequent 
therapy for refractory patients after these treatment  options is best supportive care, or enrolment in  a 
clinical trial. 
Of note, in February 2021,  Retsevmo (selpercatinib) was approved in Europe for the  treatment of 
cancers that  display RET gene alterations: RET-fusion positive NSCLC, RET-fusion positive thyroid 
cancer and RET-mutant  medullary-thyroid cancer (MTC). More specifically in NSCLC, Retsevmo as 
monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults with  advanced RET fusion -positive NSCLC who 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 10/139 
 
 
 
require systemic therapy following prior treatment with  immunotherapy and/or platinum -based 
chemotherapy.  
About the product 
Pralsetinib (formerly known as BLU-667)  is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor  that targets oncogenic RET 
fusions (including KIF5B-RET and CCDC6-RET).  
The CHMP adopted a positive opinion for use of Gavreto in the following  indication:  
Gavreto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment  of adult  patients with  rearranged during 
transfection (RET) fusion-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)  not previously treated 
with  a RET inhibitor. 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
Patient selection for treatment  of RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC should be based on a validated 
test method. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 400 mg pralsetinib once daily on an empty stomach. Treatment should be 
continued until  disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
If vomiting occurs after taking a dose of pralsetinib, the  patient should not take an additional dose but 
continue with  the next scheduled dose. 
Missed doses 
If a dose of pralsetinib is missed, the patient should make up  for the missed dose as soon as possible 
on the same day. The regular daily dose schedule for pralsetinib should be resumed the next day.  
Dose modifications for adverse reactions 
Interruption of treatment with  or without  dose reduction may be considered to manage adverse 
reactions based on severity and clinical presentation. 
Patients may have their dose reduced by 100 mg decrements to a minimum dose of 100  mg once 
daily. Gavreto should be permanently discontinued  in patients who are unable to tolerate 100  mg 
orally once daily. 
Recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions are indicated in  Table 1.  
Table 1. Recommended dose modifications for Gavreto for adverse reactions  
Adverse reaction 
Severity a 
Dose modification 
Pneumonitis/Interstitial lung 
Grade 1 or 2  
Interrupt  treatment with Gavreto until resolution. Resume at a 
disease (ILD) 
reduced  dose. 
(see section 4.4 of the SmPC) 
Permanently discontinue Gavreto for recurrent  pneumonitis/ILD. 
Grade 3 or 4 
Permanently discontinue for pneumonitis/ILD. 
Hypertension 
Grade 3 
Interrupt  treatment with Gavreto for Grade 3 hypertension that 
persists despite optimal antihypertensive therapy. Resume at a 
reduced  dose when hypertension  is controlled.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 11/139 
 
 
 
 
Transaminase elevations 
Grade 3 or 4 
Interrupt  treatment with Gavreto and monitor aspartate 
Grade 4 
Permanently discontinue Gavreto. 
aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) once 
weekly until resolution to Grade 1 or baseline.  
Resume at a reduced dose.  
If transaminase elevation recurs at Grade 3 or higher, permanently 
discontinue  treatment with Gavreto. 
Haemorrhagic events 
Grade 3 or 4 
Withhold Gavreto until resolution to Grade 1. Resume at a reduced 
dose. 
Discontinue Gavreto for life-threatening or recurrent  severe 
haemorrhagic  events. 
QT prolongation 
Grade 3 
Interrupt  treatment with Gavreto for QTc intervals >500  ms until 
QTc interval returns  to <470 ms.  
Resume at the same dose if risk factors that cause QT prolongation 
are identified and corrected.  
Resume treatment at a reduced  dose if other risk factors that cause 
QT prolongation are not identified.  
Grade 4 
Permanently discontinue Gavreto if the patient has life-threatening 
arrhythmia. 
Other clinically  significant 
Grade 3 or 4 
Interrupt  treatment with Gavreto until improvement to ≤Grade 2. 
adverse reactions (see section 
Resume at a reduced dose. 
4.8 of the SmPC) 
Permanently discontinue for recurrent  Grade 4 adverse reactions.  
a Adverse reactions graded  by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI -
CTCAE) version 4.03 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 12/139 
 
 
 
 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
The applicant requested consideration of its  application for a Conditional Ma rketing Authorisation in 
accordance with Article 14-a of the above mentioned Regulation, based on the following criteria:  
●  The benefit-risk balance is positive.  
●  It is likely that  the applicant will  be able to provide comprehensive data.  
The applicant claims the  final clinical study report for ARROW (BLU-667-1101,  phase I/II), which  will 
be submitted in Q4 2022,  will include longer term follow up of efficacy from 281 RET fusion -positive 
NSCLC patients including  data from 116  treatment-naïve patients  enrolled through October 2020 and 
safety data. The applicant considers that  the data to be provided in the final ARROW clinical study 
report will be sufficient to comprehensively assess and confirm a positive benefit-risk.  
The ongoing Phase 3 AcceleRET Lung trial is proposed as an Annex II PAES, rather than  as a specific 
obligation of the CMA. This is an open-label, randomized, controlled multicentre  phase III study in RET 
fusion-positive NSCLC patients (BLU-667-2303).  This study is designed to assess the efficacy of 
pralsetinib as compared to  Investigator’s choice platinum -based chemotherapy regimen for patients 
with  metastatic NSCLC harbouring an oncogenic RET fusion and who  have not received prior systemic 
therapy.  
●  Unmet medical needs will  be addressed  
The applicant claims that,  given the unprecedented overall response rate (ORR) and  duration of 
response (DOR) of pralsetinib regardless of line of therapy in  the RET fusion -positive NSCLC 
population, its  beneficial activity in the central nervous system (CNS),  its safety profile as well as the 
improvement to patient  care it can provide (i.e. oral, once daily precision therapy that can be 
administered in  the home in  an outpatient  setting),  pralsetinib will be of major therapeutic advantage 
to this  population, and thus will  address an unmet medical need. 
●  The benefits to public health of the immediate availability outweigh the  risks inherent in the fact 
that  additional data are still required. 
The applicant claims that,  to date, it  has been shown that  pralsetinib has a favourable benefit -risk in 
patients with  RET-fusion positive advanced NSCLC. Supportive data from the  AcceleRET Lung Phase 3 
trial will  further confirm the benefit/risk observed in the  ARROW trial and will increase the safety 
database and demonstrate the impact of pralsetinib on PFS, ORR, DOR and OS compared to SOC 
platinum-containing  anticancer regimens. This will further confirm the conclusions on the benefit/risk 
profile of pralsetinib in the proposed population,  however it is the applicant’s position that  these data 
are not  needed in support of an initial  EU marketing authorisation and conditional marketing 
authorisation at this  time is justified. 
Postponing the submission of the MAA until  completion of the ARROW study would lead to  a delay of 
approximately two years in time to approval. A delay of two years is excessive in the se tting  of a fatal 
disease with  an important medical need, considering metastatic  NSCLC patients in a 1L setting  have a 
median OS of approximately 10-30 months (Keytruda SmPC, 2021;  Taxotere SmPC, 2020),  and 
patients in  a 2L  treatment setting have a median survival time of approximately 8-13 months (Alimta 
SmPC, 2020;  Fehrenbacher et al, 2018;  Herbst et al, 2016;  Opdivo SmPC, 2020). 
Considering the  unprecedented efficacy and DOR observed in the ARROW study, as well as the 
manageable safety profile, the applicant claims that  immediate availability of pralsetinib outweighs the 
risk inherent in  the fact that additional  data are still required. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 13/139 
 
 
 
2.2.  
Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  
Introduction 
The finished product is presented as hard capsules containing  100 mg of pralsetinib as active 
substance.  
Other ingredients are: 
Capsule content:  hypromellose, cellulose microcrystalline pregelatinised starch, sodium hydrogen 
carbonate, citric acid , and magnesium stearate.  
Capsule shell: brilliant  blue FCF (E133),  hypromellose, and titanium  dioxide (E171) 
Printing ink: shellac , propylene glycol (E1520),  potassium hydroxide , and titanium  dioxide (E171)   
The product is available in a high  density polyethy lene (HDPE) bottle with  child-resistant cap 
(polypropylene) and foiled induction  seal liner and desiccant sachet (silica gel) as described in section 
6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  
Active Substance 
General  information 
The chemical name is (cis)-N-((S)-1-(6-(4-fluoro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)pyridin-3-yl)ethyl)-1-methoxy-4-(4-
methyl-6-(5-methyl-1H-pyrazol-3-ylamino)pyrimidin-2-yl)cyclohexanecarboxamide corresponding to 
the molecular formula C27H32FN9O2. It  has a relative molecular mass of 533.61  g/mol and the following 
structure: 
Figure 1     : Active substance structure 
In the molecular structure, stereochemistry is indicated for the cyclohexane ring. This relates to 
configurational isomerism or geometric isomerism, which occurs due to  the possibility of different 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 14/139 
 
 
 
 
 
spatial positions across the ring system, in this case resulting  in the cis -isomer. As the cyclohexane 
ring constitutes  configurational isomerism, it is endorsed that  this ring system does not imply chirality 
at this  position. Hence, there is only one stereogenic carbon atom contained in the molecule resulting 
in the S-form of pralsetinib. The enantiomer of the active substance (R-form) is controlled as specified 
impurity in the active substance specification.  
The chemical structure and absolute stereochemistry of pralsetinib has been unambiguously 
established by a combination of analytical characteriz ation techniques which  include single crystal X -
ray crystallography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR),  mass spectrometry (MS), 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), and ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy (UV). Solid 
state characterisation of relevant polymorphic forms A, B and C have been conducted using  X -Ray 
Powder Diffraction (XRPD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC, to further characterise 
monohydrate), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA ), dynamic vapour sorption analysis  (DSV), 
microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).  
The active substance is a non-hygroscopic white to off-white  to yellow solid. Pralsetinib solubility in 
aqueous solvents has been studied and it  shows that  the active substance is practically insol uble in 
water; the solubility of pralsetinib in aqueous buffers slightly increases with  acid pH.  The solubility in 
various solvents has also been studied and it  shows that pralsetinib is freely soluble in methanol.  
A polymorphic screening has been performed to study occurrence of polymorphic forms and their 
interconversion. The active substance exists in  multiple solid forms, including  the stable forms A, B and 
C. A detailed discussion on polymorphic forms of the active substance has been prov ided. 
Interchangeability between the forms has been thoroughly investigated. Relevant polymorphic forms 
have been identified as A, B and C. The different polymorphic forms can be differentiated by XRPD. The 
choice of pralsetinib monohydrate (Form C) has been adequately justified. The manufacturing  process 
produces consistently form C. Data of 18 batches, including three registration batches, convincingly 
demonstrates that  form C is obtained. Stability data demonstrates that there is no change in the 
polymorphic form of the  active substance during storage.  
Manufacture,  characterisation and process controls  
The active substance is manufactured at one manufacturing site  
The synthesis of the active substance is described in  five steps, while comprises four actual synthetic 
steps (bond breaking/formation) and a crystallisation/purification step using  well-defined starting 
materials with  acceptable specifications.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis . The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting  materials and reagents have been presented. 
Criticality of material input  and process/operating parameters have been laid down in the process 
description.  
A risk-based scientific development approach was used to design and develop the manufacturing 
process and control strategy for the active substance.   
The approach to assigning critical process parameters (CPPs) in corporates a statistical treatment  of 
laboratory data from multi-variate process mapping studies conducted, evaluation of manufacturing 
batch history data, and quality risk assessments. The applicant has confirmed that  no design space is 
claimed  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in  accordance with the EU guideline 
on chemistry of new active substances. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 15/139 
 
 
 
  
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with  regards to their origin and characterised. The 
impurity discussion has satisfactorily focused on all relevant aspects, i.e. organic impurities (in starting 
materials, intermediates and active substance as well as process impurities), genotoxic impurities, 
residual solvents and elemental/inorganic impurities.  
Control strategy for organic impurities  has been extensively discussed and is ensured by adequate 
specifications for starting materials, intermediates, active substance and controlled reaction conditions. 
Fate, carry-over and control of potential impurities (unchanged or as derivatives) from the starting 
materials through  intermediates to  the final active substance has been satisfactorily addressed.  
The finished product is out of scope of ICH M7 (indication:  advanced cancer). However, a risk 
assessment in line with  ICH M7  has been presented. All actual and potential impurities likely to  be 
present in the active substance have been evaluated for potential  genotoxicity. Starting materials, 
intermediates, reagents as well as potential  impurities and degradation products were considered. No 
genotoxic impurities  were found. Reports for the QSAR analysis have not been provided and impurities 
investigated have not been classified according to  ICH M7. However, as the finished product is out  of 
scope of ICH M7,  the evaluation of genotoxic impurities is considered sufficient. 
Control strategy for residual solvents has been extensively discussed and justified. All solvents used in 
synthesis of starting  materials and the active substance have been addressed and are controlled. 
Control of additional possible impurities  has been introduced in the  active substance specification and 
the method description has been presented. However, method validation is pending. Therefore, the 
CHMP  recommended to submit  the method validation report for additional possible impurities testing 
as a Type IB variation (classification B.II.d.1.z) post-approval . . 
Screening of intentionally added elementals as well as ICH Q3D class 1 and 2A elements h as been 
conducted on representative active substance batches. Complete risk assessment in  line with  ICH Q3D 
have been conducted. Other inorganic impurities such as inorganic salts that  are potential  by -products 
are removed during washing/work-up, filtration and isolation procedures.  
An  extensive description  of the  development of the  active  substance from the  early clinical  batches to 
the  current  process performance qualification  (PPQ)  batches has  been provided.  Process development 
has been satisfactorily addressed. It has been confirmed that the  same synthetic route overall has been 
used during development made implying that  the bond-forming chemistry has remained unchanged.  
The active substance  is packaged in a  container which  complies with  the  EC  directive 2002/72/EC  and 
EC 10/2011  as amended.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description (visual), identity (HPLC),  assay (HPLC), 
specified impurities (chiral HPLC, HPLC),  residual solvents (HS -GS), elemental impurities (ICP-MS), 
solid form confirmation (PXRD), water content  (KF), residue on ignition  (gravimetric), other organic 
impurities (GC-MS, IC, GC)     .   
Impurities present at higher than  the qualification threshold according to ICH  Q3A were qualified by 
toxicological and clinical studies and appropriate specifications have been set.  
The overall control strategy of residual solvents in regulatory starting materials, intermediates and 
final active substance have been provided and is considered acceptable. 
Genotoxic impurities could be generated or introduced from the  reagents and solvents used in the 
proposed commercial manufacturing process     .  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 16/139 
 
 
 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non -compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in  accordance with the ICH guidelines, except the method for  two specified 
impurities for which a recommendation to complete the validation has been raised (see discussion 
above, REC 001). In addition,  at the time of opinion, the stability indicating  nature of the HPLC method 
used for identification,  assay and impurities  had not  been fully demonstrated. Therefore, the CHMP 
recommended that the applicant  to address this and conduct additional forced degradation studies 
under the harsher conditions . The applicant will include the  results of the additional  forced degradation 
studies as a Type IB variation (classification B.II.d.1.z) post appr oval [REC 002]. Satisfactory 
information regarding the reference standards used for testing  has been presented.  
Batch analysis data of commercial and pilot  scale manufactured by Process A and Process B of the 
active substance are provided. The results are within  the specifications and consistent from batch  to 
batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 3 pilot scale batches of active substance  from the  proposed manufacturer using 
commercial manufacturing process stored in the  intended commercial package for up to 12 months 
under long term conditions (25°C / 60% RH)  and for up to 6  months under accelerated conditions 
(40°C / 75%  RH) according to  the ICH guidelines were provided and packaged in the commercial 
packaging material. The batch scale difference betwe en registration batches and the commercial scale 
batches is less than a 10-fold increase. Therefore, registration batches are considered representative of 
the commercial manufacturing process. 
Data from up to 18  months and 12 months at the  long-term and 6  months at the accelerated storage 
condition from three supportive active substance batches manufactured with  intended commercial 
process at the site where clinical trials were made. were also provided.  
The packaging configuration for the  supportive batches  is comparable with the intended  for marketing. 
The parameters tested were description, assay, impurities, enantiomeric impurity, solid form 
confirmation, water content and microbial enumeration. 
The data show minimal variation with  no significant trends for the active substance stored up  to 12 
months at 25°C/60%  RH or 6 months at 40°C/75%  RH.  All test  parameters remained within  the pre -
defined acceptance criteria throughout  the duration of testing for commercial and supportive batches.  
Photostability testing  following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. No significant 
degradation was observed after exposure to light  stress.  
Results on stress conditions:  thermal stress (105°C for 14 days), oxidative stress  for 14 days at 
ambient temperature and protected from light),  acidic stress (14  days at ambient temperature and 
protected from light),   basic stress (14 days at ambient temperature and protected from light)  were 
also provided on one batch. Based on the totality  of the forced degradation studies, pralsetinib is 
stable to extreme thermal, oxidative, acidic and basic stress conditions. Therefore, this active 
substance does not require any special storage conditions. 
The stability results indicate that  the active substance manufa ctured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 17/139 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  
Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the  product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as light  blue opaque size 0 (22 mm long x 7 mm wide) hard 
capsules, with  “BLU-667”  printed on the capsule shell body and “100 mg” printed  on the capsule shell 
cap in white ink. 
Based on the clinical development program, a solid oral dosage form was the starting point  and the 
initial  objective for the pharmaceutical development of the finished product. The quality target product 
profile (QTPP) was an integral part of the development process that expanded on the initial  objective to 
guide the selection and optimization of desirable attributes and quality targets for the finish ed product. 
The QTPP connects the desired product attributes  with  specific development targets and then links 
them to the  resulting qualities of the intended commercial product. 
The active substance is taken forward to be made into a spray dried dispersion  (SDD) intermediate 
prior to  being formulated into  the finished product (capsules). 
Potential finished product critical quality attributes  (CQA) have been derived from the  QTPP and/or 
prior knowledge as a means to  design a quality product and a manufacturi ng process which 
consistently delivers the intended performance of the  product. The preliminary identification  of the 
finished product CQAs was performed with consideration of relevant quality attributes  of the finished 
product components (e.g. active substance), process development studies, and process knowledge 
based on previous experience. In addition,  ICH Q8 (R2), Q9 and Q10 guidelines were used as 
benchmarks to guide development with  the aim of enabling continuous  improvement in the context of 
a lifecycle approach to product development and process validation.   
Based on these assessments, attributes were identified as potentially  critical to  the spray dried 
dispersion (SDD) intermediate and capsule quality .  These attributes were selected in accordance with 
ICH Q6A Specifications: Test Procedures and Acceptance Criteria for New Drug Substances and New 
Drug Products: Chemical Substances, including  consideration of analytical and manufacturing 
capabilities, desired product quality attributes,  and intended product performance with regard to safety 
and efficacy.  
Pralsetinib is a low solubility-high permeability active substance and is classified as a BCS Class 2 active 
substance  based  on  criteria  for  solubility  and  intestinal  permeability  in  the  ICH  M9  Guideline 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System-based Biowaivers.  
Hence solid-state properties of the active substance are relevant for the dosage form. Due to  its low 
intrinsic aqueous solubility, the active substance is formulated as an amorphous dried dispersion. The 
manufacturing process involves complete dissolution  of the  active substance  during the spray-drying 
process to obtain an anhydrous amorphous form of pralsetinib as spray dried dispersion  (SDD), the 
finished product intermediate, thereby rendering solid-state  properties of the  intermediate more 
relevant than  the active substance. The specification for the finished product intermediate includes 
control of polymorphic form and particle size.  
The active substance is slightly soluble to practically insoluble in aqueous media, at pH  = 1.0 to 8.0, 
and it is more soluble in acidic aqueous media than in basic aqueous media. In simulated biological 
fluids, pralsetinib is practically insoluble in fasted-state simulated intestinal  fluid, sparingly soluble in 
fasted-state simulated gastric fluid, and slightly soluble in fed-state simulated intestinal fluid.   
The compatibility of the SDD intermediate with a range of commonly used pharmaceutical exci pients 
has been assessed. The data obtained were used to  aid selection of appropriate excipients during 
formulation development.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 18/139 
 
 
 
A compatibility study was performed between the active substance and the  excipients.  There was no 
change in the solid-state form of pralsetinib over the duration of the excipient compatibility study.  All 
excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with  Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in  the finished pr oduct formulation. The list  of excipients 
is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The objective of the formulation development was to develop 10 mg, 30 mg and 100 mg immediate 
release capsule formulations containing pralsetinib. Only the 100 mg strength  is  proposed for 
marketing. The intended formulation (intermediate and capsule) was developed at the initial   
manufacturer for products used in  clinical trials . Following  the introduction  of the capsule formulation 
into clinical studies, a new manufacturer of the finished product intermediate and a new manufacturer 
of the capsules were introduced, which are the commercial sites proposed. The formulation and the 
unit  operations in the manufacture of the intermediate and the  finished product have not changed 
during the course of development. However, process optimisation changes have been conducted .      
A comparability exercise on batches of the finished product intermediate and the finished product, 
respectively, has been conducted. Comparable quality and solid-state  characteristics have been 
demonstrated and it  has been justified that  changes   do not impact quality and manufacturability of 
the finished product intermediate and the finished product. In addition, stability of the amorphous form  
of the active substance in the finished product intermediate and the finished product when stored in 
appropriate packaging closed correctly has been demonstrated. Solid form conversion does not occur. 
Transparency and traceability with  regard to batches m entioned in  the dossier and their use in  clinical 
studies have been ensured. Bridging between development formulations and final formulation is 
established. The commercial formulation has been used to manufacture finished product batches, 
which have been or will be used in  clinical studies and correspond to the formulation used for the 
finished product registration batches. 
Solid-state properties and solubility of the finished product intermediate and influence on finished 
product performance have been satisfactorily provided. The specification for the intermediate includes 
control of polymorphic form and particle size. Control of polymorphic form is also included in the active 
substance specification (crystalline active substance) and the finished product s pecification (amorphous 
active substance), hence solid-state is controlled throughout manufacture. 
Development of the final commercial dissolution method and evaluation of its discriminatory power 
against capsule and process attributes  that could impact pr oduct performance was carried out.  The 
solubility of praseltinib SDD in representative dissolution buffers was determined. The effects of 
surfactants and sinkers on pralsetinib solubility in the neutral pH  range were also studied. To confirm 
the suitability  of the method, three capsule batches representative of the commercial process were 
tested using the proposed dissolution  method. It was observed that very consistent profiles can be 
obtained using the proposed dissolution  parameters. Discriminatory p ower of the dissolution method 
was studied Therefore, it is concluded that  the proposed commercial dissolution method is 
discriminatory with  respect to  meaningful variations in the material attributes and manufacturing 
process parameters. The dissolution  profile utilizing  the commercial dissolution method is generally 
comparable for pralsetinib capsules manufactured throughout  the development program.  
The primary packaging is high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle  with child -resistant  cap 
(polypropylene) and foiled induction  seal liner and desiccant sachet (silica gel). The material complies 
with  Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been validated by 
stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the pro duct.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 19/139 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture  of the  product and process controls  
The finished product manufacturing process comprises the manufacturing of a spray dried dispersion 
(SDD) intermediate by spray drying the active substance to produce an amorphous drug dispersion, 
followed by intra-granular blending with  excipients, roller compaction, extragranular blending and 
filling into  capsule shell. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process.  
The design of experiments applied to the spray drying process was focused on the parameters which 
had the potential to  influence the  CQAs of the SDD. For the capsule manufacturing process, 
comprehensive studies to  enhance process understanding and evaluate the interplay between multiple 
unit  operations were conducted. However, no design space is  claimed for capsule manufacture. 
The pralsetinib SDD intermediate and capsule formulation contain  commonly used excipients and 
utilize standard unit  operations for the production of solid oral dosage forms, hence validation data for 
commercial scale is not required in  the dossier. The PPQ batches were manufactured in accordance 
with  manufacturing process of the  commercial finished product. The PPQ protocols and reports were 
provided. The process verification will continue  throughout the  life cycle of th e  product in accordance 
with  the relevant guidelines. 
The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process.  
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form: 
appearance (visual),  identity  (HPLC,  HPLC-UV),  assay (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  content 
uniformity (Ph. Eur.), dissolution (Ph. Eur.), water content  (KF), active substance physical form (PXRD), 
and microbial enumeration (Ph. Eur.).   
A justification for the omission of microbial testing and disintegration in the  finished product release 
specification has been provided. 
Total aerobic microbial count  (TAMC), total yeasts and molds count  (TYMC) and absence of specified 
organism (E.  coli) testing of the finished product has been performed during development. All 
registration batches placed on ICH stability studies are tested  for microbial enumeration at the initial 
time point(s)  and annually thereafter.  In addition,  low water activity levels observe d in the  finished 
product indicate that  the amount of water available in the capsules is insufficient to  support the growth 
of a representative microbial population, and therefore the risk of microbial contamination  in this non -
sterile oral dosage product is extremely low. Based on this evaluation, in accordance with ICH Q6A, 
microbial enumeration testing  will not be part of the commercial release specification but will  remain 
on the shelf life specification.  
To date, no degradation products above the identification  threshold have been observed in the finished 
product during clinical release and stability. 
Discussion on elemental impurities in line with  ICH Q3D has been provided. Potential sources of 
elemental impurities  have been outlined  in an overall manner stating  excipients, active substance, 
water, manufacturing equipment and container closure system. A combination of component approach 
and finished product approach has been used. Five finished product batches, including  batches 
representative of the  commercial process and sites proposed, have been screened for one intentionally 
added element used in the active substance synthesis as well as for ICH Q3D class 1 and 2A elements. 
Levels were well-below 30% of the permitted daily exposure limit for e ach element. Based on the  risk 
assessment and the presented batch  data, it can be concluded that  it is not necessary to include any 
elemental impurity  control in  the finished product specification.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 20/139 
 
 
 
A risk evaluation concerning the presence of nitrosamine impurities in  the finished product has been 
performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with  the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation  holders/applicants on the CHMP  Opinion for the  Article 5(3)  of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004  referral on nitrosamine impurities  in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020)  and 
the “Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation EC (No) 726/2004-  Nitrosamine 
impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/369136/2020).  Based on the information provided it  is 
accepted that  there is no risk on the possible presence of nitrosamine impurities in the active 
substance or the related finished product. Therefore, no additional  control measures are deemed 
necessary. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the  ICH guidelines.   
Batch analysis results are provided for 6 commercial scale batches  confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.   
The finished product is released on the market based on the release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Three  primary  (registration)  batches  of  the  SDD  intermediate  and  three  supportive  SDD  batches 
manufactured  with  used  in  clinical  trials  and  registration  active  substance batches,  respectively, were 
placed under long term (25°C/60% RH) conditions  for up 12 months and under accelerated (40°C/75% 
RH)  conditions  for  up  6  months  according to  the  ICH  guidelines.  The SDD registration  and  supportive 
batches were manufactured  at the  commercial site  using the  commercial process and   packaged in  the 
commercial container closure system. 
Three primary (registration)  capsules batches were placed under long term  (25°C/60%  RH)  conditions 
for  up  18  months  and  accelerated (40°C/75%  RH)  conditions  for  up  6  months  according  to  the  ICH 
guidelines.  The  capsules  registration  batches  were  manufactured  at  the  commercial  site  using  the 
commercial process (Process III) and  packaged in  commercial container closure system.  The capsules 
registration batches were manufactured with active substance sourced  from pralsetinib used in the sites 
during  the  clinical  development  program.  Three  supporting  capsule  batches  manufactured  at  the 
commercial  manufacturing  site  using  the  commercial  process  and  produced  with  active  substance 
registration batches (produced at  the commercial active substance manufacturing site)  were placed on 
long term (25°C/60%  RH)  conditions for up  12 months   and accelerated (40°C/75%  RH) conditions  for 
up 6 months according to the ICH guidelines.  
The available data supports a 24-month  shelf life for the capsules, 100  mg. 
A bracketing design aligned with ICH Q1D was used within  the  registration stability  program in order to 
assess the stability profile of multiple packaging fill counts.   
As supportive stability data, two capsules batches ma nufactured with commercial Process using 6 month 
aged SDD were also placed on  long term  (25°C/60%  RH)  and accelerated (40°C/75%  RH)   Sites  used 
during  the  clinical  development  program  conditions.  A  6  month  hold  time  is  established  for  the 
intermediate pralsetinib SDD in the commercial packaging configuration where the hold time begins from 
the  date active substance is  used for SDD manufacturing. This  hold time  is aligned  with  the  maxim um 
hold time represented in confirmatory capsule stability  studies which used 6 -month aged SDD. Finished 
product  stability  data up  to  12  months under  long-term condition  using  6-month  aged SDD show  little 
to  no  change or  variability on  stability  and  suppor ts  the  assignment  of  a SDD hold  time  of  6  months. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 21/139 
 
 
 
 
This  is  further  supported  by  the  SDD long  term  and  accelerated stability  studies,  with  data  available 
through 12  months under long term storage conditions. 
Samples were tested  for appearance, assay, degrada nts, water content,  solid form, dissolution,  particle 
size distribution  and  microbial limit  testing.  The  analytical procedures used  are stability  indicating.   No 
significant  trends or  changes in  any test  attribute  of the  SDD and the  capsules have been obser ved in 
the  registration  and  the  supporting  stability  batches  throughout  the  duration  of  the  long  term  and 
accelerated conditions. 
A preliminary bulk stability study was performed on capsules, 100 mg development batch manufactured 
at  the  intended  commercial manufacturing  site  with  the  intended  commercial process. The  batch  was 
packaged in the  intended bulk  packaging       and  it was stored at  ambient warehouse conditions  (15°C 
–  25°C)  and  tested  after  9  months  and  12  months  of  storage.  All  results  for   appearance,  assay, 
degradants, dissolution,  water  content  and  microbial evaluation  were within  the  proposed commercial 
specifications  following  bulk  storage  for  up  to  12  months.  A  confirmatory  bulk  hold  stability  of  the 
capsule,  100  mg  commercial  batch  has  been  initiated.  The  batch  was  packaged  in  accordance with 
commercial bulk packaging . The bulk storage configuration represents the worst-case scenario, without 
desiccant bags between the bulk packaging, as is the case for the  commercial packaging configuration. 
Therefore, the available data supports the stability of bulk 100 mg capsule for this 6 months at ambient 
warehouse conditions (15°C  – 25°C).    
In addition,  one batch was exposed to  light  as defined in  the ICH Guideline on  Photostability  Testing  of 
New  Drug Substances  and Products.  No  changes were observed in  appearance, active substance solid 
form, assay, degradation products,  or dissolution.  The photostability  data shows  that  the  capsules are 
not sensitive to light. 
A force degradation study  (acidic, basic, hydrogen peroxide) was performed. A development open dish 
stress study was also performed for SDD and capsules. No significant trends or changes in test attribute 
for SDD and capsules have been observed. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months without  special storage 
conditions as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3)  are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn  lead to the  conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.   
The applicant has applied QbD principles in the  development of the  active sub stance and finished 
product and their manufacturing process. However, no design spaces were claimed for the 
manufacturing process of the active substance, nor for the  finished product.  
The active substance exists in  multiple solid forms, including  the stable forms A, B and C. The different 
polymorphic forms can be differentiated by XRPD. The choice of pralsetinib monohydrate (Form C)  has 
been adequately justified. The manufacturing process produce consistently form C . Stability data 
demonstrates that  there is no change in the  polymorphic form of the active substance during storage. 
The manufacturing process of the  finished product involves complete dissolution of the active 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 22/139 
 
 
 
substance during the spray-drying process to obtain an anhydrous amorphous form of the active 
substance as spray dried dispersion (SDD).At the time of the CHMP opinion,  there are two  minor 
unresolved quality issues having no impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product, which  pertain  to 
the submission of the analytical method validation report for specified impurities and the  stability-
indicating  nature of the HPLC  method used for identification, assay and impurities . These have been 
raised as recommendations. In addition, further forced degradation studies under the harsher 
conditions should be conducted and be presented as part of the relevant variation post approval. 
2.2.5.  
aspects 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are co ntrolled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  
Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs  to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP  recommends the following points for investigation: 
- to submit  the method validation report of specified impurities as a Type IB variation (classification 
B.II.d.1.z) post-approval. 
- stability-indicating  nature of the HPLC method used for identification,  assay and impurities should be 
demonstrated, additional forced degradation studies under the harsher conditions  should be conducted. 
The applicant will include the results of the additional forced degradation studies as a Type IB variation 
(classification B.II.d.1.z) post approval. 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.7.  
Introduction 
Gavreto contains pralsetinib (also known as BLU-667,  BLU123244,  or X581238),  an inhibitor  of RET 
kinase and oncogenic RET mutants.  The non-clinical efficacy and safety of pralsetinib were 
characterized through a battery of pharmacology (potency, selectivity, anti-tumour  activity, safety), 
pharmacokinetics (PK) (absorption, distribution,  metabolism, excretion, drug interactions and 
toxicokinetics (TK)) and toxicology studies (single dose toxicity, repeat-dose toxicity, genotoxicity, 
phototoxicity, local tolerance, impurities, immunotoxicity,  ecotoxicity and reproduction toxicity).  
2.2.8.  
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In vitro 
Binding and inhibition  of RET was investigated in vitro in purified enzymes assays including wild-type 
RET, oncogenic RET mutants  and fusion kinases, in which pralsetinib was compared to other RET 
binding chemical entities (Report BPM-0015).  Highly potent  binding to all types of RET was confirmed 
for pralsetinib whereas binding of the other multikinase inhibitors, such as cabozantinib, vandetanib, 
and regorafenib, occurred with varying affinity to  RET mutants  and fusions  Table 2).  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 23/139 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Biochemical activity  of cabozantinib, vandetanib,  regorafenib, ponatinib, and 
pralsetinib against wild-type  RET, RET Mutants,  and RET fusion proteins  
Compound 
Pralsetinib 
Cabozantinib 
Vandetanib 
Regorafenib 
Ponatinib 
RET 
V804L 
0.33 
45 
3597 
53 
4 
Mean IC50 (nM) 
RET 
V804M 
0.38 
162 
726 
70 
2 
RET 
M918T 
0.40 
8 
7 
25 
0.8 
RET 
0.43 
11 
4 
12 
0.6 
CCDC6-
RET 
0.45 
34 
20 
15 
0.8 
Abbreviations: CCDC6 = coiled-coil domain-containing 6; IC50 = half-maximal inhibitory concentration; RET 
= rearranged  during transfection. Source: Report BPM-0015. 
To document the selectivity of pralsetinib (at 1 ⎧M)  on RET, the  applicant investigated binding and 
inhibition  in a panel of over 450  kinases in vitro. Measurement of dissociation constant (K d) 
demonstrated that pralsetinib exhibited a K d value <  50 nM for 21 kinases (Reports BLU005-03-s, 
BLU005-04-p).  It was shown that  pralsetinib mainly and most potently  binds to RET, however, affinity 
for Janus kinase (JAK)1, JAK2, and tropomyosin receptor kinase C (TRKC) was shown, as K d values 
within  10-fold of RET were demonstrated. 
A second selectivity study, testing the ability  of pralsetinib to inhibit  the enzymatic activity across a 
panel of 374  kinases, demonstrated that  pralsetinib (at 0.3  ⎧M) inhibited the  activity of 22  kinases 
over 50% (Report BPM-0022).  It was further shown that pralsetinib is a more  potent  inhibitor of RET 
than any other kinase tested and only two  other kinases are inhibited  by pralsetinib with  an half -
maximal inhibitory concentration (IC 50) within  20-fold of RET inhibitory  activity, i.e., JAK1 and DDR1.  
Pralsetinib was further investigated in vitro in relevant cancer cell lines expressing RET to explore 
potency. Studies were conducted in Ba/F3 cells, LC2/ad cells as well as human MTC TT and MZ -CRC-1 
cell lines, expressing KIF5B-RET, CCDC6-RET fusion, RET C634W  and RET M918T  mutations, 
respectively. In these investigations, pralsetinib potently inhibited  RET autophosphorylation, RET -
dependent signalling and RET-dependent cell proliferation (Table 3) (Reports BPM-0016  and BPM-
0017).  Furthermore, it was shown that  proliferation of parental Ba/F3  cells not expressing a KIF5B -RET 
fusion was poorly inhibited by pralsetinib (IC 50 = 1873.1  nM),  confirming that pralsetinib is selective 
for cell lines dependent on oncogenic RET. 
Table 3. Effects of pralsetinib, cabozantinib, and vandetanib  on proliferation of ret -driven 
cell lines 
Ba/F3- 
KIF5B- 
RET 
Ba/F3- 
Ba/F3- 
KIF5B- RET 
KIF5B- RET 
(V804L) IC50 
(V804M) 
TT 
(C634W 
RET) 
Compound 
IC50 (nM) 
Pralsetinib 
Cabozantinib 
Vandetanib 
16.5 
341.4 
792.9 
(nM) 
15.3 
3022.6 
9227.6 
IC50 (nM) 
IC50 (nM) 
4.6 
5582.4 
8360.1 
15.4 
554.9 
551.7 
MZ-CRC-1 
(M918T RET) 
IC50 (nM) 
4.2 
62.8 
15.2 
LC2/ad 
(CCDC6- 
RET) 
IC50 (nM) 
3.7 
328.3 
45.9 
Abbreviations: CCDC6 = coiled-coil domain containing  6; IC50 = half-maximal inhibitory concentration; KIF5B = 
kinesin family member 5B; RET = rearranged  during  transfection.  Source: Reports BPM-0016  and BPM-0017 
The activity of pralsetinib against known receptors that  are associated with  dose -limiting 
cardiovascular toxicity in humans, i.e., KDR/VEGFR2 and FGFR2, as well as JAK2, was investigated in 
relevant well-established cell lines (Report BPM-0018).  The studies showed that  pralsetinib inhibited 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 24/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these pathways with reduced potency compared to RET inhibition,  with  a 14 -,  40-, and 12-fold more 
potent binding  to RET than KDR/VEGFR2, FGFR2, and JAK2, respectively, confirming the  lower potency 
for other kinases as also shown  in the enzyme assays (Table 4). The toxicological effects attributed  to 
KDR/VEGFR, FGFR2  and JAK2 inhibition  were investigated further in  repeat-dose studies in  rats and 
monkeys (see section 2.3.4 Toxicology). 
Table 4. Cellular activity  of pralsetinib on RET, KDR/VEGFR2, FGFR2,  and JAK2  
Assay 
Phospho-RET 
Phospho-KDR/VEGFR2 
Phospho-FGFR2 
Phospho-STAT5 (JAK Signalling Pathway) 
Cell Line 
Phosphorylation IC50 (nM) 
Ba/F3-KIF5B-RET 
HUVEC 
Kato III 
TF-1 
5.0 
70 
201 
58 
Abbreviations: FGFR2 = fibroblast growth factor receptor 2; IC50 = half-maximal inhibitory concentration; JAK = 
Janus kinase; KDR = kinase insert domain receptor; RET = rearranged  during  transfection; STAT5 = signal 
transducer  and activator of transcription  5; VEGFR2 = vascular  endothelial growth  factor receptor  2. Source: 
Reports BPM-0016  and BPM-0018. 
In vivo 
The capacity of pralsetinib to inhibit  tumour growth was investigated in mice, using allografted 
tumours expressing the KIF5B-RET fusion (Figure 2) and xenografted tumours expressing KIF5B -RET 
and CCDC6-RET fusions as well as the RET C634W  mutation (Figure 3  and Figure  4) (R eports BPM-
0019  and CPB-P16-5665,  1110-003,  BPM-0020,  CPB-P16-5645, E0400-U1608).  Tumour control, 
measured as tumour  growth inhibition  (TGI) and inhibition  of phosphorylation , and tumour  regression, 
was shown to be dose-dependent and was in some cases complete at the highest doses tested.  The 
dose levels tested  seemed to be well tolerated with  either no effects observed or only minimal non -
adverse effects observed on body weight.  
Figure 2. Efficacy and body weight measurements for pralsetinib in the KIF5B -RET driven Ba/F3 
allograft model 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; RET = rearranged  during  transfection; QD = once  daily. 
Source: Report CPB-P16-5665.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 25/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Figure 3. Efficacy and body weight measurements with pralsetinib in a KIF5B -RET non-small cell lung 
cancer patient-derived xenograft model 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; PDX = patient-derived xenograft; QD = once daily; RET 
= rearranged  during transfection. Source: Report 1110-003. 
Figure 4. Efficacy with pralsetinib in a medullary thyroid cancer cell line  xenograft (left) and a RET 
fusion positive colorectal cancer patient-derived xenograft (right) 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; CCDC6 = coiled-coil domain-containing 6; PDX = patient-
derived xenograft; QD = once daily; RET = rearranged  during  transfection. Source: Reports  CPB-P16-5645 and 
E0400-U1608. 
The anti-tumour activity of pralsetinib on brain metastases was investigated in  a Ba/F3 -KIF5B-RET-luc 
brain orthotopic inoculation model (Report CPB -P18-21802).  Pralsetinib administered orally with  10 
and 30 mg/kg twice daily (BID) resulted in increased survival compared to vehicle control, which 
points towards an extended activity of pralsetinib on intercranial tumours (Figure  5).   
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 26/139 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
   
   
Figure 5. Survival curve for pralsetinib in the Ba/F3-KIF5B-RET-luc brain orthotopic inoculation model 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; p.o. = per os (oral); RET = rearranged  during 
transfection. Source: Report CPB-P18-21802. 
These data were confirmed in an xenografted tumour model expressing the CCDC6-RET fusion showing 
a significant dose-dependent intracranial TGI with  no intracranial tumours remaining at the  end of the 
study at the highest  dose level (30  mg/kg BID)(Report E0400-U1804)(Figure  6). Distribution  studies in 
rats were performed to further investigate the distribution  of unbound pralsetinib from plasma to brain 
(see section 2.3.3  Pharmacokinetics).  
Figure 6. Survival curve for pralsetinib in an intracranially inoculated colorectal cancer patient-derived 
xenograft model 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; RET = rearranged  during  transfection.  Source: Report 
E0400-U1804.   
To correlate the dose levels at which  tumour control was observed to achieved plasma concentrations,  
a compilation of PK/pharmacodynamic data based on allografted tumour models was presented 
(Report BPM-0020),  showing that the  mouse plasma concentration required for 90% inhibition  of RET 
phosphorylation across all experiments was determined to be 769  ng/mL (human maximum plasma 
concentration at steady state  (Cmax,ss) at 400 mg: 2830  ng/ml)(Figure  7). 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 27/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile of pralsetinib in the Ba/F3-KIF5B-RET and Ba/F3-
KIF5B-RET (V804L)  allograft models 
Abbreviations: RET = rearranged  during  transfection; BLU-667 = pralsetinib; IC = inhibitory concentration   
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
The selectivity of pralsetinib for binding  to other kinases was discussed in the previous section. The 
potential of pralsetinib to interact with  other targets besides kinases, including  receptors, transporters 
and enzymes was investigated in vitro and is described in the safety pharmacology section.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
Potential activity of pralsetinib on the cardiovascular system was investigated in  in vitro and in vivo 
studies. A non-GLP in vitro study investigated the  effect of pralsetinib on the hERG channel current in 
Chinese hamster ovary cells stably transfected with hERG complementary deoxyribonucleic acid 
(cDNA) and expressing hERG channels, at near -physiological temperature (Report CPB-25-15-010A-
0169).  The IC50 for the inhibitory effect of pralsetinib on hERG potassium current was 5.18 µM  (Hill 
coefficient = 0.92), suggesting  a low potential  for prolonging the QT interval. This was explored further 
in repeat-dose studies in monkeys up to 10 mg/kg/day, where electrocardiogram (ECG) me asurements 
have been included (see section 2.3.4 Toxicology).  
Cardiovascular effects were furthermore investigated in two  separate non -GLP in  vivo studies in 
Sprague Dawley rats, where higher systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressure, with  a concomitan t 
decrease in heart rate was observed at a single oral dose of 25,  50, or 200 mg/kg pralsetinib ( Report 
WIL-124581  and WIL-124606).  Furthermore, lower body temperature was observed in the 200 mg/kg 
group. The no-observed-effect-level (NOEL) was 10 mg/kg pralsetinib. No clinical observations were 
however associated with  any of the dose levels tested.  
The inhibitory function of pralsetinib on a panel of pharmacological targets including receptors, 
transporters, and enzymes was investigated in a non-GLP in vitro study (Reports 100023499  and 
100023915).  Pralsetinib was shown to have some inhibitory effect against 5 -HT2A  and Na+ channel 
site 2, which  have the potential to  impact CNS and cardiovascular function. However, in the follow -up 
functional study, pralsetinib inhibited  the 5-HT2A  and Na+  channel site 2 with IC 50 values 
corresponding to free maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) concentrations about 30 -fold above free 
Cmax concentrations in humans at the recommended therapeutic dose. Furthermore, the  inhibitory 
effects against 5-HT2A  or Na+  channel site  2 were also investigated in rat or monkey studies (see 
section 2.3.4 Toxicology). 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 28/139 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interactions studies have been conducted.   
2.2.9.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Methods of analysis 
Table 5summarizes the validation of the methods to  measure prals etinib in K2EDTA rat and monkey 
plasma in  support of the GLP pivotal TK studies (Reports BLU-R5992  and BLU-R5954).   
No formal validation was performed to support the bioanalytical methods of pralsetinib in mouse and 
dog plasma, however, standard operating procedures were followed to  ensure accuracy of 
concentration measurements.  
Table 5. Summary of analytical  method validation for the determination  of pralsetinib in rat, 
and monkey  plasma samples from toxicokinetic studies  
Method  
Rat Plasma 
BTM-2134-R0   
Monkey Plasma  
BTM-2135-R0   
Calibration model  
Linear weighted 1/x2  
Linear weighted 1/x2  
MS/MS interface  
TurboIonSpray   
TurboIonSpray   
Validated dynamic range  
5.00 to 2000  ng/mL  
5.00 to 2000  ng/mL  
Precision (%CV) within-assay  
≤ 6.2  
≤ 9.4  
Precision (%CV) between-assay  
≤ 4.6% (7.6% at LLOQ)  
≤ 5.3% (11.9% at LLOQ)  
Accuracy  (%bias)  
≤ –9.3% (–8.8% at LLOQ)  
≤ –13.3% (–12.4% at LLOQ)  
Stability  
Freeze-thaw stability  
Recovery  
Stable for at least 18  hours at ambient 
Stable for at least 18  hours at ambient 
temperature  
temperature  
At least 3 freeze/thaw cycles at –70ºC 
At least 3 freeze/thaw cycles at –70ºC 
and −20 C  
100.3%  
and −20 C  
92.5%  
Processed  extract stability  
Stable for at least 123  hours  at ambient 
Stable for at least 94  hours at ambient 
temperature  
temperature  
Long-term sample storage stability  
93 days at −20°C and −70°C   
117  days at −20°C  and −70°C   
Abbreviations: %CV= %coefficient of variation; LLOQ= Lower limit of quantitation; MS/MS= tandem mass 
spectrometry. Source: Reports BLU-R5992, BLU-R5992A2; BLU-R5992A2  LTS and SS, BLU-R5954, BLU-R5954A2, 
BLU-R5954A2 QC-LTS. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 29/139 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
The plasma PK properties of pralsetinib upon single -dose administration in non-clinical species are 
summarized in Table 6. 
Table 6. Cross species comparison of single intravenous dose pharmacokinetics and oral 
bioavailability  of pralsetinib 
PK Parameter 
CLplasma (mL/min/kg) 
Vss (L/kg) 
t1/2 (h) 
Oral F (%) 
Rat 
14.6 ± 1.6 
3.3 ± 0.4 
3.5 
100 
Dog 
2.0 ± 0.3 
0.5 ± 0.1 
3.5 ± 0.2 
100 
Monkey 
6.5 ± 3.0 
1.7 ± 0.2 
3.7 ± 1.2 
100 
Abbreviations: CLplasma = plasma clearance; F = bioavailability; PK = pharmacokinetics; t1/2 = apparent terminal 
elimination half-life; Vss = apparent volume of distribution  at steady state. Source: Reports CPB-P15-10033R02, 
CPB-P15-10082d01,  and CPB-P15-10082K01. 
The TK of pralsetinib were investigated in rats and monkeys in GLP -compliant 28-day and 13-week 
repeated-dose toxicology studies (Reports WIL-124570,  WIL-124571,  00124768,  and 00124770) 
(Table 7). In rats, a greater than  dose proportional increase in exposure was observed after repeat oral 
dosing while the increase was approximately dose proportional in  monkeys, with non -linear kinetics. 
T½ was consistent across species as well as a complete oral bioavailability (100%).   
Accumulation occurred to some extend in rats (2.36 to  2.64 for males and 2.32 to  3.27 for females 
after repeated dosing for 13 weeks) whereas accumulation was minimal  in monkeys. There were no 
significant gender differences in terms of either Cmax or area under the plasma concentration -time 
curve from zero to 24 hours (AUC 0-24) in the  pivotal studies.  Adequate exposure was achieved in 
plasma via the proposed clinical route at the intended clinical dose of 400  mg per day. 
Table 7. Summary of pralsetinib toxicokinetics in pivotal 28-day  and  13-week  repeat-dose 
studies in rats and monkeys 
Study ID 
Daily Dose 
Animal AUC0-24 
(/) 
10 
20 
30 
75* 
5 
10 
20 
0 
5/2.5# 
15/7.5# 
40 
2 
5 
10 
Sprague Dawley  rats 
WIL-12570 
28 day  
00124770 
13 week  
Cynomolgus monkey 
WIL-124571 
28 day 
00124768 
13 week 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
(ng.h/ml) 
Cmax 
ng/mL 
T ½ 
♂ 
♀ 
♂ 
♀ 
♂ 
♀ 
22000 
64300 
     125000 
166000 
9040 
33300 
101000 
40600 
82100 
101000 
223000 
12800 
42300 
108000 
1970 
5120 
7180 
11100 
751 
2360 
6570 
3690 
6680 
9120 
14500 
1280 
3580 
8420 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5.01 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
9890/4780 
15700/6190 
1530/703 
2390/866 
56100/28400 
38000/25800 
7020/3190 
4730/3320 
157000/- 
135000/- 
10900/- 
10700/- 
4370 
15700 
43200 
5030 
13400 
31900 
485 
1620 
2790 
478 
1120 
2850 
5.84 
4.19 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Page 30/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: AUC0-24 = area under  the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 24 hours; Cmax = 
maximum plasma concentration;  NA = not applicable. *Day 1 AUC values, as the group  was terminated early due 
to mortalities/morbidity, # dose reduction  due to unacceptable  toxicity in the high dose group,  and initial mid dose 
group. Note: The AUC and Cmax values presented  are from the end  of the study unless  otherwise mentioned.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 31/139 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The in vitro protein binding of pralsetinib (10 µM)  was determined in 100%  plasma  from mouse, rat, 
dog, monkey, and human using rapid equilibrium dialysis (Report 1905093).  Protein binding  of 
pralsetinib was similar across species and showed a high  binding (>95%  bound),  i.e., 2.45%,  4.2% 
and 2.9% unbound  pralsetinib in  rats, monkeys and humans, respectively. The in  vitro blood 
partitioning  of pralsetinib was studied in fresh blood from mouse, rat, dog, monkey, and human 
(Report CPB-P15-10118). Blood-to-plasma ratios for pralsetinib were similar across species and 
distribution  was greater in plasma compared with  blood. 
In vivo studies were conducted to assess the  distribution of pralsetinib and its metabolites to blood and 
tissues using oral gavage administration  in rats (Report 00124834).  In Sprague Dawley rats, 
accumulation primarily occurred in excretory organs, i.e., liver and kidney. There was a clear decrease 
in radioactivity in all tissues over time  with no retention in  blood or plasma. In Long Evans rats, high 
levels of radioactivity were detected in  the uveal tract and the pigmented skin. [14C] -pralsetinib–
derived radioactivity concentrations were still  present in the uveal tract at  the end of the  study, 
indicating  that pralsetinib has an affinity for pigmented tiss ue. The ophthalmic findings and phototoxic 
potential of pralsetinib were further investigated in repeat dose toxicity studies in monkeys and rats 
and two in vitro phototoxic investigations (see section 2.3.4  Toxicology). 
No distribution  of pralsetinib to the brain was observed in the  quantitative whole -body autoradiography 
(QWBA) distribution study in  Sprague Dawley rats (R eport 00124834).  However, a separate 
microdialysis assay in rats investigating the distribution  to the brain and str iatal interstitial  fluid (ISF) 
was conducted (Report Key 1598).  The sensitivity in the microdialysis assay is higher than for the 
QWBA study (LLOQ:  2.75 ng/g vs. 781 ng/g)  and thus the microdialysis assay is considered to give a 
more precise indication  of the brain penetration in rats. Though the  QWBA study showed limited 
penetration in brain, the microdialysis assay showed a brain penetration of unbound pralsetinib 
corresponding to a factor of 0.14  from plasma to brain tissue (ISF), indicating that  dis tribution  occurs 
to the rat brain.  
Of note, the 90% of maximal inhibition  concentration (IC 90) of pralsetinib for RET inhibition in  human 
brain ISF is used as indicator for efficacy in treating brain tumour metastases in the clinical trials. The 
predicted total plasma concentration in rats required to  achieve a corresponding IC 90 of pralsetinib for 
RET inhibition  in human brain ISF is 1514  ng/ml, and with  mean steady state maximum and trough 
plasma concentrations of pralsetinib dosed at 400  mg once daily (QD) in NSCLC  patients at 2830  and 
1150  ng/mL, respectively, the concentrations are near or above the systemic concentration predicted 
to achieve brain IC90 of pralsetinib for RET inhibition.   
Placental transfer and excretion in milk has not  been investigated. 
Metabolism 
In vitro, pralsetinib undergoes limited to moderate metabolism in humans, rats, mice, monkeys and 
dogs in microsomes and hepatocytes (Reports CPB-P15-10033,  150604,  150521).  A total  of 18 
metabolites of pralsetinib derived from oxidation, defluorination, glucuronidation, and GSH conjugation 
were identified  (Report BLU-R9667).  Direct N-glucuronide conjugation was the major metabolic 
pathway of pralsetinib in in vitro incubations in human hepatocytes, oxidation and glutathione 
conjugation were less frequent. In monkeys, moderate metabolism occurs, though  at a lower level 
than in  human hepatocytes, whereas limited metabolism occurs in the  other non -clinical  species. No 
human specific metabolites were detected in  vitro. In vivo metabolism studies in rats and monkeys are 
included in the section on excretion below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 32/139 
 
 
 
Excretion 
In vivo, it  was shown that  the metabolites are primarily excreted via bile in bile duct cannulated rats, 
both after oral and IV administration, and via faeces after a single oral dose in monkeys, and that 
limited excretion occurs via urine (≤ 5%)  (Reports BLU-R5482AM1,  BLU-R9705).  In rats, pralsetinib is 
primarily excreted as oxidative metabolites or as GSH and glucuronide conjugates via the bile. In 
faeces, unchanged [14C]-pralsetinib was the most significant drug-related component in both rats and 
monkeys with  a few metabolites derived from oxidation, cysteine conjugation,  and glucuronidation 
conjugation also being observed. This supports the in vitro observation of limited metabolism occurring 
for pralsetinib. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
A study was conducted to  assess the potential of pralsetinib to inhibit  cytochrome P450 (CYP450) 
catalytic activity in vitro in human liver microsomes (Report 1812081).  Pralsetinib showed 
concentration-dependent inhibition  of CYP2C8 (via mixed inhibition),  CYP2C9 (via competitive 
inhibition),  CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, as well as concentration- and time-dependent inhibition  of CYP3A4/5 
(via competitive inhibition).  Pralsetinib was furthermore shown to induce mRNA levels and enzyme 
activity of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP3A4, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 in a concentration -dependent manner in 
primary cultures of human hepatocytes (Reports 1811301,  1910112)  and exhibited limited 
concentration-dependent activation of human pregnane X receptor (PXR) in an in vitro assay (Report 
CYP0915-R10b). 
In vitro data indicate that  pralsetinib is mainly catalysed by CYP3A4 with  minor contribution  of CYP1A2 
and CYP2D6 (Report BLU-R9696).  Moreover, in vitro studies with recombinant UGT showed that 
UGT1A4 was the major enzyme responsible for the formation of the N-glucuronide  of pralsetinib. 
UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 were also capable of forming pralsetinib N-glucuronide, but  only at low  levels 
(Report BLU-R5500). 
Moreover, in vitro studies showed that  pralsetinib is a substrate for human P -glycoprotein (P-gp)  and 
Breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and may at the same time  have the potential for drug 
interactions with  substrates of the  following transporters: P -gp, OATP1B3, MATE1, MATE2K, BCRP, 
OATP1B1, (OAT1, OAT3, and BSEP to a limited degree) (Report 19BLUPP1R1). 
Other  pharmacokinetic studies 
The PK profile of pralsetinib formulated as capsules and a spray dried dispersion was investigated in 
cynomolgus monkeys either with  or without  pre-treatment with  the proton pump inhibitor  famotidine 
(Report WIL-124618).  Only minor non-significant  differences were observed between the  two 
formulations and pre-treatment with famotidine did not  influence the PK profile. 
2.2.10.  
Toxicology 
A general toxicity study program was performed, with rats, Beagle dogs and cynomolgus monkeys. 
The rat and cynomolgus monkey were used in GLP -compliant 28-days and 13-week repeat dose 
toxicity studies, which were preceded by 7 days non-GLP studies as well as single dose studies in both 
species. Furthermore, a few dose range studies were performed in order to  discern any differences 
between different batches and vehicles (single dose studies)  used. An enhanced embryofoetal 
development (EFD)  study (GLP compliant)  in rats was performed in order to  discern any possible 
reprotoxic effect. No carcinogenicity studies were performed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 33/139 
 
 
 
 
Single dose toxicity 
The major findings of the single dose oral gavage toxicity studies in  rats, dogs and monkeys are 
summarized in Table 8In rats, doses of up to 300 mg/kg were tolerated, whereas in the  dog and 
monkey, severe clinical signs resulting in euthanasia or death were observed at 75 mg/kg and  300 
mg/kg respectively. Multiple dark red areas on the surface of the small and large intestines (mucosal 
epithelium erosion and ulceration) were observed in dead animals after a single dose of pralsetinib 
(300  mg/kg monkeys). 
Table 8. Summary table  of the  single dose toxicity studies  
Study design 
WIL-124550 (Non-GLP) 
Sprague Dawley  rat - 3M 
10a, 100a, 300a or 300b mg/kg 
Oral gavage 
WIL-124557 (Non-GLP) 
Beagle dog - 3M (4M) 
Observed max non-
lethal dose 
Major  findings 
300 mg/kg 
No clinical signs noted up to 48 hours post dosing 
Mortality 3/3 at 75 mg/kg; emesis, salivation 
and/or diarrhoea at ≥ 25 mg/kg without 
5b, 25b, 25c, 75b mg/kg/day (25b mg/kg (plus 6 μg/kg pentagastrin 
25 mg/kg 
pentagastrin  pre-treatment; soft faeces and 
[IM] pre-treatment)) 
Oral gavage 
WIL-124569 (Non-GLP) 
Cynomolgus monkey - 3M 
10d, 30d, 300d mg/kg 
Oral, via nasogastric  tube 
WIL-124591 (Non-GLP) 
Cynomolgus monkey - 3M 
30d mg/kg 
Oral, via nasogastric  tube 
emesis at 25 mg/kg with pentagastrin  pre-
treatment; decreased  defecation at 5 mg/kg. 
30 mg/kg 
Mortality 1/3 at 300 mg/kg,  
pale body and pale facial area  noted in all animals. 
30 mg/kg 
Swollen abdominal area  noted; no other findings. 
a (10% HS15 in 20% BP-β-CD/ NA); b vehicle 1 (CMC-Na: 1% Tween 80 in dH2O/ NA); c vehicle c (50% Labrasol 
in dH2O/ NA); d (CMC-Na: 1% Tween 80 in citrate buffer/ NA) 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The major findings of the repeat dose toxicity studies in rats, dogs and monkeys are summarized in 
Table 9.  In the  repeat dose studies of 28 days and 13  weeks duration, the following were recorded: 
clinical observations, detailed physical examinations, body weight measurements, food consumption 
measurements, ophthalmic evaluations, serum chemistry, haematology and coagulation assessments, 
complete necropsy, organ weight determinations, histopathologic  evaluation, and TK. In the 
cynomolgus monkey studies, ECG recordings were also performed, but no functional effects on the 
cardiovascular system were noted based on ECG analyses and in -life  examinations. 
Table 9. Summary table  of the  repeat  dose toxicity studies  
Study design 
NOEL/  NOAEL 
Major  findings 
Sprague Dawley  rat 
WIL-124551  (Non-GLP) 
6 M 
Oral gavage 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
15 mg/kg/day 
200 mg/kg/day:  
AUC0-24  
17100  h*ng/mL 
Early death/moribundity  
≥50 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical findings and lower BW and food consumption,  lower liver 
Page 34/139 
 
 
 
0, 15, 50  and 200 
mg/kg/day 
Duration: 7 days 
WIL-124592  (Non-GLP) 
6 F 
Oral gavage 
15 and 50  mg/kg/day 
Duration: 7 days 
Cmax 1930  ng/mL 
weights, histological changes  in multiple tissues 
≥15 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical pathologies, lower spleen and thymus weights 
50 mg/kg/day 
Well tolerated at all dose levels with no significant clinical observations 
noted in the treatment groups. 
75 mg/kg/day:  
Mortality/moribundity (38% M, 42% F). Euthanasia of remaining 
animals on Day 8/9 due to severe BW loss, lower food consumption. 
Clinical signs: dermal atonia, unkempt appearance,  scabbing on the 
forelimb(s) 
Histopathology: mineralization of multiple organs, decreased cellularity 
of multiple haematopoietic and  lymphoid organs, and  haemorrhage, 
inflammation and/or necrosis  in multiple organs,  increased physeal 
thickness in the sternum, decreased lymphoid cellularity in the Peyer’s 
patch, and necrosis in the pancreas 
≥30 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical signs: flailing upon handling, vocalization upon  handling, thin 
body condition, body that was cool to the touch, pale extremities, 
swollen abdominal area, laboured respiration, exophthalmus of the right 
eye, red material around  eye(s) and/or nose, scabbing  on the facial 
area, and/or yellow material on the urogenital area 
≥20 mg/kg/day: 
Lower BW gain (M), lower mean BW (M). 
STD10 
30 mg/kg/day 
AUC0-24 (M/F) 
125000/101000 
h*ng/mL 
Cmax (M/F) 
odontogenic  degeneration, odontogenic  vacuolation, and odontoblast 
Histopathology: increased physeal thickness  in the femur, incisor and 
WIL-124570  (GLP) 
Main study 
  10 M/F 
Recovery 
   5 M/F 
TK animals 
   3 M/F 
   9 M/F 
Oral gavage 
7180/9120  ng/mL 
0, 10, 20, 30, 75 
mg/kg/day 
Duration: 28  days 
necrosis  in the teeth 
≥10 mg/kg/day:  
Decreased bone marrow cellularity, mineralization of the glandular 
stomach  
Haematology: decreased mean RBC, HB, HT and RETIC 
Clinical pathology: Increased  ALT, AST, SDH, Cholesterol, TRIG, urea 
nitrogen, creatinine, Ca, K, decreased albumin and protein 
Note: The off-target, non-severely toxic pharmacologic effects (i.e., 
thickened physeal cartilage (femur), hyperphosphatemia with 
corresponding  mineralization in the glandular  stomach, incisor tooth 
degeneration  and decreased bone marrow cellularity with corresponding 
lower erythrocyte parameters) were either resolving or resolved after 
the 14-day recovery period with the exception of incisor tooth 
degeneration. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 35/139 
 
 
 
00124770 (GLP) 
Main study 
   10 M/F 
Recovery 
   5 M/F  
TK animals 
   3 M/F 
   9 M/F 
Oral gavage  
0, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg/day 
Duration: 13  weeks 
20 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical signs: hunched  posture  and/or thin, broken teeth (F and 1 M),  
lower BW gain, lower mean BW, lower food consumption 
Serum chemistry: increased urea nitrogen 
Macroscopic  and microscopic findings: teeth (dentin matrix alteration, 
ameloblast degeneration, odontoblast  degeneration, and odontoblast 
necrosis), tooth fractures, decreased  lymphoid cellularity in the thymus, 
tubular degeneration/atrophy  in the testis with secondary cellular debris 
and reduced  sperm in the lumen of the epididymis, which  corresponded 
10 mg/kg/day 
with lower mean testis and epididymis weights, gross observations  of 
soft and small testis, degeneration  of the corpus  luteum in the ovary.  
AUC0-24 (M/F) 
33300/42300 
h*ng/mL 
≥10 mg/kg/day: 
Lower mean BW (M) 
Haematology: Lower RBC, RETIC (M), higher MCV, MCH   
Cmax (M/F) 
Serum chemistry: increased ALP, ALAT, ASAT, cholesterol and 
2360/3580  ng/mL 
phosphorous,  K (F), decreased albumin (F), TP (F) and A/G ratio (F)  
Macroscopic  and microscopic findings: minimal odontoblast 
degeneration  (M), minimal to mild tubular degeneration/atrophy in the 
testis with secondary  cellular debris  in the lumen of the epididymis, 
minimal degeneration of the corpus  luteum 
≥5 mg/kg/day: 
Haematology: lower WBC, lymphocyte, eosinophil and basophil counts, 
lower RETIC (F), higher PLT 
Macroscopic  and microscopic findings: minimal decreased 
haematopoiesis 
Beagle dog 
WIL-124558  (Non-GLP) 
3 mg/kg/day 
30 mg/kg/day:  
3 M 
Oral gavage 
AUC0-24 24500 
h*ng/mL 
0, 3, 10, 30 mg/kg/day 
Cmax 2600  ng/mL 
Duration: 7 days 
Cynomolgus monkey 
Moribundity, BW loss (9.1% on Day 3), decreased food consumption 
Histology: acute microscopic  haemorrhage in lungs 
≥10 mg/kg/day:  
Histology: GALT necrosis and depletion  
150/75 mg/kg/day:  
Mortality/moribundity 3/3 animals 
WIL-124572 (Non-GLP) 
3 M 
Oral gavage  (nasogastric) 
0, 10, 30, 150/75 
mg/kg/day 
10 mg/kg/day 
surface of the stomach, duodenum,  jejunum,  ileum, cecum, and colon 
Macroscopic  findings: dark red discoloration  and/or areas along the 
AUC0-24 42700 
h*ng/mL 
≥30 mg/kg/day: 
Moribundity  1/3 at 30 mg/kg 
Clinical signs: hunched  posture, hypoactivity, partial closure of eyes, 
Duration: 7 days 
Cmax 4570  ng/mL 
diarrhoea, pale gums, ataxia, prostration, pale/cool body and/or 
extremities, shallow respiration, decreased  respiration rate, piloerection. 
tremors (mild), red nasal discharge,  red/brown material on various body 
surfaces, dermal atonia.  
Cause of death: GI toxicity, with secondary  bacterial sepsis 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 36/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematology: decreases in absolute RETIC, absolute neutrophils  and 
absolute monocytes, higher mean ALAT, ASAT, phosphorus,  CK, LDH  
Macroscopic  findings: small spleen, decreased  organ weight: absolute 
thymus weight and absolute spleen weight. 
Microscopic  findings: gastrointestinal tract, axillary and mandibular 
lymph nodes, bone  marrow, thymus, spleen, GALT and mesenteric 
lymph node, and lung 
40 mg/kg/day:  
Mortality 3 M and 4 F, early termination on Day 5  (M) and 4 (F) 
Clinical signs: diarrhoea, red material in faeces, ataxia, hunched 
posture, cool and/or pale extremities and/or body, hypoactivity, 
prostrate, dermal atonia, and decreased respiration  rate, BW loss 
Clinical pathology: increased prothrombin  and activated partial 
thromboplastin times, ALAT, ASAT, cholesterol and  phosphorous, 
creatinine and urea nitrogen. Decreased serum calcium, TP, albumin, 
globulin, Cl, Na  
WIL-124571  (GLP) 
5 M/F 
NOAEL 
5/2.5 mg/kg/day 
Macroscopic  findings: red/dark red areas of the stomach and red/dark 
red areas and/or raised areas of the small and large intestines, small 
spleen, and/or small thymus 
Cause of death/morbidity: (9/10 animals) bacterial sepsis secondary  to 
AUC0-24 (M/F) 
gastrointestinal inflammation  
Nasogastric gavage 
4780/6190  h*ng/mL 
0, 5/2.5, 15/7.5, 40 
mg/kg/day 
Cmax (M/F) 
703/866  ng/mL 
Dose reduction  on Day 4 
(F) and 5 (M) due to severe 
HNSTD 
toxicity in the high dose 
7.5 mg/kg/day 
groups, Group  3 animals 
had a 2-day dosing holiday 
before dosing with 7.5 mg 
started on Day 6 (F) and 7 
AUC0-24 (M/F) 
28400/25800 
h*ng/mL 
(M) 
Duration: 28  days 
Cmax (M/F) 
3190/3320  ng/mL 
Microscopic  findings: foci of neutrophilic  inflammation often containing 
bacterial colonies in the lymph nodes, spleen, and/or salivary gland, as 
well as reduced  cellularity of sternal bone marrow. 
15 mg/kg/day:  
Mortality 1 M (bacterial sepsis secondary to colonic intussusception  and 
skin and GI lesions). Clinical signs observed  for this animal: cool and 
pale extremities, hypoactivity, shallow respiration, partial closure  of 
both eyes, prostrate, open wound  on left hindlimb, and red material on 
hindlimbs and anogenital area. 9% BW loss.  
Macroscopic  findings: intussusception  of the colon, dark red areas of the 
stomach and duodenum, raised areas in the jejunum, cecum, and colon, 
small thymus, and mass in the subcutis of the urogenital region 
Microscopic  findings: ulcerative/erosive inflammation often with 
intralesional bacterial colonies and gas formation in the skin, subcutis, 
oesophagus,  and intestines. intusseption  confirmed.  
15/7.5 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical signs: (most observations related to a single F) hunched 
posture, decreased  defecation, thin body condition, dermal atonia, 
emesis containing  food or clear, white, yellow, or red material, 
salivation, clear material around mouth, reddened facial area, and/or 
red material on forelimb(s), increased activated partial thromboplastin 
times (M), increased absolute neutrophils, higher  total WBC (M) 
Decreased globulins, TP (F), Ca, Increased urine specific gravity, 
decreased  total urine volume (correlated to dehydration/decreased 
water consumption  (M) 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 37/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Microscopic  findings: reduced  lymphoid cellularity of the thymus (F), 
reduced  cellularity of the sternal bone marrow, physeal dysplasia of the 
femur (M) 
After recovery period: Minimally decreased lymphoid cellularity of the 
thymus (1 F), everything else had recovered.  
≥2.5/5 mg/kg/day: 
Increased  ALAT and ASAT  
Microscopic  findings: Lower thymus weight (F) 
00124768 (GLP) 
4 M/F 
Oral gavage 
10 mg/kg/day 
AUC0-24 (M/F) 
43200/31900 
h*ng/mL 
0, 2, 5, 10 mg/kg/day 
Duration: 13  weeks 
Cmax (M/F) 
2790/2850  ng/mL 
10 mg/kg/day: 
Lower RBC, HB, HT, MCV (M); Higher RETIC (M), PLT (M), RCDW (F)  
Organ weight; lower thymus weight (F, Absolute and relative to body and 
brain weight) 
Microscopy: minimal to mild decreased  lymphoid cellularity 
5 mg/kg/day:  
Lower HB (F) 
Abbreviations: ALAT= alanine transferase, ASAT= aspartate  transferase, BW= body weight, Ca= calcium, HB= 
haemoglobin, HT= haematocrit, K= potassium, LDH= lactate dehydrogenase, MCV= mean cell volume, PLT= 
platelet count, RBC= red blood cell count, RETIC= reticulocyte count, RCDW= red cell distribution width, SD= 
Sprague Dawley, WBC= white blood cell count. 
Secondary Pharmacology Leading to Toxicity Observed  in Rats and Monkeys  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 38/139 
 
 
 
Overall, the adverse effects observed in repeated-dose studies using  rats and monkeys were consistent 
with  off-target pharmacological effects of pralsetinib, or the sequelae thereof.  
The following adverse effects were attributed  to the pharmacologic effect of VEGFR2 (also known as 
KDR) inhibition: 
•  Primary vascular effects on the physeal cartilage in the femur in rats and monkeys and on the 
teeth in  rats (Chen and Cleck, 2009;  Fletcher et al, 2010;  Patyna et al, 2008).  Physeal dysplasia is 
a lesion often encountered secondary to impairment of VEGF-dependent angiogenesis. Incisor 
degeneration has been previously described after VEGF and FGFR tyrosine kinase inhibition;  
•  Gastrointestinal lesions in monkeys. Altered gut barrier is a known sequela of VEGF pathway 
inhibition  in non-clinical toxicity species and in humans (Chen and Cleck, 2009); 
•  Degeneration of the corpus luteum  in the ovary in rats. The development of the  corpus luteum 
depends on proliferation of blood vessels within  the theca interna (Fraser, 2006)  and treatment 
with  VEGFR inhibitors is known to result in reduced ovarian weight  and decreased number of 
corpora lutea in animals (Patyna et al, 2008;  Wedge et al, 2005). 
The following adverse effects were attributed  to the pharmacologic effect of FGFR  signalling inhibition:  
•  Primary tissue mineralization effects in rats. This has been observed with other investigational 
compounds (Brown et al, 2005;  Yanochko et al, 2013)  where soft tissue mineralization was 
associated with  FGFR inhibition  due to its  physiologic role of suppressing 1,25 -dihydroxy-vitamin 
D3-mediated phosphate absorption from the  gut. 
The following adverse effects were attributed  to the pharmacologic effect of JAK2 inhibition:  
•  Primary cellular effects on the bone marrow and erythron parameters in rats and monkeys due to 
the reliance upon JAK2 for erythropoietin signalling (Broxmeyer, 2013; Parganas et al, 1998; 
Quelle et al, 1994;  Springuel et al, 2015). 
The following adverse effects were attributed  to stress response rather than to  pralsetinib -related off-
target effects: 
•  Decreased cellularity of lymphoid organs corresponding with  changes in the hemogram, notably 
decreased lymphocytes with increased neutrophils and monocytes in rats (Everds et  al, 2013).  
Interspecies comparison 
The observed toxicities in the  28-day repeat dose toxicity study in monkeys, are  seen at exposures 
similar or slightly above clinical exposure levels (e.g., from 15  mg/kg/day). The high dose level of 10 
mg/kg/day in the  13-week study is also considered to be the  no-observed-adverse-effect-level 
(NOAEL),  and the  area under the  plasma concentration vs time curve (AUC) on Day 91  is 43200 and 
31900  h*ng/mL. In the rodent studies the  NOAEL is at exposures similar or below clinically relevant 
exposures. Severe toxicity and mortality were observed at exposure multiples of 3 to  5 -fold the 
clinically relevant exposure (following the maximum recommended dose of 400 mg/day) ( Table 10). 
Table 10. Comparison of animal and human/clinical ex posure  
Study ID 
Daily Dose (/) 
Animal AUC 
(ng.h/ml) 
♀ 
♂ 
Animal:Human 
Exposure Multiple 
♂ 
♀ 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 39/139 
 
 
 
Sprague Dawley rats 
WIL-12570 
28 day  
00124770 
13 week  
10 
20 
30 
75* 
5 
10 
20 
Cynomolgus monkey 
WIL-124571 
28 day 
00124768 
13 week 
5/2.5# 
15/7.5# 
40 
2 
5 
10 
22000 
64300 
125000 
166000 
9040 
33300 
101000 
40600 
82100 
101000 
223000 
12800 
42300 
108000 
9890/4780 
15700/6190 
56100/28400 
38000/25800 
157000/- 
135000/- 
4370 
15700 
43200 
5030 
13400 
31900 
0.5 
1.5 
2.8      
3.8 
0.2 
0.8 
2.3 
0.2/0.1 
1.3/0.6 
3.6/- 
0.1 
0.4 
1.0 
0.     9 
1.9 
2.3 
5.1 
0.3 
1.0 
2.5 
0.4/0.1 
0.9/0.6 
3.1 
0.1 
0.3 
0.7 
Clinical AUC 0-tau,ss 43900  h*ng/ml(Study 1101), at a dose of 400  mg/day 
*Day 1 AUC values, as the group was terminated early due to  mortalities/morbidity, # dose reduction due to 
unacceptable  toxicity at the high dose level, and initial mid dose level (15 mg/kg/day).  
Genotoxicity 
Conventional studies of genotoxicity (Ames test  in Salmonella strains TA1537, TA98, TA100, TA1535 
and E. coli WP2 uvrA (study WIL-124573),  micronucleus assay in TK6 Cells (study 00124797)  and 
bone marrow micronucleus assay following oral administration to rats (s tudy 00124769))  were 
conducted with  pralsetinib.  
A weak positive signal was detected in the  in  vitro micronucleus test in TK6 cells, however, the 
%increase observed was within  historical control ranges, and only 2 to 3 -fold the concurrent control. 
The positive control (vinblastine sulfate) showed a 21-fold increase in the same trial (trial  1, 27 hours 
incubation, without  S9). In a repeated trial, the  pralsetinib treated groups did not show any increase 
compared to concurrent control, whereas mitomycin treated group, was increased 27 -fold compared to 
concurrent negative control. Therefore, pralsetinib is considered negative for genotoxicity in the tested 
ranges. 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were conducted with  pralsetinib. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, males were dosed for 28  days prior to 
mating and continuing  through 1 day prior to euthanasia. Females were dosed for 14 days prior to 
mating and continuing  through Gestation Day 7. No  test article -related findings were noted on male or 
female reproduction (mating, fertility, and pregnancy indices), oestrous cyclicity, or spermatogenesis 
at the tested doses of 5,  10 and 20 mg/kg /day orally. However, post-implantation  loss was observed 
at doses as low as 5 mg/kg (approximately 0.3  times the  human exposure (AUC) at the  clinical dos e of 
400 mg based on toxicokinetic data from the 13-week rat toxicology study). At the 20 mg/kg dose 
level (approximately 2.5 times the  human exposure) 82% of female rats had totally resorbed litters, 
with  92% post-implantation  loss (early resorptions). A dosage level of 10 mg/kg/day was considered 
the NOAEL  for early embryonic toxicity.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 40/139 
 
 
 
Moreover, adverse effects were observed in the GLP -compliant 13-week repeat dose toxicity study with 
respect to  reproductive organs in rats (Report 00124770).  At 20 mg /kg/day the  following was 
observed in males: tubular degeneration/ atrophy in the  testis with  secondary cellular debris and 
reduced sperm in  the lumen of the  epididymis which corresponded with  lower mean testis and 
epididymis weights,  respectively, and gross observations of soft and small testis, and in females: 
degeneration of the corpus luteum in the ovary. No adverse findings were observed with  respect to the 
reproductive tissues in the 28-day studies in Sprague Dawley rats and cynomolgus monkeys (Reports 
WIL-124570  and WIL-124571,  respectively) nor in  the 13-week study in  cynomolgus monkeys (Report 
00124768).   
A GLP-compliant embryofoetal development (EFD), extended dose range study was performed in 
Sprague Dawley rats (Report 00124766).  The following pa rameters and endpoints were evaluated in 
this study:  clinical signs, body weights, body weight gains, gravid uterine weights,  food consumption, 
TK parameters, gross necropsy, intrauterine growth and survival, and foetal morphology (internal, 
external, and skeletal findings).  It was not possible to  establish a NOAEL  for reproductive toxicity, as 
multiple malformations were observed in both visceral (kidney and ureter) and skeletal (vertebral rib, 
costal cartilage and vertebral central anomalies) tissues at d ose levels of 5 and or 10 mg/kg/day as 
well as reduced ossification of ribs. These dose levels were below the maternal NOAEL dose level of 30 
mg/kg/day (corresponding to  180 mg/m2/day and AUC 0-24 was 90,600  ng*h/mL  and the Cmax was 
8700  ng/mL). All females in dose groups of 20 or 30 mg/kg/day had 100% post  implantation loss (all 
early resorptions), and similarly in the 10 mg/kg/day group an increased number of post-implantation 
loss and a resulting lower mean litter  proportion of viable foetuses were observ ed. Therefore, 
pralsetinib is considered a teratogenic drug, at exposures below levels causing maternal toxicity. Dose 
levels causing reproductive toxicity are also below human exposure levels.  
No prenatal and postnatal development studies, and juvenile an imal studies were conducted with 
pralsetinib.  
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance of pralsetinib in the gastrointestinal tract  of Sprague Dawley rats and cynomolgus 
monkeys has been characterized in the GLP-compliant 28-day and 13-week toxicology studies  (Reports 
WIL-124570,  WIL-124571,  00124770,  and 00124768).  In both rats and monkeys, GI complications 
were observed at the high  dose levels. In cynomolgus monkeys, doses of 15 and 40mg/kg/day caused 
gastrointestinal epithelial erosion and ulceration (related to VEGFR inhibition),  which was also deemed 
to be cause of death. In rats, 28 days of pralsetinib treatment with  30 mg/kg/day was associated with 
tissue mineralization within  the glandular stomach mucosa. This was attributed to FGFR  inhibition -
mediated hyperphosphatemia. Following 13-week treatment in rats, 5 mg/kg/day were associated with 
observations of mineralization within  the  glandular stomach mucosa.  
No changes were observed in oropharyngeal/oesophageal tissues that was deemed pralsetinib related 
in neither rat nor monkey.  
Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
Although no dedicated immunotoxicity studies were conducted with  pralsetinib, some of the 
toxicological findings  reported in repeat-dose toxicity studies were related to its actions on immune 
system (i.e.,  decreased cellularity of multiple  haematopoietic and lymphoid organs in rats, and bone 
marrow cellularity and decreased cellularity of lymphoid organs in monkeys).  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 41/139 
 
 
 
Impurities 
In silico and in  vitro assessment of a number of impurities were performed (see section 2.2 Quality 
aspects). Two non-clinical GLP compliant 14-day repeat dose studies were performed in rats, in order 
to qualify impurities 1 and 2 (Study No 00124746),  BLU136228  and BLU136229  (Study No  00124665). 
No additional toxicities were observed in the  two studies. 
Phototoxicity 
Two neutral red uptake phototoxicity assays were performed to evaluate the  phototoxic potential of 
pralsetinib: one in BALB/c 3T3 mouse fibroblasts (Study No 20143108,  GLP) and one in 3T3 fibroblasts 
(Study No WIL-124562,  non-GLP). Pralsetinib was found to be negative for phototoxicity in both 
studies.  
2.2.11.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
A phase I estimation of exposure as well as Persistence, Bioaccumulation and Toxicity (PBT) screening 
resulted in the log Kow below the trigger value of 4.5,  and the  Predicted Environmental Concentration 
surfacewater (PEC surfacewater) below the action limit  of 0.01  µg/L.  Therefore, no definitive PBT 
assessment, nor any further ERA studies were performed or propose d to  be performed. 
Table 11. Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name):  Pralsetinib 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log Kow 
EC A.8 
OECD 107 
Result 
log Pow at pH 5 : 3.0 
log Pow at pH 7 : 4.0 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT (N) 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement  : 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , default  or refined  (e.g. 
prevalence,  literature) 
Other concerns  (e.g. chemical class) 
OPPTS 830.7550 
log Pow at pH 9 : 3.9 
Result relevant for 
conclusion 
log Kow  
BCF 
DT50 or ready 
biodegradability 
NOEC or CMR 
The compound is not considered  as PBT nor vPvB 
The compound is considered  as vPvB 
The compound is considered  as PBT 
Value 
0.0031 
Unit 
⎧g/L 
2.2.12.  
Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Conclusion 
B/not B 
B/not B 
P/not P 
T/not T 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold (N) 
(N) 
Page 42/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The non-clinical development has been conducted in line with  ICH guidelines M3 (R2) (Non-clinical 
safety studies for the conduct of human clinical trials for pharmaceuticals) and S9 (Non -clinical 
evaluation for anticancer pharmaceuticals). Pralsetinib is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of adult patients with  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC and is administered as a repeat dose. 
The potency and selectivity of pralsetinib were evaluated in vitro using biochemical and cellular 
signalling assays and the anti-tumour  activity of pralsetinib was evaluated in vitro and in vivo in mouse 
tumour allograft and xenograft models. The potency and dosing regimens were compared to already 
marketed RET inhibitors, where it was shown that  pralsetinib elicited a superior inhibition  and 
selectivity of RET kinases in vivo. From a non-clinical point  of view, exposure-response (E-R) 
relationship appears to be justified. In vitro and in vivo proof of concept is considered well established. 
The activity of pralsetinib against known receptors that  are associated with  dose -limiting 
cardiovascular toxicity in humans, i.e., KDR/VEGFR2 and FGFR2, as well as JAK2, was investigated in 
relevant cell lines. Although pralsetinib inhibited  other kinases with reduced potency compared to RET 
inhibition,  toxicological effects attributed  to KDR/VEGFR, FGFR and JAK2 inhibition  were obse rved in 
the repeat-dose studies in rats and monkeys at low exposure margins. Furthermore, in an  in vitro 
investigation, pralsetinib was shown to have some inhibitory effect against 5 -HT2A  and Na+ channel 
site 2, however, the  observed inhibition was conside red be of limited clinical relevance at the 
recommended therapeutic dose. 
According to the  ICH S9 guideline, in  the absence of specific concerns regarding safety pharmacology 
(i.e., cardiac, respiratory or CNS effects) in patients,  safety pharmacological s tudies are not required to 
support marketing authorisation  of products within  the scope of ICH S9. Based on the available non -
GLP in vitro data and general toxicology studies in monkeys and rats, a low risk for cardiac effects is 
identified. Of note, According to  ICH S7B, rats and mice are not appropriate species to investigate 
cardiovascular effects, as the ionic mechanisms of repolarization in these species differ from larger 
species, i.e., humans. However, as rats were not  used to investigate QT prolonga tion, the use of the 
rat species to investigate cardiovascular effects in vivo in this  study is acceptable. Data from receptor 
binding assays against a panel of pharmacological targets including receptors, transporters and 
enzymes, as well as the follow-up  biochemical assays suggest low  risk of off-target CNS or respiratory 
effects for pralsetinib at clinically relevant doses. This is also supported by general toxicity studies in 
rats and monkeys where no adverse findings related to CNS or respiration were observed. 
Furthermore, clinical data from the ongoing ARROW trial  does not suggest an increased risk associated 
with  cardiac effects, CNS or respiratory disorders (see section 2.6 Clinical safety).  
Pharmacokinetics 
The PK (absorption, distribution,  metabolism, excretion (ADME)) of pralsetinib were evaluated in non-
clinical species used for pharmacology and safety testing of pralsetinib (rat and monkey). The PK after 
both single and repeat dosing appear well described in rats, where a nonlinear and greater than dose 
proportional relationship was observed with signs of accumulation. In monkeys, the increase in 
exposure was approximately dose proportional with  limited signs of accumulation. Oral bioavailability 
was complete in both  species (100%). 
Distribution was evaluated in  adult rats, however, in line with  ICH S9 distribution in  pregnant and 
nursing rats was not described. Potential accumulation was observed in pigmented tissue, specifically 
in the eye and uveal tract, where pralsetinib was still  measured in significant amounts at the end of the 
study. However, no relevant effects were observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies or in an in vitro 
phototoxicity study. Therefore, this finding  does not give rise to toxicological concern.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 43/139 
 
 
 
A rat microdialysis assay showed a brain penetration of unbound pralsetinib corresponding to  a factor 
of 0.14 from plasma to brain tissue (ISF). This indicates that  distribution  occurs to the rat brain. Data 
from the  study supports the use of pralsetinib to treat brain tumour metas tases in NSCLC patients.  
Toxicology 
Toxicology was investigated sufficiently in rats and cynomolgus monkey. The dog was also investigated 
as a non-rodent species, but  due to species specific toxicities, related to p38 MAPK inhibition,  and 
exacerbated toxicities following this  inhibition,  the dog was not suitable for further toxicity studies 
beyond single dose or 7 days repeat-dose studies. The pivotal toxicity studies were conducted in 
compliance with  GLP guidelines.  
In studies of up to 13 weeks duration in rats and cynomolgus monkeys, the primary findings  at 
exposures similar to steady state human exposures (AUC) at 400  mg once daily in patients with 
advanced NSCLC included physeal dysplasia in the rat (2  times margin) and haematological effects (1 
times margin) in both species. Additional adverse findings at higher exposures include degenerative 
changes in  male and female reproductive organs (2 times margin) and increases in blood phosphorus 
with  corresponding mineralization in  soft tissues in rats (≥2 times margin), and myocardial 
haemorrhage in rats (4.4  times margin). Increased blood pressure was observed in rats after a single 
dose of 25 mg/kg (2 times). The No-Observed-Adverse-Effect-Level (NOAEL) of pralsetinib in  the 13-
week studies was 10 mg/kg/day in both species, corresponding to exposure (AUC) margins of 1 times 
relative to the  human exposures. Regarding local exposure and toxicity, there was no evidence of 
gastrointestinal disturbance in either species up to the  NOAEL dose of 10 mg/kg (0.9 times  human 
margin). At higher doses in monkeys, gastrointestinal ulcerations and haemorrhage were observed . 
Some of the observed toxicities can be attributed  by to  off-target pharmacological actions of 
pralsetinib, such as KDR (VEGFR2), FGFR and JAK2. Severe toxicities were observed in the 28-day 
studies at exposure levels slightly above or up to 5-fold the clinical exposure following maximum 
recommended daily dose of 400  mg. The SmPC section 5.3  reflects the findings  from the repeat-dose 
toxicity studies. 
With  respect to reproductive toxicity studies, a fertility and early embryonic development study and an 
extended dose range EFD study were performed in rats. No  pralsetinib -related findings were noted on 
male or female reproduction, oestrous cyclicity or sperm atogenesis at the tested doses of 5,  10 and 20 
mg/kg /day orally in  the fertility and early embryonic study. However, based on lower intrauterine 
survival, a dosage level of 10 mg/kg/day was considered to be the NOAEL for early embryonic toxicity. 
Fertility  parameters were not included in the repeat-dose studies, but  histological evaluation of 
reproductive organs in rats, in  the 13-week study, showed reproduction toxicity for both  sexes. In the 
EFD study, multiple  visceral and skeletal malformations were observed, as well as developmental 
variation, even from the lowest dose level of 5 mg/kg/day. 100%  post implantation loss was seen at 
20 mg/kg/day and above. The maternal NOAEL was considered to be 30  mg/kg/day, hence the 
reprotoxic effects of pralsetinib were seen below doses causing maternal toxicity.  
Pralsetinib was not  mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay and was negative 
in both  in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay and in vivo rat bone marrow 
micronucleus tests.  Consistent with  ICH guideline S9, the following non-clinical studies were not 
conducted: carcinogenicity studies, a confirmatory embryofoetal toxicity study in a second species, 
studies on pre/postnatal development, studies in juvenile animals, and im munotoxicity studies.  
The findings from the  toxicity studies are briefly presented in  the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 44/139 
 
 
 
2.2.13.  
Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
An adequate program of in vitro and in vivo pharmacology was conducted, supporting the intended 
clinical use of pralsetinib. Non-clinical  proof of concept as an inhibitor of rearranged during transfection 
(RET) kinase and oncogenic RET mutants  appear well-established.  
The pharmacokinetics of pralsetinib are well described. 
Toxicology was investigated sufficiently in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. The toxicities observed were 
linked to secondary pharmacology, e.g., inhibition  of JAK2, VEGFR2 and FGFR  signalling. Severe 
toxicities were observed at exposure levels slightly above or up to 5-fold the clinical exposure following 
maximum recommended daily dose of 400 mg. 
2.3.  
Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant.  
The applicant has provided a statement  to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
Community were carried out  in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
●  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Table 12. Overview  of studies contributing clinical pharmacology data 
Study 
Study Objective  
Study 
Subjects (No. 
Treatments 
Route   Pralsetinib 
Data 
Identifier 
Status  
Design  
(M/F) Type 
(Dose, Dosage 
Formulation  
Included in 
Age: Mean 
Form) [Product 
[Range])  
ID]   
PopPK 
Analysis  
Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, and Exposure-response in Patients with NSCLC 
BLU-667-
Phase 1 (dose 
Phase 1/2, 
404  patients with 
Phase 1: Escalation 
Oral, 
10, 30, or 100 
Yes  
1101   
escalation): Maximum 
open-label, 2-
RET-fusion 
from 30 to 600 mg 
fasted  
mg HPMC 
Phase 1: 
tolerated dose, 
part first-in-
NSCLC, thyroid 
QD (BID: 100/100 
(2 h)  
capsules  
complete  
recommended Phase 
human study  
cancer, or other 
mg, 200/100  mg) a,  
Phase 2: 
2 dose, PK, and safety 
RET-altered solid 
Phase 2: 400  mg 
ongoing; 
of pralsetinib  
tumours 
QD  
enrolment 
Phase 2 (expansion 
(227M/177F) 
open  
[registration-
58.1 years [18 - 
enabling]): Efficacy, 
87 years]  
safety, PK, and 
pharmaco-dynamics 
of pralsetinib  
Mass-balance in Healthy Subjects 
BLU-667-
ADME and mass-
Open-label   6 healthy 
Pralsetinib ~310 mg 
Oral, 
100  mg HPMC 
No  
0103 
balance of pralsetinib  
subjects  (6M/0F) 
(~100 μCi) single dose:  
fasted 
capsules + ~10 
Complete  
30.3 years [23 - 
3 × 100 mg 
(10 h)  
mg (~100  μCi) 
40 years]  
capsules 1 × ~10 
[14C]pralsetinib 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 45/139 
 
 
 
 
 
mg capsule 
in capsule  
containing (100  μCi 
[14C]pralsetinib  
Pharmacokinetics in Healthy Subjects 
BLU-667-
Bioequivalence, 
Open-label, 
90 healthy 
Pralsetinib 400 mg 
Oral, 
100  mg tablet 
Yes (capsule 
0102 
comparing four 100 
randomized, 
subjects 
single dose:  
fasted 
(20AZ0802.HQ0
arm only)  
Complete  
mg tablets with four 
2-period 
(63M/27F) 42.1 
4 × 100 mg tablets  
(10 h)  
0001) 
100  mg capsules of 
crossover   
years [19 - 55 
4 × 100 mg 
100  mg HPMC 
pralsetinib  
years]  
capsules  
capsule 
(18J03G)  
Effect of Extrinsic Factors in Healthy Subjects 
BLU-667-
Food effect, compare 
Open-label, 
20 healthy 
Pralsetinib 200 mg 
Oral, fed 
100  mg HPMC 
Yes (fasted 
0101 
PK of pralsetinib with 
randomized, 
subjects 
single dose:  
or fasted 
capsule 
arm only)  
Complete  
or without food 
2-period 
(13M/7F) 39.4 
2 × 100 mg 
(10 h)  
(18E07G)  
(standardized high-
crossover   
years [22 - 51 
capsules  
fat, high-calorie meal)  
years]  
BLU-667-
Drug-drug  interaction, 
Open-label, 
Part 1:  
Part 1: Pralsetinib 
Oral, 
100  mg HPMC 
Yes 
0104 
effect of 
2-part, fixed-
25 healthy 
single dose: 2 × 
fasted 
capsule 
(pralsetinib 
Complete  
coadministered 
sequence, 2-
subjects 
100  mg capsules ± 
(10 h)  
(19C24G)  
only arm)  
itraconazole or 
period  
(19M/6F) 40.8 
itraconazole 200 
rifampin on PK of 
pralsetinib  
years [22 - 55 
mg BID on Day 1, 
years]  
200  mg QD on 
Days 2-14  
Part 2: Pralsetinib 
Part 2:  
single dose: 4 × 
25 healthy 
100  mg capsules ± 
subjects 
rifampin 600  mg 
(20M/5F) 39.6 
QD on Days 1-16  
years [21 - 54 
years]  
BLU-667-
Drug-drug  interaction, 
Open-label, 
36 healthy 
Pralsetinib single 
Oral, 
100  mg HPMC 
Yes 
0105 
effect of 
fixed-
subjects 
dose:  
fasted 
capsule 
(pralsetinib 
Complete  
esomeprazole and 
sequence, 2-
(31M/5F) 35.6 
4 × 100 mg 
(10 h)  
(19C24G)  
only arm)  
gastric pH alteration 
period  
years [19 - 54 
capsules ± 
on PK of pralsetinib  
years]  
esomeprazole 40 
mg QD on Days 1-
6  
Abbreviations: ADME= Absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion; BID= twice daily; CSR= Clinical study 
report; E-R= exposure-response;  F= female, HPMC= hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; ID= identification; M=male; 
MTD= maximum tolerated dose; No.= number; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; PopPK= population 
pharmacokinetics; PK= pharmacokinetic(s); QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Note: a The BID 
dosing regime was not explored further, and a recommended phase 2 dose for BID dosing was not defined.  
The clinical pharmacology of pralsetinib was studied in the ongoing phase I/II efficacy and safety study 
in patients  with RET-fusion NSCLC, thyroid cancer, and other RET-altered solid tumours (BLU-667-
1101;  only data from patients with  NSCLC were included in the  PK analyses for the  current 
submission), and in five Phase I clinical pharmacology studies in healthy subjects. An overview of 
these studies is available in Table 12 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 46/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Bioanalysis and models 
A liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC -MS/MS)  bioanalytical method was submitted 
for the determination of pralsetinib concentration in support of all the clinical studies. The bioanalytical 
method was validated successfully. The PK of pralsetinib were described by noncompartmental 
analyses and/or by population PK (Pop PK) analysis. The Exposure -Response (E-R) relations were 
investigated by means of graphical analysis and time -dependent models using  Pop PK derived 
exposure metrics and selected measures of efficacy and safety.   
Population PK model 
The Pop PK of pralsetinib was described by a one -compartment linear model with  several absorption 
transit compartments depending on the capsule manufacturing  process. The final dataset for the  Pop 
PK model comprised data from 491 subjects of which,  61% were patients (298: 161  patients with 
NSCLC and 137 patients  with RET-altered thyroid cancer) and 39% (193)  healthy volunteers (HV). The 
Pop PK model accounts for time-dependency or additional covariate effects in long-term use of 
pralsetinib. Data exclusions due to  below the  limit of quantification  (BLQ) were >10%  of total 
observations. Including BLQ values had minimal impact. 
Figure 8. Schematic of the  population PK Model 
Abbreviations: KTR1= absorption transit rate constant for capsule Process I; KTR2= absorption transit rate constant 
for capsule  Process II; KTR3= absorption transit rate constant for capsule Process III; V/F= apparent volume of 
distribution; CL/F= apparent oral clearance 
The significant covariates included in the final model were Asian race on apparent volume of 
distribution  (V/F), NSCLC patients  on oral bioavailability (F),  age on apparent oral clearance (CL/F), 
concomitant CYP3A4 weak inducer use on F,  NSCLC patients administered capsule Process I on F,  and 
capsule Process III on the absorption transit rate for HV.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 47/139 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Parameter  estimates for the  final Population PK model 
*95% CI derived from SIR using 1000 samples with 500 resamples; † F in patients with NSCLC = 1.43 ∙ 0.759 (if 
Process I) ∙ 0.738 (if CYP3A4 inducer use).  
Sample importance resampling using 1000  samples with  500 resamples were used to generate 95% 
CIs for parameter estimates. None contained the null. The final model was also evaluated by prediction 
and variance corrected visual predictive checks (pvcVPCs), numerical predictive checks (NPC)  and 
goodness-of-fit (GoF) plots. GoF plots for the final model are shown in Figure 9, Figure 10  an d Figure 
11. 
Figure 9. Individual predicted, and population predicted vs. observed concentrations in 
healthy  volunteers 
Abbreviations: Healthy= healthy volunteers 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 48/139 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 10. Individual predicted, and population predicted vs. observed  concentrations in 
patients 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer 
Figure 11. CWRES plots for the final population PK model  
Note: The solid blue lines represent  the line of identify or zero, the red lines represent the trend in the data (Loess 
smooth) or the mean.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 49/139 
 
 
 
 
 
The pvcVPCs stratified by population showed the model could adequately capture the  trend of 
observations in both HV  and patients  (Figure 12).  
Figure 12. pvcVPC for the  final pralsetinib model in healthy  volunteers and patients  
Upper  left pane: Healthy volunteers; Upper  right pane: Patients with NSCLC (C1D1); Lower left pane: Patients with 
NSCLC (C1D5). Note: Open circles= individual observed, dashed blue lines= observed 10th  & 90th percentiles of the 
observed data, solid blue line= observed  median concentration,  shaded red areas= 95% prediction  interval around 
the model predicted 10th,  50th and 90th  percentiles, green lines= bin limits. Log-log scale is used.  
Effects of covariates 
The impact on pralsetinib exposure metrics of covariates included in the  final model were evaluated by 
means of Forest plots (Figure  13). CYP3A4 Weak Inducer (n=25)  and Capsule Process 1 had effects on 
pralsetinib exposure exceeding the 80-125% range. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 50/139 
 
 
 
 
   
Figure 13. Model-predicted Effect of Covariates  on Fold Change  in Pralsetinib Exposure 
Abbreviations: AUC0-τ,ss = area under the plasma concentration-time curve over the dosing interval (τ) at steady 
state; Cmax,ss = maximum plasma concentration  at steady state; CYP3A4  = cytochrome  P450 b3A4; NSCLC = 
non-small cell lung  cancer; PI = prediction interval. Note: The solid black line represents  the median of the 
simulated reference individual, defined as a non-Asian patient with NSCLC who was treated with pralsetinib at a 
dose of 400  mg QD administered as Process II capsules  under fasted conditions, with a population median age of 60 
years, sampled every hour on Day 15 (steady state). Dashed red lines represent  the 80% to 125% range of the 
reference individual. The blue dots and error bars represent  the median and 95% PI of the covariate effect based on 
1000  simulated individuals within each group  including uncertainty on the fixed effect. Healthy subjects are not 
included in the plot. 
Source: Population PK Report BLUE201906 
The recommended dose of pralsetinib is 400  mg QD. No effects of body size descriptors o n exposure 
were observed. The weight span across patients were 34.9 – 128  kg which  represents a 4-times dosing 
difference in mg/kg. Additional plots of exposure versus weight showed no correlation in healthy 
volunteers. A slight  exposure decrease with incr easing body weight  was observed in NSCLC patients  at 
C1D1 (process II) (Figure  15). The exposure difference at weight  extremes (34.9  – 121.8  kg) were 3x 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 51/139 
 
 
 
 
 
more pronounced at steady-state (C1D15)  than after first dose in the NSCLC population  showing a 
clear relation between weight and pralsetinib exposure at steady -state (Figure  15).  
Previously developed population models for pralsetinib in healthy volunteers, patients with  NSCLC and 
patients with  RET altered thyroid cancer were combined and evaluated (report BLUE202015).  In the 
combined model, the structure was unchanged from previous models. Effects of body weight were 
included as a covariate on CL/F  and V/F  with estimated allometric exponents 0.265  and 0.496, 
respectively, and median weight  73.5 kg. The effect of race on V/F was removed and the effect on F of 
use of CYP3A4 inducers replaced with  an effect on CL/F.  Included were also an age threshold for effect 
of age on CL/F  and an effect of thyroid cancer on KTR (C1D1). The diagnostics indi cate the combined 
model performs well and can adequately capture pralsetinib observations in patients with  NSCLC or 
RET-altered thyroid cancer at  C1D1 and C1D15. 
The effect of weight  is shown  in Figure 14 using 40 kg and 100 kg for the 2.5 and 97.5th  perce ntiles 
(34.9  – 121.8 kg are the weight  extremes in NSCLC). 
Figure 14. Model predicted effect of body weight on pralsetinib exposure 
The plot indicate that  low weight patients  experience markedly higher Cmax exposures than median 
weight  or obese patients.  This can be accepted if there is no increased risk for safety events for this 
patient subgroup. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 52/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15. Correlation between  body weight and  AUC in patients  with NSCLC 
Abbreviations: AUC= overall exposure; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer 
PK simulations of brain exposure 
A plasma concentration of 769 ng/mL (or unbound concentration of 1.696  ng/mL; fu,p=0.008)  was 
required to achieve 90%  inhibition  of RET phosphorylation (systemic IC 90) in mice (see section 2.3.2 
Pharmacology). This translates to  212 ng/mL in human  plasma (fu,p=0.029).  In rats, a partition 
coefficient of unbound  brain to  unbound plasma for pralsetinib was determined by microdialysis to 
~0.14  (see section 2.3.3 Pharmacokinetics). Therefore, a systemic concentration of 1514 ng/mL  is 
required in patients  to achieve a concentration of 212  ng/mL and thus IC 90 in the  brain. Pop PK 
simulations in 1000  virtual NSCLC patients (re -sampled from Study 1101) indicated that  about 90% 
and 40% of NSCLC patients would  maintain adequate brain exposure based on Cmax and trough 
plasma concentration (Ctrough),  respectively, during the  dosing interval of 400 mg QD (Figure 16).   
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 53/139 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16. Simulated Plasma  Ctrough,ss and Cmax,ss of Pralsetinib in Patients  with NSCLC 
Abbreviations: Cmax,ss = maximum plasma concentration at steady state; Ctrough,ss  = trough  plasma 
concentration  at steady state; IC90 = 90% of maximal inhibition concentration; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; 
QD = once daily; RET = rearranged  during  transfection.  Note: The solid lines within each box represent the median 
of the data, the hinges (top and bottom of the boxes) represent  the 25th and 75th  percentiles (ie, interquartile 
range), the top and bottom whiskers extend to the largest and smallest values that are  within 1.5 * interquartile 
range of the hinges respectively, and values outside the whiskers are represented  with dots. The data are simulated 
from 1000  patients with NSCLC assuming capsule Process  3, with patient demographics  sampled from Study BLU-
667-1101  with replacement. The top horizontal  dashed line indicates the predicted brain  IC 90 of pralsetinib for RET 
inhibition in humans  (1514 ng/mL), and the bottom horizontal dashed line indicate the predicted plasma IC 90 of 
pralsetinib for RET inhibition in humans (212 ng/mL). 
Source: Population PK Report BLUE201906. 
Exposure-response relationships 
The relation between pralsetinib exposure and efficacy measures (PFS and CNS PD) and grade 3+ 
adverse event (AEs) (pneumonia, anaemia, hypertension and lymphopenia ) were evaluated using 
time-dependent Cox-proportional hazard models. The time-varying exposure was defined as the 
average exposure in the 28-day period before a safety event or as the average exposure between 
measures of efficacy. The summary metric, average plasma concentration (Cave), was the primary 
exposure metric and the hazard was evaluated following an increase in C ave by 400 ng/mL (Cave400). 
The results of the models were concordant with  the results presented in the clinical study report.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 54/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Absorption  
Table 14. Summary of Pralsetinib pharmacokinetics in patients with NSCLC  and healthy 
subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 55/139 
 
 
 
 
   
Abbreviations: AUC0-∞ = area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity; AUC0-24 = area 
under  the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to 24 hours  post-dose; AUC0-last = area under the plasma 
concentration-time curve from time 0 to the last measurable concentration above the lower limit of quantitation; 
CL/F = apparent  oral clearance, unadjusted  for bioavailability; Cmax = maximum plasma concentration; %CV = 
percent coefficient of variation; GeoMean = geometric mean; N = number  of subjects  i n the pharmacokinetic 
population; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; QD = once daily; Tmax = time of maximum plasma concentration; 
t1/2 = apparent  elimination half-life; Vz/F = apparent volume of distribution  during the terminal phase, unadjusted 
for bioavailability.  
a Median (range) for Tmax and arithmetic mean (standard deviation) for t1/2.   
Source: NCA PK Report BLUE201904,  Table 5, Table 6; CSR BLU-667-0101, Table 11-2; CSR BLU-667-0102, Table 
11-2; CSR BLU-667-0103, Table 11-3; CSR BLU-667-0104, Table 11-3, Table 11-6; CSR BLU-667-0105,  Table 11-
2.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 56/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Absolute bioavailability 
No absolute bioavailability study in humans was conducted. 
Relative  bioavailability/Bioequivalence 
The median time to  peak concentration (Tmax) ranged from 2.0 to 4.0  hours following  single doses of 
pralsetinib 60 mg to 600  mg (0.15 to 1.5  times the recommended dose of 400mg) (Table 14). 
Pralsetinib Cmax and AUC increased inconsistently over the  dose range of 60 mg to 600  mg once daily 
(0.15  to 1.5 times the recommended dose); PK was linear in the  dose range of 200  and 400  mg in 
healthy volunteers. Pralsetinib plasma concentrations reached steady state by 3 to 5 days.   
At the recommended dose of 400 mg once daily under fasting conditions, the  mean steady state Cmax 
of pralsetinib was 2830  ng/mL and the mean steady state area under the concentration -time curve 
(AUC0-24h)  was 43900  h•ng/mL.  The mean accumulation ratio was ~2-fold after repeated dosing. 
The relative bioequivalence studies showed that  the exposure was larger for capsules of process II 
compared with  process I, and a non-clinically relevant larger Cmax for capsules of process III 
compared with  process II. In the target popula tion, capsules of process I were used for the dose 
escalation part of study 1101,  whereas capsules of process II were primarily used for the extension 
part of the study. The majority of the efficacy and safety is based on treatment with  capsules of 
process II. The capsules for marketing are from process III. No clinically relevant differences between 
exposure of capsule II and III are evident.  
Influence of food 
In study BLU-667-0101  the effect of food was examined. The study was an open-label, randomized, 2-
period crossover study in 20 healthy adults (7 female and 13 male). The objective was to compare the 
PK of pralsetinib given as a single 200 mg dose when  administered with  or without  a standardized 
high-fat  meal. Blood samples for analysis of pralsetinib in plasma were taken at prespecified time 
points for up to 192  hours after administration. Following  administration of a single dose of 200 mg 
pralsetinib with  a high-fat  meal (approximately 800  to 1000 calories with  50 to  60% of calories from 
fat), the  mean (90% CI) Cmax of pralsetinib was increased by 104%  (65%, 153%),  the mean (90% 
CI) area under the  plasma concentration vs time curve from time 0 to infinity  (AUC0-∞) was increased 
by 122% (96%,  152%), and the median Tmax was delayed from 4  to 8.5 hours, compared to the 
fasted state (Figure 17, Table 14). 
Comparing Cmax and AUC0-∞ after administration  of 400  mg pralsetinib from study 1101  (2 hours 
fasting before and 1 hour after intake of pralsetinib in NSCLC patients)  and study 0102,  0104  and 0105 
(intake of pralsetinib after an overnight fast in healthy volunteers), Cmax was 38 -61%  higher and 
AUC0-∞ was 8-22%  higher when fasting was 2 hours compared with  administration of pralsetinib after 
an overnight fast. The difference is considered to be caused by the difference between healthy subjects 
and NSCLC patients. A simulation-based analysis revealed no clinically relevant changes in  exposure 
when pralsetinib is administered after at least 2 hours of fasting  and 1  hour before the  next meal and 
when administered after 10 hours of fasting.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 57/139 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17. Mean  plasma  concentration-time profiles after administration of 200mg 
pralsetinib under fasted  and fed conditions  
Abbreviations: BLU-667= pralsetinib. Note: The data for fed conditions are offset to the right to enhance clarity. 
Source: CSR BLU-667-0101 
Distribution 
In patients with  NSCLC treated with  pralsetinib at  a dose of 400  mg, the volume of distribution  was 
228 L  after single dose and 268  L at steady state  indicating that  pralsetinib was extensively distributed 
to tissue. The geometric mean apparent volume of distribution  during the  terminal phase, unadjusted 
for bioavailability (Vz/F) was similar in patients with  NSCLC and healthy subjects. In the clinical mass -
balance study in healthy subjects, the blood-to-plasma ratio was 0.6-0.7  and in vitro studies showed a 
high level of protein binding  (see section 2.3.3 Pharmacokinetics). 
Elimination 
Study BLU-667-0103  was an open-label study to  assess the absorption, metabolism, excretion, and 
mass-balance of [14C] pralsetinib after a single oral dose in 6 healthy adult  male subjects. In the mass 
balance study, T½  of pralsetinib was 12.7 hours, and clearance was 13.4L/h  for pralsetinib. In the 
NSCLC population (study BLU-667-1101),  T½ was 14.7 hours after a single dose of 400  mg and and 
22.2  hours following multiple  doses of 400 mg pralsetinib. Clearance was 9.1  L/h at steady state 
(Table 14). The mean total  recovery of the administered radioactivity was 78.6%,  6.06%  in urine 
(4.8%  as unchanged) and 72.5% in  faeces (66% as unchanged), indicating  that  excretion in faeces 
was the major elimination pathway for [14C]pralsetinib in humans.  
Different half-life between pralsetinib (13 hours) and total radioactivity (20 hours) were observed.  
Metabolism 
A small proportion of pralsetinib was metabolised after the  single oral dose of [14C]pr alsetinib (study 
BLU-667-0103).  Pralsetinib oxidative metabolism was mainly mediated by CYP3A4 (phase I), with 
minor contribution of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6. The phase II metabolism was mainly catalysed by UGT1A4, 
with  minor contribution of UGT1A1 and UGT1A3. In the  mass balance study, around 5% of the 
radioactivity in  plasma was represented by metabolites of pralsetinib. The main metabolite was made 
by glucuronidation (M709),  whereas the minor metabolites (M453  and M549b)  were made by 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 58/139 
 
 
 
 
oxidation. In faeces and urine, pralsetinib accounted for the majority of the radioactivity, 96.4%  and 
91.5%  respectively, and demonstrated that the  majority of the parent drug was excreted unchanged.  
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality 
In healthy subjects there was a dose proportional increase in exposure, whereas this  was not  the case 
in patients  with NSCLC, neither at  single dose or at steady state (Table 14).  Although only few 
individuals received doses lower or higher than  400 mg, the exposure more than  doubled for an 
increase in dose of 100  mg over the  range 200 to  400 mg.  
Time dependency 
The exposure at steady state was around two-fold  for doses of 100,  200, 300  and 400 mg compared 
with  exposure for single dose (Table 14). There was no indication that  this  2-fold higher exposure was 
dose dependent. After a single dose of 400  mg in NSCLC patients, apparent elimination half-life (t1/2) 
was 15 hours and at steady state, the  t1/2 was 22 hours. However, trough concentrations were similar 
when steady state  was reached.  
Special populations 
Inter-individual  variability 
A higher interindividual  variability was seen in the NSCLC population  compared with healthy subjects. 
Interindividual variability (%CV) in the population  parameter estimates of CL/F  and V/F  was 48%  and 
46.9%,  respectively. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
The mean plasma concentration-time curves after single dose and at steady state in the NSCLC 
subjects are shown in Figure 18. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 59/139 
 
 
 
Figure 18. Mean  plasma  concentration-time profiles of pralsetinib in patients with NSCLC 
Abbreviations: C1D1= Cycle 1 Day 1 (single dose); Cycle 1 Day 15 (steady state); N= number of patients with 
data; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer. Source: NCA PK Report BLUE201904 
In the patient  population (NSCLC subjects) as in healthy volunteers, pralsetinib was rap idly absorbed. 
The exposure was markedly larger in the NSCLC population compared with  healthy volunteers. 
Clearance was similar in NSCLC patients  and healthy subjects and varied from 12 -14  L/h.  
Renal impairment 
Only 6% of pralsetinib is excreted in the  urine, and the  pop-PK model showed that  none of the 
parameters of kidney function had statistically significant  effects on PK parameters. No subjects with 
severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease were included in the studies and therefore no data 
on these patients are available. 
Hepatic  impairment 
Pralsetinib is mainly metabolised in the liver, however, in  the pop PK analysis, markers of hepatic 
impairment were not  statistically significant in the  model. No subjects with  moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment were included in the  studies and therefore no data on these patients are available.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 60/139 
 
 
 
 
Gender, race,  body size, age 
No differences between gender regarding PK parameters were observed.  
Asian subjects (n=50)  had a 7%  higher increase in Cmax at steady state, whereas the AUC at  steady 
state was comparable to patients of white,  black, other or unknown race (n=304).  
In the pop PK analysis, none of the markers of body size were statistically significant  in the model after 
adjusting for other covariates. 
Based on the pop PK model, elderly subjects had a lower clearance and thereby a higher exposure to 
pralsetinib. The exposure increased by 15% in subjects of 80 years compared with subjects of 60 
years. 
The mean age of subjects included in the model was  49 years with a range of 19 to  87 years. Out of 
161 patients,  60 patients were 65 years or above with  the majority between 65  and 74 years of age.   
Age 65-74 
Age 75-84 
Age 85+ 
(Older subjects number 
(Older subjects number 
(Older subjects number 
/total number) 
/total number) 
/total number) 
PK Trials 
52/161 
6/161 
2/161 
No data in paediatric subjects has been obtained.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Potential  effect of pralsetinib on other active  substances  
In-vitro studies showed that  pralsetinib had potential for reversible inhibition of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9, 
for gut inhibition  of CYP3A4/5, for time-dependent inhibition  of CYP3A4/5 at clinically relevant 
concentrations (see section 2.3.3  Pharmacokinetics). The EMA Guideline on investigation of drug 
interactions recommends in vivo studies if in vivo inhibition  cannot be excluded based on the  Ki. The 
inhibitory potential  of pralsetinib (IC 50) for P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, MATE1, and 
MATE2-K exceeded the EMA regulatory thresholds (Table 15).  However, none of these findings were 
further investigated in vivo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 61/139 
 
 
 
 
Table 15. Evaluation  of transporter-mediated  drug-drug interaction potential  for pralsetinib 
Abbreviations: BCRP = breast cancer resistance  protein; BSEP = bile salt efflux pump; EMA = European  Medicines 
Agency; FDA = Food and Drug Administration; IC50 = half -maximal inhibitory concentration; Ki = inhibition 
constant; MATE = multidrug and toxin extrusion protein; MDCK = Madin-Darby canine kidney; MDR1 = multidrug-
resistant-1 gene; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; OAT = organic  anion transporter; OATP = organic  anion 
transporting  polypeptide; P-gp = P-glycoprotein.  
Note: Cmax = 2830  ng/mL (5.304 μM) (at recommended Phase 2 dose of 400  mg once  daily for patients with 
NSCLC in Study BLU-667-1101).  
a Igut (molar concentration  of pralsetinib in gut) = 2999  μM, calculated by dividing 400  mg by 250  mL and based on 
molecular weight of 533.6 g/mol; b Ki = IC50 / 2;  c R = 1 + ((fu,pIin,max) / IC50), where fu,p (2.9%) is the 
unbound  fraction in plasma and Iin,max is the estimated maximum plasma inhibitor concentration  at the inlet to the 
liver; d Iin,max = Imax, u + [Fa × Fg × Ka × Dose] / Qh, where Fa (fraction of absorbed  dose) = 1, Fg (the fraction 
of absorbed  dose escaping gut wall extraction) = 1, Ka (absorption rate constant) = 0.1 min-1, Qh (total hepatic 
blood flow) = 1.62 L/min, and dose = 400  mg; e Imax,u (maximal unbound  plasma concentration  of the interacting 
drug  at steady state) = 0.154 μM  (ie, 2.9% × 5.304  μM); f Value estimated using  estimated IC50 of 10  μM (Ki = 5 
μM) for OAT1.  
Source: Calculated from data available in Module 2.6.4 based on  FDA Guidance for Industry:  In Vitro Drug 
Interaction  Studies - Cytochrome P450  Enzyme- and  Transporter-Mediated  Drug Interactions, 2020  and European 
Medicines Agency: Guideline on Investigation of Drug Interactions,  2012. 
Active substances that  may  have  an effect on pralsetinib  
Pralsetinib is a dual substrate of P-gp and BCRP, but not  of transporters BSEP, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, MATE1,  MATE2-K, OAT1, or OAT3 in cell-based assays. In vitro studies with recombinant 
human CYP450 enzymes indicated that  Phase I metabolism of pralsetinib is mainly mediated by 
CYP3A4 (see section 2.3.3 Pharmacokinetics). A clinical drug-drug interaction study was conducted to 
investigate the effects of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp (itraconazole) and a strong inducer of 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 62/139 
 
 
 
 
CYP3A and P-gp (rifampin), on the single-dose PK of pralsetinib (Study BLU-667-0104).  The drugs in 
this study were administered under fasting conditions.  
The PK of pralsetinib was evaluated after a single dosage of 200 mg and after concomitant itraconazole 
200 mg QD and resulted in exposure increase, from 593.9 to 1089  ng/ml (about 84%)  based on Cmax 
and from 11380  to 40790  h×ng/mL  (about 250%)  based on AUC0-t, in presence of itraconazole 
(Figure 19).   
Figure 19. Mean  plasma  BLU-667  concentration-time profiles following administration of 
200 mg BLU-667  with and  without coadministration of itraconazole 200mg QD (linear  scale) 
– Part 1 (PK evaluable  population) 
Note: BLU-667 + Itraconazole  is shifted to the right for ease of reading.   
The PK of pralsetinib was evaluated after a single dosage of 400 mg and after concomitant rifampin 
600 mg QD (Figure 20).  The mean exposure of pralsetinib decreased from 1168 to  815.9 ng /ml (about 
30%) based on Cmax and from 31100  to 9842  h×ng/mL (about  68%) based on AUC0 -t  in presence of 
rifampin. In addition, the mean 6β-hydroxycortisol to free cortisol ratio in urine increased from 5.23 to 
25.3-45.2  after concomitant rifampin.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 63/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20. Mean  plasma  BLU-667  concentration-time profiles following administration of 
400 mg BLU-667  with and  without coadministration of rifampin 600mg QD  (linear scale)  – 
Part 2 (PK evaluable  population) 
Note: BLU-667 + Rifampin is shifted to the right for ease of reading.  
Gastric effect 
Pralsetinib is classified as a BCS Class 2 drug substance and the aqueous solubility is strongly pH -
dependent. A clinical study of gastric effect with  the  proton pump  inhibitor (PPI) drug esomeprazole 
resulted in a lower pralsetinib exposure (Cmax and AUC decreased 25% and 15%)  after concomitant 
dosing (Study BLU-667-0105)(Figure  21). The drugs were administered under fasting conditions.  
Figure 21. Mean  plasma  BLU-667  concentration-time profiles following administration of 
400 mg BLU-667  with and  without coadministration of esomeprazole 40mg QD  (linear scale) 
(PK evaluable  population) 
Note: BLU-667 + Esomeprazole is shifted to the right for ease of reading.   
None of the covariates PPI use (N=27),  H2RA use (N=14)  and antacid use (N=8)  were found to  be 
significant in the  final Pop PK model. 
2.3.3.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamics were evaluated in the study of NSCLC patients (study 1101),  which is described in 
detail in section 2.5 Clinical efficacy.  
Mechanism of action 
The mechanism of action of pralsetinib is based on the evidence of non -clinical studies,  PK and 
PK/pharmacodynamic modelling, no human mechanistic data have been provided.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 64/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pralsetinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that  targets RET fusions and mutations, including  V804 
gatekeeper mutations associated with  resistance to other therapies. In the  pharmacodynamic analysis, 
changes in  dual specificity phosphatase 6  (DUSP6) and spr out receptor tyrosine kinase signaling 
antagonist 4 (SPRY4) mRNAs were analysed in tumour tissue for different doses of pralsetinib in  order 
to analyse whether the RET pathway is targeted (Figure 22). 
From tumour tissue, tumour markers were measured pre -treatment and 4 weeks after treatment 
initiation  in 18 out  of 62  patients. The relative change was assessed. The 60 mg QD dose group had an 
increase in DUSP6 and SPRY4, whereas the 200 mg, QD, 300 mg QD, 400 mg QD, 100/100  BID and 
200/100  BID were associated with a decrease in DUSP6 and SPRY4. These results are supportive of a 
dose of at least 200 mg QD, although the  samples are very small in  each group (2 -3 subjects). 
Figure 22. Summary of mitogen-activated  protein kinases  pathway  (dose-escalation  patients 
in safety population) 
Abbreviations: BID= twice daily; DUSP6= dual specificity phosphatase  6; QD= once daily; SPRY4= sprout  receptor 
tyrosine kinase signalling antagonist  4. Notes: Baseline is defined as the last assessment prior  to first dose of 
pralsetinib. Samples collected within Week 4 (±2 weeks) were included. Source: Table 14.4.2.1.1.8 
Secondary pharmacology 
No dedicated QT interval corrected for heart rate (QTc) study was conducted, and a secondary analysis 
of study 1101 therefore serves as the  thorough QTc study  for pralsetinib.   
In 34 patients,  continuous 12-lead ECG recordings were obtained and plasma samples were taken. At 
steady state,  the mean change in QTc was 5.6  ms compared with  baseline. Mean change in QTc varied 
between 4.9 ms and 7.7 ms at all timepoints, and a QTc prolonging effect cannot be ruled out.   
Based on Figure 23, there seems to be an exposure response relationship. The higher concentration 
the greater change in QTc especially for concentrations above 3000 ng/ml.  Even though  the median 
Ctrough at 400  mg dose is 1150 ng/ml,  a large interindividual variation in  exposure is evident, and 
concentrations above 3000 ng/ml could be expected in some patients.   
This is reflected in the SmPC with a relevant warning in  section 4.4  and potential interaction with  other 
QTc prolongating medicinal products in section 4.5.    
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 65/139 
 
 
 
 
Figure 23. Observed  pralsetinib concentration in plasma versus change in QTcF from 
baseline  and 2-sided 90% confidence intervals of the slope 
Abbreviations: CI= confidence interval; QTcF= QT corrected for heart rate by the Fridericia method.  Note: 
Regression line (90% CI), intercept= 19.9  slope= -0.0003 (2-sided 90% CI: -0.0030, 0.0024, p = 0.841) for 
regression  of change in QTcF on pralsetinib plasma concentration  are calculated from a linear mixed-effects model 
with baseline value and plasma concentration  as continuous  covariates, tim e as a categorical factor, and random 
intercept and slope per subject. Source: BLU-667-1101,  Cardiac Safety Report, Figure 17.  
The overall NSCLC safety population treated with  pralsetinib with a starting  dose of 400 mg QD 
(n=281)  from the  ARROW study was included in the investigation of body weight  and QT prolongation. 
15 patients  experienced an AE of QT prolongation. A boxplot of body -weight versus QT prolongation for 
this patient  population did not  indicate any link between baseline body weight and QT p rolongation. 
Figure 24. Box  plots of body weight by QT prolongation 
Relationship between  plasma concentration and  effect 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 66/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A number of E-R analyses were conducted. The following outcomes were assessed: Progression free 
survival, duration of response, best overall response, clinical benefit response, disease control 
response, systemic tumour kinetics and CNS metastases. None of the analysis showed evidence of an 
association between exposure and response, besides the analysis of duration of response when 
stratified by baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status. The lack of E -R 
relationship in the efficacy analysis is indicative of a high  degree of receptor occupancy at low  exposure 
levels. 
With  regards to safety parameters, there was a statistically  significant association between exposure 
and grade 3+pneumonia (Figure 25  and Figure  26) and grade 3+ anaemia and. Furthermore, there 
were indications  of a decrease in haemoglobin and absolute neutrophil count and minor increases in 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) with  increasing exposure to 
pralsetinib.  
Figure 25. Boxplots of grade 3+ pneumonia adverse  events  versus pralsetinib Cave  (Patients 
with NSCLC,  E-R safety  population) 
Abbreviations: Cave= Average plasma concentration; E-R= exposure-response;  N= number  of patients with data; 
NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer. Note: The solid horizontal lines and box heights represent  the median, and 25th 
to 75th  percentiles, respectively. Dots are the outlier data (≥ 1.5 * interquartile range). Number above each box 
specifies the number of patients per group.  P-value from Wilcoxon rank sum test. The width of the box plots is 
proportional to the square root of the number of observations  in that box.  Source: E-R Report BLUE201905,  Figure 
22.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 67/139 
 
 
 
 
Figure 26. Time to grade 3+ pneumonia adverse  events  versus pralsetinib Cave  q uartiles 
(Patients  with NSCLC,  E-R safety  population) 
Abbreviations: Cave= Average plasma concentration; E-R= exposure-response;  G3+= Grade 3+; NSCLC= non-small 
cell lung cancer. Note: Solid lines represent Kaplan-Meier curves, shaded areas represent  95% confidence interval, 
and p-value is derived from a log-rank test. Plots truncated at 18 months. Source: E-R report BLUE201905,  Figure 
23 
A scatterplot of change from baseline haemoglobin value versus C ave is provided in Figure 27. A clear 
trend was apparent, with  a reduction in change from baseline haemoglobin value as C ave increased. 
Similar trends were also evident between change from baseline haemoglobin value and steady state 
exposure metrics on C1D15 (E-R Report BLUE201905).  A 25% reduction in baseline haemoglobin and 
30% increase in ALT is expected in NSCLC patients  re ceiving 400 mg of pralsetinib, according to the 
observed Cave at C1D15. 
Figure 27. Scatterplot of change from baseline  haemoglobin value  versus pralsetinib C ave 
(patients  with NSCLC,  E-R safety  population) 
Abbreviations: ∆= change; Cave= average plasma concentration; E-R= exposure-response;  NSCLC= non-small cell 
lung cancer. Note: Open circles= observations, solid line= linear trend.  Source: E-R report  BLUE201905,  Figure 35.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 68/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Bioanalysis and  models 
The bioanalysis of pralsetinib is well documented and overall acceptable. The Pop PK of pralsetinib was 
described by a 1-compartment linear model with  several absorption transit  compartments depending 
on the capsule manufacturing process.  
The significant covariates included in the final model were Asian race on V/F,  NSCLC patients on F, age 
on CL/F,  concomitant CYP3A4 weak inducer use on F, NSCLC patients  administered capsule Process I 
on F, and capsule Process III on the  absorption transit  rate for HV. Th e effects of CYP3A4 weak inducer 
and Capsule Process 1 on pralsetinib exposure were considered not clinically relevant. The expected 
reduction of CL/F due to age seems plausible. The reduction (26%)  in the V/F in Asian population could 
be related to a lower body weight  in the Asian population. 
Plots of exposure versus weight in NSCLC patients at steady -state (C1D15) showed a clear relation 
between weight and pralsetinib exposure. An effect of weight have been included in the Pop PK model. 
Subgroup analyses investigating the relation between body weight and relevant safety and efficacy 
measures including QTcF did not  indicate any relations. The pvcVPCs showed the model could 
adequately capture the trend of observations in both HV and patients.  
Pop PK simulations indicated that  about 90% and 40%  of NSCLC patients  would maintain adequate 
brain exposure based on Cmax and Ctrough, respectively, during the  dosing interval of 400 mg QD. E -
R relations were explored by means of graphical analysis and time-dependent Cox proportional hazard 
models.  
ADME 
Gavreto is for oral use. Patients  should swallow the hard capsules whole with a glass of water, on an 
empty stomach. Pralsetinib was rapidly absorbed with  a Tmax of 2-4 hours following single doses of 
pralsetinib 60 mg to 600  mg (0.15 to 1.5  times the approved recommended dose). The absorption 
differed substantially when  pralsetinib was taken after 10  hours of fasting and with  a high fat meal. No 
information was provided regarding food effects for the 400 m g dose level. However, the food effect is 
expected to be similar for the highest  dose level (400  mg) as observed in the 200 mg dose level. In 
the phase II study, pralsetinib was administered 2 hours after and 1 hour before food intake, which is 
the recommended administration in the SmPC(see section 4.2 and 5.2 of the SmPC). This method of 
administration was not examined in the  food effect study, but a simulation -based analysis revealed no 
clinically relevant changes in exposure when pralsetinib is administe red after at least 2 hours of fasting 
and 1 hour before the next meal and when administered after 10  hours of fasting (data not shown).  
Distribution,  metabolism and elimination were well described. The volume of distribution  was estimated 
to 228  L after a single dose and 268  L at steady state,  indicating extensive distribution  from plasma 
into tissues, pralsetinib was mainly metabolised by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP2D6 and 
CYP1A2, and was mainly excreted with faeces. However, the mean total  recove ry of administered 
radioactivity in  urine and faeces was only 78.6%.  The mean plasma elimination half -life of pralsetinib 
was 14.7 hours following a single dose of 400 mg (the recommended dose) pralsetinib and 22.2  hours 
following multiple  doses of 400 mg pralsetinib. As metabolites account for 5% or less of TRA, their PK 
has not been evaluated and no additional  information is provided.  
Pharmacokinetics were both measured in healthy volunteers and NSCLC subjects. In NSCLC subjects, 
the exposure to pralsetinib was higher than in healthy volunteers, and the interindividual variability 
was higher. The lack of fasting  in the NSCLC population is likely to  have explained the higher 
interindividual variability in  the population. Due to a mean T½ of 15 hours after s ingle dose and 22 
hours at steady state, a dosing interval of 24  hours is chosen. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 69/139 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations were primarily evaluated in the pop PK model. Consistent with 
the minor excretion in the urine, renal clearance ha d no effect on PK in the pop PK model. Hence no 
dose adjustment  is recommended in patients  with mild or moderate renal impairment.  
No subjects with  severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease. Since pralsetinib elimination  via 
the kidney is negligible, no dose adjustment is required in patients with  severe renal impairment or 
end-stage renal disease.  
Markers of hepatic impairment did not have any impact on PK in the pop PK model. Therefore, no dose 
adjustment is recommended in the SmPC for patients with  mild hepatic impairment.  
No subjects with  moderate or severe hepatic impairment were included in the studies and therefore no 
data on these patients are available and have been included in  the pop PK model, use in  these patients 
is not recommended. This is adequately reflected in section 4.2  in the SmPC. The applicant will conduct 
study GP43163 to characterise the pharmacokinetics of pralsetinib in patients with  hepatic impairment 
(category 3 study in the  RMP). 
With  regards to race, Asian subjects had a 7% higher Cmax than non-Asian subjects, but AUC at 
steady state  was similar across races. The higher Cmax is not  considered clinically relevant. Low 
weight  patients experience markedly higher Cmax exposures than median weight  or obese patients. 
This can be accepted if there is no increased risk for safety events for this  patient subgroup.  
Based on the pop PK model, elderly subjects had a lower clearance and thereby a higher exposure to 
pralsetinib than younger subjects. As such, patients of 80 years had  a 15 % higher exposure compared 
with  patients of 60 years, which is not  considered clinically relevant and no dose adjustment  is 
recommended for patients aged 65 years and above. 
No studies have been conducted in the paediatric population, which is consid ered acceptable.  
Interactions 
Pralsetinib is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4, with  minor contributions  from CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 while 
UGT1A4 is the major enzyme responsible for formation of the N-glucuronide  of pralsetinib. Cell-based 
transporter studies indicated Pralsetinib is also a dual substrate of transporters P -gp/BCRP.  
Pralsetinib was a perpetrator of drug-drug interactions (DDI) in  vitro and none of these findings  were 
further investigated in vivo.  
Co-administration of pralsetinib can alter the exposure of sensitive substrates of CYP enzymes 
(CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C8) and transporters (P -gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, MATE1 and 
MATE2-K). Substrate drugs of these CYP enzymes and transporters with  narrow therapeutic index 
(including,  but not  limited to cyclosporine, paclitaxel and warfarin) should be avoided.  
The applicant is recommended to conduct  clinical interaction studies to evaluate the effect of repeat 
doses of pralsetinib on the PK of sensitive substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9, and of  
transporter substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, MATE-1 and MATE-2K. 
Pralsetinib as a victim of DDI were investigated in vivo with  itraconazole (strong CYP3A and P -gp 
inhibitor)  and with  rifampin (strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer). Co administration of 200 mg pralsetinib 
once daily with  itraconazole 200 mg once daily (a strong CYP3A4 and P - gp inhibitor)  increased 
pralsetinib Cmax by 84% and AUC0-∞ by 251%, compared to pralsetinib administered alone. 
Therefore, co administration  of pralsetinib with  strong CYP3A4 inhibitors  or combined P gp and strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors (including,  but not limited  to, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, ketoconazole, 
itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole nefazodone, grapefruit or Seville oranges) should be avoi ded 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 70/139 
 
 
 
because of the potential increased incidence and severity of adverse reactions of pralsetinib. If co 
administration with  strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or combined P -gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors  cannot be 
avoided, the dose of pralsetinib should be decreas ed (see sections 4.2,  4.4 and 4.5 of the SmPC). 
Table 16:  Recommended dose modifications for Gavreto for co -administration with strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors or combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4  inhibitors 
Current Gavreto dose 
Recommended Gavreto dose 
400  mg orally once daily 
200  mg orally once daily  
300  mg orally once daily 
200  mg orally once daily 
200  mg orally once daily 
100  mg orally once daily 
Co administration of 400 mg pralsetinib as a single dose with  rifampin 600 mg once daily (a strong 
CYP3A4 inducer) decreased pralsetinib Cmax by 30%  and AUC0-∞ by 68%.  Based on a population  PK 
analysis, CYP3A4 weak inducers decreased pralsetinib exposures,  but were not  clinically significant  in 
patients with  NSCLC. Therefore, co administration of pralsetinib with  strong CYP3A4 inducers 
(including,  but not  limited to, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin,  rifampicin and St. 
John’s Wort [Hypericum perforatum]) should be avoided because of the potential dec reased efficacy of 
pralsetinib. If co administration  cannot be avoided, the  dose of pralsetinib should be increased to 
double the current pralsetinib dose starting on Day 7 of co administration of pralsetinib with  the strong 
CYP3A4 inducer. After the strong CYP3A4 inducer has been discontinued  for at least 14 days, the 
pralsetinib dose that  was taken prior to the use of the inducer should be resumed (see sections 4.2, 
4.4 and 4.5  of the SmPC). 
The applicant will conduct a DDI study (study GP43162)  to evalua te the effect of a P-gp inhibitor  on 
the PK of pralsetinib and to inform appropriate dosing strategies for safe coadministration of pralsetinib 
with  P-gp inhibitors (category 3 study in the  RMP).  
The applicant is recommended to assess the  impact of BCRP inhibition,  weak or moderate CYP3A4 
inhibition  with  or without  p-gp  inhibition,  and moderate CYP3A4 induction  using PBPK modelling. 
Pralsetinib is classified as a BCS Class 2 drug substance and the aqueous solubility is strongly pH -
dependent. The effect of concomitant administration of a PPI drug, esomeprazole, was not clinically 
relevant.  
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamics of pralsetinib are well described. In the primary pharmacology study, there 
was a decrease in the tumour markers DUSP6 and SPRY4 after treatment with  doses of at least 200 
mg QD.  
In the E-R analysis there was no clear association between exposure and response with  regards to 
efficacy. The lack of E-R relationship is indicative of a high degree of receptor occupancy at low 
exposure levels. 
In order to support the starting  dose of 400 mg QD, some explorative analyses were performed (data 
not shown).  The analyses indicate that  patients who started on a dose of 400 mg QD and maintained 
this dose had the greatest and most sustained percenta ge reduction in tumour  size over time 
compared with  patients, who were not adherent, had their  dose reduced, or started at a lower dose. 
This finding should, however, be interpreted with  caution, due to the fact that  this finding  is likely to be 
highly confounded by disease severity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 71/139 
 
 
 
 
Systemic tumour size over time data were available at different dose levels in  several patients (data 
not shown).  A model-based analysis showed that  differences in percent change from baseline in 
tumour size by dose reductions and dose interruptions were negligible among the different dose 
regimens evaluated.  
With  regards to safety parameters, there was an E-R relationship for grade 3+ anaemia and grade 3+ 
pneumonia. A 25%  reduction in baseline haemoglobin and 30%  increase in A LT is expected in NSCLC 
patients receiving 400  mg of pralsetinib, according to the observed Cave at C1D15.   
There was a median change in QTc just above 5 ms and a clear exposure -response relationship for 
concentrations above 3000 ng/ml.  The QTc prolongating effect is reflected in the SmPC in section 4.2, 
4.4, 4.5  and 4.8.  
2.3.5.  
Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall, the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics were well described.  
2.3.6.  
Clinical efficacy 
The primary evidence of efficacy of pralsetinib comes from the  pivotal ARROW study (BLU-667-1101), 
an ongoing phase I/II, open-label, first-in-human,  multi-cohort, single-arm trial in patients with 
advanced, unresectable RET-altered solid tumours. A tabular overview of this  study is depicted in 
(Table 17). 
Table 17. Tabular overview  of ARROW (BLU-667-1101) 
Study ID/ 
# Study 
Study 
Study Design  Populations 
Dose/Dosing 
# Patients/ 
Status 
Centres/ 
Objective(s) 
Regimen 
Subjects 
Countries 
BLU-667-1101 
80 centres/ 14 
Primary 
Phase I/II, 
(ARROW) 
countries: 
objectives: 
NCT03037385 
open- label, 
multicentre, 
Patients ≥ 18 
years with 
advanced a, 
Phase I: 
647  patients 
BOIN dose-escalation 
overall, 
design of BLU-667 
585  received 
Belgium, China 
Phase I: 
dose-
unresectable, 
capsules 
400  mg QD, of 
EudraCT  2016-
France, 
Determine the 
escalation, first- 
administered orally 
which 233 
004390-41 
Germany, Hong 
MTD/RP2D and 
in-human study 
RET-altered 
with a target toxicity 
patients had 
Kong, Italy, 
safety 
with expansion 
NSCLC, MTC, or 
rate for the MTD of 
RET-fusion 
Phase I: 
complete 
Korea, 
into 
other RET 
30%. Cohorts of 3-6 
positive 
Netherlands, 
Phase II: 
altered solid 
patients (1-3 patients 
NSCLC 
Singapore, 
Efficacy and 
Phase II at the 
tumours 
for the first 3 dose 
(including 75 
Phase II: 
Spain, 
safety 
MTD/RP2D 
levels) were enrolled 
who were 
ongoing; data 
Switzerland, 
cut-off date of 6 
Taiwan, UK, USA 
Primary efficacy 
November 2020. 
endpoint is ORR 
until 12 patients were 
treatment-
treated and evaluable 
naïve and  136 
for DLT at 1 dose 
who previously 
level 
received 
platinum-
Phase II: 
based chemo-
BLU-667 capsules at 
therapy) 
400  mg QD 
(MTD/RP2D) 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 72/139 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: BOIN= Bayesian optimal interval; DLT= Dose-limiting toxicity; MTC= medullary thyroid cancer; 
MTD= Maximum tolerated dose; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; ORR= overall response  rate; QD= once daily; 
RET= rearranged  during  transfection; RPD2D= Recommended Phase 2 dose 
2.3.7.  
Dose response study 
Dose-response and exposure-response regarding efficacy and safety from the ARROW study have 
already been depicted and discussed in section 2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics.  
2.3.8.  
Main study 
ARROW (study BLU-667-1101)  
The study design consists of a dose escalation phase (phase I) to  determine the maximum tolerated 
dose (MTD)  and recommended phase 2  dose (RP2D) of pralsetinib and an ongoing dose expansion 
phase (phase II) to  assess clinical efficacy of pralsetinib in spe cific tumour  types and treatment 
settings across 9 cohorts, and further define safety and tolerability at the RP2D, i.e., 400  mg QD. 
Figure 28 depicts the  study schematic of ARROW. 
Figure 28. ARROW study schematic 
Abbreviations: BOIN: Bayesian optimal interval; MKI = multikinase inhibitor; MTD = Maximum tolerated dose; MTC 
= medullary thyroid cancer; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; RET = rearranged  during transfection; TKI = 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Note: Ongoing  Groups 8 and 9 (NSCLC and MTC patients in centres  in China only), 
introduced  with Protocol Amendment 8 (20 December 2018), also contribute data in the safety analysis, but not in 
the efficacy analysis (they started enrolment after 11  July 2019).   
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 73/139 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Approximately 587 patients will  be enrolled in the study, including  62 in Phase I (dose escalation, 
completed) and approximately 525  in Phase II (dose expansion, ongoing) across 80 centres from 14 
countries: Belgium, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, 
Switzerland, Taiwan, UK and USA. 
Main  inclusion criteria (patients from phase  I and Groups 1 and  2 from phase II)  
●  Patient is ≥ 18  years of age and provides informed consent. 
●  Phase I – Pathologically documented, definitively diagnosed non-resectable advanced solid tumour. 
All patients treated at doses > 120  mg per day must have MTC, or a RET -altered solid tumour per 
local assessment of tumour  tissue and/or blood. Phase I enrichment patients must have MTC or a 
RET-altered solid tumour per local assessment of tumour tissue and/or blood.  
●  Phase II – All patients (with  the exception of Groups 3,  4 and 9) must have an oncogenic RET fusion 
or mutation (excluding synonymous, frameshift, and nonsense mutations) solid tumour,  as 
determined by local testing of tumour or circulating tumour nucleic acid in blood (Next  Generation 
Sequencing, fluorescence in situ  hybridization, other). 
o  Group 1  – patients must have pathologically documented, definitively diagnosed locally 
advanced or metastatic  NSCLC with a RET fusion previously treated with  a platinum -based 
chemotherapy. 
o  Group 2  – patients must have pathologically documented, definitively diagnosed locally 
advanced or metastatic  NSCLC with a RET fusion not previously treated with  a platinum -based 
chemotherapy, including those who have not had any systemic therapy. Prior platinum 
chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant setting  is perm itted if the last dose of platinum 
was 4 months or more before the first dose of study drug. 
●  Patients must have non-resectable disease. For Phase I only, patients  must have progressed 
following standard therapy or have not adequately responded to standard  therapy, or the patient 
must be intolerant to,  or the Investigator has determined that  treatment with  standard therapy is 
not appropriate, or there must be no accepted standard therapy for their disease.  
●  Dose expansion (Phase II) patients in groups 1, 2, 3,  4, 6, 8, and 9 must have measurable disease 
per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1.   
●  Patient agrees to provide tumour  tissue (archived, if available or a fresh biopsy) for RET status 
confirmation and is willing to consider an on-treatment  tumour biopsy, if considered safe and 
medically feasible by the treating Investigator.  
●  Patient has Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 0 -1. 
Main  exclusion criteria 
●  Patient’s cancer has a known primary driver alteration other than  RET. For example, NSCLC with a 
targetable mutation in EGFR,  ALK, ROS1, or BRAF. 
●  Inadequate haematologic and/or end-organ function. 
●  QTcF > 470  msec or personal/familial history of prolonged QT syndrome or Torsades de pointes.  
●  Significant, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 74/139 
 
 
 
●  CNS metastases associated with  progressive neurological symptoms or requiring increasing doses of 
corticosteroids to control the  CNS disease. 
●  Clinically symptomatic ILD or interstitial pneumonitis,  including radiation pneumonitis. 
●  Patient received the following anticancer therapy: 
o  Any systemic anticancer therapy (except for immunotherapy or other antibody therapies) and all 
forms of radiotherapy, within  14 days or 5 half-lives prior to the  first dose of study drug. BLU-
667 may be started within  these washout periods if considered by the Investigator to be safe 
and within  the best interest of the patient,  with prior Sponsor approval.  
o  Any immunotherapy or other antibody therapy within  28 days prior to the first d ose of study 
drug (immune related toxicities must  have resolved to < Grade 2 prior to  starting BLU -667). 
●  Previous treatment with  a selective RET inhibitor  such as LOXO -292. 
●  History of another primary malignancy that  has been diagnosed or required therapy ( except 
maintenance anti-hormonal therapy) within  the past year. 
●  Pregnancy, breastfeeding, or unwillingness to employ contraception.  
Treatments 
Dose and mode of administration:  In Phase I, patients  received pralsetinib orally in a QD schedule 
at doses of 30, 60,  100, 200,  300, 400,  and 600 mg, and in a BID schedule at doses of 100/100  mg 
and 200/100  mg. In Phase II, all patients  received pralsetinib orally in a QD schedule at a  dose of 400 
mg. 
Duration of treatment:  A treatment cycle is 28 days in duration. There was no predefined maximum 
duration of treatment. Reasons for discontinuation of pralsetinib included disease progression, toxicity, 
noncompliance, pregnancy, withdrawal  of consent, death, or closure of the study by the Sponsor. 
Patients with  progressive disease (PD) could remain on treatment if in the  opinion of the  Investigator 
the patient  has benefited from the pralsetinib therapy, and it  was clearly in the  best medical  interest of 
the patient  to remain on treatment. 
Modification of dose or treatment  schedule (phase  II):  Pralsetinib dose reductions by 100  mg 
were permitted in  case of ≥Grade 3 AEs, but  not below 100 mg QD (total dose). If a patient  required 
dose reduction below such dose levels, study  treatment was to be discontinued.  Doses could be 
interrupted for study-drug related toxicities for up to 28 days (4 weeks). In general, if a study drug -
related toxicity did  not resolve to ≤ Grade 2 or has not returned to base line after dose interruption for 
more than  28 days, the patient  would be discontinued from study treatment.  AEs of pneumonitis, 
hyperphosphatemia or hypertension had specific advice for dose modification.  
Objectives 
Primary objectives 
1.  To determine the ORR by RECIST v1.1 by disease type, and/or RET-altered status (including 
patients treated at MTD/RP2D in Phase I), and/or prior treatment status  specified in enrolment 
group definition, if appropriate. 
2.  To further define the safety and tolerability of pralsetinib. 
Secondary objectives 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 75/139 
 
 
 
1.  To assess additional measures of clinical benefit including DOR, clinical benefit rate (CBR), disease 
control rate (DCR), PFS, and OS in  all patients by disease type and/or RET -altered status,  and/or 
prior treatment  status explained in enrolment group definition, if appropriate. Patients treated at 
MTD/RP2D in Phase I will be pooled with  Phase II patients for this  analysis.  
2.  To assess baseline RET gene status  in plasma and/or tumour tissue and correlate with  measures of 
antineoplastic activity including,  but not limited  to ORR, CBR, DOR, and DCR in  all patients, 
including patients  treated at MTD/RP2D in Phase I, by disease type, and/or RET -altered status if 
applicable, and/or prior specified treatment status if appropriate. 
3.  To characterize the PK profile of pralsetinib and correlate drug exposure with safety assessments, 
including changes in ECG intervals, and efficacy.  
4.  To characterize the pharmacodynamics of pralsetinib, including, but  not limited to,  changes in blood 
calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen in  MTC patients only. 
Exploratory objectives 
1.  To identify potential new blood and tumour tissue biomarkers (e.g., DNA, RNA, and/or protein 
markers) of pharmacodynamic activity, antineoplastic activity, and/or toxicity. 
2.  To assess changes in quality of life (QoL) questionnaire. 
3.  To explore disease-related symptoms, as measured by bowel movement history (MTC  patients 
only). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
Overall response rate (ORR): defined as the proportion of patients with  a confirmed response 
(complete reponse (CR) or partial response (PR) for at least two assessments with  at least 28 days 
apart and no PD in between) before PD and/or other anticancer therapy. Each patient’s best overall 
response (BOR) will  be derived based on RECIST v1.1. 
*Frequency of imaging: disease response assessment by CT or MRI was performed at screening and on 
D1 of every other cycle, starting with  C3, i.e., Q8W. 
Key secondary endpoints 
●  Duration of response (DOR): defined as the time from first documented response (CR/PR) to the 
date of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.  
●  Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR): defined as the rate of CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) th at  has been 
lasting at least 16  weeks from the first dose date.  
●  Disease Control Rate (DCR): defined as the proportion of patients with  a confirmed CR/PR, or SD, 
per RECIST v1.1. 
●  Progression free survival (PFS): defined as the time from the first dose of B LU-667  to the date of 
first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.  
●  Overall survival (OS): defined as the time from the first dose of BLU-667  to the date of death due 
to any causes. 
Sample size 
For the NSCLC patients  included in the CSR, the  sample size calculation was prospectively defined as:  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 76/139 
 
 
 
●  Group 1:  approximately 80 RET-fusion NSCLC  patients who previously received treatment with a 
platinum-based chemotherapy will provide > 95%  power at the  2-sided significance level of 0.05 for 
testing  the assumption of the null hypothesis ORR=0.23 versus the alternative ORR=0.5.  
●  Group 2:  The sample size of approximately 170 treatment naïve (1st line) RET -fusion NSCLC 
patients will  provide >90% power at the 2-sided significance level of 0.05 for testing the 
assumption of the null hypothesis ORR=0.48 versus the alternative ORR=0.61.  
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
BLU-667-1101  is a phase I/II, open-label, single arm study. Therefore, randomisation and blinding are 
not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 77/139 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Analysis populations 
●  Safety Population: All patients who  were exposed to ≥ 1 dose of pralsetinib, regardless of starting 
dose or cancer diagnosis on or before 06 November 2020.  The Safety Population will be the primary 
population for safety analysis unless otherwise specified. 
●  Efficacy Population: NSCLC patients  in the safety population  who were dosed on or before 22 May 
2020.  The efficacy population was the primary population  for efficacy analysis unless otherwise 
specified and corresponds to the “intent  to treat”  population. Patients initial ly treated with 
MTD/RP2D will be pooled with  Phase II patients.   
●  Response-evaluable Population: NSCLC efficacy population patients who had measurable (target) 
disease per RECIST v1.1 at baseline as per blinded independent central review (BICR), ≥ 1 
evaluable post-baseline disease response assessment performed as per BICR, and had no major 
protocol violations that  would impact the interpretation  of the  key endpoints of the study.  The 
response-evaluable population was used for the primary efficacy endpoint  as a sensitivity analysis 
for ORR, CBR, and DCR.  
The major protocol deviations leading to exclusion from the response -evaluable population were:  
o  Patient had incomplete baseline imaging. 
o  Patient was in Group 1, 2, 5, 6, or 7 and does not  have evidence of a RET mutation  or fusion. 
o  Patient had another known primary driver alteration other than RET identified by central 
ctDNA/tumour assay.  
Primary endpoint 
ORR and its  two-sided 95% CI, which is based on the exact binomial distribution  (Clopper-Pearson), 
was presented. The BOR was summarized by count and frequency for each category: CR, PR, SD, PD, 
or not evaluable (NE).  Patients without  disease assessments were imputed with  NE  as their BOR.  
Secondary endpoints 
PFS was analysed using Kaplan-Meier methods, the estimated median with two-sided  95% CI and 25th 
and 75th  percentiles were provided. The confidence interval calculation was based on identity ( i.e., 
linear) transformation. PFS at specific time-points (e.g., 3-,  6-, 9-, 12-,  18-, 24-,  30-month  etc. every 
6-month  after 12-month)  was computed, along with the  standard errors using Greenwood’s formula 
(Klen, 2003).  PFS was also displayed with  Kaplan-Meier (K-M)  plots. 
DOR was analysed using K-M methods and included the estimated median with  two-sided 95% CI and 
25th  and 75th percentiles. DOR at specific time -points (e.g., 3-,  6-, 9-, 12-,  18-, 24-,  30-month etc.) 
was computed, along with  the standard errors using Greenwood’s formula (Klen, 2003).  Additionally, 
the proportion of patients with  DOR of at least 3, 6, 9, 12,  18, 24, and 30  months were summarized 
regardless of censoring status. DOR was also displayed with  K -M plots. 
CBR was analysed and summarized using the same methods as ORR. 
OS was analysed and summarized in the same manner as for PFS based on Safety Population.  Patients 
who are still  alive or lost to follow-up will  be censored at the  last known alive date . The last date 
known alive is defined as the last non-imputed  date of any patient record prior to or on the da ta cut-off 
date in the clinical database. It  can be the last visit date or last contact date that  the patient is known 
to be alive. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 78/139 
 
 
 
Table 18. Duration of response (DOR)  and progression free survival (PFS)  censoring rules  
Multiplicity Adjustment 
No multiplicity  adjustment is planned in this  study. 
Changes  from the planned analysis in protocol 
Efficacy Population is not used in this  statistical analysis plan (SAP) and analysis since Safety 
Population is applied for overall population and each pre-specified subgroup. The definition for efficacy 
population for each pre-specified subgroup is the same as the definition based on Safety Population. 
NSCLC patients tested with  ODxTT test  is added as an ODxTT sub -population  in this SAP. RET-fusion 
positive NSCLC with measurable (target) lesions in CNS/brain patients, including  brainstem and 
cerebellum, and without  radiotherapy and radiosurgery 2 months  before study drug, will be included 
into CNS metastases sub-population. 
Patients are grouped based on different grouping rules respectively. For example, the grouped starting 
dose will  be based on patients’ starting treatment  dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 79/139 
 
 
 
 
CNS metastases activity analysis is added as an exploratory analysis. The exploratory analysis on 
medical history, prior or concomitant  medication, and time to  event for pneumonitis, pneumonia, and 
hypertension are added, respectively. 
Treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE), related TEAE, serious adverse event (SAE), and related 
SAE will  be analysed by 1) prior PD-1/PD-L1 status for RET-fusion NSCLC patients  treated at 400 mg 
QD, 2) by selected subgroups, RET-fusion NSCLC, MTC,  others, and all Safety Population treated at 
400 mg QD. 
Changes  from SAP version 1.0. 
The definition for Efficacy Population is added to  the  SAP. The Efficacy Population is defined as a subset 
of the Safety Population who were dosed on or before 22  May 2020.This  modification was based on 
feedback received from FDA. Specifically, to  allow sufficient  follow up time from initial  response amon g 
responders. 
CNS metastases activity analysis is using only lesions in  CNS/brain. The CNS ORR which is based on 
CNS/brain lesions will  be provided. However, the analysis for PFS and DOR which are based on 
CNS/brain lesions are removed. 
The analysis of DOR across RET-altered status,  and tumour types, i.e.,  RET-fusion NSCLC,  RET-fusion 
papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), MTC, and others, are added as a supportive analysis.  
Three adverse events of special interest (AESI) categories, pneumonia AESI, pneumonitis AE SI, and 
tumour lysis syndrome AESI are added. Additional analysis for the AESIs are defined.  
One grouped term neutropenia, which include neutropenia, neutrophil count decreased, is also added. 
The analysis for grouped neutropenia will  follow the same analy sis method for AESIs. The exploratory 
time to hevent analysis for a single preferred term hypertension will also be provided.  
The summary analysis of demographics, medical history, prior and concomitant medication, prior 
anticancer therapies, dose modification will  be provided for the AESIs. 
The laboratory parameter creatinine will  be graded with  NCI CTCAE version 5.0 to correct the  grading 
error for this  specific laboratory test  used in CTCAE version 4.03. 
Results 
The applicant has submitted  efficacy results from 233  RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients from both 
phase I (dose escalation) and II (Groups 1, 2 and 8) whose treatment at the proposed starting  dose of 
pralsetinib of 400 mg QD started on or before 22 May 2020.  From these, 158  have  received previous 
treatment (136  with  platinum chemotherapy and 22 with  non-platinum  systemic treatment), while  75 
were treatment-naïve. The efficacy dataset includes all data reported from these patients up to a cut-
off of 6  November 2020. This cut-off was chosen to allow sufficient follow-up time from initial response 
among responders. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 80/139 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Table 19Patient  Disposition (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at  400 mg 
QD,  Efficacy Population)  
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Notes: a 
No patients discontinued  treatment due to death, loss to follow-up, protocol deviation, pregnancy, 
administrative/other, or sponsor  decision. b No patients discontinued  study follow-up due to protocol deviation, 
pregnancy,  investigator’s decision, or sponsor  decision. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment  cut-off 
date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Table 14.1.2.1.4.2 
Recruitment 
The first patient was enrolled on 17  March 2017 and the last patient  enrolled for the efficacy dataset 
was on 22 May 2020, with  a data cut-off date of 6 November 2020 (cut-off  for interim analysis: 18 
November 2019  data cut-off  with  11 July 2019 enrolment cut-off and 22 May 2020  data cut-off with  11 
Jul 2019  enrolment cut-off).  
Conduct of the study 
Among all 233  patients in the  efficacy population, median follow-up is 17.1  months, and 75.5%  of 
patients are censored.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 81/139 
 
 
 
 
Table 20:  Protocol deviations (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated  at 400 mg 
QD,  Efficacy Population) – (Data  cut-off date  6 November  2020) 
Reasons for screen failures for 61  patients were provided (not  shown in this report). It is likely that 
there were more patients  who did not undergo ‘formal’ screening since RET -testing after ‘pre-
screening’ did not  yield favourable results for participation. 
A total of 41 patients in  the efficacy population of NSCLC had at  least one major protocol  deviation. 
Most  major deviations are procedural and it  is likely they would not have a significant impact on 
efficacy or safety, although a minority might have compromised optimal response assessment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 82/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 21: Patient  Demographics (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive  NSCLC Treated  at 400 
mg QD, Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection; StdDev= 
standard  deviation. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020. Source: Table 
14.1.3.1.4.2 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 83/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Table 22Baseline  Disease  Characteristics (Patients with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated 
at 400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CNS= central nervous system; ECOG= eastern cooperative oncology group; NSCLC= non-small cell 
lung cancer; QD= once  daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection.  Notes: a Patients with a baseline ECOG 
performance status score of 2 were allocated up until protocol amendment 4.1;  b Target/non-target lesion location 
was based on central image data. Selected lesion locations for this table are based  on occurrence  in >10%  overall;  c 
Patient had  recurrent  NSCLC and was considered  unfit for surgery  based on age and  clinical considerations;  d 
“Other” includes 20  patients with unknown  fusion partner, as well as 7 with know fusion partners  of AFF2, EML4, 
TRIM24,  ZBTB5, CCDC186, ANKRD25, KIAA1468.  Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 
May 2020. Source: Table 14.1.4.1.4.2 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 84/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
RET fusions were detected in 79.4%  of patients  using next generation sequencing (NGS) (42.9% 
tumour samples; 15.9%  blood or plasma samples, 20.6%  unknown), 18.0%  using FISH, and 2.6% 
using other methods.  
Table 23. Prior Antineoplastic Therapies (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated 
at 400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection.  
Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Table 14.1.6.1.4.2 
Only 66% (84 out  of 128  available samples from the  original efficacy dataset N=132,  data cut-off 18 
November 2019)  of centrally-tested pre-treatment ctDNA samples were concordant with  local testing 
techniques that  had determined RET positivity. However, this  might be attributed  –at least in part– to 
low sensitivity of ctDNA testing, which  is conversely highly specific. 
Numbers analysed 
The safety population includes all patients treated with  pralsetinib at 400 mg QD up to data cut -off 6 
November 2020  (see section 2.6 Clinical safety). The efficacy populatio n includes those who had 
started treatment on or before 22 May 2020 (enrolment cut-off date), which  allows for sufficient 
follow-up to assess response up to data cut-off  date on 6 November 2020. 
Table 24. Analysis Populations (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at  400 mg 
QD) 
Patient Group 
RET-fusion NSCLC 
Prior systemic treatment 
Prior platinum treatment 
No prior platinum treatment 
Prior non-platinum systemic treatment 
No prior systemic treatment 
Efficacy Population - n (%) 
Safety Population - n (%) 
233 (100) 
158 (67.8) 
136 (58.4) 
97 (41.6) 
22 (9.4) 
75 (32.2) 
281 (100) 
165 (58.7) 
141 (50.2) 
140 (49.8) 
24 (8.5) 
116 (41.3) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; QD = once daily; RET = rearranged  during  transfection. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 85/139 
 
 
 
 
Note: Percentages are based on the number of patients in each population.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint – ORR 
Table 25. Summary of Best Overall  Response (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC 
Treated  at 400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CI= confidence interval; NSCLC= non-small cell lung  cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged 
during  transfection. Notes: a ORR= The proportion of patients with best overall response  of confirmed CR or PR, 
defined as at least two assessments of CR or PR with at least 28 days apart and no PD in between. A single 
timepoint of CR o PR is categorised  as best overall response  of SD. b CBR: The proportion  of patients with confirmed 
CR/PR or SD lasting >= 16  weeks (i.e., 4 cycles if 28 days in one cycle) from first dose date.  c DCR: The proportion 
of patients with best overall response  CR or PR or SD. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off 
date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Table 14.2.1.1.4.2 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 86/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 29. Annotated Waterfall  Plot (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated  at 
400 mg QD,  Prior Platinum,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-
off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020. Source: Figure 15.2.2.1.4.2.1 
Figure 30. Annotated Waterfall  Plot (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated  at 
400 mg QD,  Systemic Treatment-Naïve,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-
off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020. Source: Figure 15.2.2.1.4.2.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 87/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Table 33. Summary of Time to and Duration of Response (Confirmed Response Patients  with 
RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at  400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; DOR= Duration of response; K-M= Kaplan-Meier; NSCLC= non-small cell 
lung cancer; QD= once  daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection; StdDev= standard  deviation. Notes: a Number 
of patients at risk, censored, and events at database  snapshot; median duration  of response  is not yet reached  if ‘ -‘ 
is displayed.  b Observed duration  of response. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment  cut-off date: 22 
May 2020. Source: Table 14.2.3.1-2.4.2 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 88/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Table 34. Summary of Progression-Free Survival (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC 
Treated  at 400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; K-M = Kaplan-Meier; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; PFS = 
progression-free survival; QD = once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection.  Note: a No patients had missing 
baseline assessment, new anticancer/non-protocol  treatment, or a progression  event after missing >= 2 
consecutively scheduled  disease assessments;  b Observed PFS. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment 
cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Table 14.2.2.1-2.4.2. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 89/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Figure 31. Kaplan-Meier  Survival Curves of Duration of Response (Confirmed Response 
Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at  400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection;  
Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Figure 15.2.4.1-2.4.2 
Figure 32. Kaplan-Meier  Survival Curves of Progression-Free Survival (Patients  with RET 
Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at  400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection;  
Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Figure 15.2.3.1-2.4.2 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 90/139 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
Table 26. Summary of Overall  Survival (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Treated at 
400 mg QD,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; K-M = Kaplan-Meier; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; OS = overall 
survival; QD = once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Note: a Observed OS. Data cut-off date: 06 
November 2020.  Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020. Source: Table 14.2.4.1.4.2. 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses – ORR 
Figure 33. Forest Plot of ORR (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC Treated  at 400 mg 
QD,  Prior Platinum, Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CNS= central nervous system; ECOG= eastern cooperative oncology group; NSCLC = non-small cell 
lung cancer; ORR = overall response  rate; QD = once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-off 
date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Figure 15.2.1.1.4.2.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 91/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Figure 34. Forest Plot of ORR (Patients  with RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC Treated  at 400 mg 
QD,  Systemic Treatment-Naïve,  Efficacy Population) 
Abbreviations: CNS= central nervous system; ECOG= eastern cooperative oncology group; NSCLC = non-small cell 
lung cancer; ORR = overall response  rate; QD = once daily; RET= rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-off 
date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment cut-off date: 22 May 2020.  Source: Figure 15.2.1.1.4.2.1 
BICR response rates were: ORR= 67.7% (95%  CI: 59.9,  74.8)  in 164 patients with  a KIF5B fusion 
partner; and ORR= 68.3%  (95% CI: 51.9,  81.9) in 41  patients with  a CCDC6 fusion partner. 
Table 27. ORR by Gender 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; NSCLC = non-small cell lung  cancer; ORR = overall response  rate; RET= 
rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment cut-off date: 22  May 2020. 
Source: Table 14.2.1.1.4.2a, Table 14.2.1.1.5.2a 
Table 28. ORR by Age Group 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; NSCLC = non-small cell lung  cancer; ORR = overall response  rate; RET= 
rearranged  during  transfection. Data cut-off date: 06 November 2020. Enrolment cut-off date: 22  May 2020. 
Source: Table 14.2.1.1.4.2b, Table 14.2.1.1.5.2b 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 92/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
Intracranial ORR 
Table 29: Summary of CNS Best  Response Rate,  Central  Radiology Assessment per RECIST 
v1.1 Response Evaluable  Population -  RET-fusion NSCLC CNS Metastases  Patients  Treated  at 
400 mg QD  (Data  cutoff date:  06 NOV  2020) 
Sensitivity analyses – measurable disease population (MDP): 
The MDP includes 216  NSCLC patients in the  efficacy population with documented evidence of a 
targetable RET fusion by either local or central testing, and measurable (target)  disease at baseline per 
BICR. Although  study eligibility required measurable disease at baseline by investigator assessment, 
this was not  confirmed upon BICR review in all cases, and patients who are not assessed with 
measurable disease are not eligible for a Partial Response assessment by RECIST 1.1.  Sixteen patients 
were excluded from the MDP because they did not have measurable disease at baseline per BICR and 1 
patient was excluded due to inconclusive evidence of RET fusion. Of these, 68 were treatment -naïve 
while 126  patients had previously received platinum -based chemotherapy. The other 22  patients had 
received prior therapy other than  platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 93/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 Highlights of Efficacy Results (Initial MAA, D120  Response to Questions, D180 
Response to Questions) 
Abbreviations: CI= confidence interval; mDOR= median duration of response;  MAA= marketing authorisation 
application; MDP= RET-altered measurable disease population; mos= months; mOS= median overall survival; 
mPFS= median progression-free survival; NR: not reached; ORR= overall response  rate; pop= population; RtQ= 
response  to questions. Results based on independent  central review.  
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction  with the  discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 31. Summary of efficacy for trial ARROW 
Title: A phase 1/2 study of the highly-selective RET inhibitor, BLU-667, in patients with thyroid cancer, NSCLC, and other advanced 
solid tumours  
Study identifier 
Design 
ARROW, study BLU-667-1101  (EudraCT 2016-004390-41; NCT03037385) 
Multicentre, multi-cohort, single arm, open-label, study consisting of a dose-escalation  part (Phase 1) and an 
expansion part (Phase 2)  
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Group 1 of phase  2: The sample size of approximately 80 RET-fusion NSCLC patients who previously 
received  treatment  with a platinum-based chemotherapy  will provide > 95% power  at the 2-sided significance 
level of 0.05 for testing the assumption of the null hypothesis ORR=0.23 versus the alternative ORR=0.5.  
Group 2 of phase  2: The sample size of approximately 170 treatment  naïve (1st line) RET-fusion NSCLC 
patients will provide >90% power  at the 2-sided significance  level of 0.05 for testing the assumption of the 
null hypothesis ORR=0.48 versus the alternative  ORR=0.61.  
Treatment  groups 
Patients with advanced  RET fusion-
Pralsetinib 400 mg QD  
positive NSCLC  
n=233a 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 94/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and definitions 
Primary efficacy 
ORR-BICR 
Proportion of patients achieving with a confirmed  response of 
endpoint 
complete response  (CR) or partial response  (PR) per RECIST 
Secondary  efficacy 
DOR-BICR 
Time from first documentation of response per  RECIST v1.1 by 
endpoints 
BICR until progressive disease  (PD) or death 
v1.1 by blinded independent central  review  (BICR) 
PFS-BICR 
Time from first dose until PD per RECIST v1.1 by BICR or 
death of any cause 
OS 
Time from first dose until death of any cause 
Clinical cut-off 
Database  lock 
06-NOV-2020 
Not reported 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Updated analysis at D180 response to questions 
Analysis population and time 
The Efficacy  Population includes all patients RET fusion-positive NSCLC who started treatment with 
point description 
pralsetinib at 400 mg QD on or before  22-MAY-2020.a 
Descriptive  statistics and 
Treatment  group 
RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
estimate variability 
Number of subjects 
ORR  
(n) 
95% CIb 
Median DOR in 150 responders, 
monthsc 
95% CIc 
Median PFS, monthsc 
95% CIc 
Median OS, monthsc 
95% CIc 
233 
64.4% 
150 
57.9%, 70.5% 
22.3 
14.7, not reached 
16.4 
11.0, 24.1 
Not reached 
Not reached,  not reached 
Effect  estimate per comparison  Not applicable, single arm trial 
Notes 
a The efficacy  dataset included patients from phases 1 and 2 of the trial, as long as they had started treatment 
on or before  22-MAY-2020.  
b Exact 2-sided 95% CI based on exact  binomial distribution (Clopper-Pearson). 
c Kaplan  Meier estimate, observed  values are  not yet evaluable.  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not  applicable. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Age 65-74 
Age 75-84 
Age 85+ 
(Older subjects number /total 
(Older subjects number /total 
(Older subjects number /total 
number) 
number) 
number) 
Controlled Trials 
NA 
NA 
Non Controlled trials 
66/233 (28%) 
In vitro biomarker test for patient selection for efficacy 
19/233 (8%) 
NA 
3/233 (1%) 
A listing of the tests used to identify the  patients with  NSCLC that harboured RET fusions in the 
ARROW trial was provided (not  shown in this report). In line with  this, a table with  available validation 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 95/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information of the diverse tests used for local diagnostic of RET-fusion positivity across sites was 
presented. Adequate validated tests with  CE-mark to  identify patients with  NSCLC harbouring RET 
fusions are available across Europe. 
A systematic literature review outlined  poor responses from patie nts with  RET-fusion positive NSCLC 
treated with  chemotherapy or immune-checkpoint inhibition. 
Supportive studies 
Efficacy analyses in PTC, MTC and other advanced solid tumours from ARROW:  
Table 32. Summary of Best Response Rate  by Investigator Assessment per RECIST v1.1 in 
Patients  Treated at  400 mg QD  (Efficacy Population) 
Parameter 
ORR (confirmed CR or PR), n (%) a 
N = 11 
7 (63.6) 
N = 92 
45 (48.9) 
N = 23 
4 (17.4) 
RET-fusion PTC 
RET mutation MTC 
Others c 
95% CI 
CR, n (%) 
PR, n (%) 
SD, n (%) 
PD, n (%) 
Not evaluable, n (%) 
CBR (confirmed CR or PR or SD ≥  16 weeks), n 
(%) b 
95% CI 
(30.8, 89.1) 
(38.3, 59.6) 
(5.0, 38.8) 
0 
7 (63.6) 
4 (36.4) 
0 
0 
10 (90.9) 
2 (2.2) 
43 (46.7) 
42 (45.7) 
2 (2.2) 
3 (3.3) 
75 (81.5) 
0 
4 (17.4) 
13 (56.5) 
5 (21.7) 
1 (4.3) 
12 (52.2) 
(58.7, 99.8) 
(72.1, 88.9) 
(30.6, 73.2) 
Abbreviations: MTC = medullary thyroid cancer; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; PTC = papillary thyroid 
cancer; QD = once daily; RET = rearranged  during  transfection.  Notes: a The proportion of patients with best 
overall response  of confirmed CR or PR. b The proportion of patients with confirmed CR or PR or SD lasting for ≥ 4 cycles 
(ie, 16 weeks if 28 days in 1 cycle) from first dose date. c The group  “Others” includes  patients with RET-fusion other 
tumor (3 patients with colon tumor, 2 patients with pancreas tumor), RET mutation other than MTC (2 patients with 
small-cell lung cancer, 2 patients with colon cancer and 1 patient each with adenoid cystic carcinoma  of trachea, 
breast, pancreas, salivary gland, or thymus), and no/unknown  RET-altered other solid tumor (9 patients with MTC). 
Source: CSR BLU-667-1101, Table 14.2.1.2.4.7. 
2.3.9.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Clinical data to support the conditional marketing authorisation (CMA) for pralsetinib as monotherapy 
for patients with  advanced RET fusion-positive NSCLC in a line-agnostic setting  come from the  pivotal 
phase I/II, open-label, multi-cohort,  single-arm ARROW study.  
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from CHMP in April 2019.  The main purposes for that advice 
were to  consult on the possibility of CMA for the 2L  NSCLC cohort (based on preliminary efficacy and 
safety data) and discussing the design of the confirmatory trial in 1L.  The CHMP  pointed out an 
important concern: several options are currently available for trea tment in the post-platinum  2L setting 
of unselected NSCLC patients  (e.g. immune checkpoint inhibitors,  chemotherapy +/- ramucirumab), 
and hence, outstanding  ORR and DOR results from pralsetinib for the  intended population (RET -fusion 
positive) would be necessary in order to consider a CMA.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 96/139 
 
 
 
The ARROW study included a dose-escalation phase I to determine the  MTD and RP2D of pralsetinib, 
followed by a phase II expansion with  diverse RET-altered cancer cohorts, among them  NSCLC 
(1L/2L),  MTC,  and other tumours. The cohorts of interest  for the proposed indication  included patients 
with  RET-fusion positive NSCLC in  the 1L (treatment-naïve) or ≥2L (prior platinum) settings,  from 
either phase I or II of the trial, as long as they had been treated at the  RP2D (400 mg  QD). 
The cut-off for the  initially submitted  efficacy dataset was 18 November 2019,  but  only patients  with 
sufficient follow-up, defined as those who  had started treatment  on or before 11 July 2019,  had been 
included. Therefore, an updated efficacy datase t with  data cut-off on 06 November 2020  including all 
patients that  started treatment on or before the 22 May 2020  was submitted  during the procedure.  
Despite multiple  modifications along protocol amendments, inclusion and exclusion criteria reflect the 
NSCLC population intended for treatment with  pralsetinib.  
The overall primary and secondary objectives from the  extension phase (II) of ARROW are considered 
appropriate to ascertain the efficacy and safety of pralsetinib. ORR and DOR, as assessed by BICR, a re 
acceptable measures of anti-tumour activity for tyrosine kinase inhibitors  (TKIs) in a phase I/II trial.   
Up to the  last data cut-off date (06 November 2020),  281 patients  with advanced, RET fusion-positive 
NSCLC from either phase I or II had been treated. From these, 233  fulfilled the efficacy dataset 
requirement to  allow for appropriate response assessment, i.e. having started treatment on or before 
22 May 2020.  The updated disposition  table shows that  32% of patients  discontinued treatment 
because of PD and 15% because of AEs. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
At data cut-off 06 November 2020,  with  an estimated median follow-up time  of 17.1  months, 150  out 
of the 233 patients  from the efficacy dataset had achieved confirmed response by BICR, attaining a 
BOR of 64.4%  (95% CI 57.9, 70.5).  From these 233 patients,  11 exhibited a confirmed CR, 139 
confirmed PR, 61 had SD ad 13 PD as best response, whereas the remaining 9 patients  were non-
evaluable. Responses were fast (median time to response (TTR) 1.84 months)  and durable (DOR ≥ 6 
months in 68%  of responders), but observed median DOR, PFS or O S have not been reached yet. The 
K-M estimates for mDOR (22.3 months)  and mPFS (16.4 months) are nevertheless encouraging.   
The forest plot  of ORR suggests that pralsetinib exerted benefits across most important subgroups 
(ECOG PS status,  CNS metastases at enrolment, prior treatments). No  clinically relevant difference in 
efficacy was seen in patients with  a KIF5B or CCDC6 fusion partner  although  the response rate was 
slightly lower in patients whose tumours exhibited other RET -fusion partners. BICR response rates 
were: ORR= 67.7%  (95% CI: 59.9, 74.8)  in 164  patients with  a KIF5B fusion partner; and ORR= 
68.3%  (95% CI: 51.9, 81.9)  in 41 patients  with  a CCDC6 fusion partner; and ORR= 39.3% (95% 
CI:21.5, 59.4)  in 28 patients  with other RET-fusion partners. The intracranial ORR assessed by BICR 
was 70.0% (95%  CI: 34.8, 93.3)  in 10 response evaluable patients with  brain metastases at baseline, 
including 3  patients with  a complete response. All patients had target brain lesion shrinkage with 
pralsetinib treatment. 
Importantly, the ORR benefit of pralsetinib for the intended population was observed regardless of line 
of treatment, with  slightly higher ORR in  the treatment-naïve population (n=75,  ORR 72.0%),  even 
when this  subgroup has a lower K-M  estimate of median PFS (13.0 months)  than the prior-platinum 
subpopulation (16.5  months). This slight  difference could be impacted by the fact that prior to protocol 
amendment 9 (issued in  July 2019), eligibility  for the treatment-naïve subpopulation required that they 
were not  candidates for standard platinum  therapy, hence likely to exhibit a worse baseline prognosis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 97/139 
 
 
 
The unmet medical need in the applied indication is recognized. Major therapeutic advantage (MTA) of 
pralsetinib can be considered demonstrated regardless of line of therapy in the  RET fusion-positive 
NSCLC population. This is based on a differential safety profile, the convenience of oral administration, 
and the provision of a treatment alternative with  a novel mechanism of action in  the context of a 
reported high  rate of durable responses that  leads to the       expectation  that  pralsetinib would  be at 
least similarly active to first line available chemotherapy, immunotherapy or immunochemotherapy 
options. Of note, the observed response rate and dura tion of response of pralsetinib is expected to 
address the unmet medical need in previously treated patients to  a similar extent to selpercatinib, i.e.  
the first RET inhibitor  conditionally approved in Europe for the treatment of RET -fusion positive NSCLC 
following prior treatment with  immunotherapy and/or platinum -based chemotherapy. 
Additional expert consultation 
The following input  of the  SAG-Oncology has been requested:  
“While the activity of Gavreto in terms of ORR in the first line treatment,  is hig her than  what is seen for 
chemo-immunotherapy, there is uncertainty about the impact on time -dependent endpoints, including 
OS. Furthermore, it  is inherent to single arm trials, that  patient  selection might  impact the magnitude 
of ORR. Given that available treatment options have demonstrated a clinically relevant OS gain, the 
CHMP  is seeking the  opinion of the  SAG -Oncology on whether Gavreto would be a reasonable 
treatment option  also in patients  with RET+ NSCLC that  have not  previously been treated for ad vanced 
disease.” 
On the meeting of the 7th of September 2021, the conclusions of the SAG -O were as follows: 
The SAG agreed with  the complexity of the evaluation of treatment effect given the  non -randomized 
comparative data presented.  
However, the  SAG agreed that pralsetinib was associated with  very high antitumour  activity. In 
general, in this  setting including  first-line treatment, response rates in the order of about two  thirds of 
patients or more would be considered a level of activity that is sufficiently high to  assume an effect 
also on important  clinical endpoints like PFS. Unfortunately,  due to  s hort follow-up duration of 
response data were not available to  support this conclusion although available results are encouraging.  
Although the  reported overall response rate from the pooled cohorts may be an over -estimation of the 
true activity in a broader population, in this  population the effect was considered very high such that 
selection bias would  not be a major concern.  
The majority of the SAG agreed that  based on the totality  of data and particularly the high response 
rate, activity on brain disease, mechanistic rationale, experience with other TKIs, that  pralsetinib 
represents a reasonable treatment option in 1st line RET+ NSCLC.   
It is understood that the  uncertainty in terms of clinically relevant effects (overall survival, 
progression-free survival, health-related quality of life) in first-line would need to be further addressed. 
The results presented in terms of the  clinical endpoint progression -free survival showing and 
advantage of pralsetinib over alternative options in  indirect comparisons are difficult to assess given 
the non-randomized controlled design of such analyses. 
Concerning alternative treatment options, comprehensive efficacy evaluations in RET+ patients are 
lacking. In general, it is not easy to  establish what  is the level of ef ficacy of conventional regimens in 
this subpopulation.  A number of publications were presented showing seemingly lower activity of 
chemo-immunotherapies in patients  with oncogenic drivers such as EGFR/ALK and seemingly also RET. 
Thus, the SAG agreed that  available treatment options are also associated with  considerable 
uncertainties in this  population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 98/139 
 
 
 
In terms of clinical decisions, pralsetinib as a targeted therapy with  high activity, including  on brain 
metastases, and a well-characterised toxicity profile, can be considered as a reasonable option 
alongside available alternatives which are also associated with  important uncertainties in this  rare 
population. Availability of highly active targeted agents is important  in this disease with  poor prognosis 
despite available options and despite the  current uncertainties associated with  pralsetinib.   
Concerning the  fact that comprehensive clinical data are currently not  available, it is considered that 
the benefits of availability of this additional  treatment with  its expected clinical benefits outweigh the 
risks if such benefits are not  confirmed also taking into  account the seemingly modest effect of 
available options in this  population. 
One expert disagreed and considered the data presented, especially given the   lack of a randomized 
trial, are insufficient  to conclude that this  is a reasonable option.   
All experts agreed that  there are important  uncertainties that  need to be addressed about efficacy in 
terms of longer follow-up of duration of response and, more importantly, confirmation of an effect on 
important clinical endpoints like PFS, overall survival, or health-related quality of life, and to better 
characterise the effect in  distinct subgroups like elderly/frail patients or patients  with poor performance 
status.  A phase III trial is ongoing and claimed to address many of these aspects.   
Additional efficacy data needed in the context of a conditional MA 
The main limitations in relation to the  efficacy of pralsetinib are related to the uncontrolled nature of 
the pivotal evidence which hampers the  assessment of the  time -to-event endpoints and the limited 
number of patients  included.  
The applicant will submit  the results of a further follow up of efficacy from evaluable patients from the 
ongoing pivotal ARROW study (BLU-667-1101,  phase I/II) in RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients 
(approximately 116 treatment-naïve NSCLC patients and more follow-up  of the 136  NSCLC previously 
treated with  platinum therapy). In addition, the applicant will  conduct and submit the re sults from the 
confirmatory phase III AcceleRET study (BLU-667-2303),  an open-label, randomized, controlled 
multicentre phase III study in RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients. This study is designed to  assess the 
efficacy of pralsetinib as compared to Investigator’s choice platinum-based chemotherapy regimen for 
patients with  metastatic NSCLC harbouring an oncogenic RET fusion and who have not received prior 
systemic therapy.  
Results from both  studies are intended to provide a comprehensive data package and  potentially 
convert the  conditional MA into a full MA.  
2.3.10.  
Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Efficacy in terms of the primary endpoint ORR and key -secondary endpoint DOR from the  efficacy 
dataset of the ARROW study (N=233)  with  updated cut-off of 06 November 2020  is consistent with  the 
results provided in the original submission (data cut-off 18 November 2019).  Albeit the intrinsic 
limitations  of single arm studies and the challenges to compare the reported results with  historical 
controls and the literature, bearing in mind  that oncogenic  RET fusions are rare and identified in  only 
1-2% of NSCLC patients,  the currently available data are deemed to  support the efficacy of pralsetinib 
regardless of treatment  line in patients with  advanced RET -fusion positive NSCLC. 
The CHMP considers the  following measures necessary to address the missing efficac y data in the 
context of a conditional  MA: 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 99/139 
 
 
 
- 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of pralsetinib in  the treatment of adult patients 
with  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC, the MAH  should submit the  results of a longer follow -up 
of efficacy evaluable patients (approximately 116 treatment-naïve NSCLC patients and more 
follow-up of the 136  NSCLC previously treated with  platinum therapy) of study BLU -667-1101,  a 
Phase 1/2  Study of pralsetinib in patients  with thyroid cancer, NSCLC and other advanc ed solid 
tumours. The CSR should be submitted by 31 December 2022. 
- 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of pralsetinib in  the treatment of adult patients 
with  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC, the MAH  should submit the  results of  study BLU-667-
2303,  a randomized, open-label, Phase 3 Study of pralsetinib versus standard of care for first line 
treatment of RET fusion-positive, metastatic NSCLC. The CSR should be submitted by 31 
December 2026. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 100/139 
 
 
 
 
2.4.   Clinical safety 
The initial safety review of pralsetinib was based on Study BLU-667-1101  (ARROW) with  data cut-off 
on 18 November 2019,  focusing on 354 patients (any tumour) that  had received the RP2D of 400 mg 
QD and from these, 179 patients with  NSCLC. The safety database was updated twice,  wi th  a data cut-
off on 22 May 2020 (471  patients with  any tumour,  233 with  NSCLC) and on 06 November 2020  (528 
with  any tumour and 281  with  NSCLC).  
Patient exposure 
Table 33. Summary of Study Drug Exposure 
Abbreviations: mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer,  QD = once daily, RET = rearranged  during 
transfection. [1] Relative dose intensity: dose intensity/planned dose intensity * 100. Planned dose intensity is 
based on initial assigned daily dose.  
Adverse events 
Table 34. Summary of Adverse Events from 06 November  2020 vs 22 May  2020 Data  Cut -off 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer,  QD = once daily, RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. SAE= serious adverse event.   
Common AEs 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 101/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 35. Adverse Events with ≥ 10%* Incidence by Preferred Term from 06 November 
2020 vs 22 May  2020 Data  Cut-off 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer,  QD = once daily, RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. Note: AEs were coded using MedDRA 19.1. * ‘Adverse events with ≥10% cut -off’ is based n 
RET-fusion positive NSCLC patients treated at 400 mg QD as of 06 Nov 2020  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 102/139 
 
 
 
 
   
G≥3  AEs 
Table 36. Grade  3/4/5 Adverse Events in ≥1% of Patients by Preferred Term Regardless of 
Causality.  Safety  Population -All Patients  Treated  at 400mg QD.  Data  Cut-off 06 November 
2020) 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; mg = milligram; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer,  QD = once daily, RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 103/139 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) 
Table 37. Adverse Reactions Reported in all Patients  Treated  with Pralsetinib in the  ARROW 
Trial (n=528). Data  Cut-off 06 November  2020 
System organ class /  
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia1 
Urinary tract infection 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia2 
Neutropenia3 
Leukopenia4 
Lymphopenia5 
Thrombocytopenia6 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hyperphosphataemia 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Nervous system disorders 
Taste disorder7 
Headache8 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension9 
Haemorrhage10 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cough11 
Dyspnoea 
Pneumonitis12 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dry mouth 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain13 
Vomiting 
Stomatitis14 
Frequency category 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased* 
Alanine aminotransferase  increased* 
Very common 
Hyperbilirubinaemia15 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash16 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal pain17 
Blood creatine phosphokinase  increased 
Very common 
Very common 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
All grades 
Grades 3-4 
% 
17.4 
12.7 
47.2 
43.9 
35.4 
22.3 
18.8 
20.6 
17.8 
11.6 
10.4 
10.2 
15.9 
15.7 
33.0 
18.8 
23.7 
16.9 
11.6 
41.9 
29.4 
15.9 
15.9 
15.3 
12.3 
6.8 
46.0 
33.9 
13.4 
17.2 
39.8 
16.3 
% 
10.2 
3.8 
17.6 
20.1 
8.3 
14.2 
4.7 
3.6 
0.2 
- 
5.5 
4.2 
- 
0.4 
16.1 
3.0 
0.6 
2.1 
3.0 
0.6 
2.8 
- 
0.2 
1.3 
1.1 
1.3 
5.7 
4.2 
1.3 
- 
2.1 
6.4 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 104/139 
 
 
 
Fatigue18 
Oedema19 
Pyrexia 
Cardiac disorders 
QT prolongation20 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Blood creatinine increased 
Very common 
Investigations 
Blood alkaline phosphatase  increased 
Very common 
37.3 
28.2 
25.2 
5.1 
22.3 
10.4 
4.0 
0.2 
1.1 
0.4 
0.4 
1.1 
1  includes pneumonia, pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, pneumonia cytomegaloviral, atypical pneumonia, lung infection, 
pneumonia bacterial, pneumonia haemophilus, pneumonia influenzal, pneumonia streptococcal, pneumonia moraxella, pneumonia 
staphylococcal, pneumonia pseudomonal, atypical mycobacterial pneumonia, pneumonia legionella 
2  includes anaemia, haematocrit decreased, red blood cell count decreased, haemoglobin decreased, aplastic anaemia 
3  includes neutrophil count decreased, neutropenia 
4  includes white blood cell count decreased, leukopenia 
5  includes lymphopenia, lymphocyte count decreased 
6  includes thrombocytopenia, platelet count decreased  
7  includes ageusia, dysgeusia 
8  includes headache, tension headache 
9  includes hypertension, blood pressure increased 
10 includes 39 preferred terms from the SMQ Haemorrhage (excl laboratory terms) narrow, with th e exclusion of terms related to 
invasive drug administration, terms related to rupture, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, terms related to traumatic 
haemorrhages, and haemorrhagic terms related to pregnancy, birth or neonatal    
11 includes cough, productive cough 
12 includes pneumonitis, interstitial lung disease 
13 includes abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper 
14 includes stomatitis, aphthous ulcer 
15 includes blood bilirubin increased, hyperbilirubinaemia, bilirubin conjugated increased, blood bili rubin unconjugated increased 
16 includes rash, rash maculo-papular, dermatitis acneiform, erythema, rash generalised, rash papular, rash pustular, rash macular, 
rash erythematous 
17 includes musculoskeletal chest pain, myalgia, arthralgia, pain in extremity, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, back pain, bone pain, 
spinal pain, musculoskeletal stiffness 
18 includes asthenia, fatigue  
19 includes oedema, swelling face, peripheral swelling, oedema peripheral, face oedema, periorbital oedema, eyelid oedema, 
generalised oedema, swelling, localised oedema  
20 includes electrocardiogram QT prolonged, long QT syndrome  
*  additionally, 3.0% transaminases increased were reported (0.6% Grades 3 -4) 
Infections were commonly experienced by 57.2%  of 528 patients  during the  median treatment time  of 
9.5 months.  Most frequently (>10%),  the preferred terms of pneumonia and urinary tract infection 
were reported (14.2% and 12.7%,  respectively). The majority of infections were mild (Grade 1 or 2) 
and resolved; severe infection (Grade ≥3)  occurred in 23.5% patients  (with  fatal events reported for 
1.9%).  Infections reported as serious occurred for 24.2% of patients.  The most common (>2%) 
serious infection preferred term was pneumonia (9.8%),  followed by urinary tract  infec tion (3.4%) and 
sepsis (2.8%).  The majority of patients experiencing sepsis had concurrent pneumonia or urinary tract 
infection reported. Dose interruption  due to infection occurred for 19.5% of patients (mainly due to the 
preferred terms of pneumonia [6.8%] and urinary tract  infection [2.7%]).  Dose was reduced due to 
infections in 3.2%  of patients  (mainly due to the  preferred term of pneumonia [1.9%]).  Permanent 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 105/139 
 
 
 
 
      
treatment discontinuation  was required by 3.4% of patients due to infections (mainly due to the  
preferred term of pneumonia [1.7%]). 
Adverse events  of special interest (AESIs) 
AESIs (pneumonitis,  hypertension and transaminase elevations) by overall occurrence, serious AESIs, 
and AESIs leading to permanent treatment  discontinuation by preferred term for the overall patient 
population (n=528)  and RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC patients  (n=281)  are provided in Table 
38, Table 39 and Table 40. 
Table 38. AESIs by Category  and Preferred Term (RET fusion-positive NSCLC  and All patients 
in safety population treated  at 400mg QD)  (Data Cut-off 06 November 2020) 
Abbreviations: AESI= adverse  event of special interest; ALT= alanine aminotransferase; AST= aspartate 
aminotransferase; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. Source: Listing 16.4.1.1.1. Note: a Data in 
SmPC and EU-RMP do not include prehypertension  PT as a grouped  hypertension  term; b In the SmPC and EU-RMP, 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 106/139 
 
 
 
 
the term of elevated transaminases  (including PTs Aspartate aminotransferase increased, Alanine aminotransferase 
increased, Transaminases  increased, Hypertransaminasaemia) have been used.   
Table 39. Serious AESIs by  Category and Preferred Term (RET fusion -positive NSCLC  and All 
patients in safety  population treated  at  400mg QD)  (Data Cut-off 06 November 2020) 
Abbreviations: AESI= adverse  event of special interest; ALT= alanine aminotransferase; AST= aspartate 
aminotransferase; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. Source: Listing 16.4.1.1.1  
Table 40. AESIs Leading  to permanent discontinuation by Category  and Preferred Term (RET 
fusion-positive NSCLC  and All patients  in safety population treated  at 400mg QD)  (Data Cut-
off 06 November 2020) 
Abbreviations: AESI= adverse  event of special interest; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. 
Source: Listing 16.4.1.1.2  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 107/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaminases elevations 
Increased AST and ALT Grade 3  or 4 occurred in 5.7%  and 4.2% of patients respectively. The median 
time to first onset for increased AST was 2.1 weeks and increased ALT was 3.1 weeks. Serious adverse 
reactions of increased AST and ALT were reported for 0.6%  of all patients  and patients  with  Grades 3 
and 4 events, respectively. There were no events Grade ≤2 in s everity. 
Dose interruption  due to  increased AST or ALT occurred in 4.4%  and 3.4%  of patients, respectively 
and dose reduction in 1.3%  for both  events. No patients  required permanent dose discontinuation.  The 
median time to resolution was 5.3 and 4.1 weeks for increased AST and ALT, respectively. 
Pneumonitis/ILD 
Among the patients who had pneumonitis/ILD, the median time to onset was 15.6 weeks. Serious 
adverse reactions of pneumonitis/ILD were reported for 5.3% of patients, including  Grade 3 events 
(2.5%),  Grade 4 (0.6%) and one fatal (Grade 5) event (0.2%). 
In clinical trials, the majority of the patients  with Grade 1 or Grade 2 pneumonitis were able to 
continue treatment  without  recurrent pneumonitis/ILD following dose interruption and dose reduction. 
Dose interruption  occurred in 8.9%, dose reduction in  5.3% and permanent dose discontinuation in 
1.9% of patients  due to  ILD/pneumonitis. The median time to resolution was 3.7 weeks.  
Hypertension 
Grade ≤2 events occurred in 16.9% and Grade 3 in 16.1%  of patients. No Grade 4  or Grade 5 events 
were reported. Among the patients  who had hypertension, the median time to onset was 2.1 weeks. 
Serious adverse reactions of Grade 3 were reported in 1.3%  of all patients.  
Dose interruption  occurred in 7.4% of patients, dose reduction in 4.0% and one patient (0.2%) 
required permanent dose discontinuation.  The median time to resolution was 3.1 weeks.   
Haemorrhagic events   
Haemorrhagic events occurred in 18.8% of the 528  patients, including Grade 3  events in 2.8%  of 
patients and a Grade 4 or fatal (Grade 5) event each occurred in one patient  (0.2%).   
Serious adverse reactions of haemorrhage were reported for  3.2%  of patients,  which included Grades 3 
and 4 (0.6%)  and one fatal case (0.2%).   
Fourteen patients (2.7%)  required dose interruption and dose reduction or permanent dose 
discontinuation  due to  haemorrhage each occurred in one patient. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 108/139 
 
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
SAEs  
Table 41Serious Adverse Events Occurring in ≥ 1%*  Patients from 06  Nov 2020  vs 22  May 2020 Data 
Cut-off 
Abbreviations: AST= aspartate aminotransferase; mg=milligram; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once 
daily; RET = rearranged  during  transfection; SAE= serious  adverse event. Note: * Serious adverse events with ≥1% 
cut-off is based on RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients treated at 400 mg QD as of 06 Nov 2020  
Deaths 
Among all patients  treated with pralsetinib at 400  mg QD, 66  patients (12.5%)  died during the study 
due to an AE (35 patients (12.5%)  RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients died due an AE) as presented in 
Table 42and  6 patients (1.1%)  due to a treatment  related (investigator assessed) AE ( rhabdomyolysis, 
pneumonia, pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, pneumonitis, and death [in 2 patients,  unknown cause 
of death in 1 patient and multifactorial  cause in 1 patient]). 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 109/139 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 42. Deaths  Due  to AEs Regardless of Causality:  Safety  Population - All Patients  and 
RET fusion-positive Advanced NSCLC  Patients  treated  at  400 mg QD.  (Data Cut-off  06 
November 2020) 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 110/139 
 
 
 
 
   
Laboratory findings 
Table 43. Serum Chemistry and Haematology,  Shift from Baseline  to Worst on Treatment 
(Grade  3 and  Grade 4) in the RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Patients  and Overall  Safety 
Population Treated at  400 mg QD.  (Data cut-off 22 May 2020) 
Abbreviations: mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer,  QD = once daily, RET = rearranged  during 
transfection. Source: Listings 16.4.2.1.1, 16.4.2.1.3 
Despite incidence and severity of hepatotoxicity, there are no cases that  potentially fulfil Hy’s law 
definition criteria. 
ECG changes 
All patients  treated  at 400 mg QD (N=528):  A total  of 45  events in 41 patients  (7.8%) were 
identified (22  patients with  RET fusion-positive NSCLC, 17  patients with  thyroid cancer and 1 patient 
each with  prostate and sweat gland cancer). Serious AEs were observed in 5 patients (<1%)  and non-
serious AEs in 37 patients  (7.0%) (of which 1  patient experienced both a serious and non -serious AE). 
The events included ECG QT prolonged (29 events in 26 patients),  syncope (15 events in  14 pa tients), 
and long QT syndrome (1 event in 1  patient). Of the 41 patients,  23 patients  (4.4%) experienced 
Grade 1 events, 7 patients (1.3%)  experienced Grade 2 events, and 11  patients (2.1%)  experienced 
Grade 3 events; no Grade 4  or Grade 5 events were repo rted. Six patients (1.1%)  reported events that 
led to temporary interruption of study drug treatment (3  events led to a restart of study drug at a 
reduced dose). No events resulted in permanent discontinuation of study drug.  
QT prolongation occurred in 5.1% of 528 patients  with NSCLC  or other solid tumours. In 2 patients 
(0.4%)  the event was assessed as serious. The majority of patients  experienced non -severe events – 
i.e. Grade 1, in 21 (4.0%)  and Grade 2, in 4 patients  (0.8%).  Two patients  (0.4%)  experienced Grade 
3 events of Electrocardiogram QT prolonged, which both  resolved. Three patients (0.6%)  had an event 
that  remained unresolved by time of data cut-off. Dose reductions or interruptions were required by 
two Electrocardiogram QT prolonged patients,  each. 
RET Fusion-positive Advanced NSCLC  Patients  Treated at  400 mg QD  (N=281):  A total  of 25 
events in  22 patients (7.8%)  were identified in  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC patients. Serious 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 111/139 
 
 
 
 
AEs were observed in 3 patients (1.1%)  and non-serious AEs in 20 patients (6.8%).  The events 
included ECG QT prolonged (18 events in  15 patients) and syncope (7 events in 7 patients).  Of the  22 
patients, 14  patients (5.0%)  experienced Grade 1 events, 4 patients (1.4%)  experienced Grade 2 
events, and 4 patients  (1.4%)  experienced Grade 3 events (only 1 patient  with Grade 3  AE of ECG QT 
prolonged); no Grade 4  or Grade 5 events were reported. Nineteen  patients (3.6%)  reported events 
that  resulted in  no change in study drug dosing. Three patients  (<1%)  reported events that  led to 
temporary interruption of study drug treatment. These three patients  restarted at a reduced pralsetinib 
dose without  recurrence of the event. All events were reported as resolved. The Investigator assessed 
the events as related to study drug for 13  patients (4.3%)  and not  related for 10 patients (3.9%)  (of 
which 1 patient  experienced both a related and unrelated event of ECG QT prolonged).  
Table 44. Adverse Events Related  to ECG by Preferred Term Safety  Po pulation - All Patients 
Treated  at 400mg QD.  (Data Cut-off 06  November 2020) 
Abbreviations: AE= Adverse event; ECG= electrocardiogram; NSCLC= non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily 
Safety in special populations 
Age 
Table 45. Summary of Adverse Events  in ≥  10% of patients by  Age Group of <65 and ≥65; 
RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Patients  and Overall  Safety  Population Treated at  400 mg QD 
(Data  Cut-off 22 May  2020) 
Preferred Term 
Patients treated at 400mg QD 
<65 
≥65 
RET Fusion- 
Overall 
Positive NSCLC 
Safety 
Patients 
Population 
(N=145)  
(N=328) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
RET Fusion- 
Positive 
NSCLC 
Patients 
(N=88) 
n (%) 
Overall 
Safety 
Population 
(N=143) 
n (%) 
Patients with AE 
143  (98.6) 
326  (99.4) 
87 (98.9) 
142  (99.3) 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
65 (44.8) 
146  (44.5) 
36 (40.9) 
62 (43.4) 
Constipation 
Anaemia 
55 (37.9) 
127  (38.7) 
35 (39.8) 
56 (39.2) 
57 (39.3) 
119  (36.3) 
37 (42.0) 
66 (46.2) 
Alanine aminotransferase  increased 
47 (32.4) 
110  (33.5) 
21 (23.9) 
38 (26.6) 
Neutrophil count decreased 
40 (27.6) 
72 (22.0) 
11 (12.5) 
22 (15.4) 
White blood cell count  decreased 
34 (23.4) 
79 (24.1) 
12 (13.6) 
30 (21.0) 
Cough 
34 (23.4) 
70 (21.3) 
19 (21.6) 
29 (20.3) 
Blood creatinine increased 
34 (23.4) 
67 (20.4) 
16 (18.2) 
33 (23.1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 112/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutropenia 
Diarrhoea 
Hypertension 
Pyrexia 
Fatigue 
Back pain 
Dyspnoea 
Headache 
33 (22.8) 
77 (23.5) 
18 (20.5) 
25 (17.5) 
32 (22.1) 
89 (27.1) 
23 (26.1) 
47 (32.9) 
32 (22.1) 
82 (25.0) 
41 (46.6) 
62 (43.4) 
32 (22.1) 
75 (22.9) 
20 (22.7) 
30 (21.0) 
25 (17.2) 
60 (18.3) 
30 (34.1) 
43 (30.1) 
23 (15.9) 
38 (11.6) 
9 (10.2) 
13 (9.1) 
22 (15.2) 
45 (13.7) 
12 (13.6) 
27 (18.9) 
22 (15.2) 
52 (15.9) 
4 (4.5) 
15 (10.5) 
Hyperphosphataemia 
20 (13.8) 
71 (21.6) 
7 (8.0) 
15 (10.5) 
Asthenia 
Dry mouth 
20 (13.8) 
45 (13.7) 
11 (12.5) 
18 (12.6) 
20 (13.8) 
41 (12.5) 
19 (21.6) 
29 (20.3) 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
20 (13.8) 
34 (10.4) 
5 (5.7) 
8 (5.6) 
Pneumonia 
Nausea 
19 (13.1) 
38 (11.6) 
14 (15.9) 
18 (12.6) 
18 (12.4) 
49 (14.9) 
11 (12.5) 
18 (12.6) 
Blood creatine phosphokinase  increased 
18 (12.4) 
42 (12.8) 
11 (12.5) 
14 (9.8) 
Pneumonitis 
Dysgeusia 
17 (11.7) 
31 (9.5) 
10 (11.4) 
16 (11.2) 
16 (11.0) 
45 (13.7) 
19 (21.6) 
27 (18.9) 
Blood alkaline phosphatase  increased 
16 (11.0) 
31 (9.5) 
11 (12.5) 
14 (9.8) 
Oedema peripheral 
15 (10.3) 
40 (12.2) 
18 (20.5) 
28 (19.6) 
Abbreviations: AE = adverse event, mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer, QD = once daily, RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. Source: 14.3.2.1.1.10a 
Table 46. Safety  Profile of Pralsetinib in Elderly Patients  – RET Fusion-Positive NSCLC 
Patients  Treated at  400 mg QD.  (Data  Cut-off 22 May  2020) 
MedDRA Terms 
Age <65 
Age 65-74 
Age 75-84 
Age 85+  
(N=145)  
(N=66) 
(N=19) 
(N=3) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
Total AEs 
143  (98.6) 
66 (100) 
18 (94.7) 
3 (100) 
Serious AEs – Total* 
76 (52.4) 
44 (66.7) 
12 (63.1) 
1 (33.3) 
Fatal* 
13 (11.7) 
8 (12.1) 
3 (15.7) 
0 
Hospitalization/prolong existing 
57 (39.3) 
35 (53.0) 
8 (42.1) 
1 (33.3) 
hospitalization* 
Life-threatening* 
3 (2.06) 
1 (1.51) 
1 (5.2) 
Disability/incapacity* 
0 
0 
0 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
0 
0 
Page 113/139 
 
 
 
 
Other (medically significant) * 
2 (0.61) 
0 
0 
0 
AE leading to treatment discontinuation 
22 (15.2) 
16 (24.2) 
4 (21.1) 
1 (33.3) 
SOC- Psychiatric disorders 
27 (18.6) 
7 (10.6) 
3 (15.8) 
2 (66.7) 
SOC- Nervous system disorders 
67 (46.2) 
40 (60.6) 
11 (57.9) 
2 (66.7) 
SOC- Accidents and injuries 
0 
0 
0 
0 
SOC- Cardiac disorders 
13 (9.0) 
14 (15.9) 
10 (15.2) 
4 (21.1) 
SOC- Vascular disorders 
42 (29.0) 
36 (54.5) 
10 (52.6) 
2 (66.7) 
PT- Cerebrovascular  disorders 
0 
0 
0 
0 
SOC- Infections and infestations 
74 (51.0) 
35 (53.0) 
9 (47.4) 
2 (66.7) 
Anticholinergic syndrome 
Quality of life decreased 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Sum of postural hypotension, falls, black 
18 (12.4) 
14 (21.2) 
6 (31.5) 
2 (66.7) 
outs, syncope, dizziness, ataxia, 
fractures 
AEs that appear more frequently in older patients (≥10% difference in incidence between <65 and 
≥65) 
PT 
Hypertension 
32 (22.1) 
30 (45.5) 
10 (52.6) 
1 (33.3) 
White blood cell count  decreased 
34 (23.4) 
7 (10.6) 
5 (26.3) 
0 
Fatigue 
25 (17.2) 
21 (31.8) 
7 (36.8) 
2 (66.7) 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
20 (13.8) 
3 (4.5) 
2 (10.5) 
0 
Oedema peripheral 
15 (10.3) 
16 (24.2) 
1 (5.3) 
1 (33.3) 
Dysgeusia 
16 (11.0) 
13 (19.7) 
6 (31.6) 
0 
Abbreviations: AE, adverse event; MedDRA= Medical dictionary for regulatory activities; PT= Preferred term; SOC= 
system organ  class. Note: If a subject  had multiple seriousness  criteria reported  for a single AE, highest seriousness 
was used for analysis. *Data on SAEs and serious criteria were obtained from the safety database which has higher 
number of patients with SAEs compared to the clinical database  at the time of the data cut -off date. Percentages 
are estimated.  
Older patients  reported more Grade 3 or higher adve rse reactions compared to younger patients 
(87.1%  versus 72.3%). Compared with  younger patients  (<65), more patients of ≥65 years old 
reported adverse reactions that  led to permanent dose discontinuation (25.8%  versus 13.4% )  (Data 
cut-off 06 Nov 2020). 
Gender 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 114/139 
 
 
 
Table 47. Summary of Adverse Events  in ≥10%  patients by Gender  in RET Fusion- Positive 
NSCLC  Patients  and Overall  Safety  Population Treated at  400 mg QD. (Data  Cut-off 22 May 
2020) 
Preferred Term 
Patients treated at 400 mg 
Male 
Female 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
positive 
Safety 
positive 
Safety 
NSCLC 
Population 
NSCLC 
Population 
Patients 
(N=111) 
N (%) 
(N=255) 
N (%) 
Patients 
(N=122) 
N (%) 
(N=216) 
N (%) 
Patients with AE 
110  (99.1) 
254  (99.6) 
120  (98.4) 
214  (99.1) 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
45 (40.5) 
111  (43.5) 
56 (45.9) 
Constipation 
Anaemia 
Hypertension 
Fatigue 
Cough 
38 (34.2) 
92 (36.1) 
52 (42.6) 
35 (31.5) 
91 (35.7) 
59 (48.4) 
35 (31.5) 
83 (32.5) 
38 (31.1) 
30 (27.0) 
56 (22.0) 
25 (20.5) 
27 (24.3) 
54 (21.2) 
26 (21.3) 
Alanine aminotransferase  increased 
26 (23.4) 
72 (28.2) 
42 (34.4) 
Pyrexia 
Diarrhoea 
Neutropenia 
Dry mouth 
22 (19.8) 
54 (21.2) 
30 (24.6) 
21 (18.9) 
69 (27.1) 
34 (27.9) 
18 (16.2) 
44 (17.3) 
33 (27.0) 
18 (16.2) 
40 (15.7) 
15 (12.3) 
Neutrophil count decreased 
17 (15.3) 
39 (15.3) 
34 (27.9) 
Dyspnoea 
Dizziness 
Pneumonia 
Back pain 
17 (15.3) 
41 (16.1) 
13 (10.7) 
17 (15.3) 
33 (12.9) 
17 (13.9) 
17 (15.3) 
31 (12.2) 
20 (16.4) 
17 (15.3) 
26 (10.2) 
20 (16.4) 
White blood cell count  decreased 
16 (14.4) 
50 (19.6) 
30 (24.6) 
Dysgeusia 
Oedema peripheral 
Headache 
Asthenia 
Decreased appetite 
Pneumonitis 
15 (13.5) 
31 (12.2) 
17 (13.9) 
13 (11.7) 
37 (14.5) 
19 (15.6) 
13 (11.7) 
37 (14.5) 
15 (12.3) 
12 (10.8) 
32 (12.5) 
21 (17.2) 
12 (10.8) 
34 (13.3) 
19 (15.6) 
12 (10.8) 
21 (8.2) 
12 (9.8) 
97 (44.9) 
91 (42.1) 
94 (43.5) 
61 (28.2) 
47 (21.8) 
45 (20.8) 
76 (35.2) 
51 (23.6) 
67 (31.0) 
58 (26.9) 
26 (12.0) 
55 (25.5) 
30 (13.9) 
31 (14.4) 
31 (14.4) 
33 (15.3) 
59 (27.3) 
31 (14.4) 
29 (13.4) 
26 (12.0) 
30 (13.9) 
31 (14.4) 
24 (11.1) 
Abbreviations: AE = adverse event, mg = milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer, QD = once daily, RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. Source: 14.3.1.1.1.10b 
Region 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 115/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 48. Summary of Adverse Events  in ≥10%  patients by Region RET Fusion-Positive 
NSCLC  Patients  and Overall  Safety  Population Treated at  400 mg QD.  (Data  Cut-off 22 May 
2020) 
Patients treated at 400mg 
USA 
Europe 
Asia 
Preferred Term 
Positive 
Safety 
Positive 
Safety 
Positive 
Safety 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
NSCLC 
Population 
NSCLC 
Population 
NSCLC 
Population 
(N=62) 
n (%) 
(N=153) 
n (%) 
(N=85) 
n (%) 
(N=171) 
n (%) 
(N=86) 
n (%) 
(N=147) 
n (%) 
Patients with AE 
62 (100) 
153  (100) 
83 (97.6) 
169  (98.8) 
85 (98.8) 
146(99.3) 
Aspartate amino- 
29 (46.8) 
69 (45.1) 
24 (28.2) 
60 (35.1) 
48 (55.8) 
79(53.7) 
transferase increased 
Anaemia 
Constipation 
Hypertension 
Fatigue 
ALT increased 
Diarrhoea 
Dry mouth 
24 (38.7) 
64 (41.8) 
30 (35.3) 
64 (37.4) 
40 (46.5) 
57(38.8) 
22 (35.5) 
59 (38.6) 
33 (38.8) 
62 (36.3) 
35 (40.7) 
62(42.2) 
21 (33.9) 
56 (36.6) 
19 (22.4) 
44 (25.7) 
33 (38.4) 
44(29.9) 
21 (33.9) 
50 (32.7) 
20 (23.5) 
35 (20.5) 
14 (16.3) 
18(12.2) 
19 (30.6) 
50 (32.7) 
19 (22.4) 
44 (25.7) 
32 (37.2) 
55(37.4) 
18 (29.0) 
54 (35.3) 
20 (23.5) 
47 (27.5) 
17 (19.8) 
35(23.8) 
17 (27.4) 
38 (24.8) 
12 (14.1) 
20 (11.7) 
10 (11.6) 
12 (8.2) 
Blood creatinine increased 
16 (25.8) 
40 (26.1) 
19 (22.4) 
37 (21.6) 
15 (17.4) 
23(15.6) 
Oedema peripheral 
16 (25.8) 
37 (24.2) 
9 (10.6) 
18 (10.5) 
8 (9.3) 
13 (8.8) 
Neutropenia 
White blood cell 
count decreased 
Dizziness 
Cough 
Dysgeusia 
Back pain 
16 (25.8) 
30 (19.6) 
17 (20.0) 
49 (28.7) 
18 (20.9) 
23 (15.6) 
14 (22.6) 
48 (31.4) 
9 (10.6) 
18 (10.5) 
23 (26.7) 
43(29.3) 
13 (21.0) 
34 (22.2) 
7 (8.2) 
10 (5.8) 
9 (10.5) 
14 (9.5) 
12 (19.4) 
34 (22.2) 
20 (23.5) 
36 (21.1) 
21 (24.4) 
29(19.7) 
11 (17.7) 
29 (19.0) 
18 (21.2) 
33 (19.3) 
6 (7.0) 
10 (6.8) 
11 (17.7) 
19 (12.4) 
11 (12.9) 
18 (10.5) 
10 (11.6) 
14 (9.5) 
Muscle spasms 
11 (17.7) 
13 (8.5) 
7 (8.2) 
8 (4.7) 
0 
0 
Headache 
Pyrexia 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
10 (16.1) 
35 (22.9) 
12 (14.1) 
22 (12.9) 
4 (4.7) 
10 (6.8) 
10 (16.1) 
35 (22.9) 
22 (25.9) 
45 (26.3) 
20 (23.3) 
25(17.0) 
10 (16.1) 
30 (19.6) 
11 (12.9) 
25 (14.6) 
8 (9.3) 
12 (8.2) 
10 (16.1) 
23 (15.0) 
9 (10.6) 
17 (9.9) 
6 (7.0) 
11 (7.5) 
Neutrophil count decreased 
9 (14.5) 
31 (20.3) 
6 (7.1) 
9 (5.3) 
36 (41.9) 
54(36.7) 
Urinary tract infection 
8 (12.9) 
22 (14.4) 
12 (14.1) 
20 (11.7) 
8 (9.3) 
11 (7.5) 
Lymphocyte count  decreased 
7 (11.3) 
31 (20.3) 
2 (2.4) 
8 (4.7) 
4 (4.7) 
7 (4.8) 
Hypocalcaemia 
7 (11.3) 
30 (19.6) 
7 (8.2) 
22 (12.9) 
9 (10.5) 
28(19.0) 
Upper  respiratory tract 
7 (11.3) 
16 (10.5) 
2 (2.4) 
4 (2.3) 
3 (3.5) 
7 (4.8) 
infection 
Pneumonia 
Pneumonitis 
Rash 
7 (11.3) 
20 (13.1) 
11 (12.9) 
14 (8.2) 
15 (17.4) 
22 (15.0) 
7 (11.3) 
15 (9.8) 
7 (8.2) 
16 (9.4) 
13 (15.1) 
16 (10.9) 
Neuropathy peripheral 
7 (11.3) 
13 (8.5) 
1 (1.2) 
7 (11.3) 
14 (9.2) 
2 (2.4) 
7 (4.1) 
4 (2.3) 
6 (7.0) 
2 (2.3) 
9 (6.1) 
2 (1.4) 
Hyperphosphataemia 
6 (9.7) 
26 (17.0) 
9 (10.6) 
29 (17.0) 
12 (14.0) 
31(21.1) 
Arthralgia 
6 (9.7) 
24 (15.7) 
3 (3.5) 
9 (5.3) 
0 
3 (2.0) 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 116/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abdominal pain 
6 (9.7) 
22 (14.4) 
4 (4.7) 
9 (5.3) 
5 (5.8) 
7 (4.8) 
Dyspnoea 
Dysphagia 
Myalgia 
6 (9.7) 
22 (14.4) 
14 (16.5) 
32 (18.7) 
14 (16.3) 
18 (12.2) 
6 (9.7) 
14 (9.2) 
10 (11.8) 
15 (8.8) 
3 (3.5) 
3 (2.0) 
5 (8.1) 
22 (14.4) 
4 (4.7) 
18 (10.5) 
7 (8.1) 
8 (5.4) 
Hyponatraemia 
5 (8.1) 
20 (13.1) 
4 (4.7) 
6 (3.5) 
9 (10.5) 
11 (7.5) 
Lymphopenia 
Leukopenia 
5 (8.1) 
16 (10.5) 
12 (14.1) 
22 (12.9) 
0 
1 (<1) 
4 (6.5) 
7 (4.6) 
14 (16.5) 
29 (17.0) 
4 (4.7) 
6 (4.1) 
Erectile dysfunction 
4 (6.5) 
16 (10.5) 
2 (2.4) 
7 (4.1) 
1 (1.2) 
1 (<1) 
Asthenia 
Chills 
3 (4.8) 
7 (4.6) 
24 (28.2) 
51 (29.8) 
4 (4.7) 
5 (3.4) 
3 (4.8) 
16 (10.5) 
0 
5 (2.9) 
0 
1 (<1) 
Musculoskeletal pain 
1 (1.6) 
3 (2.0) 
10 (11.8) 
15 (8.8) 
7 (8.1) 
8 (5.4) 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
0 
3 (2.0) 
13 (15.3) 
27 (15.8) 
16 (18.6) 
26(17.7) 
increased 
Abbreviations: AE = adverse event; mg = milligram; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; QD = once daily; RET = 
rearranged  during  transfection. Source: 14.3.2.1.1.10c 
Race, G≥3 
Table 49. Grade  ≥ 3 Adverse Events in ≥2%  of patients  by Preferred Term by Race RET 
Fusion-Positive NSCLC  Patients  and Overall  Safety  Population Treated at  400 mg QD.  (Data 
Cut-off 22 May  2020) 
Preferred Term 
Patients treated at 400mg 
Asian 
Non- Asian 
Unknown 
RET fusion- 
Positive 
NSCLC 
Patients 
(N=92) 
n (%) 
Overall 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
RET fusion- 
Overall 
Safety 
Positive 
Safety 
Positive 
Safety 
Population 
NSCLC 
Population 
NSCLC 
Population 
(N=159) n 
(N=125) 
(N=283) 
(N=16) 
(N=29) 
(%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Patients with Grade 3/4/5 
67 (72.8) 
109  (68.6) 
80 (64.0) 
204  (72.1) 
8 (50.0) 
20 (69.0) 
AE 
Neutrophil count 
17 (18.5) 
25 (15.7) 
0 
0 
6 (4.8) 
9 (3.2) 
decreased 
Anaemia 
Hypertension 
Neutropenia 
Pneumonia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Disease progression 
White blood cell count 
decreased 
AST increased 
Thrombocytopenia 
Platelet count decreased 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
16 (17.4) 
23 (14.5) 
17 (13.6) 
42 (14.8) 
1 (6.3) 
3 (10.3) 
15 (16.3) 
21 (13.2) 
20 (16.0) 
49 (17.3) 
15 (16.3) 
19 (11.9) 
13 (10.4) 
32 (11.3) 
0 
0 
2 (6.9) 
5 (17.2) 
9 (9.8) 
9 (9.8) 
8 (8.7) 
6 (6.5) 
5 (5.4) 
5 (5.4) 
4 (4.3) 
4 (4.3) 
4 (4.3) 
13 (8.2) 
10 (8.0) 
21 (7.4) 
1 (6.3) 
2 (6.9) 
10 (6.3) 
6 (4.8) 
12 (4.2) 
1 (6.3) 
1 (3.4) 
10 (6.3) 
7 (5.6) 
18 (6.4) 
8 (5.0) 
3 (2.4) 
11 (3.9) 
8 (5.0) 
7 (5.6) 
16 (5.7) 
6 (3.8) 
7 (4.4) 
1 (<1) 
3 (1.1) 
0 
4 (1.4) 
5 (3.1) 
2 (1.6) 
7 (2.5) 
5 (3.1) 
4 (3.2) 
10 (3.5) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (6.9) 
2 (6.9) 
1 (3.4) 
1 (3.4) 
1 (3.4) 
0 
0 
Page 117/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood creatine 
3 (3.3) 
6 (3.8) 
3 (2.4) 
8 (2.8) 
2 (12.5) 
7 (24.1) 
phosphokinase  increased 
Vomiting 
Pneumonitis 
Diarrhoea 
ALT increased 
Hypocalcaemia 
Lymphocyte count 
decreased 
Pleural effusion 
Sepsis 
Urinary tract infection 
Weight increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase  increased 
Cholecystitis 
Dehydration 
Disseminated intravascular 
coagulation 
Dyspnoea 
Haemoglobin decreased 
Leukopenia 
Stomatitis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Fatigue 
Back pain 
Intervertebral  disc 
protrusion 
3 (3.3) 
3 (3.3) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
2 (2.2) 
1 (1.1) 
1 (1.1) 
0 
0 
3 (1.9) 
6 (3.8) 
0 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
6 (2.1) 
6 (3.8) 
2 (1.6) 
9 (3.2) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (3.4) 
0 
5 (3.1) 
5 (4.0) 
13 (4.6) 
1 (6.3) 
2 (6.9) 
5 (3.1) 
1 (<1) 
8 (2.8) 
5 (3.1) 
3 (2.4) 
18 (6.4) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (3.4) 
3 (1.9) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (6.3) 
2 (6.9) 
3 (1.9) 
5 (4.0) 
9 (3.2) 
1 (6.3) 
1 (3.4) 
3 (1.9) 
4 (3.2) 
11 (3.9) 
3 (1.9) 
2 (1.3) 
2 (1.3) 
2 (1.3) 
2 (1.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (3.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (1.3) 
3 (2.4) 
6 (2.1) 
1 (6.3) 
1 (3.4) 
2 (1.3) 
0 
1 (<1) 
2 (1.3) 
4 (3.2) 
7 (2.5) 
2 (1.3) 
2 (1.6) 
2 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (3.4) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
4 (3.2) 
7 (2.5) 
2 (12.5) 
2 (6.9) 
3 (2.4) 
7 (2.5) 
1 (6.3) 
2 (6.9) 
0 
3 (2.4) 
4 (1.4) 
1 (<1) 
3 (2.4) 
3 (1.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Abbreviations: AE = adverse event, ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, mg = 
milligram, NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer, QD = once daily, RET = rearranged  during  transfection. Source: 
Table 14.3.2.9.1.10d 
Immunological events 
Not  applicable.  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The metabolism of pralsetinib is mediated by CYP3A4. Pralsetinib inhibits  CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP3A4/5, 
CYP3A4/5, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, MATE1,  and MATE2-K, and induces CYP2C8, 
CYP2C9, and CYP3A4/5. A clinical assessment should be done for each individual patient  depending on 
the necessity of coadministration of other drugs that  might  affect or be affected by pralsetinib.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
AEs leading to treatment  discontinuation 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 118/139 
 
 
 
Table 50. Adverse Events Leading  to Treatment  Discontinuation (≥1 Patient;  Safety 
Population – All Patients Treated  at 400 mg QD.  (Data  Cut-off 06 November 2020) 
Preferred Term 
RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
All Patients (N=528) n 
Patients (N=281) n (%) 
(%) 
Patients with AE Leading to Permanent 
55 (19.6) 
91 (17.2) 
Discontinuation of Treatment Regardless of 
Causality  
Disease progression   
Pneumonitis  
Pneumonia  
Sepsis  
Death  
Dyspnoea  
Thrombocytopenia   
Fatigue  
Hyponatraemia  
Neutropenia  
Pulmonary embolism  
Respiratory failure  
Cardio-respiratory arrest  
Chest pain  
Clostridium difficile colitis  
Colitis  
Constipation  
Electrolyte imbalance  
Embolism  
Gait disturbance   
General physical health deterioration  
Haemorrhage intracranial  
Heart injury   
Hypertension  
Hypoxia  
Lymphocyte count  decreased  
Pancytopenia  
Pericardial effusion  
Respiratory distress  
Rhabdomyolysis  
Stomatitis  
Superior vena cava syndrome  
Therapy cessation   
Urosepsis   
Asthenia  
Blood creatine phosphokinase  increased  
Transaminases  increased  
Acute respiratory distress syndrome   
Acute respiratory failure  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
10 (3.6) 
7 (2.5) 
7 (2.5) 
3 (1.1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
15 (2.8) 
10 (1.9) 
9 (1.7) 
4 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
Page 119/139 
 
 
 
 
Asphyxia  
Blood bilirubin increased   
Blood calcitonin increased   
Bronchopulmonary  aspergillosis  
Cognitive disorder   
Corona virus infection  
Deep vein thrombosis  
Hydrocephalus   
Hypercalcaemia of malignancy  
Jugular vein thrombosis   
Large intestine perforation  
Platelet count decreased   
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia  
Pneumonia aspiration  
Renal failure  
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. Source: Table 
14.3.2.21.1.10 
AEs leading to dose interruptions 
Table 51Adverse Events Leading  to Dose Interruption Regardless of Causality  by Preferred 
Term in ≥ 3 Patients;  Safety  Population – All Patients  Treated  at 400 mg QD.  (Data  Cut-off 
06 November  2020) 
Preferred Term  
RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
All Patients (N=528) n 
Patients (N=281) n (%) 
(%) 
Patients with AE Leading to Dose Interruption 
190  (67.6) 
363  (68.8) 
Regardless of Causality  
Neutrophil count decreased   
Anaemia  
Pneumonitis  
Neutropenia  
Hypertension  
Pneumonia  
Blood creatine phosphokinase  increased  
Pyrexia  
White blood cell count  decreased  
Aspartate aminotransferase increased  
Fatigue  
Alanine aminotransferase  increased  
Diarrhoea  
Thrombocytopenia   
Vomiting  
Lymphopenia  
Platelet count decreased   
Sepsis  
Hypophosphataemia  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
28 (10.0) 
27 (9.6) 
27 (9.6) 
24 (8.5) 
24 (8.5) 
21 (7.5) 
16 (5.7) 
15 (5.3) 
14 (5.0) 
11 (3.9) 
10 (3.6) 
9 (3.2) 
7 (2.5) 
7 (2.5) 
6 (2.1) 
6 (2.1) 
6 (2.1) 
6 (2.1) 
6 (2.1) 
38 (7.2) 
50 (9.5) 
42 (8.0) 
49 (9.3) 
39 (7.4) 
36 (6.8) 
31 (5.9) 
27 (5.1) 
24 (4.5) 
23 (4.4) 
15 (2.8) 
18 (3.4) 
20 (3.8) 
13 (2.5) 
13 (2.5) 
11 (2.1) 
11 (2.1) 
10 (1.9) 
6 (1.1) 
Page 120/139 
 
 
 
 
Lymphocyte count  decreased  
Urinary tract infection  
Dyspnoea  
Stomatitis  
Leukopenia  
Face oedema  
Interstitial lung disease  
Cough  
Dizziness  
Hyponatraemia  
Hypoxia  
Rash  
Nausea  
Dehydration  
Lipase increased   
Muscular  weakness  
Pleural effusion  
Abdominal pain  
Corona virus infection  
Cholecystitis  
Decreased appetite  
Haematoma  
Oedema peripheral   
Blood alkaline phosphatase  increased   
Diverticulitis  
Pulmonary embolism  
Blood creatinine increased   
Ascites  
Headache  
Hypokalaemia  
Hypotension  
Syncope  
Acute respiratory failure  
Constipation  
Appendicitis  
Dysphagia  
Influenza  
Mucosal  inflammation  
Respiratory failure  
Upper  respiratory tract infection  
Urinary retention  
Myalgia  
Blood bilirubin increased   
Hypercalcaemia  
Pyelonephritis  
Hypocalcaemia  
5 (1.8) 
5 (1.8) 
5 (1.8) 
5 (1.8) 
5 (1.8) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
14 (2.7) 
14 (2.7) 
11 (2.1) 
8 (1.5) 
6 (1.1) 
5 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
8 (1.5) 
8 (1.5) 
7 (1.3) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
6 (1.1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
8 (1.5) 
8 (1.5) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
6 (1.1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
8 (1.5) 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. Source: Table 
14.3.2.23.1.10 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 121/139 
 
 
 
AEs leading to dose reductions 
Table 52. Adverse Events Leading to Dose Reduction Regardless of Causality  by Preferred 
Term in ≥3 patients;  Safety  Population – All Patients  Treated at  400 mg QD.  (Data  cut-off 06 
November  2020) 
Preferred Term  
RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
Patients (N=281) n (%) 
All Patients (N=528) n (%) 
Patients with AE Leading to Dose 
126  (44.8) 
239  (45.3) 
Reduction Regardless  of Causality  
Anaemia  
Neutropenia  
Neutrophil count decreased   
Pneumonitis  
Hypertension  
Blood creatine phosphokinase  increased  
White blood cell count  decreased  
Fatigue  
Lymphopenia  
Pneumonia  
Lymphocyte count  decreased  
Aspartate aminotransferase increased  
Platelet count decreased   
Decreased appetite  
Hypophosphataemia  
Thrombocytopenia   
Leukopenia  
Alanine aminotransferase  increased  
Dysgeusia  
Muscular  weakness  
Stomatitis  
Asthenia  
Diarrhoea  
Hypocalcaemia  
22 (7.8) 
22 (7.8) 
21 (7.5) 
18 (6.4) 
12 (4.3) 
10 (3.6) 
10 (3.6) 
10 (3.6) 
7 (2.5) 
7 (2.5) 
5 (1.8) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
0 
43 (8.1) 
42 (8.0) 
34 (6.4) 
27 (5.1) 
21 (4.0) 
21 (4.0) 
18 (3.4) 
16 (3.0) 
12 (2.3) 
10 (1.9) 
16 (3.0) 
7 (1.3) 
7 (1.3) 
6 (1.1) 
4 (<1) 
6 (1.1) 
4 (<1) 
7 (1.3) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; QD= once daily. Source: Table 
14.3.2.25.1.10 
Post marketing experience 
Not  applicable. 
2.4.1.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall  safety  population (N=528), data  cut-off 06 November  2020 
Likely on account of its potent  RET-inhibitor mechanism of action,  the overall summary of adverse 
events from pralsetinib in the population intended  for indication depicts a considerable toxicity burden. 
As expected, almost every patient presented any type  of AEs. Nearly three quarters of patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 122/139 
 
 
 
 
presented ≥G3 AEs, and 54.5% had SAEs. As a consequence of such events, 68.8%  of patients  needed 
dose interruptions,  45.3% dose reductions and 17.2 % discontinued treatment permanently.  
Common AEs: The most frequent AE from pralsetinib is aspartate aminotransferase increased, which 
occurred in 46.0%  of patients.  Other common AEs in the NSCLC population are anaemia (45.6%), 
constipation (41.9%),  alanine aminotransferase increase (33.9%), hypertension (32.6%),  neutrophil 
count decreased (24.2%)  and diarrhoea (29.4%).  Some other frequent AEs, particularly those of 
respiratory/thoracic/mediastinal nature (e.g. cough, dyspnoea, pneumonia) might  also be related to 
the baseline disease and its  risk factors. 
≥G3 AEs (incidence 76.9%):  The most frequent high-grade AEs are anaemia (17.2%),  hypertension 
(16.1%)  and neutropenia (11.2%). 
Severe, life-threatening or fatal cases of pneumonitis/ILD have been reported in patients who received 
pralsetinib in clinical trials. Patients who present with  clinically symptomatic pneumonitis or ILD were 
excluded from clinical trials.  Patients should be advised to  contact their healthcare provider 
immediately to  report new or worsening respiratory symptoms. Patients who present with  acute or 
worsening of respiratory symptoms indicative of pneumonitis/ILD (e.g., dyspnoea, cough, and fever) 
should be investigated to  exclude other potential causes. If pneumonitis/ILD is considered to be related 
to pralsetinib, the dose of pralsetinib should be interrupted, reduced or permanently discontinued 
based on severity of confirmed pneumonitis/ILD (see sections 4.2,  4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC).  
Hypertension was observed in pralsetinib-treated patients in  clinical trials.  Treatment-related 
hypertension was most commonly managed with anti-hypertensive medicinal products. Treatment with 
pralsetinib should not be initiated  in patients with  uncontrolled hypertension. Pre -existing hypertension 
should be adequately controlled before starting pralsetinib treatment. Monitoring  of blood pressure is 
recommended after 1 week, at least monthly thereafter and as clinically indicated. Anti -hypertensive 
therapy should be initiated  or adjusted as appropriate. The dose should be interrupted, reduced , or 
permanently discontinued based on the severity of the  hypertension observed during treatment with 
pralsetinib (see sections 4.2, 4.4  and 4.8 of the SmPC). 
Severe cases of transaminase elevations have been reported in patients  who received pralsetinib in 
clinical trials. ALT and AST should be monitored prior to initiating  pralsetinib, every 2 weeks during the 
first 3 months,  then monthly thereafter and as clinically indicated.  Treatment with  pralsetinib should be 
interrupted, reduced or permanently discontinued based on severity of the transaminase elevation 
observed during treatment with  pralsetinib (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  of the  SmPC).  
Severe, including fatal, haemorrhagic events can occur with  pralsetinib. In patients with  life -
threatening or recurrent severe haemorrhage, pralsetinib should be permanently discontinued (see 
sections 4.2, 4.4  and 4.8  of the  SmPC). 
Prolongation of the  QT interval has been observed in patients who received Gavreto in clinical trials 
(see section 4.8).  Therefore, before starting Gavreto treatment, patients should have a QTc interval 
≤470  ms and serum electrolytes within  normal range. Hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia, and 
hypocalcaemia should be corrected both prior and during Gavreto treatment. Electrocardiograms 
(ECGs) and serum electrolytes should be monitored at  the end of the first  week and of the  first month 
of Gavreto treatment, then periodically, as clinically indicated, depending also on the presence of other 
risk factors (e.g. intercurrent diarrhoea, vomiting, na usea, concomitant medications). Pralsetinib 
should be used with  caution in patients  with  medical history of cardiac arrhythmias or QT interval 
prolongation, as well as in patients  on strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors or on medicinal products known to be 
associated with  QT/QTc prolongation. Gavreto may require interruption, dose modification, or 
discontinuation  (see sections 4.2, 4.4  and 4.8  of the  SmPC). 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 123/139 
 
 
 
SAEs (incidence 54.5%):  Infections (pneumonia 9.8%,  sepsis 2.8%,  urinary tract infection 3.4%), 
events of thoracic nature (pneumonitis 4.5%,  dyspnoea 1.9%, pleural effusion 1.9%),  and 
myelotoxicity (anaemia 3.8%,  neutropenia 1.3%) were the predominant SAEs in patients treated with 
pralsetinib. 
Deaths: 66 out of 528 patients  (12.5%)  died due to an AE. 32 of these dea ths were due to disease 
progression, dubiously labelled as an AE. From the  rest, events of thoracic nature (pneumonia, 
dyspnoea, respiratory failure) were the most frequent cause of death.  
Laboratory shifts: Relating to  anaemia incidence, G3 haemoglobin decrease was reported in 11.5%  of 
patients. G3/4  neutropenia occurred in 19%  of patients  and G3/4 lymphopenia in 24%.  G3 
hypophosphatemia, although  of dubious clinical relevance, occurred in 10% of patients.  
Discontinuations/interruptions/reductions:  The most frequent AEs that  led to  permanent treatment 
discontinuations  were pneumonitis (1.9%),  pneumonia (1.7%) and sepsis (<1%).  Interruptions and/or 
dose reductions were most  frequently due to neutropenia/neutro phil count decreased, anaemia and 
pneumonitis.  
Special populations: AEs that  happened more frequently in older patients  (≥ 65 years) were 
hypertension, leukopenia and fatigue. The proportion of SAEs was higher in  older (65%)  than younger 
(52%)  patients (data from NSCLC population).  Anaemia, neutropenia and neutrophil  count decreased, 
nausea and vomiting, pneumonitis,  UTIs, platelet  count decreased and hypoalbuminemia were 
reported in a higher incidence in  females, while blood creatinine increased was repor ted in a higher 
incidence for males. These differences did not  seem to translate into  unbalances in overall AEs, SAEs 
or discontinuations due to AEs. However, for treatment interruptions and dose reductions, higher 
percentages were found for females. No clear reason for these differences has been found and no 
effect in the Pop PK model was found either. Overall, the observed unbalances are not considered 
relevant enough to consider that pralsetinib tolerability might  be different between males and females. 
The incidence of myelotoxic events was slightly higher in Asian patients.  
In study ARROW (N=528),  37.8%  of patients were 65 years of age and older. Compared with  younger 
patients (<65),  more patients  of ≥65  years old reported adverse reactions that led to permanent dose 
discontinuation  (25.8% versus 13.4%).  Of the commonly reported events with  higher incidence in 
elderly patients (≥65),  hypertension has the greatest difference in comparison with  patients <65  years 
of age. However, hypertension is also ex pected to  occur more frequently in the elderly population. 
Older patients  reported more Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions compared to younger patients 
(87.1%  versus 72.3%) (see section 4.8 of the SmPC). 
There are no available data from the use of pralsetinib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity. Based on its mechanism of action  and findings  in animals, pralsetinib may 
cause foetal harm when administered to pregnant women. Women of childbearing potential should be 
advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving pralsetinib. A highly effective non -hormonal 
method of contraception is required for female patients  during treatment with  pralsetinib, because 
pralsetinib can render hormonal contraceptives ineffective. If a horm onal method of contraception is 
unavoidable, then  a condom must be used in  combination with the  hormonal method. Effective 
contraception must be continued for at least 2  weeks after the final dose. Men with  female partners of 
childbearing potential should use effective contraception during  treatment and for at least one week 
after the final dose of pralsetinib (see section 4.4 and 4.6 of the SmPC).  
It should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment 
with  pralsetinib. 
It is unknown whether pralsetinib or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to breast -fed 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 124/139 
 
 
 
pralsetinib and for at least one week after the final dose. 
No clinical data on the effect of pralsetinib on fertility are available. Based on findings  from animal 
studies, male and female fertility may be compromised by treatment with  pralsetinib. Both men and 
women should seek advice on effective fertility preservation before treatment. 
Pralsetinib has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients  should be advised to 
be cautious when driving or operating machines as patients may experience fatigue while taking 
pralsetinib (see section 4.7 of the SmPC).  
Preferred term ‘disease progression’ 
From a clinical oncology perspective, disease progression is often connected to a lack of efficacy or 
natural progression of the disease, not being considered as an actual adverse event related t o a drug. 
According to the  BLU-667-1101 protocol, the term “disease progression” (which  exists in the  MedDRA 
database) was used as a reported AE across the safety database of pralsetinib.  This explains why 
‘disease progression’ appears as one of the most frequent AEs (first cause of deaths due to AEs 
regardless of causality, second most frequent SAE, sixth most frequent high -grade AE) in the tables 
presented in this  assessment report, but not as an adverse drug reaction (causality not  established) in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Impacted safety database: 
Methodological differences in the recording of AEs and their outcomes have been identified by the 
current applicant (Roche) regarding the original submission by the initial  applicant (Blueprint 
Medicines). Both methodologies are scientifically valid, not posing a significant impact on the overall 
safety profile of pralsetinib. The finding  of five additional G5 AEs using Roche’s methodology is 
reasonably justified and none of the cases seems related to study  drug. 
Safety profile or pralsetinib in 1L  vs. ≥2L  patients 
For the most part, the  overall proportion of AEs [any AEs, high-grade (≥G3)  AEs, SAEs, AESIs, G5 
AEs, AEs leading to dose interruption/reduction and AEs leading to  permanent treatment 
discontinuation]  seems slightly higher in the sub-population  of pretreated patients (n=165)  as 
compared to treatment-naïve patients (n=116). 
No cases of overdose have been reported in clinical trials with  pralsetinib. The maximum dose of 
pralsetinib studied clinically is 600 mg orally once daily. Adverse reactions observed at this dose were 
consistent with  the safety profile at 400  mg once daily. There is no known antidote  for Gavreto 
overdose. In the event of suspected overdose, Gavreto should be interrupted and suppo rtive care 
instituted.  Based on the large volume of distribution  of pralsetinib and extensive protein binding, 
dialysis is unlikely to result in significant removal of pralsetinib.  (see sections 4.8 and 4.9 of the 
SmPC). 
NSCLC  (N=281), data  cut-off 06 November  2020 
Safety performance of pralsetinib for the NSCLC population is comparable to that  described for the 
larger safety population.   
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Additional expert consultation 
The following input  of the  SAG-Oncology has been requested:  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 125/139 
 
 
 
Is the observed safety profile of Gavreto acceptable in first line? 
On the meeting of the 7th of September 2021, the conclusions of the SAG -O were as follows: 
The majority of the SAG agreed that  the safety profile is well-characterised and acceptable given the 
high activity and also the toxicity generally associated with  alternative treatment opti ons.  However, 
many uncertainties exist including  subgroups frail/elderly and longer follow -up  (see above).  
For a minority of experts the uncertainties in efficacy/safety are too important  to conclude on a 
positive balance of benefits and risks. 
Additional safety data needed in the context of a conditional MA  
Additional safety data including  comparative data will  be provided as part of the specific obligations  in 
order to fulfil  a CMA. Longer follow-up from the ARROW study will  allow a better characterisation of the 
long-term safety and the randomised phase 3 study AcceleRET will allow a contextualisation of the 
safety data compared to the  control arm. 
2.4.2.  
Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Overall safety data of pralsetinib are scarce since the  design of  the pivotal study ARROW is open-label 
and single arm, with  limited exposure and follow-up. Importantly, however, toxicity does not  seem to 
differ substantially  between treatment-naïve and pretreated patients.  Hepatotoxicity, hypertension, 
myelotoxicity and intestinal  motility disturbances are the most frequently observed AEs from 
pralsetinib treatment, which  can nonetheless be interrupted  and/or reduced to  improve tolerability . 
Transaminase elevations, hypertension, pneumonitis,  haemorrhagic events and QTc prolongation are 
identified as safety concerns for pralsetinib in the RMP. The observed safety findings are clinically 
manageable. 
The CHMP considers the  following measures necessary to address the missing safety data in the 
context of a conditional  MA: 
- 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of pralsetinib in  the treatment of adult patients 
with  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC, the MAH  should submit the  results of a longer follow -up 
of efficacy evaluable patients (approximately 116 treatment-naïve NSCLC patients and more 
follow-up of the 136  NSCLC previously treated with  platinum therapy) of study BLU -667-1101,  a 
Phase 1/2  Study of pralsetinib in patients  with thyroid cancer, NSCLC and other advanced solid 
tumours. The CSR should be submitted by 31 December 2022. 
- 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of pralsetinib in  the treatment of adult patients 
with  RET fusion-positive advanced NSCLC, the MAH  should submit the  results of study BLU -667-
2303,  a randomized, open-label, Phase 3 Study of pralsetinib versus standard of care for first line 
treatment of RET fusion-positive, metastatic NSCLC. The CSR should be submitted by 31 
December 2026. 
2.5.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that  the risk management plan version 1.0 is acceptable.   
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 126/139 
 
 
 
Safety concerns 
Table 53. Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Pneumonitis 
Hypertension 
Haemorrhage 
Transaminase  Elevations 
Embryo-foetal  toxicity 
Severe  infections 
QT prolongation 
Missing information 
Use in patients with moderate  or severe  hepatic impairment   
Drug-drug  interactions 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Table 54. On-going and planned  additional pharmacovigilance activities  
Study  
Status  
Summary of objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestones  
Due dates 
Category  1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance  activities which are  conditions of the marketing  authorisation 
None 
Category  2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance  activities which are Specific  Obligations in the context of a conditional mark eting 
authorisation or a marketing  authorisation under  exceptional circumstances   
None 
Category  3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance  activities  
Study GP43162 (DDI 
● To assess the impact of coadministration of a P-gp 
Drug-drug  interaction 
Final protocol 
05/2021 
Study)  
inhibitor on the single-dose PK of pralsetinib. 
submission 
A Study to evaluate  the 
● To assess the safety  and tolerability of a single-dose of 
Trial completion 
12/2021 
effect  of repeat  doses of a 
pralsetinib alone and co administered with a P-gp 
Final report 
P-gp inhibitor on the 
inhibitor. 
submission 
04/2022 
pharmacokinetics  of 
pralsetinib and to inform 
appropriate  dosing 
strategies for safe 
coadministration of 
pralsetinib with P-gp 
inhibitors. 
Study GP43163 
● to characterise  the pharmacokinetics  of pralsetinib in 
Use in patients with 
Final study protocol 
May 2021 
A Study to Evaluate the 
patients with hepatic impairment 
severe  hepatic 
submission 
Pharmacokinetics  of BLU-
667 in Healthy and 
Hepatically  Impaired 
Subjects 
impairment 
Trial completion 
March  2024 
Final clinical study 
September 2024 
report  
CSR =  clinical study report; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; P-gp = P-glycoprotein; RET = rearranged  during 
transfection 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 127/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 55. Summary Table  of Pharmacovigilance Activities and Risk Minimization Activiti es by 
Safety  Concern 
Safety concern 
Risk 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Pneumonitis 
minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4   and 4.8  
beyond adverse reactions reporting 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Recommendation on dose interruptions, 
dose reduction  and discontinuation in 
SmPC section 4.2. 
and signal detection: 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Recommendation that health care 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
providers advise patients to immediately 
None  
report new or worsening  respiratory 
symptoms. 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
None 
Hypertension 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
PL sections 2 and 4 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
signal detection: 
Recommendation on dose interruptions, dose 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
reduction and discontinuation in SmPC section 4.2. 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Advice on monitoring in SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
Recommendation to not start treatment  in case  of 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
uncontrolled hypertension. 
None 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Haemorrhage 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
PL sections 2 and 4 
signal detection: 
Recommendation on dose interruptions, dose 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
reduction and discontinuation in SmPC section 4.2. 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 128/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaminase  Elevations 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
PL sections 2 and 4 
signal detection: 
Recommendation on dose interruptions 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
and discontinuation  in SmPC section 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
4.2.Advice on monitoring. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
Risk will be assessed through  Study 
GP43163  in Healthy and Hepatically 
Impaired subjects 
Embryo-foetal  Toxicity 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.3 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
PL section 2 
signal detection: 
Advice on the use of contraception  in 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.6 and section 2 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
of the PL 
Advice on treatment avoidance in case of 
pregnancy. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Severe  Infections 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.2, and 4.8. 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
Recommendation on dose adjustment and 
signal detection: 
discontinuation  in SmPC section 4.2. 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None  
QT Prolongation 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, and 5.1 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
signal detection: 
None 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
PSURs/PBRERs 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 129/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in Patients with Severe Hepatic 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
impairment 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 5.2. 
beyond adverse reactions reporting 
Recommendation on dose adjustment in SmPC 
and 
section 4.2. 
signal detection: 
Advice on treatment avoidance  in case  of severe 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
hepatic impairment. 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
Study GP43163 planned; final protocol submission 
May 2021  
Drug-Drug  Interaction 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 5.2, of the SmPC 
adverse reactions  reporting and 
“Dose modification for use with strong 
signal detection: 
cytochrome P-450 (CYP)3A4 inhibitors or 
Presentation of cumulative data in 
combined P- glycoprotein (P-gp) and 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
strong  CYP3A4 inhibitors”, “Dose 
modification for use with strong CYP3A4 
inducers”, “Drug interactions”, and “Strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors and or combined P-gp 
and strong  CYP3A4 inhibitors” and avoid 
“Sensitive substrates  of CYP3A4, CYP2C8, 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study GP43162  planned; final protocol 
submission May 2021   
CYP2C9, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, 
OAT1, MATE1  and MATE2-K with narrow 
therapeutic index” provide 
recommendations on risk management 
approach. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
2.6.   Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that  the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the  Annex II, Section C of the CHMP Opinion.  The applicant did request alignment  of the PSUR 
cycle with  the international birth  date (IBD). The IBD is 04.09.2020.  The new EURD list entry will 
therefore use the IBD to determine the forthcoming Data Lock Points. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 130/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.   New Active Substance 
The applicant compared the structure of pralsetinib with active substances contained in authorised 
medicinal products in  the European Union  and declared that  it is not  a salt,  ester, ether, isomer, 
mixture of isomers, complex or derivative of any of them.  
The CHMP, based on the available data, considers prals etinib to be a new active substance as it is not 
a constituent  of a medicinal product previously authorised within  the European Union.  
2.8.   Product information 
2.8.1.  
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with  target patient  groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that  the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in  the  Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.2.  
Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU)  726/2004,  Gavreto (pralsetinib) is included in the 
additional monitoring list  as: 
• 
It contains a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was  not contained in any 
medicinal product authorised in the  EU; 
• 
It is approved under a conditional marketing authorisation [REG Art 14 -a] 
Therefore, the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that 
this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that  this will  allow quick identification  of 
new safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 131/139 
 
 
 
 
3.   Benefit-Risk Balance  
3.1.   Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1.  
Disease or condition 
The claimed indication for Gavreto (pralsetinib) is as monotherapy for the treatment  of adult  patients 
with  rearranged during transfection (RET) fusion-positive advanced non-small cell lung  cancer 
(NSCLC). 
The aim of treatment is to  induce tumour  response, as measured by the primary efficacy endpoint 
ORR. 
3.1.2.  
Available therapies and unmet medical need 
Oncogenic RET fusions have been identified in 1-2% of NSCLC. Patient  with RET-fusion positive 
advanced NSCLC are usually treated per NCCN and ESMO guide lines for NSCLC testing negative for 
ALK/BRAF/EGFR/ROS1 with  platinum  doublet-based cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy 
with  a checkpoint inhibitor.  As of February 2021,  selpercatinib (Retsevmo SmPC) is the first RET 
inhibitor  approved in Europe. However, since it holds an indication  after immunotherapy and/or 
platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with  advanced RET fusion-positive NSCLC, an unmet  medical 
need still  exists. 
3.1.3.  
Main clinical studies 
The main efficacy data in support of the claimed indication is based on a single pivotal trial: BLU -667-
1101  (ARROW), an ongoing phase I/II, open-label, first-in-human,  multi-cohort,  single-arm trial in 
patients with  advanced, unresectable RET-altered solid tumours.  The study design consists of a dose 
escalation phase (phase I) to determine the MTD and RP2D of pralsetinib and an ongoing dose 
expansion phase (phase II) to assess clinical efficacy of pralsetinib in specific tumour  types and 
treatment settings  across nine cohorts, and further define safety and tolerability at the RP2D,  i.e., 400 
mg QD. 
The applicant has submitted  updated efficacy results from 233  RET fusion -positive NSCLC patients 
from both  phase I (dose escalation) and II (Groups 1 and 2) whos e treatment  at the proposed starting 
dose of pralsetinib of 400 mg QD started on or before 22 May 2020,  which constitute  the population of 
interest for the pursued indication.  The efficacy dataset includes all data reported from these patients 
up to a cut-off of 06 November 2020.   
The primary endpoint of the trial is ORR by BICR based on RECIST v1.1.  The secondary endpoints are 
DOR, PFS and OS. 
3.2.   Favourable effects 
●  At data cut-off 06 November 2020,  with  an estimated median follow-up time  of 17.1  months, 150 
out of the 233  patients from the efficacy dataset had achieved confirmed response by BICR, 
attaining  a BOR of 64.4% (95%  CI 57.9,  70.5). From the  group of responders, 11 patients exhibited 
a confirmed CR. 
●  The median TTR was 1.8 months and, in 68%  of responders, DOR was more than 6 months. 
However, the  observed medians for the time-to-event  endpoints (DOR, PFS or OS) have not  been 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 132/139 
 
 
 
reached yet. The K-M  estimates for mDOR (22.3  months) and mPFS (16.4  months) are 
nevertheless encouraging. 
●  The forest plot  of ORR suggests that pralsetinib exerted benefits across most important subgroups 
(ECOG PS status,  CNS metastases at enrolment, prior treatments), although  the ORR in patients 
whose tumours had other RET-fusion partners was considerably inferior. 
●  The ORR benefit of pralsetinib for the  intended population was observed regardless of line of 
treatment, with  slightly higher ORR in the treatment-naïve population (n=75,  ORR 72.0 %). 
3.3.   Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
Data from time-to-event endpoints (PFS, OS) are difficult  to interpret in the context of an uncontrolled 
trial.  
The uncontrolled nature of the study  is a limitation  to interpretation of efficacy results, particularly 
since historical data from patients with  RET fusion-positive NSCLC are scarce. The submission of 
further follow-up from the pivotal trial (BLU-667-1101)  together with  the results from an open-label, 
randomized, controlled multicentre phase III study in RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients  (AcceleRET - 
BLU-667-2303)  investigating the efficacy of pralsetinib in patients with  metastatic NSCLC harbouring 
an oncogenic RET fusion and who have not received prior systemic therapy will  address these 
uncertainties.  
3.4.   Unfavourable effects 
● 
The most frequent AE from pralsetinib is aspartate aminotransferase increased, which occurred in 
46% of patients. 
●  Other common AEs in the NSCLC population  are anaemia (46%),  constipation (42%),  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) (34%),  hypertension (33%), diarrhoea (29%),  white blood cell count 
decreased (27%), pyrexia (25%) and fatigue (25%). 
● 
The most common high-grade AEs (incidence 76.9%)  from pralsetinib are anaemia, hypertension 
and neutropenia. 
● 
The most common SAEs (incidence 54.5%)  were infections, pneumonitis,  dysp noea, pleural 
effusion and myelotoxicity. 
● 
12.5%  of patients  died from AEs, although almost half of these deaths were  reported as 
progressive disease (as an AE). 
● 
Due to  toxicity from pralsetinib, a significant proportion of patients required dose interrup tions 
(68.8%),  dose reductions (45.3%)  or permanent treatment discontinuation  (17.2%). 
● 
The toxicity profile of pralsetinib does not seem to differ substantially  between treatment-naïve 
and pretreated patients. 
3.5.   Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
● 
Long-term safety data are missing. The submission of further follow-up from the  pivotal trial 
(BLU-667-1101)  together with the  results from an open-label, randomized, controlled multicentre 
phase III study in RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients  (AcceleRET - BLU-667-2303)  will  address 
these uncertainties.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 133/139 
 
 
 
3.6.   Effects Table 
Table 56:  Effects Table for pralsetinib in the treatment  of patients with advanced  RET 
fusion-positive NSCLC.  (Data cut-off 06 November 2020) 
Effect 
Short 
Unit 
Treatment 
Description 
(monotherapy pralsetinib) 
Uncertainties/ 
References 
Strength of evidence 
Favourable Effects 
N=233 
Treatment  naïve 
Pre-treated  with 
Pre-treated  with non-
N=75 
platinum 
treatment 
N=136 
ORR 
PR+CR 
% 
72.0% 
58.8% 
platinum systemic 
treatment 
N=22 
72.7% 
Selected and uncontrolled 
CSR, SCE 
(RECIST 1.1) 
(60.4%, 81.8%) 
(50.1%, 67.2%) 
(49.8%, 89.3%) 
data 
by BICR 
95% CI 
DOR 
Median  
Months 
NR (9.0, NR) 
22.3 (15.1, NR)  NR (9.2, NR) 
Immature and 
CSR, SCE 
(K-M 
95% CI 
estimate) 
uncontrolled data 
PFS 
Median  
Months 
13.0 (9.1, NR)  16.5 (10.5, 24.1)  12.8 (9.1, NR) 
Immature and 
CSR, SCE 
(K-M 
95% CI 
estimate) 
uncontrolled data 
OS 
Median (K-M 
Months 
NR 
NR 
NR, NR 
Immature and 
CSR, SCE 
estimate) 
95% CI 
uncontrolled data 
Unfavourable Effects 
≥G3 AEs 
SAEs 
Deaths due to AEs 
AEs leading to 
permanent 
discontinuation 
AST increased 
Gr ≥3  
Hypertension  
Gr ≥3 
Pneumonitis/ILD 
Gr ≥3 
QTc prolongation  
Gr ≥3 
Haemorrhagic  events 
Gr ≥3 
All patients (n=528) 
% 
% 
% 
% 
% 
% 
% 
% 
% 
76.9 
54.5  
12.5 
17.2  
46.0 
5.7 
33.0 
16.1 
11.6 
3.3 
5.1 
0.4 
18.8 
3.2 
Immature data 
CSR, SCS 
Immature data 
CSR, SCS 
Immature data 
CSR, SCS 
Immature data 
CSR, SCS 
CSR, SCS 
CSR, SCS 
CSR, SCS 
Abbreviations: NSCLC= Non-small cell lung cancer; AE= Adverse event; AESI= Adverse event of special interest; SAE= Serious 
adverse event; ORR= Overall response rate; DOR= Duration of response; PFS= Progression free survival; OS= Overall survival; 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 134/139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PR= partial response; CR= complete response; K-M= Kaplan-Meier; CI= confidence interval; CSR= clinical study report; SCE= 
summary of clinical efficacy; SCS= summary of clinical safety. 
3.7.   Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
3.7.1  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The application is based on one single -arm trial, which challenges the interpretation of any potential 
long-term beneficial effects of pralsetinib in  terms of PFS and OS. Nevertheless, this  approach may be 
acceptable for a product intended  for a rare population with  an unmet medical need, which is indeed 
the case of patients with  advanced RET fusion-positive NSCLC (about 1-2% of all NSCLC). 
An ORR of 64.4%  from pralsetinib in the targeted population is encouraging and, consi dering the 
reported high  rate of durable responses, expected to translate into  a clinically meaningful benefit.  
The main concern for a line-agnostic indication is the  uncertainty about the impact on time -dependent 
endpoints, even if activity in terms of ORR in the  first line setting appears higher than what  is seen for 
chemo-immunotherapy in a non-selected population.  Although the medians for the time -to-event 
endpoints (DOR, PFS, OS) have not  been reached yet, preliminary results suggest that responses are  
durable and KM-estimates of PFS and OS allow to  anticipate lasting benefits from treatment  with 
pralsetinib.  
Indirect comparisons of available OS and PFS results of pralsetinib in RET -fusion positive NSCLC 
against those reported with  chemo-immunotherapy in ‘all-comer’ NSCLC patients  treated in  studies 
IMpower130, IMpower150 and KEYNOTE-189  give some support to the efficacy benefit of targeted 
treatment in the  1L. Of note, despite the many limitations  of this type of analyses and high  censoring 
of OS (mOS not reached), the OS 12-month  landmark in ARROW –82%  of 75 1L patients  still alive– 
seems promising in comparison to data from the above -mentioned studies and other trials in  1L. 
About three quarters of patients present high-grade AEs and SAEs were reported for more than half of 
them. Most  of the specific events from pralsetinib have also been seen with  other TKIs used in lung 
cancer, but  their frequency and severity seem to be higher with  pralsetinib. However, interruptions 
and/or dose reductions are possible and may help managing the safety profile of pralsetinib in clinical 
practice. Importantly, the  toxicity profile of pralsetinib does not seem to differ substantially between 
treatment-naïve and pretreated patients. 
3.7.1.  
Balance of benefits and risks 
In patients with  advanced RET fusion-positive NSCLC, the  ARROW study reported high rates of durable 
responses for pralsetinib together with  a manageable safety profile. The B/R balance is therefore 
positive. 
3.7.2.  
Additional considerations on the benefit-risk balance 
Conditional marketing authorisation 
As comprehensive data on the product are not available, a conditional marketing authorisation was 
requested by the applicant in the  initial submission. 
The product falls within  the  scope of Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  concerning 
conditional marketing authorisations, as it  aims at  the treatment of a life -threatening disease.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 135/139 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the CHMP considers that the product  fulfils the requirements for a conditional marketing 
authorisation: 
● 
The benefit-risk balance is positive, as discussed. It is agreed that  benefit-risk is positive across all 
lines. The line agnostic indication  has been sufficiently justified. 
● 
It is likely that  the applicant will  be able to provide comprehensive data. The applicant will  provide 
confirmatory data from the  ongoing AcceleRET study (BLU-667-2303),  an open-label, randomized, 
controlled multicentre phase III study in RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients.  This study is 
designed to  assess the efficacy of pralsetinib a s compared to Investigator’s choice platinum-based 
chemotherapy regimen for patients with  metastatic NSCLC harbouring an oncogenic RET fusion 
and who have not received prior systemic therapy. This study is currently recruiting and the 
submission of the  final clinical study report (CSR) is expected by Q4 2026.  In addition, results 
from a longer follow up of efficacy evaluable patients (approximately 116  treatment-naïve NSCLC 
patients and more follow-up  of the  136 NSCLC previously treated with platinum  therapy) from the 
relevant cohorts from study ARROW (BLU-667-1101),  will  be submitted by 31 December 2022 to 
confirm the B/R of Gavreto. Additional safety data including  comparative data will  be provided as 
part of the specific obligations. Longer follow-up from the ARROW study will  allow a better 
characterisation of the long-term safety and the  randomised phase 3 study AcceleRET will allow a 
contextualisation of the safety data compared to the  control arm. Results from both  studies are 
intended to provide a comprehensive data package and potentially convert the  conditional MA into 
a full MA.  
● 
Patient with  RET-fusion positive advanced NSCLC are usually treated per NCCN and ESMO 
guidelines for NSCLC testing  negative for ALK/BRAF/EGFR/ROS1 with  platinum  doublet-based 
cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy with a checkpoint inhibitor. As of February 2021, 
selpercatinib is the  first RET inhibitor  authorised in the EU as a CMA for the treatment  of RET -
fusion positive NSCLC following prior treatment with  immunothera py and/or platinum-based 
chemotherapy. Unmet medical needs will  be addressed, in view of the  high overall response rate 
and the long duration of response, regardless of line of therapy in the  RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
population. Gavreto is considered to have a major therapeutic advantage over existing therapies 
based on the convenience of oral administration,  a differential safety profile, and the provision of a 
treatment alternative with  a novel mechanism of action in the context of a reported activity of  
such a magnitude that allows to expect that pralsetinib would  be at least similarly active to first 
line available chemotherapy, immunotherapy or immunochemotherapy options. In previously 
treated RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients,  Gavreto is expected to address the unmet medical 
need to  a similar extent to selpercatinib in view of the observed response rate and duration of 
response. 
● 
The benefits to public health of the immediate availability outweigh the  risks inherent in the fact 
that  additional data are still required. Given the positive benefit/risk and the unmet  medical need 
in the applied indications as described above, this is considered fulfilled.  
3.8.   Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Gavreto is positive. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 136/139 
 
 
 
4.   Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP  review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that  the benefit-risk balance of Gavreto is favourable in the following indication: 
Gavreto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment  of adult  patients with  rearranged duri ng 
transfection (RET) fusion-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)  not previously treated 
with  a RET inhibitor.   
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the conditional  marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety  Update  Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the  list of Union reference dates (EURD list)  provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC  and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this  product 
within  6 months following  authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management  Plan  (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in  the 
agreed RMP presented in Module  1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequen t 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
●  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
●  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to  the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important  (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation)  milestone being 
reached.  
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the 
conditional marketing authorisation  
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to  Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004,  the MAH  shall complete, within  the  stated timeframe, the following  measures:  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 137/139 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
In order to further confirm  the efficacy  and safety of pralsetinib in the treatment of adult patients with RET fusion-
31 December  2022 
positive advanced  NSCLC, the MAH should conduct  and submit the results of a longer follow-up of efficacy  evaluable 
patients (approximately 116 treatment-naïve  NSCLC patients and more follow-up of the 136 NSCLC previously treated 
with platinum therapy)  of study BLU-667-1101, a Phase 1/2 Study of pralsetinib in patients with thyroid cancer,  NSCLC 
and other advanced  solid tumours. 
In order to further confirm  the efficacy  and safety of pralsetinib in the treatment of adult patients with RET fusion-
31 December  2026 
positive advanced  NSCLC, the MAH should submit the results of study BLU-667-2303, a randomized, open-label, Phase 
3 Study of pralsetinib versus standard of care  for first line treatment of RET fusion-positive, metastatic NSCLC. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not  applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP  review of the  available data, the CHMP considers that  pralsetinib is a new active 
substance as it  is not a constituent  of a medicinal product previously authorised within  the European 
Union. 
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 138/139 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 
Not  applicable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/597973/2021  
Page 139/139 
 
 
 
