EMA/532325/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005413 
Gavreto (pralsetinib) 
An overview of Gavreto and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Gavreto and what is it used for? 
Gavreto is a cancer medicine for treating adults with  advanced non-small cell lung  cancer caused by 
changes in  a gene called RET (known as RET fusion-positive NSCLC) and who have not  been treated 
with  a RET inhibitor. 
Gavreto contains the active substance pralsetinib. 
How is Gavreto used? 
Gavreto is available as capsules. Patients  are recommended to take 400  mg per day with  a glass of 
water on an empty stomach. The medicine can only be obtained with  a prescription.  
For more information about using Gavreto, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Gavreto work? 
The active substance in Gavreto, pralsetinib, is a RET inhibitor,  which belongs to a broader class of 
cancer medicines known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors .  It blocks the activity of an abnormal protein 
called RET fusion protein, which  is made by the  body due to a change in  the RET gene. In NSCLC cells, 
RET fusion proteins can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and cancer. By blocking RET fusion proteins, 
pralsetinib helps to reduce the growth  and spread of the cancer. 
What benefits of Gavreto have been shown in studies? 
In one main study, Gavreto was effective at reducing tumour size in patients with  RET fusion-positive 
NSCLC who had not been treated before as well as in those previously treated with  platinum-based 
chemotherapy. In the study, Gavreto was not compared with  any other treatment or placebo (dummy 
treatment). 
Response to treatment was assessed using body scans , with  a complete response being when the 
patient had no remaining signs of cancer. In previously untreated patients,  around 72%  (54 out of 75) 
responded completely or partially to  treatment with  Gavreto. In patients receiving Gavreto after being 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
  
treated with  platinum-based chemotherapy, around 59% (80  out of 136) responded completely or 
partially to treatment with  Gavreto. 
What are the risks associated with Gavreto? 
The most common side effects with  Gavreto (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are anaemia 
(low levels of red blood cells), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), 
constipation, bone or muscle pain, tiredness, leukopenia (low levels of white blood cells), an increased 
amount of aminotransferases (liver enzymes), and increased blood pressure. The most common 
serious side effects are pneumonia (lung  infections), pneumonitis (lung inflammation)  and severe 
anaemia. Other common side effects include haemorrhage (bleeding) (more than  1 in 10 people) and 
QT prolongation (a change in the heart’s electrical activity) (more than 1 in 100  people). 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Gavreto authorised in the EU? 
One main study  showed that  Gavreto is effective at shrinking tumours in patients with  RET fusion-
positive NLCSC. Regarding safety, the  side effects seen to date are considered manageable . Given the 
seriousness of the  condition and the lack of existing treatments, the European Medicines Agency 
decided that  Gavreto’s benefits are greater than its  risk and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
Gavreto has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that  there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that  becomes available and this  overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Gavreto? 
Since Gavreto has been given conditional authorisation, the  company that markets Gavreto will submit 
further results from the ongoing main study for data on the long-term effectiveness and safety of 
Gavreto and provide results from another study that compares Gavreto with  the current standard of 
care. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Gavreto? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and pa tients  for the safe 
and effective use of Gavreto have also been included in the  summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Gavreto are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Gavreto are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Gavreto 
Gavreto received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 18 November 2021 
Further information on Gavreto can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/gavreto 
This overview was last updated in  11-2021. 
Gavreto (pralsetinib)  
EMA/532325/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
