ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Gazyvaro 1,000 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of 40 mL concentrate contains 1,000 mg obinutuzumab, corresponding to a concentration 
before dilution of 25 mg/mL.  
Obinutuzumab is a Type II humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody of the IgG1 subclass derived 
by humanisation of the parental B-Ly1 mouse antibody and produced in the Chinese Hamster Ovary 
cell line by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless to slightly brownish liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
previously untreated CLL and with comorbidities making them unsuitable for full-dose fludarabine 
based therapy (see section 5.1). 
Follicular lymphoma (FL)  
Gazyvaro in combination with chemotherapy, followed by Gazyvaro maintenance therapy in patients 
achieving a response, is indicated for the treatment of patients with previously untreated advanced FL 
(see section 5.1) 
Gazyvaro in combination with bendamustine followed by Gazyvaro maintenance is indicated for the 
treatment of patients with FL who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months after 
treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Gazyvaro should be administered under the close supervision of an experienced physician and in an 
environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately available. 
Posology 
Prophylaxis and premedication for tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
Patients with a high tumour burden and/or a high circulating lymphocyte count (> 25 x 109/L) and/or 
renal impairment (CrCl < 70 mL/min) are considered at risk of TLS and should receive prophylaxis. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prophylaxis should consist of adequate hydration and administration of uricostatics (e.g. allopurinol), 
or suitable alternative treatment such as urate oxidase (e.g. rasburicase), starting 12-24 hours prior to 
start of Gazyvaro infusion as per standard practice (see section 4.4). Patients should continue to 
receive repeated prophylaxis prior to each subsequent infusion, if deemed appropriate. 
Prophylaxis and premedication for infusion related reactions (IRRs) 
Premedication to reduce the risk of IRRs is outlined in Table 1 (see also section 4.4). Corticosteroid 
premedication is recommended for patients with FL and mandatory for CLL patients in the first cycle 
(see Table 1). Premedication for subsequent infusions and other premedication should be administered 
as described below. 
Hypotension, as a symptom of IRRs, may occur during Gazyvaro intravenous infusions. Therefore, 
withholding of antihypertensive treatments should be considered for 12 hours prior to and throughout 
each Gazyvaro infusion and for the first hour after administration (see section 4.4).  
Table 1 
Premedication to be administered before Gazyvaro infusion to reduce the risk of 
IRRs in patients with CLL and FL (see section 4.4) 
Patients requiring 
premedication 
Premedication 
Administration 
Day of 
treatment 
cycle 
Cycle 1: 
Day 1 for 
CLL and 
FL 
All patients 
Cycle 1: 
Day 2 for 
CLL only 
All patients 
All 
subsequent 
infusions for 
CLL and 
FL 
Patients with no IRR 
during the previous 
infusion 
Patients with an IRR 
(Grade 1 or 2) with the 
previous infusion 
Patients with a Grade 3 
IRR with the previous 
infusion OR  
Patients with 
lymphocyte counts 
>25 x 109/L prior to 
next treatment 
Intravenous 
corticosteroid1,4 
(mandatory for CLL, 
recommended for FL) 
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2  At least 30 minutes 
Anti-histaminic medicine3 
Intravenous corticosteroid1 
(mandatory) 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2  At least 30 minutes 
Anti-histaminic medicine3 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Anti-histaminic medicine3 
Intravenous 
corticosteroid1,4 
At least 30 minutes 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Anti-histaminic medicine3 
At least 30 minutes 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
1100 mg prednisone/prednisolone or 20 mg dexamethasone or 80 mg methylprednisolone. Hydrocortisone should not be used 
as it has not been effective in reducing rates of IRR. 
2 e.g. 1,000 mg acetaminophen/paracetamol 
3 e.g. 50 mg diphenhydramine 
4.If a corticosteroid-containing chemotherapy regimen is administered on the same day as Gazyvaro, the corticosteroid can 
be administered as an oral medicinal product  if given at least 60 minutes prior to Gazyvaro, in which case additional IV 
corticosteroid as premedication is not required. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL, in combination with chlorambucil1) 
For patients with CLL the recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is shown 
in Table 2. 
Cycle 1 
The recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is 1,000 mg administered over 
Day 1 and Day 2, (or Day 1 continued), and on Day 8 and Day 15 of the first 28 day treatment cycle.  
Two infusion bags should be prepared for the infusion on Days 1 and 2 (100 mg for Day 1 and 900 mg 
for Day 2). If the first bag is completed without modifications of the infusion rate or interruptions, the 
second bag may be administered on the same day (no dose delay necessary, no repetition of 
premedication), provided that appropriate time, conditions and medical supervision are available 
throughout the infusion. If there are any modifications of the infusion rate or interruptions during the 
first 100 mg the second bag must be administered the following day.  
Cycles 2 – 6 
The recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is 1,000 mg administered on 
Day 1 of each cycle. 
Table 2   Dose of Gazyvaro to be administered during 6 treatment cycles each of 28 days 
duration for patients with CLL 
Cycle 
Cycle 1 
Cycles 2-6 
Day of treatment 
Day 1 
Day 2 
(or Day 1 continued) 
Day 8 
Day 15 
Day 1 
1See section 5.1 for information on chlorambucil dose 
Duration of treatment 
Six treatment cycles, each of 28 day duration. 
Delayed or missed doses 
Dose of Gazyvaro 
100 mg 
900 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
If a planned dose of Gazyvaro is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible; do not wait 
until the next planned dose. The planned treatment interval for Gazyvaro should be maintained 
between doses.  
Follicular lymphoma  
For patients with FL, the recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chemotherapy is shown 
in Table 3. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma  
Induction (in combination with chemotherapy2) 
Gazyvaro should be administered with chemotherapy as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
Six 28-day cycles in combination with bendamustine2 or, 
Six 21-day cycles in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone (CHOP), followed by 2 additional cycles of Gazyvaro alone or, 
Eight 21-day cycles in combination with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and 
prednisone/prednisolone/methylprednisolone(CVP).  
Maintenance  
Patients who achieve a complete or partial response to induction treatment with Gazyvaro in 
combination with chemotherapy (CHOP or CVP or bendamustine) should continue to receive 
Gazyvaro 1,000 mg as single agent maintenance therapy once every 2 months for 2 years or until 
disease progression (whichever occurs first). 
Patients with follicular lymphoma who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months 
after treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen  
Induction (in combination with bendamustine2) 
Gazyvaro should be administered in six 28-day cycles in combination with bendamustine2. 
Maintenance  
Patients who achieved a complete or partial response to induction treatment (i.e. the initial 6 treatment 
cycles) with Gazyvaro in combination with bendamustine or have stable disease should continue to 
receive Gazyvaro 1,000 mg as single agent maintenance therapy once every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression (whichever occurs first). 
Table 3  
Follicular lymphoma: Dose of Gazyvaro to be administered during induction 
treatment, followed by maintenance treatment  
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Dose of Gazyvaro 
Cycle 1 
Cycles 2–6 
or 2–8 
Maintenance 
Day 1 
Day 8 
Day 15 
Day 1 
Every 2 months for 2 years 
or until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first) 
2See section 5.1 for information on bendamustine dose 
5 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of treatment 
Induction treatment of approximately six months (six treatment cycles of Gazyvaro, each of 28 day 
duration when combined with bendamustine, or eight treatment cycles of Gazyvaro, each of 21 day 
duration when combined with CHOP or CVP) followed by maintenance once every 2 months for 2 
years or until disease progression (whichever occurs first). 
Delayed or missed doses  
If a planned dose of Gazyvaro is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible; do not omit it 
or wait until the next planned dose.  
If toxicity occurs before Cycle 1 Day 8 or Cycle 1 Day 15, requiring delay of treatment, these doses 
should be given after resolution of toxicity. In such instances, all subsequent visits and the start of 
Cycle 2 will be shifted to accommodate for the delay in Cycle 1.  
During maintenance, maintain the original dosing schedule for subsequent doses. 
Dose modifications during treatment (all indications) 
No dose reductions of Gazyvaro are recommended.  
For management of symptomatic adverse events (including IRRs), see paragraph below (Management 
of IRRs or section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance [CrCl] 30-89 mL/min) (see section 5.2). The safety and efficacy of Gazyvaro has not been 
established in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 mL/min) (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of Gazyvaro in patients with impaired hepatic function has not been 
established. No specific dose recommendations can be made. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Gazyvaro in children and adolescents aged below 18 years has not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Gazyvaro is for intravenous use. It should be given as an intravenous infusion through a dedicated line 
after dilution (see section 6.6). Gazyvaro infusions should not be administered as an intravenous push 
or bolus.  
For instructions on dilution of Gazyvaro before administration, see section 6.6. 
Instructions on the rate of infusion are shown in Tables 4-6. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
Table 4   Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: Standard infusion rate in the absence of 
IRRs/hypersensitivity and recommendations in case an IRR occurred with previous 
infusion  
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Day 1 
(100 mg) 
Day 2 
(or Day 1 continued) 
(900 mg) 
Cycle 1 
Day 8 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 15 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Cycles 2-6 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) 
Rate of infusion  
The infusion rate may be escalated provided that 
the patient can tolerate it. For management of 
IRRs that occur during the infusion, refer to 
“Management of IRRs”. 
Administer at 25 mg/hr over 4 hours. Do not 
increase the infusion rate. 
If no IRR occurred during the previous infusion, 
administer at 50 mg/hr.  
The rate of the infusion can be escalated in 
increments of 50 mg/hr every 30 minutes to a 
maximum rate of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR during the 
previous infusion, start with administration at 25 
mg/hr. The rate of infusion can be escalated in 
increments up to 50 mg/hr every 30 minutes to a 
maximum rate of 400 mg/hr.  
If no IRR occurred during the previous infusion, 
when the final infusion rate was 100 mg/hr or 
faster, infusions can be started at a rate of 
100 mg/hr and increased by 100 mg/hr increments 
every 30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR during the 
previous infusion administer at 50 mg/hr. The rate 
of the infusion can be escalated in increments of 
50 mg/hr every 30 minutes to a maximum rate of 
400 mg/hr. 
Gazyvaro should be administered at the standard infusion rate in Cycle 1 (see Table 5). In patients 
who do not experience  Grade ≥3 infusion related reactions (IRRs) during Cycle 1, Gazyvaro  may be 
administered as a short (approximately 90 minutes) duration infusion (SDI)  from Cycle 2 onwards  
(see Table 6). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5   Follicular lymphoma: Standard infusion rate and recommendations in case an IRR 
occurred with previous infusion 
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Cycle 1 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 8 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 15 
(1,000 mg) 
Cycles 2–6 or 
2–8 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Maintenance 
Every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first)  
Rate of infusion  
The infusion rate may be escalated provided 
that the patient can tolerate it. For management 
of IRRs that occur during the infusion, refer to 
“Management of IRRs”.  
Administer at 50 mg/hr. The rate of infusion 
can be escalated in 50 mg/hr increments every 
30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If no IRR or if an IRR Grade 1 occurred 
during the previous infusion when the final 
infusion rate was 100 mg/hr or faster, 
infusions can be started at a rate of 100 mg/hr 
and increased by 100 mg/hr increments every 
30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR of Grade 2 or 
higher during the previous infusion administer 
at 50 mg/hr. The rate of infusion can be 
escalated in 50 mg/hr increments every 30 
minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
Table 6   Follicular lymphoma: Short duration infusion rate and recommendations in case an 
IRR occurred with previous infusion 
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Cycles 2–6 or 
2–8 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Maintenance 
Every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first) 
Rate of infusion  
For management of IRRs that occur during 
the infusion, refer to “Management of IRRs”. 
If no IRR of Grade ≥3 occurred during  
Cycle 1:  
100 mg/hr for 30 minutes, then 900 mg/hr for 
approximately 60 minutes. 
If an IRR of Grade 1-2 with ongoing 
symptoms or a Grade 3 IRR occurred during 
the previous SDI infusion, administer the next 
obinutuzumab infusion at the standard rate 
(see Table 5). 
Management of IRRs (all indications) 
Management of IRRs may require temporary interruption, reduction in the rate of infusion, or 
treatment discontinuations of Gazyvaro as outlined below (see also section 4.4). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Grade 4 (life threatening): Infusion must be stopped and therapy must be permanently 
discontinued. 
Grade 3 (severe): Infusion must be temporarily stopped and symptoms treated. Upon resolution 
of symptoms, the infusion can be restarted at no more than half the previous rate (the rate being 
used at the time that the IRR occurred) and, if the patient does not experience any IRR 
symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as appropriate 
for the treatment dose (see Tables 4 -6). For CLL patients receiving the Day 1 (Cycle 1) dose 
split over two days, the Day 1 infusion rate may be increased back up to 25 mg/hr after 1 hour, 
but not increased further.  
The infusion must be stopped and therapy permanently discontinued if the patient experiences a 
second occurrence of a Grade 3 IRR. 
Grade 1-2 (mild to moderate): The infusion rate must be reduced and symptoms treated. 
Infusion can be continued upon resolution of symptoms and, if the patient does not experience 
any IRR symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as 
appropriate for the treatment dose (see Tables 4 -6). For CLL patients receiving the Day 1 
(Cycle 1) dose split over the two days, the Day 1 infusion rate may be increased back up to 
25 mg/hr after 1 hour, but not increased further. 
Management of IRRs occurring during SDI 
• 
• 
• 
Grade 4 (life threatening): Infusion must be stopped and therapy must be permanently 
discontinued.  
Grade 3 (severe): Infusion must be temporarily stopped and symptoms treated. Upon resolution 
of symptoms, the infusion can be restarted at no more than half the previous rate (the rate being 
used at the time that the IRR occurred) and not greater than 400 mg/hr.  
If the patient experiences a second Grade 3 IRR after resuming the infusion, the infusion must 
be stopped and therapy must be permanently discontinued. If the patient is able to complete the 
infusion without further Grade 3 IRRs, the next infusion should be given at a rate not higher 
than the standard rate.          
Grade 1-2 (mild to moderate): The infusion rate must be reduced and symptoms treated. 
Infusion can be continued upon resolution of symptoms and, if the patient does not experience 
any IRR symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as 
appropriate for the treatment dose (see Tables 5-6). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the trade name and batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file.  
Based on a subgroup analysis in previously untreated follicular lymphoma, the efficacy in FLIPI low 
risk (0-1) patients is currently inconclusive (see section 5.1). A therapy choice for these patients 
should carefully consider the overall safety profile of Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy and the  
patient-specific situation. 
Infusion related reactions  
The most frequently observed adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in patients receiving Gazyvaro were 
IRRs, which occurred predominantly during infusion of the first 1,000 mg. IRRs may be related to 
cytokine release syndrome which has also been reported in Gazyvaro treated patients. In CLL patients 
who received the combined measures for prevention of IRRs (adequate corticosteroid, oral 
analgesic/anti-histamine, omission of antihypertensive medicine in the morning of the first infusion, 
and the Cycle 1 Day 1 dose administered over 2 days) as described in section 4.2, a decreased 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incidence of IRRs of all Grades was observed. The rates of Grade 3-4 IRRs (which were based on a 
relatively small number of patients) were similar before and after mitigation measures were 
implemented. Mitigation measures to reduce IRRs should be followed (see section 4.2). The incidence 
and severity of infusion related symptoms decreased substantially after the first 1,000 mg was infused, 
with most patients having no IRRs during subsequent administrations of Gazyvaro (see section 4.8). 
In the majority of patients, irrespective of indication, IRRs were mild to moderate and could be 
managed by the slowing or temporary halting of the first infusion, but severe and life-threatening IRRs 
requiring symptomatic treatment have also been reported. IRRs may be clinically indistinguishable 
from immunoglobulin E (IgE) mediated allergic reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis). Patients with a high 
tumour burden and/or high circulating lymphocyte count in CLL [> 25 x 109/L] may be at increased 
risk of severe IRRs. Patients with renal impairment (CrCl < 50 mL/min) and patients with both 
Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS) > 6 and CrCl < 70 mL/min are more at risk of IRRs, including 
severe IRRs (see section 4.8). For management of IRRs see section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration. 
Patients must not receive further Gazyvaro infusions if they experience:  
• 
• 
• 
acute life-threatening respiratory symptoms,  
a Grade 4 (i.e. life threatening) IRR or,  
a second occurrence of a Grade 3 (prolonged/recurrent) IRR (after resuming the first infusion or 
during a subsequent infusion). 
Patients who have pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary conditions should be monitored carefully 
throughout the infusion and the post-infusion period. Hypotension may occur during Gazyvaro 
intravenous infusions. Therefore, withholding of antihypertensive treatments should be considered for 
12 hours prior to and throughout each Gazyvaro infusion and for the first hour after administration. 
Patients at acute risk of hypertensive crisis should be evaluated for the benefits and risks of 
withholding their anti-hypertensive medicine. 
Hypersensitivity reactions  
Hypersensitivity reactions with immediate (e.g.  anaphylaxis) and delayed onset (e.g. serum sickness) 
have been reported in patients treated with Gazyvaro. Hypersensitivity may be difficult to clinically 
distinguish from IRRs. Hypersensitivity symptoms can occur after previous exposure and very rarely 
with the first infusion. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected during or after an infusion, the 
infusion must be stopped and treatment permanently discontinued. Patients with known 
hypersensitivity to obinutuzumab must not be treated (see section 4.3). 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
TLS has been reported with Gazyvaro. Patients who are considered to be at risk of TLS (e.g. patients 
with a high tumour burden and/or a high circulating lymphocyte count [> 25 x 109/L] and/or renal 
impairment [CrCl < 70 mL/min]) should receive prophylaxis. Prophylaxis should consist of adequate 
hydration and administration of uricostatics (e.g. allopurinol), or a suitable alternative such as a urate 
oxidate (e.g. rasburicase) starting 12-24 hours prior to the infusion of Gazyvaro as per standard 
practice (see section 4.2). All patients considered at risk should be carefully monitored during the 
initial days of treatment with a special focus on renal function, potassium, and uric acid values. Any 
additional guidelines according to standard practice should be followed. For treatment of TLS, correct 
electrolyte abnormalities, monitor renal function and fluid balance, and administer supportive care, 
including dialysis as indicated. 
Neutropenia  
Severe and life-threatening neutropenia including febrile neutropenia has been reported during 
treatment with Gazyvaro. Patients who experience neutropenia should be closely monitored with 
regular laboratory tests until resolution. If treatment is necessary it should be administered in 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accordance with local guidelines and the administration of granulocyte-colony stimulating factors  
(G-CSF) should be considered. Any signs of concomitant infection should be treated as appropriate. 
Dose delays should be considered in case of severe or life-threatening neutropenia. It is strongly 
recommended that patients with severe neutropenia lasting more than 1 week receive antimicrobial 
prophylaxis throughout the treatment period until resolution to Grade 1 or 2. Antiviral and antifungal 
prophylaxis should also be considered (see section 4.2). Late onset neutropenia (occurring >28 days 
after the end of treatment) or prolonged neutropenia (lasting more than 28 days after treatment has 
been completed/stopped) may occur. Patients with renal impairment (CrCl < 50 mL/min) are more at 
risk of neutropenia (see section 4.8). 
Thrombocytopenia 
Severe and life-threatening thrombocytopenia including acute thrombocytopenia (occurring within 
24 hours after the infusion) has been observed during treatment with Gazyvaro. Patients with renal 
impairment (CrCl < 50 mL/min) are more at risk of thrombocytopenia (see section 4.8). Fatal 
haemorrhagic events have also been reported in Cycle 1 in patients treated with Gazyvaro. A clear 
relationship between thrombocytopenia and haemorrhagic events has not been established.  
Patients should be closely monitored for thrombocytopenia, especially during the first cycle; regular 
laboratory tests should be performed until the event resolves, and dose delays should be considered in 
case of severe or life-threatening thrombocytopenia. Transfusion of blood products (i.e. platelet 
transfusion) according to institutional practice is at the discretion of the treating physician. Use of any 
concomitant therapies which could possibly worsen thrombocytopenia-related events, such as platelet 
inhibitors and anticoagulants, should also be taken into consideration, especially during the first cycle. 
Coagulation abnormalities including disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) 
DIC including fatal events, has been reported in clinical studies and in postmarketing surveillance in 
patients receiving Gazyvaro. The majority of cases involved non-overt DIC, with subclinical 
(asymptomatic) changes in platelets and laboratory coagulation parameters occurring within 1-2 days 
after the first infusion with spontaneous resolution usually occurring within one to two weeks, not 
requiring drug discontinuation or specific intervention. In some cases, the events were associated with 
IRRs and/or TLS. No specific baseline risk factors for DIC were identified. Patients suspected to have 
non-overt DIC should be monitored closely with coagulation parameters including platelets and 
clinical observation for signs or symptoms of overt DIC. Gazyvaro should be discontinued at first 
onset of suspected overt DIC and appropriate treatment initiated. 
Worsening of pre-existing cardiac conditions 
In patients with underlying cardiac disease, arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and 
tachyarrhythmia), angina pectoris, acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction and heart failure 
have occurred when treated with Gazyvaro (see section 4.8). These events may occur as part of an IRR 
and can be fatal. Therefore patients with a history of cardiac disease should be monitored closely. In 
addition these patients should be hydrated with caution in order to prevent a potential fluid overload. 
Infections 
Gazyvaro should not be administered in the presence of an active infection and caution should be 
exercised when considering the use of Gazyvaro in patients with a history of recurring or chronic 
infections.  Serious bacterial, fungal, and new or reactivated viral infections can occur during and 
following the completion of Gazyvaro therapy. Fatal infections have been reported.  
Patients (CLL) with both CIRS > 6 and CrCl < 70 mL/min are more at risk of infections, including 
severe infections (see section 4.8). In the follicular lymphoma studies, a high incidence of infections 
was observed in all phases of the studies, including follow-up, with the highest incidence seen in the 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintenance phase. During the follow-up phase, Grade 3-5 infections are observed more in patients 
who received Gazyvaro plus bendamustine in the induction phase. 
Hepatitis B reactivation  
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure 
and death, can occur in patients treated with anti-CD20 antibodies including Gazyvaro (see section 
4.8). HBVscreening should be performed in all patients before initiation of treatment with Gazyvaro. 
At a minimum this should include hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) status and hepatitis B core 
antibody (HBcAb) status. These can be complemented with other appropriate markers as per local 
guidelines. Patients with active hepatitis B disease should not be treated with Gazyvaro. Patients with 
positive hepatitis B serology should consult liver disease experts before start of treatment and should 
be monitored and managed following local medical standards to prevent hepatitis reactivation.  
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported in patients treated with 
Gazyvaro (see section 4.8). The diagnosis of PML should be considered in any patient presenting with 
new-onset or changes to pre-existing neurologic manifestations. The symptoms of PML are 
nonspecific and can vary depending on the affected region of the brain. Motor symptoms with 
corticospinal tract findings (e.g. muscular weakness, paralysis and sensory disturbances), sensory 
abnormalities, cerebellar symptoms, and visual field defects are common. Some signs/symptoms 
regarded as “cortical” (e.g. aphasia or visual-spatial disorientation) may occur. Evaluation of PML 
includes, but is not limited to, consultation with a neurologist, brain magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI), and lumbar puncture (cerebrospinal fluid testing for John Cunningham viral DNA). Therapy 
with Gazyvaro should be withheld during the investigation of potential PML and permanently 
discontinued in case of confirmed PML. Discontinuation or reduction of any concomitant 
chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy should also be considered. The patient should be 
referred to a neurologist for the evaluation and treatment of PML. 
Immunisation 
The safety of immunisation with live or attenuated viral vaccines following Gazyvaro therapy has not 
been studied and vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until 
B-cell recovery.  
Exposure in utero to obinutuzumab and vaccination of infants with live virus vaccines 
Due to the potential depletion of B-cells in infants of mothers who have been exposed to Gazyvaro 
during pregnancy, infants should be monitored for B-cell depletion and vaccinations with live virus 
vaccines should be postponed until the infant’s B-cell count has recovered.  The safety and timing of 
vaccination should be discussed with the infant’s physician (see section 4.6). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal drug-drug interaction studies have been performed, although limited drug-drug interaction 
sub-studies have been undertaken for Gazyvaro with bendamustine, CHOP, fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide (FC), and chlorambucil.  
A risk for interactions with other concomitantly used medicinal products cannot be excluded. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Obinutuzumab is not a substrate, inhibitor, or inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP450), uridine 
diphosphate glucuronyltransferase (UGT) enzymes and transporters such as P-glycoprotein. Therefore, 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no pharmacokinetic interaction is expected with medicinal products known to be metabolised by these 
enzyme systems. 
Co-administration with Gazyvaro had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of bendamustine, FC, 
chlorambucil or the individual components of CHOP. In addition, there were no apparent effects of 
bendamustine, FC, chlorambucil or CHOP on the pharmacokinetics of Gazyvaro. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell recovery 
because of the immunosuppressive effect of obinutuzumab (see section 4.4). 
The combination of obinutuzumab with chlorambucil, bendamustine, CHOP or CVP may increase the 
risk of neutropenia (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and for 18 months after 
treatment with Gazyvaro. 
Pregnancy 
A reproduction study in cynomolgus monkeys showed no evidence of embryofoetal toxicity or 
teratogenic effects but resulted in a complete depletion of B-lymphocytes in offspring. B-cell counts 
returned to normal levels in the offspring, and immunologic function was restored within 6 months of 
birth. Serum concentrations of obinutuzumab in offspring were similar to those in the mothers on 
day 28 post-partum, whereas concentrations in milk on the same day were very low, suggesting that 
obinutuzumab crosses the placenta (see section 5.3). There are no data from the use of obinutuzumab 
in pregnant women. Gazyvaro should not be administered to pregnant women unless the possible 
benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
In case of exposure during pregnancy, depletion of B-cells may be expected in infants due to the 
pharmacological properties of the product. Postponing vaccination with live vaccines should be 
considered for infants born to mothers who have been exposed to Gazyvaro during pregnancy until the 
infant’s B-cell levels are within normal ranges (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
Animal studies have shown secretion of obinutuzumab in breast milk (see section 5.3). 
Since human immunoglobulin G (IgG) is secreted in human milk and the potential for absorption and 
harm to the infant is unknown, women should be advised to discontinue breast-feeding during 
Gazyvaro therapy and for 18 months after the last dose of Gazyvaro. 
Fertility 
No specific studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the effect of obinutuzumab on fertility. 
No adverse effects on male and female reproductive organs were observed in repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in cynomolgus monkeys (see section 5.3). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Gazyvaro has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. IRRs are very 
common during the first infusion of Gazyvaro, and patients experiencing infusion related symptoms 
should be advised not to drive or use machines until symptoms abate. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The adverse drug reactions (ADRs) from clinical trials were identified during induction, maintenance 
and follow up for indolent Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL) including FL; treatment and follow up for 
CLL in the three pivotal clinical studies: 
• 
• 
BO21004/CLL11 (N=781): Patients with previously untreated CLL 
BO21223/GALLIUM (N=1390): Patients with previously untreated iNHL (86% of the patients 
had FL) 
GAO4753g/GADOLIN (N=409): Patients with iNHL (81% of the patients had FL) who had no 
response to or who progressed during or up to 6 months after treatment with rituximab or a 
rituximab-containing regimen.  
• 
These trials investigated Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil for CLL and with bendamustine, 
CHOP or CVP followed by Gazyvaro maintenance therapy for iNHL. The studies 
BO21223/GALLIUM and GAO4753g/GADOLIN enrolled patients with iNHL including FL. 
Therefore, in order to provide the most comprehensive safety information, the analysis of ADRs 
presented in the following has been performed on the entire study population (i.e. iNHL). 
Table 7 summarises all ADRs including those of the pivotal studies (BO21004/CLL11, 
BO21223/GALLIUM GAO4753g/GADOLIN) that occurred at a higher incidence (difference of ≥ 
2%) compared to the relevant comparator arm in at least one pivotal study in: 
• 
Patients with CLL receiving Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil compared with chlorambucil alone or 
rituximab plus chlorambucil (study BO21004/CLL11)  
Patients with previously untreated iNHL receiving Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy (bendamustine, 
CHOP, CVP) followed by Gazyvaro maintenance in patients achieving a response, compared to 
rituximab plus chemotherapy followed by rituximab maintenance in patients achieving a 
response (study BO21223/GALLIUM) 
Patients with iNHL who had no response to or who progressed during or up to 6 months after 
treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen receiving Gazyvaro plus 
bendamustine, followed by Gazyvaro maintenance in some patients, compared to bendamustine 
alone (study GAO4753g/GADOLIN)  
• 
• 
The incidences presented in Table 7 (all grades and Grades 3-5) are the highest incidence of that ADR 
reported from any of the three studies.  
Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 
to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 7 
Summary of ADRs reported in patients# receiving Gazyvaro + chemotherapy*  
All Grades  
Gazyvaro + chemotherapy* 
(CLL, iNHL) followed by 
Gazyvaro maintenance (iNHL) 
Grades 3-5†  
Gazyvaro + chemotherapy* 
(CLL, iNHL) followed by 
Gazyvaro maintenance (iNHL) 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Infections and infestations 
Very common 
Common 
Upper respiratory tract infection, 
sinusitis§,urinary tract infection, 
pneumonia§ ,herpes zoster§, 
nasopharyngitis 
Oral herpes, rhinitis, pharyngitis, 
lung infection, influenza  
Urinary tract infection, 
pneumonia, lung infection, upper 
respiratory tract infection, 
sinusitis, herpes zoster 
Nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, 
influenza, oral herpes 
Uncommon 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
Common 
Squamous cell carcinoma of skin, 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Squamous cell carcinoma of skin, 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neutropenia§, thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, leukopenia 
 Febrile neutropenia 
Disseminated intravascular 
coagulation## 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Tumour lysis syndrome, 
hyperuricaemia, hypokalaemia 
Uncommon 
Psychiatric disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Insomnia 
Depression, anxiety 
Headache 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
Atrial fibrillation 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Cough§ 
Nasal congestion, rhinorrhoea, 
oropharyngeal pain 
Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia  
Anaemia, leukopenia, febrile 
neutropenia 
Tumour lysis syndrome, 
hypokalaemia 
Hyperuricaemia 
Insomnia, depression, anxiety 
Headache 
Atrial fibrillation 
Hypertension 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Diarrhoea, constipation§ 
15 
Cough, oropharyngeal pain 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Common 
All Grades  
Gazyvaro + chemotherapy* 
(CLL, iNHL) followed by 
Gazyvaro maintenance (iNHL) 
Dyspepsia, haemorrhoids 
gastrointestinal perforation 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Alopecia, pruritus 
Eczema 
Arthralgia§, back pain, pain in 
extremity 
Musculoskeletal chest pain, bone 
pain 
Common 
Uncommon 
Dysuria, urinary incontinence 
Renal and Urinary Disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
Pyrexia, Asthenia, fatigue 
Chest pain 
White blood cell count decreased, 
neutrophil count decreased, 
weight increased 
Grades 3-5†  
Gazyvaro + chemotherapy* 
(CLL, iNHL) followed by 
Gazyvaro maintenance (iNHL) 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation, haemorrhoids 
Pruritus 
Pain in extremity 
Arthralgia, back pain, 
musculoskeletal chest pain, bone 
pain 
Dysuria, urinary incontinence 
Pyrexia, asthenia, fatigue 
Chest pain 
White blood cell count decreased, 
neutrophil count decreased 
IRRs  
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Very common 
# Only the highest frequency observed in the trials is reported (based on studies BO21004/previously untreated CLL, 
BO21223/previously untreated advanced iNHL and GAO4753g/rituximab refractory iNHL) 
## Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) including fatal events, has been reported in clinical studies and in 
postmarketing surveillance in patients receiving Gazyvaro (see section 4.4) 
† No Grade 5 adverse reactions have been observed with a difference of ≥ 2% between the treatment arms 
* Chemotherapy: Chlorambucil in CLL; bendamustine, CHOP, CVP in iNHL including FL 
§ observed also during maintenance treatment with at least 2% higher incidence in Gazyvaro arm (BO21223) 
IRRs  
The profile of adverse reactions in patients with FL was consistent with the overall iNHL population 
in both studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The incidences presented in the following sections if referring to iNHL are the highest incidence of 
that ADR reported from either pivotal study (BO21223/GALLIUM, GAO4753g/GADOLIN). 
The study MO40597 was designed to characterize the safety profile of short duration infusions 
(approximately 90 minutes) from Cycle 2, in patients with previously untreated FL (see section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion related reactions  
Most frequently reported (≥ 5%) symptoms associated with an IRR were nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
headache, dizziness, fatigue, chills, pyrexia, hypotension, flushing, hypertension, tachycardia, 
dyspnoea, and chest discomfort. Respiratory symptoms such as bronchospasm, larynx and throat 
irritation, wheezing, laryngeal oedema and cardiac symptoms such as atrial fibrillation have also been 
reported (see section 4.4). 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia  
The incidence of IRRs was higher in the Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil arm compared to the rituximab 
plus chlorambucil arm. The incidence of IRRs was 66% with the infusion of the first 1,000 mg of 
Gazyvaro (20% of patients experiencing a Grade 3-4 IRR). Overall, 7% of patients experienced an 
IRR leading to discontinuation of Gazyvaro. The incidence of IRRs with subsequent infusions was 3% 
with the second 1,000 mg dose and 1% thereafter. No Grade 3-5 IRRs were reported beyond the first 
1,000 mg infusions of Cycle 1.  
In patients who received the recommended measures for prevention of IRRs as described in section 
4.2, a decreased incidence of IRRs of all Grades was observed. The rates of Grade 3-4 IRRs (which 
occurred in relatively few patients) were similar before and after mitigation measures were 
implemented. 
Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma including Follicular Lymphoma  
Grade 3-4 IRRs occurred in 12% of patients. In Cycle 1, the overall incidence of IRRs was higher in 
patients receiving Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy compared to patients in the comparator arm. In 
patients receiving Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy, the incidence of IRRs was highest on Day 1 and 
gradually decreased with subsequent infusions. This decreasing trend continued during maintenance 
therapy with Gazyvaro alone. Beyond Cycle 1 the incidence of IRRs in subsequent infusions was 
comparable between the Gazyvaro and the relevant comparator arms. Overall, 4% of patients 
experienced an infusion related reaction leading to discontinuation of Gazyvaro. 
Short Duration Infusion in patients with Follicular Lymphoma 
In study MO40597 assessing the safety of SDI, a greater proportion of patients experienced any grade 
IRRs at Cycle 2 compared to the proportion who experienced IRRs after standard infusion at Cycle 2 
in study BO21223 (10/99 [10.1%] vs. 23/529 [4.3%] respectively; IRRs attributed by the investigator 
to any component of study therapy). No patients experienced Grade ≥3 IRRs after SDI at Cycle 2 in 
MO40597; 3/529 (0.6%) experienced Grade ≥3 IRRs at Cycle 2 in study BO21223. IRR symptoms 
and signs were similar in both studies.  
Infusion related reactions observed in Study MO40597/GAZELLE are summarized in Table 8. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Study MO40597/GAZELLE Short-Duration Infusion: Infusion Related Reactionsa 
by Cycle (Safety-Evaluable Population) 
CTCAE 
Grade 
All 
Grade 
C1 
Overall 
(standard 
infusion) 
65/113 
(57.5%) 
C1b by day 
C2C 
C3 
C4 
C5 
C6 
C7 
Over all  
induction  
cycles 
Day 1  Day 2d  Day 8  Day 15 
57/113 
(50.4%) 
6/112 
(5.4%) 
5/111 
(4.5%) 
4/51 
(7.8%) 
13/110 
(11.8%) 
9/108 
(8.3%) 
7/108 
(6.5%) 
6/107 
(5.6%) 
5/105 
(4.8%) 
2/55 
(3.6%) 
71/113  
(62.8%) 
Grade 
≥3 
6/113 
(5.3%) 
5/113 
(4.4%) 
1/51 
(2.0%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1/107 
(0.9%) 
0 
7/113  
(6.2%) 
C=cycle; CTCAE = Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events; IRR=infusion related reaction  
a Infusion related reaction defined as any event that occurred during or within 24 hours from the end of study 
treatment infusion that were judged by the investigator to be related to any components of therapy. 
b C1 comprised three infusions at the standard infusion rate, administered at weekly intervals 
c Patients received short-duration infusion from C2 onward. The denominator at C2 and subsequent cycles 
represents the number of patients who received SDI at that cycle. 
d Patients treated with bendamustine on Cycle 1 Day 2. 
Neutropenia and infections 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
The incidence of neutropenia was higher in the Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil arm (41%) compared to 
the rituximab plus chlorambucil arm with the neutropenia resolving spontaneously or with use of 
granulocyte-colony stimulating factors. The incidence of infection was 38% in the Gazyvaro plus 
chlorambucil arm and 37% in the rituximab plus chlorambucil arm (with Grade 3-5 events reported in 
12% and 14%, respectively and fatal events reported in < 1% in both treatment arms). Cases of 
prolonged neutropenia (2% in the Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil arm and 4% in the rituximab plus 
chlorambucil arm) and late onset neutropenia (16% in the Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil arm and 12% 
in the rituximab plus chlorambucil arm) were also reported (see section 4.4). 
Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma including Follicular Lymphoma  
In the Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy arm, the incidence of Grade 1-4 neutropenia (50%) was higher 
relative to the comparator arm with an increased risk during the induction period. The incidence of 
prolonged neutropenia and late onset neutropenia was 3% and 8%, respectively. The incidence of 
infection was 81% in the Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy arm (with Grade 3-5 events reported in 22% of 
patients and fatal events reported in 3% of patients). Patients who received G-CSF prophylaxis had a 
lower rate of Grade 3-5 infections (see section 4.4). 
Short Duration Infusion in patients with Follicular Lymphoma 
In study MO40597, assessing the safety of SDI, neutropenia was reported as an adverse event in a 
higher proportion of patients compared to study BO21223 in which patients receiving standard 
duration infusion 69/113 [61.1%] vs 247/595 [41.5%], respectively, throughout induction). The 
median and range of neutrophil count values were similar in both studies at each time point. Febrile 
neutropenia was reported in a similar proportion of patients in MO40597 and BO21223 (6/113 [5.3%] 
vs 31/595 [5.2%], respectively). Infection was reported less frequently in MO40597 than in BO21223 
(45/113 [39.8%] vs 284/595 [47.7%], respectively). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia and haemorrhagic events 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
The incidence of thrombocytopenia was higher in the Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil arm compared to 
the rituximab plus chlorambucil arm (16% vs. 7%) especially during the first cycle. Four percent of 
patients treated with Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil experienced acute thrombocytopenia (occurring 
within 24 hours after the Gazyvaro infusion) (see section 4.4). The overall incidence of haemorrhagic 
events was similar in the Gazyvaro treated arm and in the rituximab treated arm. The number of fatal 
haemorrhagic events was balanced between the treatment arms; however, all of the events in patients 
treated with Gazyvaro were reported in Cycle 1. No Grade 5 events of thrombocytopenia were 
reported. A clear relationship between thrombocytopenia and haemorrhagic events has not been 
established. 
Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma including Follicular Lymphoma  
The incidence of thrombocytopenia was 15%. Thrombocytopenia occurred more frequently in Cycle 1 
in the Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy arm. Thrombocytopenia occurring during or 24 hours from end of 
infusion (acute thrombocytopenia) was more frequently observed in patients in the Gazyvaro plus 
chemotherapy arm than in the comparator arm. The incidence of haemorrhagic events was similar 
across all treatment arms. Haemorrhagic events and Grade 3-5 haemorrhagic events occurred in 12% 
and 4% of patients, respectively. While fatal haemorrhagic events occurred in less than 1% of patients; 
none of the fatal adverse events occurred in Cycle 1. 
Short Duration Infusion in patients with Follicular Lymphoma 
In study MO40597, assessing the safety of SDI, thrombocytopenia was reported as an adverse event in 
a higher proportion of patients compared to study BO21223 in which patients received standard 
duration infusion (21/113 [28.6%] vs 63/595 [10.6%], respectively, throughout induction). The median 
and range of platelet count values were similar in both studies at each time point. No 
thrombocytopenia events reported in MO40597 were associated with bleeding. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
In the pivotal BO21004/CLL11 study, 46% (156 out of 336) of patients with CLL treated with 
Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil were 75 years or older (median age was 74 years). These patients 
experienced more serious adverse events and adverse events leading to death than those patients 
< 75 years of age. 
Indolent Non Hodgkin Lymphoma including Follicular Lymphoma 
In the pivotal studies (BO21223/GALLIUM, GAO4753g/GADOLIN) in iNHL, patients 65 years or 
older experienced more serious adverse events and adverse events leading to withdrawal or death than 
patients < 65 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
In the pivotal BO21004/CLL11 study, 27% (90 out of 336) of patients treated with Gazyvaro plus 
chlorambucil had moderate renal impairment (CrCl < 50 mL/min). These patients experienced more 
serious adverse events and adverse events leading to death than patients with a CrCl ≥ 50 mL/min 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). Patients with a CrCl < 30 mL/min were excluded from the study 
(see section 5.1). 
Indolent Non Hodgkin Lymphoma including Follicular Lymphoma 
In the pivotal studies (BO21223/GALLIUM, GAO4753g/GADOLIN) in iNHL, 5% (35 out of 698) 
and 7% (14 out of 204) of patients treated with Gazyvaro, respectively, had moderate renal 
impairment (CrCL < 50 mL/min). These patients experienced more serious adverse events, G rade 3 to 
5 adverse events  and adverse events leading to treatment withdrawal (patients in BO21223 only) than 
patients with a CrCl ≥ 50 mL/min (see section 4.2 and 5.2). Patients with a CrCl < 40 mL/min were 
excluded from the studies (see section 5.1). 
Additional safety information from clinical studies experience 
Worsening of pre-existing cardiac conditions 
Cases of arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and tachyarrhythmia), angina pectoris, acute coronary 
syndrome, myocardial infarction and heart failure have occurred when treated with Gazyvaro (see 
section 4.4). These events may occur as part of an IRR and can be fatal. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Transient elevation in liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alanine aminotransferase 
[ALT], alkaline phosphatase) has been observed shortly after the first infusion of Gazyvaro. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No experience with overdose is available from human clinical studies. In clinical studies with 
Gazyvaro, doses ranging from 50 mg up to and including 2,000 mg per infusion have been 
administered. The incidence and intensity of adverse reactions reported in these studies did not appear 
to be dose dependent. 
Patients who experience overdose should have immediate interruption or reduction of their infusion 
and be closely supervised. Consideration should be given to the need for regular monitoring of blood 
cell count and for increased risk of infections while patients are B-cell depleted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  
Antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies, 
 ATC code: L01XC15 
Mechanism of action 
Obinutuzumab is a recombinant monoclonal humanised and glycoengineered Type II anti-CD20 
antibody of the IgG1 isotype. It specifically targets the extracellular loop of the CD20 transmembrane 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
antigen on the surface of non-malignant and malignant pre-B and mature B-lymphocytes, but not on 
haematopoietic stem cells, pro-B-cells, normal plasma cells or other normal tissue. Glycoengineering 
of the Fc part of obinutuzumab results in higher affinity for FcɣRIII receptors on immune effector 
cells such as natural killer (NK) cells, macrophages and monocytes as compared to  
non-glycoengineered antibodies. 
In nonclinical studies, obinutuzumab induces direct cell death and mediates antibody dependent 
cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) through 
recruitment of FcɣRIII positive immune effector cells. In addition, in vivo, obinutuzumab mediates a 
low degree of complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). Compared to Type I antibodies, 
obinutuzumab, a Type II antibody, is characterised by an enhanced direct cell death induction with a 
concomitant reduction in CDC at an equivalent dose. Obinutuzumab, as a glycoengineered antibody, is 
characterised by enhanced ADCC and ADCP compared to non-glycoengineered antibodies at an 
equivalent dose. In animal models obinutuzumab mediates potent B-cell depletion and antitumour 
efficacy.  
In the pivotal clinical study in patients with CLL (BO21004/CLL11), 91% (40 out of 44) of evaluable 
patients treated with Gazyvaro were B-cell depleted (defined as CD19+ B-cell counts < 0.07 x 109/L) 
at the end of treatment period and remained depleted during the first 6 months of follow up. Recovery 
of B-cells was observed within 12-18 months of follow up in 35% (14 out of 40) of patients without 
progressive disease and 13% (5 out of 40) with progressive disease.  
In the pivotal clinical study in patients with iNHL (GAO4753/GADOLIN), 97% (171 out of 176) of 
evaluable patients treated with Gazyvaro were B-cell depleted at the end of the treatment period, and 
97% (61 out of 63) remained depleted for more than 6 months from the last dose. Recovery of B-cells 
was observed within 12-18 months of follow-up in 11% (5 out of 46) of evaluable patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
A Phase III international, multicentre, open label, randomised, two-stage, three-arm clinical study 
(BO21004/CLL11) investigating the efficacy and safety of Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil (GClb) 
compared to rituximab plus chlorambucil (RClb) or chlorambucil (Clb) alone was conducted in 
patients with previously untreated CLL with comorbidities.  
Prior to enrolment, patients had to have documented CD20+ CLL, and one or both of the following 
measures of coexisting medical conditions: comorbidity score (CIRS) of greater than 6 or reduced 
renal function as measured by CrCl < 70 mL/min. Patients with inadequate liver function (National 
Cancer Institute – Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Grade 3 liver function tests 
(AST, ALT > 5 x ULN for > 2 weeks; bilirubin > 3 x ULN) and renal function (CrCl < 30 mL/min) 
were excluded. Patients with one or more individual organ/system impairment score of 4 as assessed 
by the CIRS definition, excluding eyes, ears, nose, throat and larynx organ system, were excluded. 
A total of 781 patients were randomised 2:2:1 to receive Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil, rituximab plus 
chlorambucil or chlorambucil alone. Stage 1a compared Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil to chlorambucil 
alone in 356 patients and Stage 2 compared Gazyvaro plus chlorambucil to rituximab plus 
chlorambucil in 663 patients.  
In the majority of patients, Gazyvaro was given intravenously as a 1,000 mg initial dose administered 
on Day 1, Day 8 and Day 15 of the first treatment cycle. In order to reduce the rate of infusion related 
reactions in patients, an amendment was implemented and 140 patients received the first Gazyvaro 
dose administered over 2 days (Day 1 [100 mg] and Day 2 [900 mg]) (see section 4.2 and 4.4). For 
each subsequent treatment cycle (Cycles 2 to 6), patients received Gazyvaro 1,000 mg on Day 1 only. 
Chlorambucil was given orally at 0.5 mg/kg body weight on Day 1 and Day 15 of all treatment cycles 
(1 to 6). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The demographics data and baseline characteristics were well balanced between the treatment arms. 
The majority of patients were Caucasian (95%) and male (61%). The median age was 73 years, with 
44% being 75 years or older. At baseline, 22% of patients had Binet Stage A, 42% had Binet Stage B 
and 36% had Binet Stage C. 
The median comorbidity score was 8 and 76% of the patients enrolled had a comorbidity score 
above 6. The median estimated CrCl was 62 mL/min and 66% of all patients had a CrCl < 70 mL/min. 
Forty-two percent of patients enrolled had both a CrCl < 70 mL/min and a comorbidity score of > 6. 
Thirty-four percent of patients were enrolled on comorbidity score alone, and 23% of patients were 
enrolled with only impaired renal function.  
The most frequently reported coexisting medical conditions (using a cut off of 30% or higher), in the 
MedDRA body systems are: Vascular disorders (73%), Cardiac disorders (46%), Gastrointestinal 
disorders (38%), Metabolism and nutrition disorders (40%), Renal and urinary disorders (38%), 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (33%). 
Efficacy results for patients with previously untreated CLL are summarised in Table 9. Kaplan-Meier 
curves for progression-free survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) are shown in Figures 1-4.  
Table 9 
Summary of efficacy from BO21004/CLL11 study 
Stage 1a 
Stage 2 
Chlorambucil 
N=118 
Gazyvaro + 
chlorambucil 
N= 238 
Rituximab + 
chlorambucil 
N= 330 
Gazyvaro + 
chlorambucil 
N= 333 
22.8 months median observation 
time g 
18.7 months median observation 
time g 
Primary endpoint 
Investigator-assessed PFS (PFS-INV)a 
Number (%) of patients with event  
96 (81.4%) 
93 (39.1%) 
199 (60.3%) 
104 (31.2%) 
Median time to event (months)  
11.1 
26.7 
15.2 
26.7 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.18 [0.13; 0.24] 
0.39 [0.31; 0.49] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratifiedb) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
Key secondary endpoints 
IRC-assessed PFS (PFS-IRC)a 
Number (%) of patients with event  
90 (76.3%) 
89 (37.4%) 
183 (55.5%) 
103 (30.9%) 
Median time to event (months)  
11.2 
27.2 
14.9 
26.7 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.19 [0.14; 0.27] 
0.42 [0.33; 0.54] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratifiedb) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
End of treatment response rate 
No. of patients included in the analysis 
118 
238 
329 
333 
Responders (%) 
Non-responders (%) 
37 (31.4%) 
184 (77.3%) 
214 (65.0%) 
261 (78.4%) 
81 (68.6%) 
54 (22.7%) 
115 (35.0%) 
72 (21.6%) 
Difference in response rate, (95% CI) 
45.95 [35.6; 56.3] 
13.33 [6.4; 20.3] 
p-value (Chi-squared Test) 
< 0.0001 
0.0001 
No. of complete respondersc (%) 
0 (0.0%) 
53 (22.3%) 
23 (7.0%) 
69 (20.7%) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stage 1a 
Stage 2 
Chlorambucil 
N=118 
Gazyvaro + 
chlorambucil 
N= 238 
Rituximab + 
chlorambucil 
N= 330 
Gazyvaro + 
chlorambucil 
N= 333 
22.8 months median observation 
time g 
18.7 months median observation 
time g 
Molecular remission at end of treatmentd 
No. of patients included in the analysis 
90 
168 
244 
239 
MRD negativee (%) 
MRD positivef (%) 
0 (0%) 
45 (26.8%) 
6 (2.5%) 
61 (25.5%) 
90 (100%) 
123 (73.2%) 
238 (97.5%) 
178 (74.5%) 
Difference in MRD rates, (95% CI) 
26.79 [19.5; 34.1] 
23.06 [17.0; 29.1] 
Event free survival 
No. (%) of patients with event  
103 (87.3%) 
104 (43.7%) 
208 (63.0 %) 
118 (35.4 %) 
Median time to event (months)  
10.8 
26.1 
14.3 
26.1 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.19 [0.14; 0.25] 
0.43 [0.34; 0.54] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratifiedb) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
Time to new anti-leukaemic therapy 
No. (%) of patients with event  
65 (55.1%) 
51 (21.4%) 
86 (26.1%) 
55 (16.5%) 
Median time to event (months)  
14.8 
NR 
30.8 
NR 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.24 [0.16; 0.35] 
0.59 [0.42; 0.82] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratifiedb) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0018 
Overall survival 
No. (%) of patients with event 
57 (48.3%) 
93 (39.1%) 
147 (44.5%) 
121 (36.3%) 
Median time to event (months) 
66.7 
NR 
73.1 
NR 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.68 [0.49; 0.94] 
0.76 [0.60; 0.97] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratifiedb) 
0.0196 
0.0245 
IRC: Independent Review Committee; PFS: progression-free survival; HR: Hazard Ratio; CI: Confidence Intervals, MRD: 
Minimal Residual Disease, NR = Not reached  
a Defined as the time from randomisation to the first occurrence of progression, relapse or death from any cause as assessed 
by the investigator 
b stratified by Binet stage at baseline   
c Includes 11 patients in the GClb arm with a complete response with incomplete marrow recovery 
d Blood and bone marrow combined 
e MRD negativity is defined as a result below 0.0001 
f Includes MRD positive patients and patients who progressed or died before the end of treatment 
g Median observation time for overall survival (OS) data corresponds to 62.5 months median observation time in Stage 1a 
and to 59.4 months median observation time in Stage 2.  
Results of subgroup analyses 
Results of the progression free survival (PFS) subgroup analysis (i.e. sex, age, Binet stages, CrCl, 
CIRS score, beta2-microglobulin, IGVH status, chromosomal abnormalities, lymphocyte count at 
baseline) were consistent with the results seen in the overall Intent-to-Treat population. The risk of 
disease progression or death was reduced in the GClb arm compared to the RClb arm and Clb arm in 
all subgroups except in the subgroup of patients with deletion 17p. In the small subgroup of patients 
with deletion 17p, only a positive trend was observed compared to Clb (HR=0.42, p=0.0892); no 
benefit was observed compared to RClb. For subgroups, reduction of the risk of disease progression or 
death ranged from 92% to 58% for GClb versus Clb and 72% to 29% for GClb versus RClb. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Kaplan-Meier curve of Investigator assessed PFS from Stage 1a in patients with CLL 
(Study BO21004/CLL11) 
Figure 2 Kaplan-Meier curve of OS from Stage 1a in patients with CLL (Study 
BO21004/CLL11) 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Kaplan-Meier curve of investigator assessed PFS from Stage 2 in patients with CLL 
(Study BO21004/CLL11) 
Figure 4 Kaplan-Meier curve of OS from Stage 2 in patients with CLL (Study BO21004/CLL11) 
Quality of life 
In the QLQC30 and QLQ-CLL-16 questionnaires conducted during the treatment period, no 
substantial difference in any of the subscales was observed. Data during follow up, especially for the 
chlorambucil alone arm, is limited. However, no notable differences in quality of life during follow up 
have been identified to date. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Health-related quality of life assessments, specific to fatigue through treatment period, show no 
statistically significant difference suggesting that the addition of Gazyvaro to a chlorambucil regimen 
does not increase the experience of fatigue for patients. 
Follicular lymphoma 
Previously untreated follicular lymphoma (study BO21223/GALLIUM)  
In a phase III, open label, multicentre, randomised clinical study (BO21223/GALLIUM), 
1202 patients with previously untreated Grade 1-3a advanced (stage II bulky disease, stage III/IV) FL 
were evaluated. Patients with FL Grade 3b were excluded from the study. Patients were randomised to 
1:1 to receive either Gazyvaro (n=601 patients) or rituximab (n=601 patients) in combination with 
chemotherapy (bendamustine, CHOP or CVP), followed by Gazyvaro or rituximab maintenance in 
patients achieving a complete or partial response.  
Gazyvaro was given by intravenous infusion as a dose of 1,000 mg on Days 1, 8 and 15 of Cycle 1, on 
Day 1 of subsequent cycles. In total, six cycles of Gazyvaro (every 28 days) were given in 
combination with six cycles of bendamustine, and a total of eight cycles of Gazyvaro (every 21 days) 
were given in combination with six cycles of CHOP or eight cycles of CVP. Gazyvaro was 
administered prior to chemotherapy. Bendamustine was given intravenously on Days 1 and 2 for all 
treatment cycles (Cycles 1-6) at 90 mg/m2/day when given in combination with Gazyvaro. Standard 
dosing of CHOP and CVP was given. Following Cycles 6-8, in combination with chemotherapy, 
responding patients received Gazyvaro maintenance therapy every 2 months until disease progression 
or for up to 2 years.  
The demographic data and baseline characteristics of the patient population were well balanced 
between the treatment arms; median age was 59 years, 81% were Caucasian, 53% were female, 79% 
had a FLIPI score of ≥ 2 and 7% had Stage II (bulky), 35% had Stage III and 57% had Stage IV 
disease, 44% had bulky disease (> 7 cm), 34% had at least one B-symptom at baseline and 97% had an 
ECOG performance status of 0-1 at baseline. Fifty-seven percent received bendamustine, 33% 
received CHOP, and 10% received CVP chemotherapy. 
Efficacy results for patients with previously untreated FL are summarised in Table 10. Kaplan-Meier 
curves for progression-free survival (PFS) are shown in Figure 5. 
Table 10 
Summary of efficacy in patients with previously untreated FL from BO21223/ 
GALLIUM study 
Rituximab + Chemotherapy 
followed by rituximab 
maintenance 
N=601 
Gazyvaro +Chemotherapy 
followed by Gazyvaro 
maintenance 
N=601 
Primary Endpoint 
Investigator-assessed PFS§ (PFS-INV) 
primary analysis  
Number (%) of patients with event  
144 (24.0%) 
101 (16.8%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
3 year PFS estimate [%] 
[95% CI] 
0.66 [0.51, 0.85] 
0.0012 
73.3  
[68.8, 77.2] 
80.0 
[75.9, 83.6] 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rituximab + Chemotherapy 
followed by rituximab 
maintenance 
N=601 
Gazyvaro +Chemotherapy 
followed by Gazyvaro 
maintenance 
N=601 
PFS-INV final analysis§§ 
Number (%) of patients with event 
244 (40.6%) 
206 (34.3%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
3 year PFS estimate [%] 
[95% CI] 
7 year PFS estimate [%] 
[95% CI] 
Key Endpoints 
IRC-assessed PFS (PFS-IRC) 
primary analysis  
0.77 [0.64, 0.93] 
0.0055 
75.5 
[71.8, 78.9] 
55.7 
[51.3, 59.9] 
82.4 
[79.0, 85.3] 
63.4 
[59.0, 67.4] 
Number (%) of patients with event  
125 (20.8%) 
93 (15.5%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
Time to next anti-lymphoma therapy# 
primary analysis  
0.71 [0.54, 0.93] 
0.0138 
Number (%) of patients with event  
111 (18.5%) 
80 (13.3%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
Overall Survival# primary analysis 
0.68 [0.51, 0.91] 
0.0094 
No. (%) of patients with event 
46 (7.7%) 
35 (5.8%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
Overall Survival final analysis§§ 
0.75 [0.49, 1.17] ¶ 
0.21¶ 
No. (%) of patients with event 
86 (14.3%) 
76 (12.6%) 
HR [95% CI] 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
0.86 [0.63, 1.18] 
0.36 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rituximab + Chemotherapy 
followed by rituximab 
maintenance 
N=601 
Gazyvaro +Chemotherapy 
followed by Gazyvaro 
maintenance 
N=601 
Overall Response Rate** at End of 
Induction‡ (INV-assessed, CT) # 
primary analysis 
Responders (%) (CR, PR) 
522 (86.9%) 
532 (88.5%) 
Difference in response rate (%) [95% 
CI] 
p-value (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
test) 
Complete Response (CR) 
Partial Response (PR) 
1.7% [-2.1%, 5.5%] 
0.33 
143 (23.8%) 
379 (63.1%) 
117 (19.5%) 
415 (69.1%) 
IRC: Independent Review Committee; PFS: progression-free survival; HR: Hazard Ratio; CI: Confidence Interval 
* Stratification factors were chemotherapy regimen, FLIPI risk group for follicular lymphoma, geographic region 
§ Significance level at this efficacy interim analysis/primary analysis: 0.012, data cut-off 31 January 2016, median 
observation time 34/35 months 
§§ Final analysis, data cut-off 30 July 2021, median observation time 94 months 
¶ Data Not Yet Mature. Median was not reached at time of analysis 
# not adjusted for multiplicity 
**Assessed as per modified Cheson 2007 criteria 
‡ End of Induction = end of induction phase, does not include monotherapy maintenance 
Figure 5 Kaplan-Meier curve of INV-assessed progression-free survival in patients with 
previously untreated FL (Study BO21223/GALLIUM), final analysis* 
R-Chemo: Rituximab plus chemotherapy, G-Chemo: Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy, HR: hazard ratio, CI: confidence interval                
*Final analysis, data cut-off 30 July 2021, median observation time 94 months 
Results of subgroup analyses 
Results of subgroup analyses (not adjusted for multiplicity) were, in general, consistent with the 
results seen in the FL population, supporting the robustness of the overall result (primary analysis, 
data cut-off 31 January 2016). The subgroups evaluated included IPI, FLIPI, Bulky Disease, B 
Symptoms at baseline, Ann Arbor Stage and ECOG at baseline. In patients with FLIPI score 0-1 (low 
risk), no difference between Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy and rituximab plus chemotherapy was 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed (INV-assessed PFS HR 1.17 (95%CI 0.63;2.19, 40 PFS events).  This subgroupcomprised 
21% (253/1202) of the FL ITT  population and  experienced 16.3% (40/245) of the PFS events. In 
addition, exploratory subgroup analyses of PFS across chemotherapy regimens (bendamustine, CHOP 
and CVP) were consistent with the results seen in the Gazyvaro plus chemotherapy population. The 
observed HRs by chemotherapy subgroup were as follows; CHOP (n = 398): HR 0.77 (95% CI: 0.50, 
1.20), CVP (n = 118): HR 0.63 (95% CI: 0.32, 1.21), and bendamustine (n = 686): HR 0.61 (95% CI: 
0.43, 0.86).  
Patient Reported Outcomes  
Based on the FACT-Lym questionnaire collected during treatment and follow-up phases, patients in 
both treatment arms experienced clinically meaningful improvements in lymphoma-related symptoms 
as defined by a ≥ 3 point increase from baseline in the Lymphoma subscale, a ≥ 6 point increase from 
baseline in the FACT Lym TOI and a ≥ 7 point increase from baseline in the FACT Lym Total score. 
EQ-5D utility scores were similar at baseline, during treatment and follow-up. No meaningful 
differences were seen between the arms in HRQOL or health status measures. 
Due to the open label design the patient reported outcomes should be interpreted with caution. 
Patients with follicular lymphoma who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months 
after treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen (study GAO4753g/GADOLIN). 
In a phase III, open label, multicentre, randomised clinical study (GAO4753g/GADOLIN), 
396 patients with iNHL who had no response during treatment or who progressed within 6 months 
following the last dose of rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen (including rituximab 
monotherapy as part of induction or maintenance treatment) were evaluated. Patients were randomised 
1:1 to receive either bendamustine (B) alone (n = 202) or Gazyvaro in combination with bendamustine 
(G+B) (n = 194) for 6 cycles, each of 28 days duration. Patients in the G+B arm who did not have 
disease progression (i.e. patients with a complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable 
disease (SD)) at the end of induction continued receiving Gazyvaro maintenance once every two 
months for two years or until disease progression (whichever occurred first). Patients were stratified 
according to region, iNHL subtype (follicular versus non-follicular), rituximab-refractory type 
(whether refractory to prior rituximab monotherapy or rituximab in combination with chemotherapy) 
and the number of prior therapies (≤ 2 versus > 2). 
The demographic data and baseline characteristics were well balanced between the treatment arms 
(median age 63 years, the majority were Caucasian [88%] and male [58%]). The majority of patients 
had follicular lymphoma (81%). The median time from initial diagnosis was 3 years and the median 
number of prior therapies was 2 (range 1 to 10); 44% of patients had received 1 prior therapy and 34% 
of patients had received 2 prior therapies.  
Gazyvaro was given by intravenous infusion as a dose of 1,000 mg on Days 1, 8 and 15 of Cycle 1, on 
Day 1 of Cycles 2-6, and in patients who did not have disease progression, once every two months for 
two years or until disease progression (whichever occurs first). Bendamustine was given intravenously 
on Days 1 and 2 for all treatment cycles (Cycles 1-6) at 90 mg/m2/day when given in combination with 
Gazyvaro or 120 mg/m2/day when given alone. In patients treated with G+ B, 79.4% received all six 
treatment cycles compared to 66.7% of patients in the B arm. 
The primary analysis, based on independent Review Committee (IRC) assessment demonstrated a 
statistically significant - 45% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death, in patients with 
iNHL receiving G+B followed by Gazyvaro maintenance, compared with patients receiving 
bendamustine alone. The reduction in the risk of disease progression or death seen in the iNHL 
population is driven by the subset of patients with FL. 
The majority of the patients in study GAO4753g had FL (81.1%). Efficacy results from the primary 
analysis in the FL population are shown in Table 11 and Figures 6 and 8. 11.6% of the patients had 
marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) and 7.1% had small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). In the non-FL 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population the HR for IRC-assessed PFS was 0.94 [95% CI: 0.49, 1.90].  No definitive conclusions 
could be drawn on efficacy in the MZL and SLL sub-populations. 
At final analysis, the median observation time was 45.9 months (range: 0-100.9 months) for FL 
patients in the B arm and 57.3 months (range: 0.4-97.6 months) for patients in the G+B arm, 
representing an additional 25.6 months and 35.2 months of median follow-up in B and G+B arms, 
respectively, since the primary analysis. Only Investigator (INV) assessed endpoints were reported at 
final analysis since IRC assessments did not continue. Overall, the investigator assessed efficacy 
results were consistent with what was observed in the primary analysis. The overall survival (OS) in 
patients with FL was stable with longer follow-up (see Figure 7); the HR for risk of death was 0.71 
(95%CI: 0.51, 0.98). 
Table 11  Summary of primary efficacy analysis in patients with FL# from 
GAO4753g/GADOLIN study 
Gazyvaro + 
Bendamustine 
followed by 
Gazyvaro 
maintenance 
N=155 
Bendamustine 
N=166 
Median observation 
time: 20 months 
Median observation 
time: 22 months 
Primary Endpoint in FL population 
IRC-assessed PFS (PFS-IRC) 
Number (%) of patients with event  
90 (54.2%) 
Median time to event (months, 95% CI) 
13.8 (11.4, 16.2) 
54 (34.8%) 
NR (22.5,-) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
Secondary Endpoints 
Investigator-assessed PFS (PFS-INV) 
0.48 (0.34, 0.68) 
< 0.0001 
Number (%) of patients with event  
102 (61.4%) 
62 (40.0%) 
Median time to event (months, 95% CI) 
13.7 (11.0, 15.5) 
29.2 (17.5,-) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
Best Overall Response (BOR) (IRC-assessed)§ 
0.48 (0.35, 0.67) 
< 0.0001 
No. of patients included in the analysis 
161 
153 
Responders (%) (CR/PR) 
124 (77.0%) 
122 (79.7%) 
Difference in response rate (95% CI) 
2.72 (-6.74, 12.18) 
p-value (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test) 
0.6142 
Complete Responders (%) 
Partial Responders (%) 
Stable Disease (%) 
31 (19.3%) 
93 (57.8%) 
18 (11.2%) 
24 (15.7%) 
98 (64.1%) 
13 (8.5%) 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gazyvaro + 
Bendamustine 
followed by 
Gazyvaro 
maintenance 
N=155 
Bendamustine 
N=166 
Median observation 
time: 20 months 
Median observation 
time: 22 months 
Duration of response (DOR) (IRC-
assessed) 
No of patients included in the analysis 
No. (%) of patients with event 
127 
74 (58.3%) 
Median duration (months) of DOR (95% CI) 
11.9 (8.8, 13.6) 
122 
36 (29.5%) 
NR (25.4,-) 
HR (95% CI) 
Overall Survival  
No. (%) of patients with event 
Median time to event (months) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value (Log-Rank test, stratified*) 
0.36 (0.24, 0.54) 
36 (21.7%) 
25 (16.1%) 
NR 
NR 
0.71 (0.43, 1.19) 
0.1976 
IRC: Independent Review Committee; PFS: progression-free survival; HR: Hazard Ratio; CI: Confidence Intervals,  
NR = Not Reached 
# Patients with FL who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months after treatment with rituximab or 
a rituximab-containing regimen 
*Stratification factors for analysis were refractory type (rituximab monotherapy vs. rituximab + chemotherapy) and 
prior therapies (≤ 2 vs > 2). Follicular versus non-follicular was also a stratification factor for the study but is not 
applicable in the subgroup analysis of patients with FL.  
§ Best response within 12 months of start of treatment 
Figure 6 Kaplan-Meier curve of IRC-assessed PFS in patients with FL # (Study 
GAO4753g/GADOLIN) 
# Patients with FL who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months after treatment with rituximab or a 
rituximab-containing regimen 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Kaplan-Meier curve of Overall Survival in FL patients at Final Analysis (Study 
GAO4753g/GADOLIN) 
Results of subgroup analyses 
Results of subgroup analyses were in general consistent with the results seen in the FL population, 
supporting the robustness of the overall result. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 IRC-assessed PFS by patient subgroup in FL *# (Study GAO4753g/GADOLIN) 
*pre-specified analyses performed on the intent to treat (ITT) population were repeated on the FL population; analysis of 
double refractory (i.e. unresponsive to or disease progression during or within 6 months of the last dose of an alkylating 
agent-based regimen) status was exploratory.  
# Patients with FL who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months after treatment with rituximab or a 
rituximab-containing regimen 
Short Duration Infusion Study MO40597 (GAZELLE) 
The safety of short (approximately 90 minutes) duration infusion (SDI) of obinutuzumab administered 
in combination with CHOP, CVP or bendamustine chemotherapy was evaluated in a multicenter, 
open-label, single arm study in 113 patients with previously untreated advanced follicular lymphoma 
(Study MO40597/GAZELLE). 
Patients received the first cycle of obinutuzumab at the standard infusion rate on Day 1, 8, and 15 of 
Cycle 1. Patients who did not experience any Grade ≥3 IRRs during the first cycle received SDI from 
Cycle 2 onwards. 
The primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients who experienced a Grade ≥3 IRR 
associated with SDI during Cycle 2, among those who had previously received 3 administrations of 
obinutuzumab at the standard infusion rate during Cycle 1 without experiencing a Grade ≥3 IRR.   
No Grade ≥3 IRRs were observed among patients receiving SDI at Cycle 2. After Cycle 2 only one 
patient experienced a Grade 3 IRR (hypertension at Cycle 5). See section 4.8 Undesirable Effects.  
Patient-reported Outcomes 
Due to the open label design the patient reported outcomes should be interpreted with caution. Based 
on the FACT-Lym questionnaire and EQ-5D index scale collected during the treatment and during 
follow-up periods, health-related quality of life was generally maintained in the pivotal study with no 
meaningful difference between the arms. However, in patients with FL the addition of Gazyvaro to 
bendamustine delayed the time to worsening of health-related quality of life as measured by the 
FACT-Lym TOI score by 2.2 months (median 5.6 versus 7.8 months for B and G+B respectively 
HR = 0.83; 95% CI: 0.60, 1.13). 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity assay results are highly dependent on several factors including assay sensitivity and 
specificity, assay methodology, assay robustness to quantities of Gazyvaro/antibody in the circulation, 
sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medicines and underlying disease. For 
these reasons, comparison of incidence of antibodies to Gazyvaro with the incidence of antibodies to 
other products may be misleading. 
Patients in the CLL pivotal study BO21004/CLL11 were tested at multiple time-points for 
anti-therapeutic antibodies (ATA) to Gazyvaro. In patients treated with Gazyvaro 8 out of 140 patients 
in the randomised phase and 2 out of 6 in the run in phase tested positive for ATA at 12 months of 
follow up. Of these patients, none experienced anaphylactic or hypersensitivity reactions that were 
considered related to ATA, nor was clinical response affected. 
No post-baseline HAHA (Human Anti-Human Antibody) were observed in patients with iNHL treated 
in study GAO4753g/GADOLIN. In study BO21223/GALLIUM, 1/565 patient (0.2% of patients with 
a post-baseline assessment) developed HAHA at induction completion. While the clinical significance 
of HAHA is not known, a potential correlation between HAHA and clinical course cannot be ruled 
out. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Gazyvaro in all subsets of the paediatric population in CLLand FL (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
A population pharmacokinetic (PK) model was developed to analyse the PK data in 469 iNHL, 
342 CLL and 130 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients from Phase I, Phase II and Phase 
III studies who received obinutuzumab alone or in combination with chemotherapy.  
Absorption 
Obinutuzumab is administered intravenously, therefore absorption is not applicable. There have been 
no studies performed with other routes of administration. From the population PK model, after the 
Cycle 6 Day 1 infusion in CLL patients, the estimated median Cmax value was 465.7 μg/mL and 
AUC(τ) value was 8961 μg•d/mL and in iNHL patients the estimated median Cmax value was 
539.3 μg/mL and AUC(τ) value was 10956 μg•day/mL. 
Distribution 
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of the central compartment (2.98 L 
in patients with CLL and 2.97 in patients with iNHL), approximates serum volume, which indicates 
distribution is largely restricted to plasma and interstitial fluid. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of obinutuzumab has not been directly studied. Antibodies are mostly cleared by 
catabolism.  
Elimination 
The clearance of obinutuzumab was approximately 0.11 L/day in CLL patients and 0.08 L/day in 
iNHL patients with a median elimination t½ of 26.4 days in CLL patients and 36.8 days in iNHL 
patients. Obinutuzumab elimination comprises two parallel pathways which describe clearance, a 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
linear clearance pathway and a non-linear clearance pathway which changes as a function of time. 
During the initial treatment, the non-linear time-varying clearance pathway is dominant and is 
consequently the major clearance pathway. As treatment continues, the impact of this pathway 
diminishes and the linear clearance pathway predominates. This is indicative of target mediated drug 
disposition (TMDD), where the initial abundance of CD20 cells causes a rapid removal of 
obinutuzumab from the circulation. However, once the majority of CD20 cells are bound with 
obinutuzumab, the impact of TMDD on PK is minimised. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
In the population pharmacokinetic analysis, gender was found to be a covariate which explains some 
of the inter-patient variability, with a 22% greater steady state clearance (CLss) and a 19% greater 
volume of distribution (V) in males. However, results from the population analysis have shown that 
the differences in exposure are not significant (with an estimated median AUC and Cmax in CLL 
patients of 11282 µg•d/mL and 578.9 µg/mL in females and 8451 µg•d/mL and 432.5 µg/mL in males, 
respectively at Cycle 6 and AUC and Cmax in iNHL of 13172 µg•d/mL and 635.7 µg/mL in females 
and 9769 µg•d/mL and 481.3 µg/mL in males, respectively), indicating that there is no need to dose 
adjust based on gender. 
Elderly 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of obinutuzumab showed that age did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of obinutuzumab. No significant difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of 
obinutuzumab among patients < 65 years (n=375), patients between 65-75 years (n=265) and patients 
> 75 years (n=171). 
Paediatric population 
No studies have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of obinutuzumab in paediatric 
patients. 
Renal impairment 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of obinutuzumab showed that creatinine clearance does not 
affect pharmacokinetics of obinutuzumab. Pharmacokinetics of obinutuzumab in patients with mild 
creatinine clearance (CrCl 50-89 mL/min, n=464) or moderate (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min, n=106) renal 
impairment were similar to those in patients with normal renal function (CrCl ≥ 90 mL/min, n=383). 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15-29 mL/min) is limited (n=8), 
therefore no dose recommendations can be made. 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal pharmacokinetic study has been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
No studies have been performed to establish the carcinogenic potential of obinutuzumab. 
No specific studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the effect of obinutuzumab on fertility. 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys obinutuzumab had no adverse effects on male 
and female reproductive organs. 
An enhanced pre and postnatal development (ePPND) toxicity study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys 
showed no evidence of teratogenic effects. However, weekly obinutuzumab dosing from post-coitum 
day 20 to delivery resulted in complete depletion of B-cells in infant monkeys at weekly intravenous 
obinutuzumab doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg (2-5 times the clinical exposure based on Cmax and AUC). 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Offspring exposure on day 28 post-partum suggests that obinutuzumab can cross the blood-placenta 
barrier. Concentrations in infant serum on day 28 post-partum were in the range of concentrations in 
maternal serum, whereas concentrations in milk on the same day were very low (less than 0.5% of the 
corresponding maternal serum levels) suggesting that exposure of infants must have occurred in utero. 
The B-cell counts returned to normal levels, and immunologic function was restored within 6 months 
post-partum.  
In a 26-week cynomolgus monkey study, hypersensitivity reactions were noted and attributed to the 
foreign recognition of the humanised antibody in cynomolgus monkeys (0.7-6 times the clinical 
exposure based on Cmax and AUC at steady state after weekly administration of 5, 25, and 50 mg/kg). 
Findings included acute anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions and an increased prevalence of 
systemic inflammation and infiltrates consistent with immune-complex mediated hypersensitivity 
reactions, such as arteritis/periarteritis, glomerulonephritis, and serosal/adventitial inflammation. 
These reactions led to unscheduled termination of 6/36 animals treated with obinutuzumab during 
dosing and recovery phases; these changes were partially reversible. No renal toxicity with a causal 
relationship to obinutuzumab has been observed in humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Histidine 
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Poloxamer 188 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
After dilution 
After dilution, chemical and physical stability have been demonstrated in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection at concentrations of 0.4 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C 
followed by 48 hours (including infusion time) at ≤ 30°C.     
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion solution should be used immediately. If 
not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze.  
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
40 mL concentrate in a 50 mL vial  (clear Type I glass) with stopper (butyl rubber). Pack size of 1 
vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for dilution 
Gazyvaro should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique. Do not shake the 
vial. Use a sterile needle and syringe to prepare Gazyvaro. 
For CLL cycles 2 – 6 and all FL cycles 
Withdraw 40 mL of concentrate from the vial and dilute in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or non-PVC 
polyolefin infusion bags containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection.  
CLL only – Cycle 1  
To ensure differentiation of the two infusion bags for the initial 1,000 mg dose, it is recommended to 
utilise bags of different sizes to distinguish between the 100 mg dose for Cycle 1 Day 1 and the 
900 mg dose for Cycle 1 Day 1 (continued) or Day 2. To prepare the 2 infusion bags, withdraw 40 mL 
of concentrate from the vial and dilute 4 mL into a 100 mL PVC or non-PVC polyolefin infusion bag 
and the remaining 36 mL in a 250 mL PVC or non-PVC polyolefin infusion bag containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. Clearly label each infusion bag. For storage conditions 
of the infusion bags see section 6.3. 
Dose of Gazyvaro to be 
administered 
100 mg 
900 mg 
1000 mg 
Required amount of 
Gazyvaro concentrate 
4 mL 
36 mL 
40 mL 
Size of PVC or non-PVC 
polyolefin infusion bag 
100 mL 
250 mL 
250 mL 
Do not use other diluents such as glucose (5%) solution (see section 6.2). 
The bag should be gently inverted to mix the solution in order to avoid excessive foaming. The diluted 
solution should not be shaken or frozen. 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulates and discolouration prior to 
administration. 
No incompatibilities have been observed between Gazyvaro, in concentration ranges from 0.4 mg/mL 
to 20.0 mg/mL after dilution of Gazyvaro with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, 
and: 
• 
• 
optional inline filters with product contact surfaces of polyethersulfone (PES), a 3-way stopcock 
PVC, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene or polyolefin bags 
PVC, polyurethane (PUR) or PE infusion sets 
infusion aid made from polycarbonate (PC), and catheters made from polyetherurethane (PEU). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Roche Registration GmbH 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/937/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 July 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 02 April 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Enter Custom Component 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance  
Roche Diagnostics GmbH 
Nonnenwald 2 
82377 Penzberg 
GERMANY 
Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
Hillerød, 3400 
DENMARK 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Roche Pharma AG 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
GERMANY 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines  
web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
41 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Gazyvaro 1,000 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
obinutuzumab  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of 40 mL concentrate contains 1,000 mg obinutuzumab, corresponding to a concentration 
before dilution of 25 mg/mL  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Histidine  
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Poloxamer 188 
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1,000 mg/40 mL 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
For intravenous use after dilution 
Do not shake the vial 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator 
Do not freeze 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Roche Registration GmbH  
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/937/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
46 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Gazyvaro 1,000 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
obinutuzumab  
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1,000 mg/40 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Gazyvaro 1,000 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
obinutuzumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Gazyvaro is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Gazyvaro 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Gazyvaro is given 
Possible side effects  
How to store Gazyvaro 
Content of the pack and other information 
1.  What Gazyvaro is and what it is used for 
What Gazyvaro is 
Gazyvaro contains the active substance obinutuzumab, which belongs to a group of medicines called 
“monoclonal antibodies”. Antibodies work by attaching themselves to specific targets in your body. 
What Gazyvaro is used for 
Gazyvaro can be used in adults to treat two different types of cancer 
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (also called “CLL”) 
- 
Gazyvaro is used in patients who have not had any treatment for CLL before and who 
have other illnesses which make it unlikely that they would be able to tolerate a full dose 
of a different medicine used to treat CLL called fludarabine. 
Gazyvaro is used together with another medicine for cancer called chlorambucil. 
Follicular lymphoma (also called “FL”) 
- 
- 
Gazyvaro is used in patients who have not had any treatment for FL  
Gazyvaro is used in patients who have had at least one treatment with a medicine called 
rituximab before and whose FL has come back or got worse during or after this treatment.  
At the start of treatment for FL, Gazyvaro is used together with other medicines for 
cancer.  
Gazyvaro can then be used on its own for up to 2 years as a “maintenance treatment”. 
How Gazyvaro works 
• 
CLL and FL are types of cancer that affect white blood cells called “B-lymphocytes”. The 
affected “B-lymphocytes” multiply too quickly and live too long. Gazyvaro binds to targets on 
the surface of the affected “B-lymphocyte” cells and causes them to die.   
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  When Gazyvaro is given to patients with CLL or FL together with other medicines for  
cancer - this slows down the time it takes for their disease to get worse. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Gazyvaro 
You must not be given Gazyvaro if: 
• 
you are allergic to obinutuzumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you are not sure talk to your doctor or nurse before being given Gazyvaro. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Gazyvaro if: 
• 
you have an infection, or have had an infection in the past which lasted a long time or keeps 
coming back  
you have ever taken, or been given, medicines which affect your immune system (such as 
chemotherapy or immunosuppressants) 
you are taking medicines for high blood pressure or medicines used to thin your blood – your 
doctor might need to alter how you take these 
you have ever had heart problems 
you have ever had brain problems (such as memory problems, difficulty moving or feeling 
sensations in your body, eyesight problems) 
you have ever had breathing problems or lung problems 
you have ever had  “hepatitis B” - a type of liver disease  
you are due to have a vaccine or you know you may need to have one in the near future. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given 
Gazyvaro.  
Pay attention to the following side effects  
Gazyvaro can cause some serious side effects that you need to tell your doctor or nurse about straight 
away. These include:  
Infusion related reactions  
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you get any of the infusion related reactions listed at 
the start of section 4. Infusion related reactions can happen during the infusion or up to 24 hours 
after the infusion.  
If you get an infusion related reaction, you may require additional treatment, or the infusion 
may need to be slowed down or stopped. When these symptoms go away, or improve, the 
infusion can be continued. These reactions are more likely to happen with the first infusion. 
Your doctor may decide to stop treatment with Gazyvaro if you have a severe infusion related 
reaction. 
Before each infusion of Gazyvaro, you will be given medicines which help to reduce possible 
infusion related reactions or “tumour lysis syndrome”.  Tumour lysis syndrome is a potentially 
life-threatening complication, caused by chemical changes in the blood due to the breakdown of 
dying cancer cells (see section 3). 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (also called “PML”) 
• 
• 
• 
PML is a very rare and life-threatening brain infection that has been reported in very few 
patients having treatment with Gazyvaro.  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you have memory loss, trouble speaking, difficulty 
walking or problems with your eyesight.  
If you had any of these symptoms before treatment with Gazyvaro, tell your doctor straight 
away if you notice any changes in them. You may need medical treatment. 
Infections  
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you get any signs of infection after your Gazyvaro 
treatment (see "Infections" in section 4). 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give Gazyvaro to children or young people under 18 years of age. This is because there is no 
information about its use in these age groups.  
Other medicines and Gazyvaro 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might start taking any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal medicines.  
Pregnancy  
• 
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are pregnant, think you might be pregnant or are planning to 
have a baby. They will help you weigh up the benefit of continuing Gazyvaro against the risk to 
your baby.  
If you become pregnant during treatment with Gazyvaro, tell your doctor or nurse as soon as 
possible. This is because treatment with Gazyvaro may affect yours or the baby’s health.  
Breast-feeding 
• 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Gazyvaro or for 18 months after stopping treatment 
with Gazyvaro. This is because small amounts of the medicine may pass into your breast milk. 
Contraception 
• 
• 
Use an effective method of contraception while being treated with Gazyvaro. 
Continue to use effective contraception for 18 months after stopping treatment with Gazyvaro.  
Driving and using machines  
Gazyvaro is not likely to affect your ability to drive, cycle or use any tools or machines. However, if 
you get an infusion related reaction, (see section 4), do not drive, cycle or use any tools or machines 
until the reaction stops. 
3. 
How Gazyvaro is given 
How Gazyvaro is given 
Gazyvaro is given under the supervision of a doctor experienced in such treatment. It is given into a 
vein as a drip (intravenous infusion) over several hours. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Gazyvaro treatment 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You will be given 6 treatment cycles of Gazyvaro in combination with another medicine for 
cancer called chlorambucil. Each cycle lasts 28 days.  
On Day 1 of your first cycle, you will be given part of your first Gazyvaro dose of 100 
milligrams (mg) very slowly. Your doctor/nurse will monitor you carefully for infusion related 
reactions.  
If you do not have an infusion related reaction following the small part of your first dose, you 
may be given the rest of your first dose (900 mg) on the same day.  
If you do have an infusion related reaction following the small part of your first dose, you will 
be given the rest of your first dose on Day 2. 
A typical schedule is shown below.  
Cycle 1 - this will include three doses of Gazyvaro in the 28 days: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Day 1 – part of your first dose (100 mg) 
Day 2 or Day 1 (continued) – remainder of first dose 900 mg 
Day 8 – full dose (1,000 mg) 
Day 15 – full dose (1,000 mg) 
Cycles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6  this will be just one dose of Gazyvaro in the 28 days: 
• 
Day 1 – full dose (1,000 mg). 
Follicular lymphoma 
• 
• 
• 
You will be given 6 or 8 treatment cycles of Gazyvaro in combination with other medicines for 
cancer - each cycle lasts 28 or 21 days depending on which other cancer medicines are given 
together with Gazyvaro. 
This induction phase will be followed by a “maintenance phase” - during this time you will be 
given Gazyvaro every 2 months for up to 2 years as long as your disease does not progress. 
Based on your disease status after the initial treatment cycles your doctor will decide whether 
you will receive treatment in the maintenance phase. 
A typical schedule is shown below.  
Induction phase 
Cycle 1 - this will include three doses of Gazyvaro in the 28 or 21 days depending on which other 
cancer medicines are given together with Gazyvaro: 
• 
• 
• 
Day 1 - full dose (1,000 mg) 
Day 8 - full dose (1,000 mg) 
Day 15 - full dose (1,000 mg). 
Cycles 2-6 or 2-8 - this will be just one dose of Gazyvaro in the 28 or 21 days depending on which 
other cancer medicines are given together with Gazyvaro: 
• 
Day 1 - full dose (1,000 mg). 
Maintenance phase 
• 
Full dose (1,000 mg) once every 2 months for up to 2 years as long as your disease does not 
progress. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicines given before each infusion  
Before each infusion of Gazyvaro, you will be given medicines to lessen the chance of getting infusion 
related reactions or tumour lysis syndrome. These may include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fluids  
medicines to reduce a fever 
medicines to reduce pain (analgesics) 
medicines to reduce inflammation (corticosteroids) 
medicines to reduce an allergic reaction (anti-histamines) 
medicine to prevent tumour lysis syndrome (such as allopurinol). 
If you miss a Gazyvaro treatment 
If you miss your appointment, make another one as soon as possible. This is because for this medicine 
to be as effective as possible, it is important to follow the dosing schedule.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. The 
following side effects have been reported with this medicine: 
Serious side effects 
Infusion related reactions  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you get any of the following symptoms during your infusion 
or up to 24 hours after having your infusion: 
Most frequently reported: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
nausea 
fatigue 
dizziness 
headache 
diarrhoea 
fever, flushing or chills 
vomiting  
shortness of breath 
low or high blood pressure 
heart beating very fast 
chest discomfort 
Less frequently reported:  
• 
irregular heartbeat 
• 
swelling of the throat or airway  
• 
wheezing, difficulty breathing, tight chest or throat irritation 
If you get any of the above, tell your doctor or nurse straight away. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  
PML is a very rare and life-threatening brain infection that has been reported with Gazyvaro.  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you have 
• 
• 
• 
• 
memory loss 
trouble speaking  
difficulty walking 
problems with your eyesight 
If you had any of these symptoms before treatment with Gazyvaro, tell your doctor straight away if 
you notice any changes in them. You may need medical treatment. 
Infections 
You may be more likely to get an infection during and after treatment with Gazyvaro. Often these are 
colds, but there have been cases of more severe infections. A type of liver disease called “hepatitis B” 
has also been reported to reoccur in patients who have had hepatitis B in the past.  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you get any signs of infection during and after your 
Gazyvaro treatment. These include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fever 
cough 
chest pain 
fatigue 
painful rash 
sore throat 
burning pain when passing urine 
feeling weak or generally unwell 
If you had recurring or chronic infections before the start of Gazyvaro treatment, tell your doctor about 
it. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fever  
lung infection 
headache 
joint pain, back pain 
feeling weak  
feeling tired 
pain in arms and legs 
diarrhoea, constipation 
sleeplessness 
hair loss, itchiness 
urinary tract infection, nose and throat inflammation, shingles 
changes in blood tests: 
- 
- 
- 
anaemia (low levels of red blood cells) 
low levels of all types of white blood cell (combined)  
low levels of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell)  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
low level of platelets (a type of blood cell that helps your blood to clot) 
infection of upper airways (infection of nose, pharynx, larynx and sinuses), cough 
• 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cold sores 
depression, anxiety 
flu (influenza) 
weight increase 
runny or blocked nose 
eczema 
pain in mouth or throat 
muscle and bone pain in your chest 
skin cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma) 
bone pain 
irregular heart beat (atrial fibrillation)  
problems with urinating, urinary incontinence 
high blood pressure  
problems with digestion (e.g. heartburn),  haemorrhoids  
changes shown in blood tests: 
- 
low levels of lymphocytes (a type of white blood cells), fever associated with low levels 
of neutrophils (a type of white blood cells)  
increase in potassium, phosphate or uric acid - which can cause kidney problems (part of 
tumour lysis syndrome) 
decrease in potassium  
- 
- 
    a hole in the stomach or intestines (gastrointestinal perforation, especially in cases where the    
cancer affects the gastrointestinal tubes) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
abnormal coagulation, including a serious illness where clots form all over the body 
● 
(disseminated intravascular coagulation) 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Gazyvaro 
Gazyvaro will be stored by the healthcare professionals at the hospital or clinic. The storage details are 
as follows: 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
• 
• 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Your healthcare professional 
will throw away any medicines that are no longer being used. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Gazyvaro contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is obinutuzumab: 1,000 mg/40 mL per vial corresponding to a 
concentration before dilution of 25 mg/mL.  
The other ingredients are histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, trehalose dihydrate, 
poloxamer 188 and water for injections. 
What Gazyvaro looks like and contents of the pack 
Gazyvaro is a concentrate for solution for infusion and is a colourless to slightly brown liquid. 
Gazyvaro is available in a pack containing 1 glass vial.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Roche Registration GmbH  
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Roche Pharma AG 
Emil-Barell-Strasse 1 
D-79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
N.V. Roche S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 525 82 11 
България 
Рош България ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 818 44 44 
Česká republika 
Roche s. r. o. 
Tel: +420 - 2 20382111 
Danmark 
Roche a/s 
Tlf: +45 - 36 39 99 99 
Lietuva 
UAB “Roche Lietuva” 
Tel: +370 5 2546799 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
(Voir/siehe Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Roche (Magyarország) Kft. 
Tel: +36 -1 279 4500 
Malta 
(See Ireland) 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Roche Pharma AG 
Tel: +49 (0) 7624 140 
Eesti 
Roche Eesti OÜ 
Tel: + 372 - 6 177 380 
Ελλάδα 
Roche (Hellas) A.E.  
Τηλ: +30 210 61 66 100 
España 
Roche Farma S.A. 
Tel: +34 - 91 324 81 00 
France 
Roche 
Tél: +33  (0)1 47 61 40 00 
Hrvatska 
Roche d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 47 22 333 
Ireland 
Roche Products (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 469 0700 
Ísland  
Roche a/s 
c/o Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Roche S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 - 039 2471 
Kύπρος  
Γ.Α.Σταμάτης & Σια Λτδ. 
Τηλ: +357 - 22 76 62 76 
Latvija 
Roche Latvija SIA 
Tel: +371 - 6 7039831 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Nederland 
Roche Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 348 438050 
Norge 
Roche Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 - 22 78 90 00 
Österreich 
Roche Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 27739 
Polska 
Roche Polska Sp.z o.o. 
Tel: +48 - 22 345 18 88 
Portugal 
Roche Farmacêutica Química, Lda 
Tel: +351 - 21 425 70 00 
România 
Roche România S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 21 206 47 01 
Slovenija 
Roche farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 - 1 360 26 00 
Slovenská republika  
Roche Slovensko, s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 - 2 52638201 
Suomi/Finland 
Roche Oy  
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 10 554 500 
Sverige 
Roche AB 
Tel: +46 (0) 8 726 1200 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Roche Products (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 366000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Posology 
Gazyvaro should be administered under the close supervision of an experienced physician and in an 
environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately available. 
Prophylaxis and premedication for tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
Patients with a high tumour burden and/or a high circulating lymphocyte count (> 25 x 109/L) and/or 
renal impairment (CrCl < 70 mL/min) are considered at risk of TLS and should receive prophylaxis. 
Prophylaxis should consist of adequate hydration and administration of uricostatics (e.g. allopurinol), 
or suitable alternative such as a urate oxidase (e.g. rasburicase) starting 12-24 hours prior to start of 
Gazyvaro infusion as per standard practice. All patients considered at risk should be carefully 
monitored during the initial days of treatment with a special focus on renal function, potassium, and 
uric acid values. Any additional guidelines according to standard practice should be followed. 
Prophylaxis and premedication for infusion related reactions (IRRs) 
Premedication to reduce the risk of IRRs is outlined in Table 1. Corticosteroid premedication is 
recommended for patients with FL and mandatory for CLL patients in the first cycle (see Table 1). 
Premedication for subsequent infusions and other premedication should be administered as described 
below. 
Hypotension, as a symptom of IRRs, may occur during Gazyvaro intravenous infusions. Therefore, 
withholding of antihypertensive treatments should be considered for 12 hours prior to and throughout 
each Gazyvaro infusion and for the first hour after administration.  
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Premedication to be administered before Gazyvaro infusion to reduce the risk of 
IRRs in CLL and FL patients 
Day of 
treatment 
cycle 
Cycle 1: 
Day 1 for 
CLL and 
FL 
Patients requiring 
premedication 
Premedication 
Administration 
Intravenous 
corticosteroid1,4 
(mandatory for CLL, 
recommended for FL)  
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion 
All patients 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2   At least 30 minutes 
Cycle 1: 
Day 2 for 
CLL only 
All patients 
All 
subsequent 
infusions for 
CLL and 
FL 
Patients with no IRR 
during the previous 
infusion 
Patients with an IRR 
(Grade 1 or 2) with the 
previous infusion 
Patients with a Grade 3 
IRR with the previous 
infusion OR  
Patients with 
lymphocyte counts 
>25 x 109/L prior to 
next treatment 
Anti-histaminic medicine3  
Intravenous corticosteroid1 
(mandatory)  
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion  
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2   At least 30 minutes 
Anti-histaminic medicine3  
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Anti-histaminic medicine3  
Intravenous 
corticosteroid1,4 
Oral analgesic/anti-pyretic2 
Anti-histaminic medicine3 
At least 30 minutes 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
Completed at least 
1 hour prior to Gazyvaro 
infusion 
At least 30 minutes 
before Gazyvaro 
infusion 
1100 mg prednisone/prednisolone or 20 mg dexamethasone or 80 mg methylprednisolone. Hydrocortisone should not be used 
as it has not been effective in reducing rates of IRR. 
2 e.g. 1,000 mg acetaminophen/paracetamol 
3 e.g. 50 mg diphenhydramine 
4.If a corticosteroid-containing chemotherapy regimen is administered on the same day as Gazyvaro, the corticosteroid can 
be administered as an oral medicinal product if given at least 60 minutes prior to Gazyvaro, in which case additional IV 
corticosteroid as premedication is not required. 
Dose 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (in combination with chlorambucil1) 
For patients with CLL the recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is shown 
in Table 2. 
Cycle 1  
The recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is 1,000 mg administered over 
Day 1 and Day 2 (or Day 1 continued), and on Day 8 and Day 15 of the first 28 day treatment cycle. 
Two infusion bags should be prepared for the infusion on Days 1 and 2 (100 mg for Day 1 and 900 mg 
for Day 2). If the first bag is completed without modifications of the infusion rate or interruptions, the 
second bag may be administered on the same day (no dose delay necessary, no repetition of 
premedication), provided that appropriate time, conditions and medical supervision are available 
59 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
throughout the infusion. If there are any modifications of the infusion rate or interruptions during the 
first 100 mg the second bag must be administered the following day.  
Cycles 2 – 6 
The recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chlorambucil is 1,000 mg administered on 
Day 1 of each cycle. 
Table 2 
Dose of Gazyvaro to be administered during 6 treatment cycles each of 28 days 
duration for patients with CLL 
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Dose of Gazyvaro 
Cycle 1 
Cycles 2-6 
Day 1 
Day 2 (or Day 1 continued) 
Day 8 
Day 15 
Day 1 
100 mg 
900 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1 Chlorambucil is given orally at 0.5 mg/kg body weight on Day 1 and Day 15 of all treatment cycles 
Duration of treatment 
Six treatment cycles, each of 28 day duration. 
Follicular lymphoma  
For patients with FL, the recommended dose of Gazyvaro in combination with chemotherapy is shown 
in Table 3. 
Patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma 
Induction (in combination with chemotherapy2) 
Gazyvaro should be administered with chemotherapy as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
Six 28-day cycles in combination with bendamustine2 or 
Six 21-day cycles in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone (CHOP), followed by 2 additional cycles of Gazyvaro alone or 
Eight 21-day cycles in combination with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and 
prednisone/prednisolone/methylprednisolone (CVP).  
Maintenance  
Patients who achieve a complete or partial response to induction treatment with Gazyvaro in 
combination with chemotherapy should continue to receive Gazyvaro 1,000 mg as single agent 
maintenance therapy once every 2 months for 2 years or until disease progression (whichever occurs 
first). 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with follicular lymphoma who did not respond or who progressed during or up to 6 months 
after treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen  
Induction (in combination with bendamustine2) 
Gazyvaro should be administered in six 28-day cycles in combination with bendamustine2.  
Maintenance  
Patients who achieved a complete or partial response to induction treatment (i.e. the initial 6 treatment 
cycles) with Gazyvaro in combination with bendamustine or have stable disease should continue to 
receive Gazyvaro 1,000 mg as single agent maintenance therapy once every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression (whichever occurs first). 
Table 3 
Follicular lymphoma: Dose of Gazyvaro to be administered during induction 
treatment, followed by maintenance treatment 
Cycle 
Day of treatment  
Dose of Gazyvaro 
Cycle 1 
Cycles 2–6 or 
2-8 
Maintenance 
Day 1 
Day 8 
Day 15 
Day 1 
Every 2 months for 2 years 
or until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first)  
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
1,000 mg 
2 Bendamustine is given intravenously on Days 1 and 2 of all treatment cycles (Cycles 1-6) at 90 mg/m2/day; CHOP and 
CVP according to standard regimens 
Duration of treatment 
Induction treatment of approximately six months (six treatment cycles of Gazyvaro, each of 28 day 
duration when combined with bendamustine, or eight treatment cycles of Gazyvaro, each of 21 day 
duration when combined with CHOP or CVP) followed by maintenance once every 2 months for 2 
years or until disease progression (whichever occurs first). 
Method of administration 
Gazyvaro is for intravenous use. It should be given as an intravenous infusion through a dedicated line 
after dilution. Gazyvaro infusions should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus. 
For instructions on dilution of Gazyvaro before administration, see below. 
Instructions on the rate of infusion are shown in Tables 4 -6. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
Table 4 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: Standard infusion rate in the absence of 
IRRs/hypersensitivity and recommendations in case an IRR occurred with previous 
infusion  
Cycle 
Cycle 1 
Day of 
treatment 
Day 1  
(100 mg) 
Day 2  
(or Day 1 
continued)  
(900 mg) 
Day 8 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 15 
(1,000 mg) 
Cycles 2-6 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Rate of infusion  
The infusion rate may be escalated provided 
that the patient can tolerate it. For 
management IRRs that occur during the 
infusion, refer to “Management of IRRs”. 
Administer at 25 mg/hr over 4 hours. Do not 
increase the infusion rate. 
If no IRR occurred during the previous 
infusion, administer at 50 mg/hr.  
The rate of infusion can be escalated in 
increments of 50 mg/hr every 30 minutes to a 
maximum rate of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR during the 
previous infusion, start with administration at 
25 mg/hr. The rate of infusion can be escalated 
in increments up to 50 mg/hr every 30 minutes 
to a maximum rate of 400 mg/hr.  
If no IRR occurred during the previous infusion 
when the final infusion rate was 100 mg/hr or 
faster, infusions can be started at a rate of 
100 mg/hr and increased by 100 mg/hr increments 
every 30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR during the 
previous infusion administer at 50 mg/hr. The rate 
of the infusion can be escalated in increments of 
50mg/hr every 30 minutes to a maximum rate of 
400 mg/hr. 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) 
Gazyvaro should be administered at the standard infusion rate in Cycle 1 (see Table 5). In patients 
who do not experience  Grade ≥3 infusion related reactions (IRRs) during Cycle 1, Gazyvaro  may be 
administered  as a short ( approximately 90 minute) duration infusion (SDI)  from Cycle 2 onwards  
(see Table 6). 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Follicular lymphoma: Standard infusion rate  and recommendations in case an IRR 
occurred with previous infusion 
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Cycle 1 
Cycles 2–6 or 
2–8 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 8 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 15 
(1,000 mg) 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Maintenance 
Every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first) 
Rate of infusion  
The infusion rate may be escalated provided 
that the patient can tolerate it. For 
management of IRRs that occur during the 
infusion, refer to “Management of IRRs”. 
Administer at 50 mg/hr. The rate of infusion 
can be escalated in 50 mg/hr increments every 
30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If no IRR or if an IRR Grade 1 occurred 
during the previous infusion when the final 
infusion rate was 100 mg/hr or faster, 
infusions can be started at a rate of 100 mg/hr 
and increased by 100 mg/hr increments every 
30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
If the patient experienced an IRR of Grade 2 
or higher during the previous infusion 
administer at 50 mg/hr. The rate of infusion 
can be escalated in 50 mg/hr increments every 
30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/hr. 
Table 6 
Follicular lymphoma: Short duration infusion rate and recommendations in case  an 
IRR occurred with previous infusion 
Cycle 
Day of treatment 
Cycles 2–6 or 
2–8 
Day 1 
(1,000 mg) 
Maintenance 
Every 2 months for 2 years or 
until disease progression 
(whichever occurs first)  
Rate of infusion  
 For management of IRRs that occur during 
the infusion, refer to “Management of IRRs”.  
If no IRR of Grade ≥3 occurred during  
Cycle 1:  
100 mg/hr for 30 minutes, then 900 mg/hr for 
approximately 60 minutes. 
If an IRR of Grade 1-2 with ongoing 
symptoms or a Grade 3 IRR occurred during 
the previous SDI infusion, administer the next 
obinutuzumab infusion at the standard rate 
(see Table 5). 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management of IRRs (all indications) 
Management of IRRs may require temporary interruption, reduction in the rate of infusion, or 
treatment discontinuations of Gazyvaro as outlined below. 
• 
• 
• 
Grade 4 (life threatening): Infusion must be stopped and therapy must be permanently 
discontinued.  
Grade 3 (severe): Infusion must be temporarily stopped and symptoms treated. Upon resolution 
of symptoms, the infusion can be restarted at no more than half the previous rate (the rate being 
used at the time that the IRR occurred) and, if the patient does not experience any IRR 
symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as appropriate 
for the treatment dose (see Tables 4 -6). For CLL patients receiving the Day 1 (Cycle 1) dose 
split over two days, the Day 1 infusion rate may be increased back up to 25 mg/hr after 1 hour, 
but not increased further.  
The infusion must be stopped and therapy permanently discontinued if the patient experiences a 
second occurrence of a Grade 3 IRR. 
Grade 1-2 (mild to moderate): The infusion rate must be reduced and symptoms treated.  
Infusion can be continued upon resolution of symptoms and, if the patient does not experience 
any IRR symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as 
appropriate for the treatment dose (see Tables 4 -6 ). For CLL patients receiving the Day 1 
(Cycle 1) dose split over two days, the Day 1 infusion rate may be increased back up to 
25 mg/hr after 1 hour, but not increased further. 
Management of IRRs occurring during SDI 
• 
• 
Grade 4 (life threatening): Infusion must be stopped and therapy must be permanently 
discontinued.  
Grade 3 (severe): Infusion must be temporarily stopped and symptoms treated. Upon resolution 
of symptoms, the infusion can be restarted at no more than half the previous rate (the rate being 
used at the time that the IRR occurred) and not greater than 400 mg/hr.  
If the patient experiences a second Grade 3 IRR after resuming the infusion, the infusion must be 
• 
stopped and therapy must be permanently discontinued. If the patient is able to complete the 
infusion without further Grade 3 IRRs, the next infusion should be given at a rate not higher 
than the standard rate.          
Grade 1-2 (mild to moderate): The infusion rate must be reduced and symptoms treated. 
Infusion can be continued upon resolution of symptoms and, if the patient does not experience 
any IRR symptoms, the infusion rate escalation can resume at the increments and intervals as 
appropriate for the treatment dose (see Tables 5−6). 
Instructions for dilution 
Gazyvaro should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique. Do not shake the 
vial. Use a sterile needle and syringe to prepare Gazyvaro.  
For CLL cycles 2 – 6 and all FL cycles 
Withdraw 40 mL of concentrate from the vial and dilute in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or non-PVC 
polyolefin infusion bags containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection.  
CLL only – Cycle 1 
To ensure differentiation of the two infusion bags for the initial 1,000 mg dose, it is recommended to 
utilise bags of different sizes to distinguish between the 100 mg dose for Cycle 1 Day 1 and the 
900 mg dose for Cycle 1 Day 1 (continued) or Day 2. To prepare the 2 infusion bags, withdraw 40 mL 
of concentrate from the vial and dilute 4 mL into a 100 mL PVC or non-PVC polyolefin infusion bag 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the remaining 36 mL in a 250 mL PVC or non-PVC polyolefin infusion bag containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. Clearly label each infusion bag. 
Dose of Gazyvaro to be 
administered 
100 mg 
900 mg 
1,000 mg 
Required amount of 
Gazyvaro concentrate 
4 mL 
36 mL 
40 mL 
Size of PVC or non-PVC 
polyolefin infusion bag 
100 mL 
250 mL 
250 mL 
No incompatibilities have been observed between Gazyvaro, in concentration ranges from 0.4 mg/mL 
to 20.0 mg/mL after dilution of Gazyvaro with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, 
and: 
• 
• 
• 
PVC,  polyethylene (PE), polypropylene or polyolefin bags 
PVC, polyurethane (PUR) or PE infusion sets 
optional inline filters with product contact surfaces of polyethersulfone (PES), a 3-way stopcock 
infusion aid made from polycarbonate (PC), and catheters made from polyetherurethane (PEU). 
Do not use other diluents such as glucose (5%) solution. 
The bag should be gently inverted to mix the solution in order to avoid excessive foaming. The diluted 
solution should not be shaken or frozen. 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulates and discolouration prior to 
administration. 
After dilution, chemical and physical stability have been demonstrated in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection at concentrations of 0.4 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C 
followed by 48 hours (including infusion time) at ≤ 30°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion solution should be used immediately. If 
not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
