Risk Management Plan Gefitinib Version 3.0                                                          
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary  of risk management plan for  Gefitinib  Mylan  
This  is  a summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP) for  Gefitinib  Mylan.  The  RMP details 
important  risks of gefitinib,  how these risks  can be minimised,  and how more information  will  be 
obtained  about gefitinib's  risks and uncertainties  (missing  information). 
Gefitinib  Mylan  summary of product  characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information  to healthcare professionals  and patients on how it should  be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Gefitinib  Mylan should  be read in the context of all this information , 
including  the assessment report of the evaluation  and its plain-language  summary, all  which is part 
of the European  Public  Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new concerns or  changes to the  current ones will  be included  in  updates of  Gefitinib 
Mylan  RMP. 
I. The medicine and what  it is used for 
Gefitinib  Mylan is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with locally  advanced or metastatic 
non-small  cell lung  cancer (NSCLC) with  activating  mutations  of EGFR-TK. It contains  gefitinib 
as the active substance and it is given  by oral route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the evaluation  of  Gefitinib  Mylan  benefits  can be found  in  Gefitinib 
Mylan  EPAR, including  in  its plain-language  summary,  available  on the EMA website,  under the 
medicine’s  webpage.   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important  risks  of  Gefitinib  Mylan,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed  studies for learning  more about Gefitinib  Mylan  risks,  are outlined  below. 
Measures to minimise  the risks identified  for medicinal  products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such as warnings,  precautions  and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important  advice on the medicine’s  packaging; 
•  The authorised  pack size — the amount  of medicine  in  a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine  is used correctly; 
Risk Management Plan Gefitinib Version 3.0                                                          
•  The medicine’s  legal status — the way a medicine  is supplied  to the public  (e.g. with or without 
prescription)  can help  to minimises  its risks. 
Together,  these measures constitute  routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition  to these measures, information  about  adverse events is  collected  continuously  and  is 
regularly  analysed,  so that immediate  action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine  pharmacovigilance  activities.   
If important  information  that may affect the safe use of Gefitinib  Mylan  is not  yet available,  it  is 
listed  under ‘missing  information’  below. 
In  the  case of  Gefitinib  Mylan,  the  routine  measures  described  above  are  supplemented  with 
additional  risk minimisation  measures, mentioned  under relevant risks below. 
II.A List of important  risks and missing information   
Important  risks of Gefitinib  Mylan  are those risks  that need special  risk  management activities  to 
further investigate  or minimise  them, so that the medicinal  product can be safely taken by patients. 
Important  risks  can be regarded as identified  or potential.  Identified  risks  are concerns for which 
there is sufficient  proof of a link  with the use of Gefitinib  Mylan.  Potential  risks are concerns for 
which  an association  with  the  use of  this  medicine  is  possible  based on  available  data,  but  the 
definite  causal  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information  refers to information  on  the safety of the medicinal  product  that is currently  missing 
and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the  medicine/use  in  special  patient 
populations  etc.); 
Table 1 Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important  risks and missing information 
Important  identified  risks 
• 
Interstitial  lung  disease 
•  Hepatitis   
•  Gastrointestinal  perforation 
•  Drug-drug  interactions:  interactions  with  inducers  and 
inhibitors  of CYP3A4 isoenzyme;  interactions  mediated 
by CYP2D6 isoenzyme;  interactions  with medicines  that 
cause significant  sustained  elevations  of gastric pH. 
Risk Management Plan Gefitinib Version 3.0                                                          
List of important  risks and missing information 
Important  potential  risks 
•  Haemorrhage 
events 
(including  Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage and tumour  haemorrhage) 
•  Cerebrovascular events 
•  Drug interactions:  interactions  with  oral anticoagulants 
Missing  information 
•  Use in pregnant  or lactating  woman 
•  Use in patients  with severe renal impairment 
II.B Summary  of important risks  
The safety information  in the proposed  Product Information  for procedure EMEA/H/C/004826  is 
aligned  to the reference medicinal  product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies  which are conditions  of the marketing  authorisation  or specific  obligation  of 
Gefitinib  Mylan.   
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required  for Gefitinib  Mylan. 
