19 August 2020 
EMA/354319/2020 
Gencebok: potential for dosing errors 
Gencebok, a medicine for treating apnoea of prematurity, is a solution that contains the active 
substance caffeine citrate 10 mg/ml. It can be given either by infusion (drip) into a vein or by mouth. 
The baby could receive the wrong dose if the full name of the active substance is not used for 
prescribing the medicine (2 mg caffeine citrate is equivalent to 1 mg caffeine) or if an incorrect 
strength of the active substance is used for calculating the dose. Another medicine for treating apnoea 
of prematurity is available that contains a different strength of caffeine citrate. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
• 
Prescribing and dispensing systems, administration protocols and infusion equipment must be 
aligned to the strength of caffeine citrate medicine used in the neonatal intensive care unit. 
•  Since caffeine citrate medicines are available in different strengths, the strength of the intended 
medicine must be ascertained when calculating the dose. 
• 
• 
The dose of the active substance should be calculated in terms of caffeine citrate and prescribed in 
terms of the amount of caffeine citrate (in mg). There is a potential for error if the active 
substance is described in any other way. 
The following table shows doses in terms of the amount of caffeine citrate together with the 
corresponding volume of Gencebok needed: 
Dose as amount of 
Route 
caffeine citrate 
Volume of Gencebok 
solution (10 mg/ml) 
Loading dose 
20 mg/kg as a single 
By intravenous infusion 
2.0 ml/kg as a single dose 
dose 
(over 30 minutes) 
Maintenance doses 
5 mg/kg every 24 hours 
By intravenous infusion 
0.5 ml/kg every 24 hours  
(starting 24 hours 
after loading dose) 
(over 10 minutes) or by 
mouth 
•  An information card which includes information, warnings and precautions for the appropriate and 
safe use of Gencebok is available for display in neonatal intensive care units. It should be 
consulted when prescribing and administering Gencebok. 
•  Healthcare professionals should report any suspected adverse reactions with caffeine citrate to 
their national regulatory authorities. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
More about the medicine 
Gencebok is a medicine for treating apnoea of prematurity. It is available in ampoules as a solution 
containing caffeine citrate 10 mg/ml for use by intravenous infusion or for giving by mouth (e.g. 
through a nasogastric tube). The medicine should only be used in a neonatal intensive care unit where 
appropriate facilities are available for closely monitoring the baby and the effects of the medicine. 
More information about the medicine is available on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/gencebok  
Gencebok: potential for dosing errors  
EMA/354319/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
