EMA/353540/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005435 
Gencebok (caffeine citrate) 
An overview of Gencebok and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Gencebok and what is it used for? 
Gencebok is a stimulant medicine used for treating apnoea of prematurity, a condition in which babies 
born prematurely stop breathing for longer than 20 seconds. 
Gencebok contains the active substance caffeine citrate. 
Gencebok is a ‘hybrid’ medicine. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but at a different strength. The reference medicine for Gencebok is Peyona. 
How is Gencebok used? 
Gencebok can only be obtained with a prescription. A doctor with experience of treating newborn 
babies requiring intensive care should start treatment with the medicine. It should be given only in an 
intensive care unit for newborns that is well equipped to closely monitor the baby. 
The dose of Gencebok is calculated using the baby’s weight. The first dose (of 20 mg caffeine citrate 
per kilogram of bodyweight) is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over 30 minutes, using a device to 
closely control the rate at which the medicine is given. To continue treatment, Gencebok is given in 
lower doses (5 mg caffeine citrate per kilogram of bodyweight) every 24 hours. These lower doses can 
be given either by infusion over 10 minutes or by mouth (e.g. through a tube into the stomach). 
Treatment usually continues until the baby can breathe well enough for at least 5 days. 
For more information about using Gencebok, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Gencebok work? 
Apnoea in premature babies occurs because the part of the baby’s brain that controls breathing 
(‘breathing centre’) is not fully developed. 
Caffeine citrate, the active substance in Gencebok, blocks the effect of adenosine. Adenosine is a 
natural substance that slows down the activity of some parts of the brain including the breathing 
centre. By reducing the effect of adenosine, caffeine citrate stimulates the brain to restore breathing. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Gencebok been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Peyona, and do not need to be repeated for Gencebok.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Gencebok. There was no need 
for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Gencebok is absorbed similarly to the reference 
medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because Gencebok is 
given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the bloodstream.  
There was also no need for bioequivalence studies for Gencebok when used by mouth. This is because 
the composition of Gencebok is very similar to that of the reference medicine, except for the strength, 
and both are expected to be absorbed in the same way when given by mouth. 
What are the benefits and risks of Gencebok? 
Because Gencebok is a hybrid medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Gencebok authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Gencebok has 
been shown to be comparable to Peyona. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Peyona, the 
benefits of Gencebok outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Gencebok? 
The company that markets Gencebok will provide a card to display in intensive care units where the 
medicine will be used. It will include information, warnings and precautions on the appropriate and 
safe use of Gencebok, including how to work out and prescribe the dose. 
Recommendations and precautions for the safe and effective use of Gencebok have also been included 
in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Gencebok are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Gencebok are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Gencebok 
Gencebok received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 August 2020. 
Further information on Gencebok can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/gencebok. Information on the reference medicine can also be 
found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 07-2020. 
Gencebok (caffeine citrate)  
EMA/353540/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
