EMA/676172/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004042 
Genvoya (elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / 
tenofovir alafenamide) 
An overview of Genvoya and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Genvoya and what is it used for? 
Genvoya is an antiviral medicine used to treat individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
It is used in adults and children from 2 years of age and weighing at least 14 kg whose disease is not 
expected to be resistant to any of the antiviral substances in Genvoya.  
Genvoya contains the active substances elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir 
alafenamide. 
How is Genvoya used? 
Genvoya can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in managing HIV infection.  
The medicine is available as tablets at two different strengths. The recommended dose, which depends 
on the patient’s age and weight, is one tablet a day, taken with food. 
For more information about using Genvoya, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Genvoya work? 
Genvoya contains four active substances. Elvitegravir is a type of antiviral agent called an ‘integrase 
inhibitor’. By blocking an enzyme called integrase, elvitegravir stops the virus’ genetic material from 
integrating into the genetic material of the cells it has infected. This reduces the virus’ ability to 
replicate and slows down the spread of infection. Cobicistat increases the level of elvitegravir by 
slowing its breakdown. This boosts elvitegravir’s antiviral effect. 
Tenofovir alafenamide is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active substance 
tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir and emtricitabine are related antiviral agents called reverse 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
transcriptase inhibitors. They block the activity of reverse transcriptase, a virus enzyme that allows 
HIV-1 to replicate in the cells it has infected. By blocking reverse transcriptase, Genvoya reduces the 
amount of HIV-1 in the blood and keeps it at a low level. 
Genvoya does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it holds off damage to the immune system and the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Genvoya have been shown in studies? 
Genvoya was investigated in two main studies involving 1,733 adults infected with HIV-1 who had not 
been treated previously. In both studies, Genvoya was compared with another antiviral medicine which 
contained the active substances elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. The 
main measure of effectiveness was the reduction of the amount of HIV-1 in the blood. The infection 
was considered to have responded to treatment if the viral load in the patient’s blood was less than 50 
copies of HIV-1 RNA/ml. After 48 weeks around 90% of patients treated with either Genvoya (800 of 
866 patients) or the comparator (784 of 867 patients) had responded to treatment.  
In a supporting study, patients who were being treated with effective HIV treatment either continued 
with the same treatment or were switched to Genvoya. After 48 weeks a viral load of less than 
50 copies/ml was seen in 97% (932 of 959) of patients switched to Genvoya and 93% (444 of 477) of 
patients who continued with their usual treatment. 
In another study, Genvoya was given to adolescents aged 12 to 18 years with HIV-1 infection who had 
not been treated previously. The viral load was reduced to less than 50 copies/ml after 24 weeks in 
90% (45 of 50) of patients.  
This study also involved children below 12 years of age who were being treated with effective HIV 
treatment and who were switched to Genvoya. In 23 children aged 8 to 11 years weighing at least 25 
kg, the viral load remained below 50 copies/ml after 48 weeks of treatment with Genvoya at the same 
dose as that used in adults. In children aged at least 2 years and weighing between 14 kg and less 
than 25 kg, the viral load remained below 50 copies/ml in 96% (26 of 27) of patients after 48 weeks of 
treatment with Genvoya at a lower dose than that used in adults.  
What are the risks associated with Genvoya? 
The most common side effect with Genvoya (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is nausea 
(feeling sick). Other side effects include headache and diarrhoea. For the full list of side effects 
reported with Genvoya, see the package leaflet. 
Genvoya must not be taken with certain other medicines because of the possibility of harmful 
interactions. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Genvoya authorised in the EU? 
In studies, the effectiveness of Genvoya was high in patients aged at least 2 years of age, and in 
adults it was comparable to that of a medicine containing elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir disoproxil.  
Three of the active substances, elvitegravir, cobicistat and emtricitabine, have already been shown to 
be effective. The fourth, tenofovir alafenamide, is effective at a lower dose than the established 
medicine tenofovir disoproxil and offers the possibility of reduced side effects. The European Medicines 
Agency also considered that combining the medicines in a single tablet simplifies treatment. 
Genvoya (elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)   
EMA/676172/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Genvoya’s side effects were similar to those of the individual active substances. In adults, tenofovir 
alafenamide had a milder effect on the kidney than tenofovir disoproxil. A possible risk of bone density 
loss in young children given tenofovir alafenamide could be minimised with regular monitoring during 
treatment.  
The Agency therefore decided that Genvoya’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Genvoya? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Genvoya have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Genvoya 
Genvoya received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 November 2015. 
Further information on Genvoya can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/genvoya.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Genvoya (elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)   
EMA/676172/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
