SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR GENVOYA 
(ELVITEGRAVIR/COBICISTAT/EMTRICITABINE/ TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Genvoya. The RMP details important 
risks of Genvoya, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Genvoya risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The Genvoya summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Genvoya should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Genvoya should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Genvoya 
RMP.  
I. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for 
Genvoya is authorized for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection 
in adults and pediatric patients aged 2 years and above and weighing at least 14 kg (see SmPC 
for the full indication). It contains elvitegravir (EVG), cobicistat (COBI), FTC and tenofovir 
alafenamide (TAF) as the active substances and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Genvoya’s benefits can be found in Genvoya’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/004042/WC500197864.pdf. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further Characterize 
the Risks 
Important risks of Genvoya, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Genvoya’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Genvoya is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Genvoya are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Genvoya. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).  
Table Part V1.1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified 
Risks 
Suicidal ideation/suicide attempt in patients with a pre-existing 
history of depression or psychiatric illness 
Important Potential 
Risks 
Concurrent use of drugs whose coadministration with Genvoya is 
contraindicated 
Long-term safety information in children between the ages of ≥ 2 
and < 6 years 
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Safety in patients with cardiac conduction disorders 
 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table Part V1.2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risk 
Suicidal Ideation/Suicide Attempt in Patients with a Pre-existing History of 
Depression or Psychiatric illness 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Suicidal ideation/suicide attempt has been reported with the use of some Integrase strand 
transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-containing regimens. In clinical studies of EVG and Genvoya, 
the incidence of suicide events was comparable to that observed previously with other 
INSTI and non-INSTI antiretroviral regimens in the context of a high background rate. In 
the postmarketing setting there has not been evidence of a causal association between 
Genvoya and suicide events. 
The majority of subjects who experienced a suicide-related adverse event (AE) when 
receiving EVG or Genvoya had a pre-existing history of depression or psychiatric illness. 
Although a history of depression or psychiatric illness was common in this patient 
population, for example 25 - 28% of subjects had a history of depression, only a small 
proportion of subjects with this medical history experienced suicide-related AEs. 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Important Potential Risk 
Concurrent Use of Drugs whose Coadministration with Genvoya is Contraindicated 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
A small number of postmarketing cases of concurrent use of Genvoya with a 
contraindicated drug have been reported, which have been discussed in PSURs. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not known 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.3 and 4.5 
PL Section 2 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Missing Information 
Long-term safety information in children between the ages of ≥ 2 and < 6 years 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities  
None  
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
Missing Information 
Safety in patients with cardiac conduction disorders 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
No routine risk minimization measures are considered necessary for this population. 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
 
II.C. 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Genvoya. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Table Part V1.3. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy 
Registry 
(APR) 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects in patients 
exposed to antiretroviral drugs (ARVs), including GEN, 
during pregnancy. 
 
