ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety information. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GHRYVELIN 60 mg granules for oral suspension in sachet 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each sachet contains 60 mg macimorelin (as acetate). 1 mL of the reconstituted suspension contains 500 micrograms macimorelin. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Contains lactose monohydrate 1,691.8 mg per sachet. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Granules for oral suspension in sachet. 
White to off-white granules. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
GHRYVELIN is indicated for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in adults (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
The use of GHRYVELIN must be supervised by a physician or healthcare professional experienced in diagnosing growth hormone deficiency. 
Posology 
Adult population 
The dose is calculated based on the patient´s body weight. The recommended single dose of the reconstituted suspension is 500 micrograms macimorelin per 
kg body weight. 
The growth hormone release is to be evaluated with three blood samples collected at 45, 60 and 90 minutes after the administration of the medicinal product. 
Discontinuation of therapy with growth hormone (GH) or medicinal products directly affecting the pituitary secretion of somatotropin 
Patients on replacement therapy with growth hormone (GH, somatotropin) or on medicinal products directly affecting the pituitary secretion of somatotropin 
(e.g. somatostatin analogues, clonidine, levopoda and dopamine agonists) should be advised to discontinue such treatment at least 1 month before receiving 
macimorelin. These substances could lead to unreliable GH stimulation results (see also section 4.4 and 4.5). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of macimorelin in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment have not been established (see also section 5.2). No data are available. 
If macimorelin is administered to patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment, the potential for an increased macimorelin plasma concentration cannot be 
excluded. It is unknown whether this may affect QTc. Therefore, ECG controls may be indicated prior to the administration of macimorelin and 1 hour, 
2 hours, 4 hours and 6 hours after administration of macimorelin (see also section 4.4). Based on current understanding, this potential is unlikely to decrease 
the specificity of the test. 
Elderly 
Growth hormone secretion normally decreases with age. The efficacy of macimorelin in patients aged over 65 years has not been established. In patients with 
age up to 60 years, diagnostic performance of MAC and ITT were comparable. In the age group 60 years up to 65 years, the limited data available do not indicate 
the need for a separate cut-off point. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of macimorelin in children and adolescents below 18 years have not yet been established (see also section 5.2). No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Oral use 
GHRYVELIN granules are to be reconstituted with water and must be used within 30 minutes after preparation. Reconstituted suspension should be 
administered orally to patients fasting for at least 8 hours and who did not have strenuous physical exercises 24 hours before the test, since both could affect 
growth hormone levels. 
The number of test sachets needed is based on body weight. One sachet will be required for a patient ≤ 120 kg, two sachets will be required if the patient 
weighs more than 120 kg. The entire contents of one sachet is dissolved in 120 mL, and two sachets are dissolved in 240 mL, as applicable. 
The volume of suspension in mL needed for the recommended macimorelin dose of 0.5 mg/kg equals the patient's body weight in kg. For example, a 70 kg 
patient will require 70 mL of the macimorelin suspension. 
Assessment of fasted condition and lack of prior strenuous physical exercise 
Before using GHRYVELIN it is important to ensure that the patient is in fasting condition for at least 8 hours and did not have strenuous physical exercises 24 
hours before the test, since both could affect GH levels. If either of these conditions is not met, the growth hormone stimulation test must be re-scheduled for a 
new test day. 
During the test, the patient needs to stay fasted until the end of the blood sampling. Fluid intake of no more than 100 mL of non-carbonated water is allowed 
each within 1 hour pre-dose, as well as within 1 hour post-dose (see section 4.4). 
Long-term use 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Macimorelin is indicated as a single-dose diagnostic test. No information is available on the safety and effects of macimorelin during long-term use. 
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Interpretation of macimorelin test results 
Clinical  studies  have  established  that  a  maximally  stimulated  serum  GH  level  of  less  than 2.8 ng/mL  (at  the  45,  60 and  90  minutes  timepoints)  following 
macimorelin administration confirms a diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency. As with all GH stimulation tests, also the macimorelin test results should 
always be interpreted on basis of the outcome of all examinations within the diagnostic work-up for a patient. 
The safety and diagnostic performance of macimorelin have not been established for patients with BMI > 40 kg/m2. Macimorelin induced GH release was lower 
in patients with higher BMI. In patients with high BMI up to 40 kg/m2, diagnostic performance of MAC and of ITT were comparable. 
The cut-off point for macimorelin has not been established in the transition period from late puberty to full adult maturation. In patients between 18 and 25 years 
of age, the diagnostic performance of MAC and of ITT were comparable. 
QTc prolongation 
During clinical development, two transient ECG abnormalities were observed in one test subject and reported as serious possibly adverse reactions. These ECG 
abnormalities consisted of T wave abnormalities and QT prolongation. 
Macimorelin causes an increase of about 11 ms in the corrected QT (QTc) interval by an unknown mechanism (see also section 5.1). QT prolongation can lead 
to development of torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia with the risk increasing as the degree of prolongation increases. The concomitant use with 
medicinal products that are known to induce torsades de pointes should be avoided (see also section 4.5). Macimorelin should be used with caution in patients 
with proarrhythmic condition (e.g., history of myocardial infarction, heart failure or prolonged ECG QTc interval, as defined as QTc > 500 ms). For such 
patients, ECG controls may be indicated prior to the administration of macimorelin and 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours and 6 hours after administration of 
macimorelin. In patients with known congenital or acquired long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of torsades de pointes, the use of macimorelin 
may only be considered in a cardiovascular clinical unit. 
Discontinuation of therapy with growth hormone (GH) or medicinal products directly affecting the pituitary secretion of somatotropin 
Patients on replacement therapy with growth hormone (GH, somatotropin) or on medicinal products directly affecting the pituitary secretion of somatotropin 
(e.g. somatostatin analogues, clonidine, levopoda and dopamine agonists) should be advised to discontinue such treatment at least 1 month before receiving a 
test dose of macimorelin. Exogenous GH or medicinal products directly affecting the pituitary gland could influence the somatotropic function of the pituitary 
gland and lead to unreliable GH stimulation results (see also section 4.2 and section 4.5). 
Patients with a deficiency affecting hormones other than growth hormone (GH) 
Patients with a deficiency affecting hormones other than GH (e.g. adrenal, thyroidal and/or gonadal insufficiency, diabetes insipidus) should be adequately 
replaced with the other deficient hormones before any testing for a deficiency of GH stimulation is performed, to exclude a stimulation failure due to a 
secondary GH deficiency. 
Patients with Cushing’s disease or on supra-physiologic glucocorticoid therapy 
Hypercortisolism has a significant impact on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Therefore, the diagnostic performance of the test may by affected in 
patients with Cushing’s disease or on supra-physiologic glucocorticoid therapy (e.g. systemic administration of doses of hydrocortisone (or its equivalent) in 
excess of 15 mg/m2/day) and lead to false positive test results. 
Potential for increased oral bioavailability and macimorelin plasma concentration with use of strong CYP3A4/P-gp-inhibitors 
Drug-drug interaction studies with CYP3A4/P-gp-inhibitors have not been conducted. 
A potential for increased oral bioavailability and macimorelin plasma concentration with use of strong CYP3A4/P-gp-inhibitors cannot be excluded. It is 
unknown whether such potential interactions may also affect QTc (see above). Based on current understanding, this potential is unlikely to decrease the 
specificity of the test. 
Potential for false positive test results with use of strong CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers with GHRYVELIN can decrease macimorelin plasma levels significantly and thereby lead to a false positive 
result (see also section 4.5). Strong CYP3A4 inducers should be discontinued and a washout time of five elimination half-lives should be considered prior to 
test administration. 
Potential for false negative test results in recent onset hypothalamic disease 
Adult growth hormone (GH) deficiency caused by a hypothalamic lesion may not be detected early in the disease process. Macimorelin acts downstream from 
the hypothalamus and macimorelin stimulated release of stored GH reserves from the anterior pituitary could produce a false negative result early when the 
lesion involves the hypothalamus. Repeat testing may be warranted in this situation. 
Information about lactose and sodium 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose 
malabsorption should take this medicinal product only if the expected benefit of the test clearly outweighs the potential risk associated with an intake of 
maximum 1,691.8 mg lactose per sachet. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per sachet that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Macimorelin is metabolised mainly by CYP3A4 in vitro. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may increase the macimorelin plasma concentration, and this, in turn, could yield higher plasma GH levels. Based 
on current understanding, this is unlikely to decrease the specificity of the test. 
Administration of a CYP3A4 inducer (such as carbamazepine, dabrafenib, efavirenz, enzalutamide, eslicarbazepine, fosphenytoin, lumacaftor, modafinil, 
nevirapine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, pioglitazone, pitolisant, primidone, rifabutin, rifampicin and St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)) 
may reduce the plasma macimorelin concentrations and may affect the diagnostic performance of the test and therefore should be avoided. A sufficient 
washout time of five elimination half-lives of the CYP3A4 inducer prior to administration of the test is recommended (see section 4.2 and section 4.4). 
No drug-drug interaction studies have been performed in humans. 
Medicinal products affecting growth hormone release 
The following medicinal products may impact the accuracy of the diagnostic test. Concomitant use is to be avoided with (see also section 4.2 and section 4.4): 
•  Medicinal products that directly affect the pituitary secretion of growth hormone (such as somatostatin, insulin, glucocorticoids, and cyclooxygenase 
inhibitors such as acetylsalicylic acid or indometacin). 
•  Medicinal products that may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations (such as clonidine, levodopa, and insulin). 
•  Medicinal products  that  may  blunt the growth  hormone response to  macimorelin  (such as  muscarinic antagonists:  atropine,  anti-thyroid  medicinal 
products: propylthiouracil and growth hormone medicinal products). 
Growth hormone medicinal products should be discontinued at least 1 month before administering macimorelin. 
Sufficient washout time (five elimination half-lives) of medicinal products prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. 
Medicinal products with a potential to induce torsades de pointes 
Co-administration of macimorelin with medicinal products with a potential to induce torsades de pointes (antipsychotic medicinal products e.g. 
chlorpromazine, haloperidol, antibiotics (e.g., moxifloxacin, erythromycin, clarithromycin), anti-arrhythmics Class Ia (e.g. quinidine), and Class III (e.g. 
amiodarone, procainamide, sotalol) or any other medicinal products that may induce torsades de pointes) should be avoided (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must use adequate contraceptive methods at the time when macimorelin will be administered. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data for the use of macimorelin in pregnant women. Studies in animals are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The 
potential risk for humans is unknown. Macimorelin is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether macimorelin or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded. A decision must be made 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to abstain from macimorelin, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of the test 
for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data available on animal (see section 5.3) or human male and female fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
GHRYVELIN has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Dizziness has been reported by some patients taking macimorelin. In case a patient should be reporting dizziness as side effect, the patient should be instructed 
to neither drive nor use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions associated with GHRYVELIN reported in Study 052 (see section 5.1) in 154 patients were dysgeusia (5%), headache 
fatigue, nausea (each 3%), dizziness (2%), as well as abdominal pain, diarrhoea, feeling hot, feeling cold, hunger, palpitations, sinus bradycardia, somnolence, 
thirst, tremor, and vertigo (each 1%). Overall, the adverse reactions reported were mostly of mild intensity and short duration without a specific treatment 
need. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in Study 052 are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class and by frequency: Very common  (≥1/10); 
common  (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon  (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare  (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare  (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from 
available data). 
MedDRA organ class 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Nervous system disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Dysgeusia (bitter/metallic taste) 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Somnolence 
Tremor 
Vertigo 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Palpitations 
Sinus bradycardia 
Abdominal pain 
4 
ECG QT prolonged 
ECG T wave abnormal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Fatigue 
Feeling hot 
Feeling cold 
Hunger 
Thirst 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
During clinical development, two transient ECG abnormalities were observed in one test subject and reported as serious possibly adverse reactions. These ECG 
abnormalities consisted of T wave abnormalities and QT prolongation (see also section 4.4). 
The effects of macimorelin on ECG parameters were investigated in a dedicated Thorough QT study of a supra-therapeutic dose of macimorelin (2 mg/kg) and 
in a single-ascending dose study, which included three dose levels of macimorelin (0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg). Macimorelin causes an increase of about 
11 ms in the corrected QT (QTc) interval (see section 5.1). The mechanism for the observed QTcF prolongation is unknown. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of 
the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No specific recommendations after overdose are given. In the event of an overdose, symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed. Further 
possible undesirable effects in case of overdosing could include headache, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. In patients with a QTc > 500 ms, an ECG 
monitoring should be applied (see section 4.4 and 5.1). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Diagnostic agents, Tests for pituitary function, ATC code: V04CD06 
Mechanism of action 
Macimorelin is an orally available peptidomimetic with growth hormone (GH) secretagogue activity similar to ghrelin. Macimorelin stimulates GH release by 
activating growth hormone secretagogue receptors (GHSR) present in the pituitary and hypothalamus. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
GH stimulation 
In dose finding studies in healthy subjects, maximum stimulation of GH secretion was achieved following single dose administration of 0.5 mg/kg 
macimorelin. Maximum GH levels have been observed approximately 45 to 60 minutes after administration of macimorelin. 
In a diagnostic study comparing macimorelin with the insulin tolerance test (ITT) stimulated GH concentrations after macimorelin were on average 1.4 fold 
higher than in the ITT. 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
The effects of macimorelin on ECG parameters were investigated in a dedicated Thorough QT study that investigated in a 3-way cross-over design with 
60 healthy subjects the effects of a supra-therapeutic dose of macimorelin (2 mg/kg, i.e., 4 times the recommended dosage) in comparison with placebo and 
with moxifloxacin. This study showed a mean baseline- and placebo-adjusted change (upper single-sided 95% confidence interval) in QTcF of 9.6 ms 
(11.4 ms) at 4 h post-dose (see also section 4.4), which occurred after the mean maximum macimorelin plasma concentration (0.5 h). A similar increase in the 
QTcF interval was also observed in a single-ascending dose study, which included three dose levels (0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg (2 times and 4 times the 
recommended dosage, respectively)). All three dose levels studied showed a similar magnitude of QTcF prolongation in the Thorough QT study, suggesting 
an absence of dose dependent changes. The mechanism for the observed QTcF prolongation is unknown. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The diagnostic efficacy of GHRYVELIN was established in a randomized, open-label, single dose, cross-over study (AEZS-130-052) comparing the level of 
agreement between the macimorelin test (MAC) results and insulin tolerance test (ITT) results. Four groups of individuals were evaluated: three groups of 
adult patients with different pre-test probability of growth hormone deficiency (Group A (high likelihood), Group B (intermediate likelihood), Group C (low 
likelihood) and healthy control subjects (Group D)). 
For both the ITT and the MAC test, serum concentrations of GH were measured at 30, 45, 60 and 90 minutes after administration. The test was considered 
positive (i.e., growth hormone deficiency (GHD) diagnosed) if the maximum serum GH level observed after stimulation was less than the pre-specified cut-off 
point of 2.8 ng/mL for the MAC test or 5.1 ng/mL for the ITT. 
GH levels were determined centrally with the IDS-iSYS assay (Immunodiagnostic Systems Ltd., UK). 
The level of negative and positive agreement between the results of the ITT and the MAC test was used to evaluate the performance of the MAC test. 
Negative agreement is the proportion of subjects with a negative ITT (i.e., those who do not have GHD per the ITT) who also have a negative MAC test. With 
a high level of negative agreement, the MAC test will not wrongly diagnose an individual without GHD per the ITT as having GHD. Positive agreement is the 
proportion of subjects with a positive ITT (i.e., those who have GHD per the ITT) who also have a positive macimorelin test. With a high level of positive 
agreement, the MAC test will not wrongly diagnose an individual with GHD per the ITT as not having GHD. 
Sensitivity and specificity for both growth hormone stimulation tests (GHSTs) were estimated, assuming all high likelihood AGHD subjects of Group A as 
‘true’ AGHD subjects and all healthy matching subjects of Group D as ‘true’ AGHD negative subjects. 
Results 
One hundred and fifty-seven (157) subjects underwent at least one of the two tests in this study, 59% were male, 41% female and 86% of white origin. The 
median age was 41 years (range: 18 - 66 years) and body mass index 27.5 kg/m2 (range: 16 – 40 kg/m2). Data on both tests were available for 140 subjects; 
38 (27%) in Group A, 37 (26%) in Group B, 40 (29%) in Group C and 25 (18%) in Group D. One out of 154 MAC tests (0.6%) performed failed due to a 
technical error and 27 out of 157 ITTs (17.2%) performed failed because induction of severe hypoglycemia (i.e., the stimulus) could not be achieved. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The estimates for negative and positive agreement between MAC and the ITT in the overall study population were 94% and 74% with lower 95% confidence 
interval bounds 85% and 63%, respectively. Negative and positive agreement between MAC and the ITT in subjects with intermediate or low risk (Groups B 
and C) were 93% and 61% with lower 95% confidence interval bounds 80% and 43%, respectively. These results are based on peak GH values (maximum GH 
concentrations across all measurement timepoints). 
Point estimates for sensitivity ranged from 0.87 to 0.90 for the MAC and from 0.97 to 1.0 for the ITT, depending on the inclusion or exclusion of data from 
not matched Group A subjects, respectively. For both GHSTs, the estimated specificity was 0.96, irrespective of the in/exclusion data from not matched Group 
A subjects. 
Repeatability was tested in a subset of 34 subjects who underwent two MAC tests. Agreement between the result of the first test and the second test was 
observed in 31 cases (91.2%). 
Post-hoc analysis with a cut-off point of 3.0 ng/mL for the ITT 
An exploratory analysis was conducted on the performance of the MAC based on an ITT cut-off point of 3.0 ng/mL. The estimates for negative and positive 
agreement were 95% and 86% with lower 95% confidence interval bounds 87% and 75%, respectively. Repeatability was 97%. Point estimates for sensitivity 
and specificity were 87% and 96% from not matched Group A subjects, respectively. 
Both co-primary endpoints as pre-defined in Study 052 (lower limit of the 95% CI for negative agreement ≥ 75%, lower limit of the 95% CI for positive 
agreement ≥ 70%) are met when using an ITT cut-off point of 3.0 ng/mL and the pre-defined cut-off point for the MAC of 2.8 ng/mL. 
Paediatric population 
The EMA has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with GHRYVELIN in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the diagnosis 
of growth hormone deficiency (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Elderly 
The pharmacodynamics of macimorelin was not sufficiently evaluated in the elderly population aged > 65 years. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Macimorelin was absorbed rapidly and the maximum plasma macimorelin concentrations (Cmax) were observed approximately 30 minutes to 1 hour and 
10 minutes after oral administration of 0.5 mg/kg macimorelin after fasting for at least 8 hours. A liquid meal decreased the macimorelin Cmax and AUC by 
0.42 and 0.5 fold, respectively. 
The oral bioavailability may be limited (among others) by first pass metabolism via CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Distribution 
Macimorelin is moderately bound to plasma proteins. Plasma protein binding decreases with increasing concentrations from 78% at 0.1 µM to 62% at 10 µM. 
At the clinically relevant concentration of 0.1 µM (clinical Cmax = 11.2 ng/ml = approx. 0.02 µM), the unbound fraction of macimorelin in human plasma is 
22%. 
Biotransformation 
CYP3A4 is the major enzyme to metabolize macimorelin. Studies to detect macimorelin metabolites did not identify any metabolites. 
Elimination 
An in vitro human liver microsomes study showed that CYP3A4 is the major enzyme to metabolize macimorelin. 
Macimorelin was eliminated with a mean terminal half-life (T1/2) of 4.1 hours. 
PK/PD relationship 
Macimorelin showed a dose-dependent release of GH after oral dosing. A dose of 0.5 mg/kg macimorelin was shown to induce maximal GH release. Maximal 
GH release has been observed at macimorelin plasma concentrations of  ≥ 7 ng/mL. 
Special populations 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of macimorelin in paediatric patients or in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Only 
limited pharmacokinetic data are available in the elderly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data from safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity studies reveal no specific hazard for humans. No studies to assess 
carcinogenicity and effects on reproduction and development have been conducted. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Lactose monohydrate 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Crospovidone type A 
Saccharin sodium dihydrate 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened sachet 
The shelf life of a sachet is 5 years. 
Reconstituted suspension 
The suspension must be administered within 30 minutes after preparation. 
Residual suspension must be discarded according to local regulations. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package, in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
One LDPE/Alu/LDPE/paper sachet containing 1,817 mg granules placed in cardboard box. 
Each cardboard box contains 1 sachet. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The suspension must be prepared and administered by a healthcare professional. 
Items needed: GHRYVELIN sachet, tap water in decanter, graduated glass or transparent plastic container, stirring device, 50 mL graduated syringe without 
needle, drinking glass 
Step 1 
Weigh the patient. 
Step 2 
Determine the number of test sachets needed based on body weight: one sachet will be required for a patient weighing up to 120 kg, two sachets will be 
required if the patient weighs more than 120 kg. 
Step 3 
Add required volume of water in a graduated glass or transparent plastic container. Dissolve the entire contents of the sachet in water: one sachet in 120 mL, 
two sachets in 240 mL, as applicable. 
Stir the suspension gently for 2 minutes (a small amount of undissolved particles will remain giving a slightly turbid suspension). The suspension should be 
stirred until it is slightly turbid without particles at the bottom of the container. The suspension should be stirred again, when some particles settle at the 
bottom of the container for example after the suspension is left standing for some time. 
Step 4 
Determine the volume of suspension needed for the recommended macimorelin dose of 0.5 mg/kg. The suspension volume in mL equals the patient's body 
weight in kg. For example, a 70 kg patient will require 70 mL of the macimorelin suspension. 
Measure the required volume using a 50 mL graduated syringe without a needle. 
Transfer the measured amount to a drinking glass. 
Step 5 
Have the patient drink the entire content of the drinking glass within 30 seconds. 
The suspension must be used within 30 minutes after preparation. Any suspension that remains must not be stored and must be discarded. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local requirements. 
Step 6 
Draw venous blood samples for growth hormone determination at 45, 60 and 90 minutes after administration. 
Step 7 
Prepare plasma or serum samples and send to a laboratory for growth hormone determination. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Atnahs Pharma Netherlands B. V. 
Copenhagen Towers 
Ørestads Boulevard 108, 5.tv 
DK-2300 København S 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1337/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first registration: 11 January 2019 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
8 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Aeterna Zentaris GmbH 
Weismuellerstrasse 50 
60314 Frankfurt am Main 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
(see Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) 
provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being received that may lead to a significant change 
to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GHRYVELIN 60 mg granules for oral suspension in sachet 
macimorelin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains 60 mg macimorelin (as acetate). 
1 mL of the reconstituted suspension contains 500 micrograms macimorelin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension in sachet 
1 sachet (1,817 mg granules) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For oral use after reconstitution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original package, in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Reconstituted suspension: 
The suspension must be used within 30 minutes after preparation. 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH 
MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Atnahs Pharma Netherlands B. V. 
Copenhagen Towers 
Ørestads Boulevard 108, 5.tv 
DK-2300 København S 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1337/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  {number} 
SN:  {number} 
NN: {number} 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GHRYVELIN 60 mg granules for oral suspension 
macimorelin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Contains 60 mg macimorelin (as acetate) 
After reconstitution: 500 micrograms macimorelin/mL 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension in sachet 
1,817 mg granules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For oral use after reconstitution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Reconstituted suspension: 
The suspension must be used within 30 minutes after preparation. 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH 
MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Atnahs Pharma Netherlands B. V. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1337/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
16 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient/user 
GHRYVELIN® 60 mg granules for oral suspension in sachet 
macimorelin 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety information. You can help by reporting any side 
effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you take this medicine because it contains important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What GHRYVELIN is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before GHRYVELIN is given 
3.  How GHRYVELIN is given 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How GHRYVELIN is stored 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What GHRYVELIN is and what it is used for 
The medicine contains an active substance called macimorelin. Macimorelin acts like a natural hormone and causes the pituitary gland to release growth 
hormone into the blood stream. 
GHRYVELIN is used in adults to test the body´s ability to produce growth hormone. It is used when your doctor thinks that you may not have enough growth 
hormone (adult growth hormone deficiency). This is not a treatment for patients who do not have enough growth hormone. It is a test that helps your doctor to 
diagnose this condition. 
2.  What you need to know before GHRYVELIN is given 
You must not be given GHRYVELIN 
• 
if you are allergic to macimorelin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given GHRYVELIN. 
Warnings and precautions 
To ensure that the test results are reliable, you need to follow the rules below: 
•  Fasting - you must not eat for at least 8 hours before the test, and during the test. 
•  Physical exercise - avoid strenuous physical activity 24 hours before the test. 
•  Drinking - up to 100 mL of still water is allowed each within 1 hour before as well as within 1 hour after macimorelin intake. 
Talk to your doctor or nurse if: 
•  you have recently been treated with growth hormone (somatotropin) or with medicines that affect the secretion of growth hormone by the pituitary gland. 
You need to stop such treatment at least 1 month before the test. 
•  you have recently been treated for Cushing’s disease (disorder which results in high levels of the hormone cortisol) or if you are receiving a high dose of 
hydrocortisone medicine, the test may lead to false positive test results. 
•  your body is lacking any other hormone e.g. cortisol, thyroid or sex hormones, vasopressin (in diabetes insipidus), this should be adequately replaced 
before testing for growth hormone deficiency. Other hormone deficiencies if untreated could lead to inaccurate results in the growth hormone stimulation 
test. 
•  you have heart disease or problems with your heart rhythm (including congenital or acquired long QT syndrome or a history of so called torsades de 
pointes tachycardias). GHRYVELIN can cause changes in the ECG (electrocardiogram) including QT prolongation that are associated with an increased 
risk for arrhythmias. If occurring, such changes would be timely limited and not last long. 
If any of the above applies to you, or if you are not sure, talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given this medicine. 
GHRYVELIN is indicated as a single-dose diagnostic test. No information is available on the safety and effects of macimorelin during long-term use. 
Potentially re-test needed in early disease 
If the adult growth hormone deficiency just recently started and if it is due to an injury in a section of the brain called hypothalamus, then the test result could 
be negative although you have the disease. In such a situation, a repetition of the test may be required. 
Children and adolescents 
GHRYVELIN must not be used in children and adolescents aged below 18 years, because the safety and effectiveness in these groups have not yet been 
established. 
Other medicines and GHRYVELIN 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines that can alter your heart rhythm, such as: 
•  medicines to treat psychosis (such as chlorpromazine, haloperidol) 
•  medicines to treat infections (antibiotics such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, moxifloxacin) 
•  medicines to correct the heart rhythm (antiarrhythmic medicines such as amiodarone, procainamide, quinidine or sotalol) 
• 
any other medicines that can prolong the QT interval or inducing torsades de pointes 
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines that could increase the breakdown of macimorelin such as specific medicines to treat: 
• 
seizures/epilepsy (carbamazepine, esclicarbazepine, fosphenytoin, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone) 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sleep disorder (modafinil, pitolisant) 
cystic fibrosis (lumacaftor) 
infections (antibiotics such as rifabutin, rifampicin) 
• 
•  mild to moderate depressive episodes (St. John´s wort (Hypericum perforatum)) 
• 
• 
•  HIV (efavirenz, nevirapine) 
• 
• 
type 2 diabetes (pioglitazone) 
cancer (dabrafenib, enzalutamide) 
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines that may impact the accuracy of the diagnostic test. Avoid concomitant use with medicines: 
• 
that could have a direct influence on growth hormone secretion by the pituitary gland: such as somatostatin, insulin, glucocorticoids, acetylsalicylic acid, 
indometacin 
that could increase growth hormone levels: such as clonidine, levodopa, insulin 
that could reduce the growth hormone response to macimorelin such as: atropine, propylthiouracil, growth hormone medicines 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or nurse for advice before this medicine is 
given to you. GHRYVELIN is not recommended during pregnancy. If you are a woman able to have children, you must use effective contraceptive methods 
to ensure you are not pregnant at the time of the test. If you are breast-feeding or intend to breast-feed, a risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded. Please 
ask your doctor whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to abstain from the macimorelin test. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness can occur with GHRYVELIN. If this happens, do not drive or use machines. 
GHRYVELIN contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
GHRYVELIN contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per sachet, that is to say it is essentially “sodium-free”. 
3.  How GHRYVELIN is given 
A healthcare professional must supervise the preparation and use of GHRYVELIN. Instructions are given at the end of this leaflet on how to prepare the test. 
The description in this leaflet is for your information on the testing procedure. 
You must be fasting for at least 8 hours before you are given GHRYVELIN. You may not perform strenuous physical exercises 24 hours before the test. You 
can drink up to 100 mL of still water within 1 hour before and within 1 hour after intake of GHRYVELIN. 
Dose 
The recommended dose is 0.5 mg GHRYVELIN per kg body weight. 
This corresponds to a volume of 1 mL of the prepared suspension per kg body weight. 
You have to drink the complete test dose within 30 seconds. 
You will have three blood samples taken to measure growth hormone, one sample each at 45, 60 and 90 minutes after taking the test dose. 
If you are given more GHRYVELIN than you should 
If you are given more GHRYVELIN than you should, tell your doctor or nurse. Possible side effects in cases of overdosing could include headache, nausea, 
vomiting and diarrhoea. In case you should have heart rhythm disturbances, an ECG monitoring will be performed. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
a bitter or metallic taste (dysgeusia) 
• 
tiredness 
•  headache 
• 
•  dizziness 
•  diarrhoea 
• 
feeling hot 
feeling sick (nausea) 
These side effects are mostly mild, do not last long, and usually go away quickly without treatment. 
abdominal pain 
feeling cold 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
•  hunger 
•  palpitations 
• 
lower than normal heart rate (sinus bradycardia) 
• 
sleepiness 
• 
thirst 
• 
tremor 
•  vertigo 
Frequency not known (cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG) 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly 
via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5.  How GHRYVELIN is stored 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the sachet after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package, in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Unopened sachet 
The shelf life of a sachet is 5 years. 
Reconstituted suspension 
The suspension must be taken within 30 minutes after preparation. 
Any remaining suspension must be discarded by your doctor or nurse according to local regulations. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What GHRYVELIN contains 
•  The active substance is macimorelin. Each sachet contains 60 mg macimorelin (as acetate). 1 mL of the reconstituted suspension contains 500 micrograms 
macimorelin. 
•  The other ingredients are: lactose monohydrate (see section 2 under ‘GHRYVELIN contains lactose’), colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone type A, 
saccharin sodium dihydrate and sodium stearyl fumarate (see section 2 under ‘GHRYVELIN contains sodium’). 
What GHRYVELIN looks like and contents of the pack 
GHRYVELIN is presented as white to off-white granules for oral suspension. Each sachet contains 1,817 mg granules. Each cardboard box contains 1 sachet. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Atnahs Pharma Netherlands B. V. 
Copenhagen Towers 
Ørestads Boulevard 108, 5.tv 
DK-2300 København S 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
Aeterna Zentaris GmbH 
Weismüllerstrasse 50 
D-60314 Frankfurt am Main 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: http://www.ema.europa.eu 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARATION AND USE 
The suspension must be prepared and administered by a healthcare professional. 
Items needed: GHRYVELIN sachet, tap water in decanter, graduated glass or transparent plastic container, stirring device, 50 mL graduated syringe without 
needle, drinking glass 
Step 1 
Weigh the patient. 
Step 2 
Determine the number of GHRYVELIN sachets needed based on body weight: one sachet will be required for a patient weighing up to 120 kg, two sachets 
will be required if the patient weighs more than 120 kg. 
Step 3 
Add required volume of water in a graduated glass or transparent plastic container. Dissolve the entire contents of the sachet in water: one sachet in 120 mL, 
two sachets in 240 mL, as applicable. 
Stir the suspension gently for 2 minutes (a small amount of undissolved particles will remain giving a slightly turbid suspension). The suspension should be 
stirred until it is slightly turbid without particles at the bottom of the container. The suspension should be stirred again, when some particles settle at the 
bottom of the container for example after the suspension is left standing for some time. 
Step 4 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Determine the volume of suspension needed for the recommended macimorelin dose of 0.5 mg/kg. The suspension volume in mL equals the patient's body 
weight in kg. For example, a 70 kg patient will require 70 mL of the macimorelin suspension. 
Measure the required volume using a 50 mL graduated syringe without a needle. 
Transfer the measured amount to a drinking glass. 
Step 5 
Have the patient drink the entire content of the drinking glass within 30 seconds. 
The suspension must be used within 30 minutes after preparation. Any suspension that remains must not be stored and must be discarded. 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local requirements. 
Step 6 
Draw venous blood samples for growth hormone determination at 45, 60 and 90 minutes after administration. 
Step 7 
Prepare plasma or serum samples and send to a laboratory for growth hormone determination. 
21 
 
 
 
 
