Summary of risk management plan for Macimorelin 
Aeterna Zentaris (macimorelin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris. The RMP 
details important risks of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris 
should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Macimorelin 
Aeterna Zentaris RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is authorised for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in 
adults. It contains macimorelin acetate as the active substance and it is given as oral suspension. The 
recommended single oral dose is defined as 0.5 mg macimorelin per kg body weight. 
Further information about the evaluation of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris benefits can be found in 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/macimorelin-aeterna-zentaris. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is continuously collected and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None  
Important potential risks 
Torsade de pointes 
False positive diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency in patients 
with BMI > 40 kg/m2, and in those receiving concomitant CYP3A4 
inducers 
Missing information 
Usefulness of the test during pregnancy and safety for the unborn 
child during pregnancy 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Torsade de pointes (important potential risk 1) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
During clinical development, two transient ECG abnormalities 
to the medicine 
were observed in one test subject and reported as serious 
possibly adverse reactions. These ECG abnormalities consisted 
of T wave abnormalities and QT prolongation. 
Macimorelin causes an increase of about 11 ms in the corrected 
QT (Qtc) interval (see also SmPC section 5.1). QT prolongation 
can lead to development of torsade de pointes-type ventricular 
tachycardia with the risk increasing as the degree of 
prolongation increases. 
Due to the QT prolongation as described during the clinical 
development of macimorelin and depending on the actual 
mechanism, the EMA recommended during the D120 LoQ 
process to consider the inclusion of Torsade de pointes as a 
safety concern in the RMP. 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with proarrhythmic condition (e.g., history of 
myocardial infarction, heart failure or prolonged ECG QTc 
interval, defined as QTc > 500 ms) are considered as patients 
at risk. For such patients, ECG controls may be indicated prior 
to the administration of macimorelin and 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 
hours and 6 hours after administration of macimorelin. In 
patients with known congenital or acquired long QT syndrome 
and in patients with a history of torsades de pointes, the use of 
Macimorelin may only be considered in a cardiovascular clinical 
unit. 
In addition to patient inherent risk factors, also the Co-
administration of macimorelin with medicinal products with a 
potential to induce torsades de pointe (antipsychotic medicinal 
products e.g. chlorpromazine, haloperidol, thioridazine, 
ziprasidone, such as antibiotics e.g. moxifloxacin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, anti-arrhythmics such as Class Ia e.g. quinidine, 
procainamide and Class III antiarrhythmic medications e.g. 
amiodarone, sotalol or any other medicinal products known to 
induce torsades de pointe) should be avoided. 
Risk minimisation measures  <Routine risk minimisation measures> 
SmPC section 4.4 
SmPC section 4.5 
SmPC section 5.1 
PL section 2 
Pack size 
Restricted medical prescription 
<Additional risk minimisation measures> 
Not applicable 
False positive diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency in patients with 
BMI > 40 kg/m2, and in those receiving concomitant CYP3A4 inducers (important 
potential risk 2) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Macimorelin is indicated for the diagnosis of growth hormone 
to the medicine 
deficiency (GHD) in adults. Clinical studies have established that a 
maximally stimulated serum GH level of less than 2.8 ng/mL (at 
the 45, 60 or 90 minute timepoints) following macimorelin 
administration confirms a diagnosis of adult growth hormone 
deficiency. However, the results should always be interpreted in 
the context of the overall clinical presentation and on the basis of 
two independently conducted GH stimulation tests. 
 
 
 
 
Safety and diagnostic performance have not been established for 
subjects with BMI > 40 kg/m2. 
Based on the characteristics of the substance and its target, 
strong CYP3A4 inducers as concomitant medication could have an 
impact on the outcome of the test. Furthermore, medical 
conditions affecting the hypothalamic-pituitary axis could also 
lead to false test outcomes. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
As risk factors for potential lack of efficacy, the following are 
defined: 
- 
concomitant intake of strong CYP3A4 inducers 
-  BMI > 40° kg/m² 
Risk minimisation measures  <Routine risk minimisation measures> 
SmPC section 4.4 
SmPC section 4.5 
PL section 2 
Pack size 
Restricted medical prescription 
<Additional risk minimisation measures> 
Not applicable 
Usefulness of the test during pregnancy and safety for the unborn child during 
pregnancy (missing information 1) 
Risk minimisation measures  <Routine risk minimisation measures> 
SmPC section 4.6 
SmPC section 5.3 
PL section 2 
Pack size 
Restricted medical prescription 
<Additional risk minimisation measures> 
Not applicable 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris. 
