EMA/820056/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004660 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris (macimorelin) 
An overview of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris and why it is authorised in the 
EU 
What is Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris and what is it used for? 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is a medicine used to test the ability of the body to produce growth 
hormone. It is used by doctors to diagnose growth hormone deficiency, a condition where the patient 
does not have enough growth hormone. It is not used to treat patients with the condition.  
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris contains the active substance macimorelin. 
How is Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris used? 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is available as granules that are dissolved in water and taken by mouth. 
The recommended dose is 0.5 mg per kg body weight which the patient should take once. The doctor 
then takes blood samples 45, 60 and 90 minutes later to see how much growth hormone the body has 
produced. 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris can only be obtained with a prescription and its use must be supervised 
by a healthcare professional experienced in diagnosing growth hormone deficiency. For more 
information about using Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris work? 
The active substance in Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris, macimorelin, stimulates the release of growth 
hormone into the blood by activating receptors (targets) found on cells in the pituitary gland, a gland 
located at the base of the brain. The level of growth hormone in the blood is then measured and 
indicates whether or not the body is able to produce growth hormone. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
What benefits of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris have been shown in 
studies? 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris was compared with another test commonly used to diagnose growth 
hormone deficiency, called insulin tolerance test (ITT), in one main study. 
The study involved 166 adults who had either a high, intermediate or low likelihood of having growth 
hormone deficiency, or who were confirmed not to have growth hormone deficiency. Among them, 140 
were tested with both Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris and ITT. 
Overall, 94% of people who tested negative for growth hormone deficiency with ITT also tested 
negative with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris; 74% of people who tested positive with ITT also tested 
positive with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris. This means that, although Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris 
might not diagnose all cases of disease, it can help to confirm presence of the disease. 
What are the risks associated with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris? 
The most common side effects with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris (which may affect up to 1 in 10 
people) are a bitter or metallic taste, tiredness, headache, nausea (feeling sick), dizziness, diarrhoea 
and feeling hot. Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris may also cause a change in heart rhythm. Overall, the 
side effects were mostly mild and short-lasting, with no need for a specific treatment. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris authorised in the EU? 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris gave a similar number of negative test results for growth hormone 
deficiency as a comparator test; however, it gives fewer positive test results than the comparator. EMA 
considered that it is a priority to avoid over-diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency and that 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris helps confirm positive diagnosis and so avoid unnecessary treatment of 
patients with a false positive test result.  
In terms of safety, the main concern was that the medicine may change heart rhythm. However this 
risk is considered small as patients take only one dose of the medicine and are supervised by their 
doctor. On the whole, Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris has fewer side effects than the comparator test, 
which temporarily lowers the level of sugar in the blood.  
EMA therefore decided that Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris are carefully evaluated and any necessary action 
taken to protect patients. 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris (macimorelin) 
EMA/820056/2018 
Page 2/3 
Other information about Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 
11 January 2019. 
Further information on Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/macimorelin-aeterna-zentaris.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2019. 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris (macimorelin) 
EMA/820056/2018 
Page 3/3 
