ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GIAPREZA 2.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of concentrate contains angiotensin II acetate equivalent to 2.5 mg angiotensin II. 
One vial of 1 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 2.5 mg of angiotensin II. 
One vial of 2 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 5 mg of angiotensin II. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear and colourless solution.  
pH: 5.0 to 6.0 
Osmolarity: 130 to 170 mOsm/kg  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
GIAPREZA is indicated for the treatment of refractory hypotension in adults with septic or other 
distributive shock who remain hypotensive despite adequate volume restitution and application of 
catecholamines and other available vasopressor therapies (see section 5.1).  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
GIAPREZA should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the treatment of shock and is intended 
for use in an acute and hospital setting. 
Posology  
The recommended starting dosage of GIAPREZA is 20 nanograms (ng)/kg per minute via continuous 
intravenous infusion. 
GIAPREZA must be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection prior to use. 
One or two millilitres of GIAPREZA must be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection to achieve a final concentration of 5,000 ng/ml or 10,000 ng/ml (see Table 1).  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
Preparation of diluted solution 
Fluid 
Restricted? 
Vial 
strength  
Withdraw 
amount 
(ml) 
Infusion 
bag size 
(ml) 
Final 
concentration 
(ng/ml) 
No 
Yes 
2.5 mg/ml 
2.5 mg/ml 
5 mg/2 ml 
1 
1 
2 
500 
250 
500 
5,000 
10,000 
10,000 
When initiating GIAPREZA, it is important to closely monitor blood pressure response and adjust 
dose accordingly. 
Once an infusion has been established, the dose may be titrated as frequently as every 5 minutes in 
steps of up to 15 ng/kg per minute, as needed, depending on the patient’s condition and target mean 
arterial pressure. Approximately one in every four patients experienced transient hypertension with the 
angiotensin II 20 ng/kg per minute starting dose in clinical trials (see section 4.8), thus needing dose 
down-titration. For critically ill patients, the usual target mean arterial pressure is 65 – 75 mmHg. Do 
not exceed 80 ng/kg per minute during the first 3 hours of treatment. Maintenance doses should not 
exceed 40 ng/kg per minute. Doses as low as 1.25 ng/kg per minute may be used.  
It is important to administer GIAPREZA at the lowest compatible dose to achieve or maintain 
adequate arterial blood pressure and tissue perfusion (see section 4.4). The median duration of 
treatment in clinical trials was 48 hours (range: 3.5 to 168 hours). 
In order to minimise the risk of adverse events derived from prolonged vasoconstriction, treatment 
with GIAPREZA should be withdrawn once underlying shock is sufficiently improved (see section 4.4 
and 4.8). Down-titrate by gradual decrements of up to 15 ng/kg per minute, as needed, based on blood 
pressure, in order to avoid hypotension due to abrupt withdrawal (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
There are limited efficacy and safety data of GIAPREZA in patients > 75 years. No special dose 
adjustment is required in patients over 75 years. As for other age groups, it is important to closely 
monitor blood pressure response and adjust dose accordingly. 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
No special dose adjustment is required in patients with renal insufficiency or those with hepatic 
impairment (see section 5.2). As for other patient populations, it is important to closely monitor blood 
pressure response and adjust dose accordingly. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of GIAPREZA in children less than 18 years old has not yet been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
GIAPREZA should only be administered by continuous intravenous infusion under close monitoring 
of haemodynamics and end-organ perfusion. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For intravenous use only after dilution. GIAPREZA is recommended to be administered via a central 
venous line.  
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
The clinical experience with GIAPREZA is limited to septic or other distributive shock. The use of 
GIAPREZA is not recommended in other types of shock (e.g. cardiogenic shock, etc) as patients with 
non-distributive shocks were excluded from clinical trials (see section 5.1). 
Thromboembolic events 
Thromboembolic events have been reported with the use of angiotensin II in clinical trials. The major 
imbalance compared to placebo was in venous thromboembolism (6.1% vs 0%) (see section 4.8). 
Concurrent venous thromboembolism prophylaxis (VTE) should be used unless contraindicated during 
treatment with GIAPREZA. Non-pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis may be considered where 
pharmacologic prophylaxis is contraindicated. 
Peripheral ischaemia 
Peripheral ischaemia has been reported with the use of angiotensin II (see section 4.8). It is important 
to administer GIAPREZA at the lowest compatible dose to achieve or maintain adequate mean arterial 
pressure and tissue perfusion. 
Withdrawal of therapy 
GIAPREZA should be gradually decreased since patients may experience hypotension or worsening of 
the underlying diagnosis of shock on abrupt withdrawal or premature discontinuation. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 2.5 mg/ml, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. No in vitro metabolism studies have been performed with 
GIAPREZA. 
Concomitant administration of GIAPREZA and other vasopressors may have an additive effect on 
mean arterial pressure (MAP). The addition of GIAPREZA may require a reduction in doses of other 
vasopressors. 
Patients who have recently received angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may be more 
sensitive to GIAPREZA’s action with an increased response. Patients who have recently received 
angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) may be less sensitive to GIAPREZA’s actions with a reduced 
response. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There is a limited amount of data from the use of angiotensin II in pregnant women. Animal studies 
are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity. Use during pregnancy should be avoided if 
possible and the potential benefit to the patient weighed against any possible risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether angiotensin II or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
suckling child cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
GIAPREZA. 
Fertility 
There are no data available on the potential effects on fertility in humans. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The adverse reactions described in this section were identified in the pivotal clinical study (N = 163 
treated with GIAPREZA). The most frequent adverse reactions reported more often in the GIAPREZA 
arm are thromboembolic events (12.9% vs 5.1%) and transient hypertension. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 2 lists the adverse reactions recorded in clinical studies in the total safety population treated with 
GIAPREZA by MedDRA system organ class and frequency. Frequency categories are defined as: very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000), and very rare (< 1/10,000). 
Table 2: 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
MedDRA System Organ 
Class 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Very common  
Thromboembolic eventsa 
Transient hypertensionb 
a   Grouped term to include arterial and venous thrombotic events 
b Defined as an increase in mean arterial pressure > 100 mmHg  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Transient hypertension 
Common  
Tachycardia 
Peripheral ischaemia  
A total of 37 patients (23%) experienced transient hypertension with the angiotensin II 20 ng/kg/min 
starting dose. Transient hypertension may be promptly mitigated by dose down-titration (see 
section 4.2). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thromboembolic events 
More patients experienced venous and arterial thromboembolic events in the GIAPREZA arm 
compared to placebo arm in the Phase 3 (ATHOS-3) study (21 [12.9%] vs 8 [5.1%]). The major 
imbalance corresponded to venous thromboembolism (10 [6.1%] vs 0 [0%] respectively). Of these, 
7 cases corresponded to deep vein thrombosis. Two (1.2%) patients in the GIAPREZA arm 
experienced a fatal thromboembolic event compared with no patients in the placebo arm. Concurrent 
venous thromboembolism prophylaxis should be used unless contraindicated during treatment with 
GIAPREZA (see section 4.4).  
Peripheral ischaemia 
More patients experienced peripheral ischaemia in the GIAPREZA arm compared to the placebo arm 
(7 [4.3%] vs 4 [2.5%]). Of them, 5 cases (3.1%) in the GIAPREZA arm and 3 (1.9%) cases in the 
placebo arm were considered serious. One patient in each arm discontinued treatment as a result.  
Peripheral ischaemia may be a consequence of the mechanism of action of GIAPREZA. It is important 
to administer GIAPREZA at the lowest compatible dose to achieve or maintain adequate mean arterial 
pressure and tissue perfusion. In order to minimise adverse events derived from prolonged 
vasoconstriction, treatment should be withdrawn as soon as the underlying shock is sufficiently 
improved (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose may result in severe hypertension. Down-titration of therapy, careful observation, and 
initiation of appropriate supportive measures are the indicated treatment of overdose of angiotensin II.   
Hypertensive effects are expected to be brief because the half-life of angiotensin II is less than one 
minute. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cardiac therapy, other cardiac stimulants, ATC code: C01CX09 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Angiotensin II raises blood pressure by vasoconstriction; increased aldosterone release via direct 
action of angiotensin II on the vessel wall is mediated by binding to the G-protein-coupled 
angiotensin II receptor type 1 on vascular smooth muscle cells which stimulates Ca2+/calmodulin-
dependent phosphorylation of myosin and causes smooth muscle contraction. 
GIAPREZA is titrated to effect for each individual patient. In the ATHOS-3 trial, the median time to 
increase blood pressure was approximately 5 minutes. The effect on blood pressure is sustained for at 
least the first three hours of continuous intravenous infusion. Due to the short half-life of GIAPREZA 
(less than one minute), an abrupt withdrawal of angiotensin may lead to rebound hypotension (see 
section 4.4). Therefore, once underlying shock is sufficiently improved, a slow down-titration is 
recommended by gradual decrements of up to 15 ng/kg per minute, as needed, based on blood pressure 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The Angiotensin II for the Treatment of High-Output Shock (ATHOS-3) was a Phase 3 randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, international, multi-centre safety and efficacy study in which 
321 adults with septic or other distributive shock who remained hypotensive despite fluid and 
vasopressor therapy were randomised 1:1 to GIAPREZA or placebo. Doses of GIAPREZA or placebo 
were titrated to a target mean arterial pressure (MAP) of ≥ 75 mmHg during the first 3 hours of 
treatment while doses of other vasopressors were maintained. From Hour 3 to Hour 48, GIAPREZA or 
placebo were titrated to maintain MAP between 65 and 70 mmHg while reducing doses of other 
vasopressors.  
For their inclusion in the study, patients had to have clinical features of high-output shock defined as a 
cardiac index > 2.3 l/min/m2 or the sum of central venous oxygen saturation > 70% with central 
venous pressure (CVP) > 8 mmHg. Patients also had to have catecholamine refractory hypotension 
(CRH) defined as requiring a total sum vasopressor dose of > 0.2 mcg/kg/min for 6 to 48 hours, to 
maintain a mean arterial pressure (MAP) between 55-70 mmHg and receiving at least 25 ml/kg of 
crystalloid or colloid equivalent over the previous 24-hour period and be adequately volume 
resuscitated in the opinion of the treating investigator. 
Of the 321 patients treated in the Phase 3 study, 195 patients were male (60.7%), 257 (80%) patients 
were White, 33 (10%) were Black, and 31 (10%) were Other. Median age was 64 years (range: 
22-89 years). Patients requiring high doses of steroids, patients with a history of asthma or 
bronchospasm who were not mechanically ventilated, and patients with Raynaud’s syndrome were 
excluded. Patients with active bleeding, mesenteric ischaemia, liver failure and MELD score of ≥ 30, 
CV SOFA score ≤ 3 and patients with extensive burns were also excluded. 91% of subjects had septic 
shock; the remaining subjects had other forms of distributive shock such as neurogenic shock. Patients 
with cardiogenic shock were excluded (see section 4.4). 
At the time of study drug administration, 97% of subjects were receiving norepinephrine, 
67% vasopressin, 15% phenylephrine, 13% epinephrine, and 2% dopamine. 83% of subjects had 
received two or more vasopressors and 47% three or more vasopressors prior to study drug 
administration. Patients were not necessarily on maximum doses of other vasopressors at the time of 
randomisation. Of the 321 patients, 227 (71%) were receiving a baseline norepinephrine equivalent 
dose (NED) < 0.5 mcg/kg/min, 73 patients (23%) were receiving baseline NED ≥ 0.5 to 
< 1 mcg/kg/min and 21 (6%) patients were receiving high doses of vasopressors 
(NED ≥ 1.0 mcg/kg/min). The effect of GIAPREZA when added to maximum doses of other 
vasopressors is unknown. 
The primary endpoint was the percentage of subjects who achieved either a MAP ≥ 75 mmHg or a 
≥ 10 mmHg increase in MAP without an increase in baseline vasopressor therapy at 3 hours. 
The primary endpoint was achieved by 70% of patients randomised to GIAPREZA compared to 
23% of placebo subjects; p < 0.0001 (a treatment effect of 47%). The treatment effect was consistent 
in high risk subsets of patients with low baseline MAP or high APACHE II score, which were 
stratification variables (Table 3).   
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: 
Primary efficacy endpoints: MAP response at hour 3 (mITT population and 
subgroups) 
Subgroup 
All patients 
Placebo 
response rate  
37/158 patients 
23%  
10/50 patients 
20%  
17/65 patients 
26%  
mITT=modified intent-to-treat population 
Baseline MAP < 65 mmHg 
Baseline APACHE II > 30 
GIAPREZA  
response rate  
114/163 patients 
70%  
28/52 patients 
54%  
38/58 patients 
66%  
In the GIAPREZA-treated group, the median time to reach the target MAP endpoint was 5 minutes.  
The effect on MAP was sustained for at least the first three hours of treatment. The median dose of 
GIAPREZA was 10 ng/kg/min at 30 minutes. Of the 114 responders at Hour 3, only 2 (1.8%) received 
more than 80 ng/kg/min. 
Mortality through day 28 was 46% on GIAPREZA and 54% on placebo (hazard ratio 0.78; 95% 
confidence interval 0.57-1.07). 
The effect of GIAPREZA on morbidity and mortality has not been determined in appropriate studies.  
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
GIAPREZA in one or more subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of hypotension in 
children who remain hypotensive despite fluid and vasopressor therapy. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
GIAPREZA is titrated to effect for each individual patient. Plasma levels of angiotensin II were 
evaluated at baseline and hour 3 of infusion in the phase 3 pivotal study.   
Distribution 
No specific studies have been conducted to investigate the distribution of GIAPREZA. 
Biotransformation and elimination 
No specific studies have been conducted to investigate the metabolism and excretion of GIAPREZA.   
The plasma half-life of angiotensin II administered intravenously is less than one minute. It is 
metabolised by end terminal cleavage (at both the amino and carboxy termini) in a variety of tissues 
including erythrocytes, plasma and many of the major organs (ie, intestine, kidney, liver and lung). 
Renal impairment  
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of angiotensin II in renally impaired 
patients since the kidneys are not a major organ for angiotensin II metabolism or excretion.   
Hepatic impairment  
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of angiotensin II in patients with 
hepatic impairment since the liver is not a major organ for angiotensin II metabolism or excretion.   
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
8 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a cardiovascular safety pharmacology study in normotensive dogs, GIAPREZA elicited increased 
heart rate, systemic vascular resistance, left ventricular systolic pressure and left ventricular diastolic 
pressure, and PR interval prolongation.  
In a 48-hour continuous intravenous administration of angiotensin II in neonatal lambs, the nominal 
dose rates of 4, 12 and 40 ng/kg/min were well tolerated. No treatment related adverse effects were 
observed.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol 
Water for injections 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
GIAPREZA may be co-administered with norepinephrine, epinephrine, vasopressin, terlipressin, 
dopamine, and/or phenylephrine. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial  
3 years 
Diluted solution  
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at room temperature and 
2°C – 8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C or 25 °C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
1 ml vial 
1 ml solution in a Type I glass vial with an aluminium over-seal, stopper (elastomeric), and plastic 
cap. Pack size of 1 or 10 vials per carton. 
2 ml vial 
2 ml solution in a Type I glass vial with an aluminium over-seal, stopper (elastomeric), and plastic 
cap. Pack size of 1 vial per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
For single dose only. 
Instructions for preparation of the medicinal product before administration 
1.  Inspect each vial for particulate matter prior to dilution.   
2.  Dilute 1 or 2 ml of GIAPREZA in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to 
achieve a final concentration of 5,000 ng/ml or 10,000 ng/ml.  
3.  Diluted solution should be clear and colourless. 
4.  Discard the vial and any unused portion of the medicinal product after use. 
Diluted solution may be stored at room temperature or under refrigeration. Discard prepared solution 
after 24 hours at room temperature or under refrigeration. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Heussstraße 25 
52078 Aachen  
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1384/001 
EU/1/19/1384/002 
EU/1/19/1384/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 August 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
PAION Netherlands B.V. 
Vogt 21 
6422 RK Heerlen 
Netherlands 
PAION Deutschland GmbH 
Heussstraße 25 
52078 Aachen 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further investigate the efficacy 
and safety of Giapreza in the treatment of refractory hypotension in adults with septic or 
other distributive shock, the MAH should conduct and submit the results of a 
randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre study in adult patients with 
vasodilatory shock and associated severe acute kidney injury requiring renal 
replacement therapy to provide: (1) data on the effect of the product on morbidity 
events and organ perfusion with and adequate representation of European patients, (2) 
reassurance that there is no detrimental effect on mortality at day 28, (3) additional 
safety data about ischemic and thromboembolic events associated with the use of the 
product and to record clinical global impression of the response to treatment. 
Due date 
Submission of 
study results: 
30 June 2024 
13 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GIAPREZA 2.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
angiotensin II 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 2.5 mg of angiotensin II (as acetate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: mannitol, water for injections, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
2.5 mg/1 ml 
5.0 mg/2 ml 
10 vials 
2.5 mg/1 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single-dose 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Intravenous use only after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
After dilution, use immediately. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Discard unused portions. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Heussstraße 25 
52078 Aachen  
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1384/001 
EU/1/19/1384/002 
EU/1/19/1384/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot:  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
GIAPREZA 2.5 mg/mL sterile concentrate 
angiotensin II 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
IV use only after dilution 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot:  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 mg/1 ml 
5.0 mg/2 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
GIAPREZA 2.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
angiotensin II 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What GIAPREZA is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given GIAPREZA  
3.  How GIAPREZA is used 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How GIAPREZA is stored 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What GIAPREZA is and what it is used for 
GIAPREZA contains the active substance angiotensin II, a compound normally produced by the body. 
It makes the blood vessels tighten and become narrower, thus increasing blood pressure.  
GIAPREZA is used in an emergency setting to increase blood pressure to normal levels in adult 
patients with seriously low blood pressure who do not respond to fluids or other medicines that raise 
blood pressure.  
2.  What you need to know before you are given GIAPREZA  
You must not be given GIAPREZA: 
- 
if you are allergic to angiotensin II or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Your doctor or nurse should be told if any of the above applies to you before this medicine is used. 
Warnings and precautions  
GIAPREZA has only been tested in people with septic and distributive shock. It has not been tested in 
other types of shock. 
Your doctor or nurse should be told before GIAPREZA is used if you or someone else in your family 
have a history of blood clots, as this medicine has been associated with the formation of blood clots. 
As a part of your treatment, you may be given medicine to prevent the formation of blood clots. 
When you are first given GIAPREZA, it is expected that your blood pressure will increase. You will 
be monitored closely to make sure that your blood pressure is at the right level. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately if you experience a change of colour (redness or paleness), pain, 
numbness in any of your limbs, or if any of your limbs are cold to the touch, as these could be signs 
that a blood clot has blocked blood flow to a part of the body. 
Elderly 
GIAPREZA was tested in a small number of patients more than 75 years of age. There are no dose 
adjustments needed for patients more than 75 years of age. Your doctor will monitor your blood 
pressure and adjust your dose as needed. 
Impairment of liver or kidneys 
There are no dose adjustments needed for patients with impairment of the function of the liver or 
kidneys. Your doctor will monitor your blood pressure and adjust your dose as needed. 
Children and adolescents 
GIAPREZA should not be used in children or adolescents under 18 years of age as it has not been 
studied in these age groups.  
Other medicines and GIAPREZA 
Your doctor should be told if you are using, have recently used, or might use any other medicines. 
A number of medicines may affect the way GIAPREZA works, such as: 
- 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (medicines used to lower blood pressure, with 
active substances whose name usually end in -pril). ACE inhibitors may increase to the effect of 
GIAPREZA. 
Angiotensin II receptor blockers (medicines used to lower blood pressure, with active 
substances whose names usually end in -sartan) may lessen the effect of GIAPREZA. 
- 
Your doctor may already be giving you other medicines used to increase your blood pressure. Adding 
GIAPREZA to these medicines may require that the doses of the other medicines be lowered. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Your doctor should be told if you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are 
planning to have a baby before this medicine is given. 
There is limited information about the effects of GIAPREZA during pregnancy. Use of this medicine 
during pregnancy should be avoided if possible. You will only be given this medicine if the possible 
benefit is greater than the possible risks. 
It is not known whether GIAPREZA can pass into breast milk. Your doctor should be told if you are 
breast-feeding before this medicine is given. 
It is not known whether GIAPREZA can affect fertility. 
Sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 2.5 mg/1 ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How GIAPREZA is used 
GIAPREZA will be given to you in a hospital by a doctor or a nurse. It is first diluted and then given 
as a drip (infusion) into a vein, supplying a specified dose each minute. 
The dose depends on your body weight. The recommended starting rate of GIAPREZA is 
20 nanograms (ng) per kilogram of your body weight per minute. After the initial dose, your doctor 
will adjust the rate as often as every 5 minutes until you achieve your target blood pressure. Your 
doctor will continue to assess your response and will adjust the dose accordingly up to a maximum of 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
80 ng per kilogram each minute during the first 3 hours of treatment. The maximum dose after the first 
3 hours will be 40 ng per kilogram each minute. 
GIAPREZA will be given to you at the lowest dose that helps you to achieve or maintain your blood 
pressure. In order to minimise the risk of side effects to this medicine, GIAPREZA will be withdrawn 
as soon as your condition improves. 
If you are given more GIAPREZA than you should 
GIAPREZA will be given to you by a doctor or a nurse, so it is unlikely you will be given the wrong 
dose. However, if you have side effects or think you have been given too much GIAPREZA, tell your 
doctor or nurse straight away. If you have too much GIAPREZA, you may experience high blood 
pressure. If this occurs, hospital staff will monitor your vital signs and you will be provided with 
supportive care.  
Stopping GIAPREZA treatment 
Your doctor will gradually decrease the amount of GIAPREZA you are given over time once your 
blood pressure has increased to appropriate levels. If GIAPREZA is stopped suddenly or stopped too 
early, you may experience a decrease in your blood pressure or your condition may worsen.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience: 
- 
Pain, redness or pale colour, swelling or coolness to the touch of the skin or limbs, as these may 
be symptoms of a blood clot in one of your veins. These clots may travel through blood vessels 
to the lungs causing chest pain and difficulty breathing. If you notice any of these symptoms, 
seek medical advice immediately. These types of symptoms occur in greater than 1 out of every 
10 patients. While not all of these symptoms lead to life-threatening complications, your doctor 
should be told about them immediately. 
Other side effects are: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are: 
- 
Too high blood pressure 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are:    
- 
- 
Rapid heartbeat 
Poor circulation to your hands, feet, or other bodily areas which can be severe and cause tissue 
damage. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store GIAPREZA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The diluted solution should be used immediately. Chemical and physical in-use stability has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at room temperature and 2 °C - 8 °C. 
Do not use if you notice any signs of visible damage or discolouration.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What GIAPREZA contains  
- 
The active substance is angiotensin II acetate. Each ml contains angiotensin II acetate equivalent 
to 2.5 mg angiotensin II. 
- 
One vial of 1 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 2.5 mg of angiotensin II 
- 
One vial of 2 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 5 mg of angiotensin II 
The other ingredients are mannitol and water for injections adjusted with sodium hydroxide 
and/or hydrochloric acid (see section 2 under ‘Sodium’).  
- 
What GIAPREZA looks like and contents of the pack 
GIAPREZA is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). The solution is 
a clear, colourless solution free of any visible particles.  
GIAPREZA is supplied in a carton as a 1 x 1 ml, 10 x 1 ml or 1 x 2 ml single use vial. Not all pack 
sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Heussstraße 25 
52078 Aachen  
Germany 
Manufacturer 
PAION Netherlands B.V. 
Vogt 21 
6422 RK Heerlen 
Netherlands 
PAION Deutschland GmbH 
Heussstraße 25 
52078 Aachen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Viatris bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Teл.: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Česká republika 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453<{e-mail}> 
Lietuva  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tél/Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Magyarország  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel.: + 49 800 4453 4453 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tlf: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Deutschland 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Eesti 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Ελλάδα 
Viatris Hellas Ltd 
Τηλ: +30 210 0100002 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Ireland  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Ísland 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Sími: + 49 800 4453 4453  
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Τηλ: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Latvija  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Malta 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Nederland 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Norge 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tlf: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Österreich 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
România 
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Slovenská republika  
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Suomi/Finland 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Puh/Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
Sverige 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
PAION Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 4453 4453 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Posology and method of administration 
GIAPREZA should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the treatment of shock and is intended 
for use in an acute and hospital setting. 
GIAPREZA should only be administered by continuous intravenous infusion under close monitoring 
of haemodynamics and end-organ perfusion. 
Instructions for dilution 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Inspect each vial for particulate matter prior to dilution.   
2.  Dilute 1 or 2 ml of GIAPREZA in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to 
achieve a final concentration of 5,000 ng/ml or 10,000 ng/ml.  
3.  Diluted solution should be clear and colourless. 
4.   Discard the vial and any unused portion of the medicinal product after use. 
Diluted solution may be stored at room temperature or under refrigeration. Discard prepared solution 
after 24 hours at room temperature or under refrigeration. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Administration 
When initiating GIAPREZA, it is important to closely monitor blood pressure response and adjust 
dose accordingly. 
Once an infusion has been established, the dose may be titrated as frequently as every 5 minutes in 
steps of up to 15 ng/kg per minute, as needed, depending on the patient’s condition and target mean 
arterial pressure. Approximately one in every four patients experienced transient hypertension with the 
angiotensin II 20 ng/kg/min starting dose in clinical trials (see section 4.8), thus needing dose down-
titration. For critically ill patients, the usual target mean arterial pressure is 65 – 75 mmHg. Do not 
exceed 80 ng/kg per minute during the first 3 hours of treatment. Maintenance doses should not 
exceed 40 ng/kg per minute. Doses as low as 1.25 ng/kg per minute may be used.  
It is important to administer GIAPREZA at the lowest compatible dose to achieve or maintain 
adequate arterial blood pressure and tissue perfusion (see section 4.4). The median duration of 
treatment in clinical trials was 48 hours (range: 3.5 to 168 hours). 
In order to minimise the risk of adverse events derived from prolonged vasoconstriction, treatment 
with GIAPREZA should be withdrawn once underlying shock is sufficiently improved (see section 4.4 
and 4.8). Down-titrate by gradual decrements of up to 15 ng/kg per minute, as needed, based on blood 
pressure in order to avoid hypotension due to abrupt withdrawal (see section 4.4). 
Storage conditions 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). Dilute before use. Administer as a diluted solution.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
