 Product Information as approved by the CHMP on 19 April 2012, pending endorsement by  
the European Commission 
ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule 
Capsule of 16 mm with bright yellow opaque cap and white opaque body; imprint with black ink, 
“FTY0.5 mg” on cap and two radial bands imprinted on the body with yellow ink. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Gilenya is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following adult patient groups: 
- 
or 
- 
Patients with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-interferon. 
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course 
(normally at least one year of treatment) of beta-interferon. Patients should have had at least 1 
relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in 
cranial MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” could also be 
defined as a patient with an unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe relapses, as 
compared to the previous year. 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
The treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in multiple sclerosis. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Gilenya is one 0.5 mg capsule taken orally once daily. Gilenya can be 
taken with or without food. 
If a dose is missed treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. 
Patients can switch directly from beta interferon or glatiramer acetate to Gilenya provided there are no 
signs of relevant treatment-related abnormalities, e.g. neutropenia. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
Gilenya should be used with caution in patients aged 65 years and over due to insufficient data on 
safety and efficacy (see section 5.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Gilenya was not studied in patients with renal impairment in the multiple sclerosis pivotal studies. 
Based on clinical pharmacology studies, no dose adjustments are needed in patients with mild to 
severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Gilenya must not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see 
section 4.3). Although no dose adjustments are needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment, caution should be exercised when initiating treatment in these patients (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Diabetic patients 
Gilenya has not been studied in multiple sclerosis patients with concomitant diabetes mellitus. Gilenya 
should be used with caution in these patients due to a potential increase in the risk of macular oedema 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Regular ophthalmological examinations should be conducted in these 
patients to detect macular oedema. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Gilenya in children aged 0 to 18 years have not yet been established. 
Currently available data are described in section 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be 
made. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Known immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised patients 
(including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those immunocompromised by 
prior therapies). 
Severe active infections, active chronic infections (hepatitis, tuberculosis). 
Known active malignancies, except for patients with cutaneous basal cell carcinoma. 
Severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh class C). 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Bradyarrhythmia 
Initiation of Gilenya treatment results in a transient decrease in heart rate and may also be associated 
with atrioventricular conduction delays, including the occurrence of isolated reports of transient, 
spontaneously resolving complete AV block (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
After the first dose, the decline in heart rate starts within one hour and is steepest within 6 hours. The 
negative chronotropic effect of Gilenya persists beyond 6 hours and progressively attenuates over 
subsequent days of treatment. With continued administration, heart rate returns to baseline within one 
month. Conduction abnormalities were typically transient and asymptomatic. They usually did not 
require treatment and resolved within the first 24 hours on treatment. If necessary, the decrease in 
heart rate induced by fingolimod can be reversed by parenteral doses of atropine or isoprenaline. 
All patients should have an ECG and blood pressure measurement performed prior to and 6 hours after 
the first dose of Gilenya. All patients should be monitored for a period of 6 hours for signs and 
symptoms of bradycardia with hourly heart rate and blood pressure measurement. Continuous (real 
time) ECG monitoring during this 6 hour period is recommended. 
Should post-dose bradyarrhythmia-related symptoms occur, appropriate clinical management should 
be initiated and monitoring should be continued until the symptoms have resolved. Should a patient 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
require pharmacological intervention during the first-dose monitoring, overnight monitoring in a 
medical facility should be instituted. 
If the heart rate at 6 hours is the lowest since the first dose was administered (suggesting that the 
maximum pharmacodynamic effect on the heart may not yet be manifest), monitoring should be 
extended by at least 2 hours and until heart rate increases again. Additionally, if after 6 hours, the heart 
rate is <45 bpm, or the ECG shows new onset second degree or higher grade AV block or a QTc 
interval ≥500 msec, extended monitoring (at least overnight monitoring), should be performed, and 
until the findings have resolved. The occurrence at any time of third degree AV block should also lead 
to extended monitoring (at least overnight monitoring). 
Due to the risk of serious rhythm disturbances, Gilenya should not be used in patients with second 
degree Mobitz type II or higher AV block, sick-sinus syndrome, or sino-atrial heart block, a history of 
symptomatic bradycardia or recurrent syncope, or in patients with significant QT prolongation 
(QTc>470msec (female) or >450msec (male)). Since significant bradycardia may be poorly tolerated 
in patients with known ischaemic heart disease (including angina pectoris), cerebrovascular disease, 
history of myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, history of cardiac arrest, uncontrolled 
hypertension or severe untreated sleep apnoea, Gilenya should not be used in these patients. In such 
patients, treatment with Gilenya should be considered only if the anticipated benefits outweigh the 
potential risks. If treatment is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought prior to 
initiation of treatment in order to determine the most appropriate monitoring, at least overnight 
extended monitoring is recommended for treatment initiation (see also section 4.5). 
Gilenya has not been studied in patients with arrhythmias requiring treatment with class Ia (e.g. 
quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medicinal products. 
Class Ia and class III antiarrhythmic medicinal products have been associated with cases of torsades de 
pointes in patients with bradycardia. Since initiation of Gilenya treatment results in decreased heart 
rate, Gilenya should not be used concomitantly with these medicinal products. 
Experience with Gilenya is limited in patients receiving concurrent therapy with beta blockers, heart-
rate-lowering calcium channel blockers (such as verapamil, diltiazem or ivabradine), or other 
substances which may decrease heart rate (e.g. digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine). 
Since the initiation of Gilenya treatment is also associated with slowing of the heart rate (see also 
section 4.8, Bradyarrhythmia), concomitant use of these substances during Gilenya initiation may be 
associated with severe bradycardia and heart block. Because of the potential additive effect on heart 
rate treatment with Gilenya should not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with these 
substances (see also section 4.5). In such patients, treatment with Gilenya should be considered only if 
the anticipated benefits outweigh the potential risks. If treatment with Gilenya is considered, advice 
from a cardiologist should be sought regarding the switch to non heart-rate lowering medicinal 
products prior to initiation of treatment. If the heart-rate-lowering medication cannot be stopped, 
cardiologist’s advice should be sought to determine appropriate first dose monitoring, at least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended (see also section 4.5). 
If therapy is discontinued for more than 2 weeks, the effects on heart rate and atrioventricular 
conduction may recur on re-introduction of Gilenya treatment and the same precautions as for 
treatment initiation should apply. 
QT interval 
In a thorough QT interval study of doses of 1.25 or 2.5 mg fingolimod at steady-state, when a negative 
chronotropic effect of fingolimod was still present, fingolimod treatment resulted in a prolongation of 
QTcI, with the upper limit of the 90% CI ≤13.0 ms. There is no dose- or exposure-response 
relationship of fingolimod and QTcI prolongation. There is no consistent signal of increased incidence 
of QTcI outliers, either absolute or change from baseline, associated with fingolimod treatment. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown. In the multiple sclerosis studies, clinically relevant 
effects on prolongation of the QTc-interval have not been observed but patients at risk for QT 
prolongation were not included in clinical studies. 
Medicinal products that may prolong QTc interval are best avoided in patients with relevant risk 
factors, for example, hypokalaemia or congenital QT prolongation. 
Infections 
A core pharmacodynamic effect of Gilenya is a dose-dependent reduction of the peripheral 
lymphocyte count to 20-30% of baseline values. This is due to the reversible sequestration of 
lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues (see section 5.1). 
Before initiating treatment with Gilenya, a recent complete blood count (CBC) (i.e. within 6 months) 
should be available. Assessments of CBC are also recommended periodically during treatment, and in 
case of signs of infection. Absolute lymphocyte count <0.2x109/l, if confirmed, should lead to 
treatment interruption until recovery, because in clinical studies, fingolimod treatment was interrupted 
in patients with absolute lymphocyte count <0.2x109/l. 
Initiation of treatment with Gilenya should be delayed in patients with severe active infection until 
resolution. 
Before initiating Gilenya therapy, patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination 
against varicella zoster virus (VZV) should be tested for antibodies to VZV. VZV vaccination of 
antibody negative patients should be considered prior to commencing treatment with Gilenya, 
following which initiation of treatment with Gilenya should be postponed for 1 month to allow full 
effect of vaccination to occur. 
The immune system effects of Gilenya may increase the risk of infections (see section 4.8). Effective 
diagnostic and therapeutic strategies should be employed in patients with symptoms of infection while 
on therapy. During treatment, patients receiving Gilenya should be instructed to report symptoms of 
infection to their physician. 
Suspension of Gilenya should be considered if a patient develops a serious infection and consideration 
of benefit-risk should be undertaken prior to re-initiation of therapy. 
Elimination of fingolimod following discontinuation of therapy may take up to two months and 
vigilance for infection should therefore be continued throughout this period. Patients should be 
instructed to report symptoms of infection up to 2 months after discontinuation of fingolimod. 
Macular oedema 
Macular oedema with or without visual symptoms has been reported in 0.4% of patients treated with 
fingolimod 0.5 mg, occurring predominantly in the first 3-4 months of therapy (see section 4.8). An 
ophthalmological evaluation is therefore recommended at 3-4 months after treatment initiation. If 
patients report visual disturbances at any time while on therapy, evaluation of the fundus, including 
the macula, should be carried out. 
Patients with history of uveitis and patients with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of macular 
oedema (see section 4.8). Gilenya has not been studied in multiple sclerosis patients with concomitant 
diabetes mellitus. It is recommended that multiple sclerosis patients with diabetes mellitus or a history 
of uveitis undergo an ophthalmological evaluation prior to initiating therapy and have follow-up 
evaluations while receiving therapy. 
Continuation of Gilenya in patients with macular oedema has not been evaluated. It is recommended 
that Gilenya be discontinued if a patient develops macular oedema. A decision on whether or not 
Gilenya therapy should be re-initiated after resolution of macular oedema needs to take into account 
the potential benefits and risks for the individual patient. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver function 
During clinical trials, elevations 3-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater in liver 
transaminases occurred in 8% of patients treated with fingolimod 0.5 mg compared to 2% of placebo 
patients. Elevations 5-fold the ULN occurred in 2% of patients on fingolimod and 1% of patients on 
placebo. In clinical trials, fingolimod was discontinued if the elevation exceeded 5 times the ULN. 
Recurrence of liver transaminase elevations occurred with rechallenge in some patients, supporting a 
relationship to fingolimod. In clinical studies, transaminase elevations occurred at any time during 
treatment although the majority occurred within the first 12 months. Serum transaminase levels 
returned to normal within approximately 2 months after discontinuation of fingolimod. 
Gilenya has not been studied in patients with severe pre-existing hepatic injury (Child-Pugh class C) 
and should not be used in these patients (see section 4.3). 
Due to the immunosuppressive properties of fingolimod, initiation of treatment should be delayed in 
patients with active viral hepatitis until resolution. 
Recent (i.e. within last 6 months) transaminase and bilirubin levels should be available before 
initiation of treatment with Gilenya. In the absence of clinical symptoms, liver transaminases should 
be monitored at Months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 on therapy and periodically thereafter. If liver transaminases 
rise above 5 times the ULN, more frequent monitoring should be instituted, including serum bilirubin 
and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) measurement. With repeated confirmation of liver transaminases 
above 5 times the ULN, treatment with Gilenya should be interrupted and only re-commenced once 
liver transaminase values have normalised. 
Patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, such as unexplained nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, or jaundice and/or dark urine, should have liver enzymes 
checked and Gilenya should be discontinued if significant liver injury is confirmed (for example liver 
transaminase levels greater than 5-fold the ULN and/or serum bilirubin elevations). Resumption of 
therapy will be dependent on whether or not another cause of liver injury is determined and on the 
benefits to patient of resuming therapy versus the risks of recurrence of liver dysfunction. 
Although there are no data to establish that patients with pre-existing liver disease are at increased risk 
of developing elevated liver function tests when taking Gilenya, caution in the use of Gilenya should 
be exercised in patients with a history of significant liver disease. 
Interference with serological testing 
Since fingolimod reduces blood lymphocyte counts via re-distribution in secondary lymphoid organs, 
peripheral blood lymphocyte counts cannot be utilised to evaluate the lymphocyte subset status of a 
patient treated with Gilenya. Laboratory tests involving the use of circulating mononuclear cells 
require larger blood volumes due to reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes. 
Blood pressure effects 
Patients with hypertension uncontrolled by medication were excluded from participation in 
premarketing clinical trials and special care is indicated if patients with uncontrolled hypertension are 
treated with Gilenya. 
In MS clinical trials, patients treated with fingolimod 0.5 mg had an average increase of approximately 
3 mmHg in systolic pressure, and approximately 1 mmHg in diastolic pressure, first detected 
approximately 1 month after treatment initiation, and persisting with continued treatment. In the two-
year placebo-controlled study, hypertension was reported as an adverse event in 6.1% of patients on 
fingolimod 0.5 mg and in 3.8% of patients on placebo. Therefore, blood pressure should be regularly 
monitored during treatment with Gilenya. 
Respiratory effects 
Minor dose-dependent reductions in values for forced expiratory volume (FEV1) and diffusion 
capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were observed with Gilenya treatment starting at Month 1 and 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
remaining stable thereafter. Gilenya should be used with caution in patients with severe respiratory 
disease, pulmonary fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see also section 4.8). 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressants 
When switching patients from interferon or glatiramer acetate to Gilenya, a washout is not necessary, 
assuming any immune effects (i.e. cytopenia) of such therapies have resolved. 
Due to the long half-life of natalizumab, concomitant exposure, and thus concomitant immune effects, 
could occur for up to 2-3 months following discontinuation of natalizumab if Gilenya was 
immediately started. Therefore caution is required when switching patients from natalizumab to 
Gilenya. 
When switching from other immunosuppressive medications, the duration and mode of action of such 
substances must be considered when initiating Gilenya to avoid additive immune suppressive effects. 
Stopping therapy 
If a decision is made to stop treatment with Gilenya a 6 week interval without therapy is needed, based 
on half-life, to clear fingolimod from the circulation (see section 5.2). Lymphocyte counts 
progressively return to normal range within 1-2 months of stopping therapy (see section 5.1). Starting 
other therapies during this interval will result in concomitant exposure to fingolimod. Use of 
immunosuppressants soon after the discontinuation of Gilenya may lead to an additive effect on the 
immune system and caution is therefore indicated. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Anti-neoplastic, immunosuppressive or immune-modulating therapies 
Anti-neoplastic, immunosuppressive or immune-modulating therapies should not be co-administered 
due to the risk of additive immune system effects (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). Caution is also indicated 
when switching patients from long-acting therapies with immune effects, such as natalizumab or 
mitoxantrone (see section 4.4). In multiple sclerosis clinical studies the concomitant treatment of 
relapses with a short course of corticosteroids was not associated with an increased rate of infection. 
Vaccination 
During and for up to two months after treatment with Gilenya vaccination may be less effective. The 
use of live attenuated vaccines may carry a risk of infections and should therefore be avoided. 
Bradycardia-inducing substances 
Fingolimod has been studied in combination with atenolol and diltiazem. When fingolimod was used 
with atenolol in an interaction study in healthy volunteers, there was an additional 15% reduction of 
heart rate at fingolimod treatment initiation, an effect not seen with diltiazem. Treatment with Gilenya 
should not be initiated in patients receiving beta blockers, or other substances which may decrease 
heart rate, such as class Ia and III antiarrhythmics, calcium channel blockers (such as ivabradine, 
verapamil or diltiazem), digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine because of the potential 
additive effects on heart rate (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). If treatment with Gilenya is considered in such 
patients, advice from a cardiologist should be sought regarding the switch to non heart-rate lowering 
medicinal products or appropriate monitoring for treatment initiation, at least overnight monitoring is 
recommended, if the heart-rate-lowering medication cannot be stopped. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of other substances on fingolimod 
Fingolimod is metabolised mainly by CYP4F2. Other enzymes like CYP3A4 may also contribute to 
its metabolism. Co-administration of fingolimod with ketoconazole resulted in a 1.7-fold increase in 
fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate exposure (AUC). Caution should be exercised with substances 
that may inhibit CYP3A4 (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, some macrolides such as 
clarithromycin or telithromycin). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of fingolimod on other substances 
Fingolimod is unlikely to interact with substances mainly cleared by the CYP450 enzymes or by 
substrates of the main transporter proteins. 
Co-administration of fingolimod with ciclosporin did not elicit any change in the ciclosporin or 
fingolimod exposure. Therefore, fingolimod is not expected to alter the pharmacokinetics of medicinal 
products that are CYP3A4 substrates. Potent inhibitors of transporter proteins are not expected to 
influence fingolimod disposition. 
Co-administration of fingolimod with oral contraceptives (ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel) did not 
elicit any change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral 
contraceptives containing other progestagens, however an effect of fingolimod on their exposure is not 
expected. 
It is not known whether the concomitant administration of strong CYP450 inducers may decrease the 
exposure to fingolimod and fingolimod P. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in females 
Before initiation of Gilenya treatment, women of childbearing potential should be counselled 
regarding the potential for serious risk to the foetus and the need for effective contraception during 
treatment with Gilenya. Since it takes approximately two months to eliminate fingolimod from the 
body on stopping treatment (see section 4.4), the potential risk to the foetus may persist and 
contraception should be continued during that period. 
Pregnancy 
Before initiation of treatment in women of childbearing potential a negative pregnancy test result 
needs to be available. While on treatment, women should not become pregnant and active 
contraception is recommended. If a woman becomes pregnant while taking Gilenya, discontinuation of 
Gilenya is recommended. 
Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity including foetal loss and organ defects, notably 
persistent truncus arteriosus and ventricular septal defect (see section 5.3). Furthermore, the receptor 
affected by fingolimod (sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor) is known to be involved in vascular 
formation during embryogenesis. There are very limited data from the use of fingolimod in pregnant 
women. 
There are no data on the effects of fingolimod on labour and delivery. 
Breast-feeding 
Fingolimod is excreted in milk of treated animals during lactation at concentrations 2-3-fold higher 
than that found in maternal plasma (see section 5.3). Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions 
to fingolimod in nursing infants, women receiving Gilenya should not breastfeed. 
Fertility 
Data from preclinical studies do not suggest that fingolimod would be associated with an increased 
risk of reduced fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Gilenya has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, dizziness or drowsiness may occasionally occur when initiating therapy with Gilenya. On 
initiation of Gilenya treatment it is recommended that patients be observed for a period of 6 hours (see 
section 4.4, Bradyarrhythmia). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
A total of 1,703 patients on Gilenya (0.5 or 1.25 mg) constituted the safety population in the two 
Phase III studies in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (see section 5.1). Study D2301 
(FREEDOMS) was a 2-year placebo-controlled clinical study in 854 patients treated with fingolimod 
(placebo: 418). In this study the most serious adverse reactions on Gilenya 0.5 mg were infections, 
macular oedema and transient atrioventricular block at treatment initiation. The most frequent adverse 
reactions (incidence ≥10%) on Gilenya 0.5 mg were headache, influenza, diarrhoea, back pain, liver 
enzyme elevations and cough. The most frequent adverse reaction reported for Gilenya 0.5 mg leading 
to treatment interruption was serum transaminase elevations (3.8%). The adverse reactions in 
Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS), a 1-year study in 849 patients treated with fingolimod which used 
interferon beta-1a as comparator, were generally similar to Study D2301, taking into account the 
differences in study duration. 
Adverse reactions reported with Gilenya 0.5 mg in Studies D2301 (FREEDOMS) and D2302 
(TRANSFORMS) are shown below. Frequencies were defined using the following convention: very 
common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within 
each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are ranked in order of decreasing seriousness. 
9 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Very common: 
Common: 
Influenza viral infections 
Herpes viral infections 
Bronchitis 
Sinusitis 
Gastroenteritis 
Tinea infections 
Pneumonia 
Uncommon: 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Lymphopenia 
Leucopenia 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Eye disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Cardiac disorders 
Common: 
Depression 
Depressed mood 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Paraesthesia 
Migraine 
Vision blurred 
Eye pain 
Macular oedema* 
Bradycardia 
Atrioventricular block 
Hypertension 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Diarrhoea 
Eczema 
Alopecia 
Pruritus 
Back pain 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common: 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common: 
Investigations 
Very common: 
Common: 
Asthenia 
Alanine transaminase (ALT) increased 
Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) increased 
Hepatic enzyme increased 
Liver function test abnormal 
Blood triglycerides increased 
Weight decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Uncommon: 
* 
Not reported in Study D2301 (FREEDOMS) with Gilenya 0.5 mg. Frequency category is based 
on the incidence with Gilenya 0.5 mg (0.5% vs. 0.2% in the interferon beta-1a group) in 
Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS). 
10 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies the overall rate of infections (72%) and serious infections (2%) at 
the 0.5 mg dose was similar to placebo. However, lower respiratory tract infections, primarily 
bronchitis and, to a lesser extent, pneumonia were more common in Gilenya-treated patients. 
Two fatal cases of herpes infection occurred at the higher 1.25 mg dose: A case of herpes simplex 
encephalitis in a patient in whom initiation of acyclovir therapy was delayed by one week, and a case 
of primary disseminated varicella zoster infection in a patient not previously exposed to varicella 
receiving concomitant high-dose steroid therapy for a multiple sclerosis relapse. 
Macular oedema 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies macular oedema occurred in 0.4% of patients treated with the 
recommended dose of 0.5 mg and 1.1% of patients treated with the higher dose of 1.25 mg. The 
majority of cases occurred within the first 3-4 months of therapy. Some patients presented with blurred 
vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were asymptomatic and diagnosed on routine 
ophthalmological examination. The macular oedema generally improved or resolved spontaneously 
after discontinuation of Gilenya. The risk of recurrence after re-challenge has not been evaluated. 
Macular oedema incidence is increased in multiple sclerosis patients with a history of uveitis (17% 
with a history of uveitis vs. 0.6% without a history of uveitis). Gilenya has not been studied in 
multiple sclerosis patients with diabetes mellitus, a disease which is associated with an increased risk 
for macular oedema (see section 4.4). In renal transplant clinical studies in which patients with 
diabetes mellitus were included, therapy with fingolimod 2.5 mg and 5 mg resulted in a 2-fold increase 
in the incidence of macular oedema. 
Bradyarrhythmia 
Initiation of Gilenya treatment results in a transient decrease in heart rate and may also be associated 
with atrioventricular conduction delays (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). In multiple sclerosis clinical studies 
the maximal decline in heart rate was seen within 6 hours after treatment initiation, with declines in 
mean heart rate of 12-13 beats per minute for Gilenya 0.5 mg. Heart rate below 40 beats per minute 
was rarely observed in patients on Gilenya 0.5 mg. Heart rate returned to baseline within 1 month of 
chronic treatment. Bradycardia was generally asymptomatic but some patients experienced mild to 
moderate symptoms, including dizziness, fatigue and/or palpitations, which resolved within the first 
24 hours after treatment initiation. 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies first-degree atrioventricular block (prolonged PR interval onECG) 
was detected after treatment initiation in 4.7% of patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg, in 2.8% of patients on 
intramuscular interferon beta-1a, and in 1.5% of patients on placebo. Second-degree atrioventricular 
block was detected in less than 0.5% patients on Gilenya 0.5 mg. In the post-marketing setting, 
isolated reports of transient, spontaneously resolving complete AV block have been observed during 
the six hour monitoring period with Gilenya. The patients recovered spontaneously. The conduction 
abnormalities observed both in clinical trials and post-marketing were typically transient, 
asymptomatic and resolved within the first 24 hours after treatment initiation. Although most patients 
did not require medical intervention, one patient on Gilenya 0.5 mg received isoprenaline for 
asymptomatic second-degree Mobitz I atrioventricular block. 
In the post-marketing setting, isolated delayed onset events, including transient asystole and 
unexplained death, have occurred within 24 hours of the first dose. These cases have been confounded 
by concomitant medicinal products and/or pre-existing disease. The relationship of such events to 
Gilenya is uncertain. 
Blood pressure 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies Gilenya 0.5 mg was associated with an average increase of 
approximately 3 mmHg in systolic pressure and approximately 1 mmHg in diastolic pressure, 
manifesting approximately 1 month after treatment initiation. This increase persisted with continued 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment. Hypertension was reported in 6.1% of patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg and in 3.8% of 
patients on placebo. In the post-marketing setting, cases of hypertension have been reported within the 
first month of treatment initiation and on the first day of treatment that may require treatment with 
antihypertensive agents or discontinuation of Gilenya (see also section 4.4, Blood pressure effects). 
Liver transaminases 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies 8% and 2% of patients treated with Gilenya 0.5 mg experienced 
asymptomatic elevation in serum levels of hepatic transaminases ≥3x ULN (upper limit of normal) and 
≥5x ULN, respectively. Recurrence of liver transaminase elevations has occurred upon re-challenge in 
some patients, supporting a relationship to the medicinal product. In clinical studies, transaminase 
elevations occurred at any time during treatment although the majority occurred within the first 
12 months. Serum transaminase levels returned to normal within approximately 2 months after 
discontinuation of Gilenya. In a small number of patients (N=10 on 1.25 mg, N=2 on 0.5 mg) who 
experienced liver transaminase elevations ≥5x ULN and who continued on Gilenya therapy, the 
elevations returned to normal within approximately 5 months (see also section 4.4, Liver function). 
Nervous system disorders 
Rare events involving the nervous system which occurred in patients treated with fingolimod at higher 
doses (1.25 or 5.0 mg) include ischaemic and haemorrhagic strokes and posterior reversible 
encephalopathy syndrome. Neurological atypical disorders have also been reported, such as acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM)-like events. 
Vascular disorders 
Rare cases of peripheral arterial occlusive disease occurred in patients treated with fingolimod at 
higher doses (1.25 mg). 
Respiratory system 
Minor dose-dependent reductions in values for forced expiratory volume (FEV1) and diffusion 
capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were observed with Gilenya treatment starting at Month 1 and 
remaining stable thereafter. At Month 24, the reduction from baseline values in percentage of 
predicted FEV1 was 3.1% for fingolimod 0.5 mg and 2.0% for placebo, a difference that resolved after 
treatment discontinuation. For DLCO the reductions at Month 24 were 3.8% for fingolimod 0.5 mg 
and 2.7% for placebo. 
Lymphomas 
Three cases of lymphoma, including one fatal case of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) positive B-cell 
lymphoma, have been reported in a population of more than 4,000 patients (approximately 
10,000 patient years) exposed to fingolimod during the clinical programme in multiple sclerosis at, or 
above, the recommended dose of 0.5 mg. This incidence of 3 in 10,000 patient years (95% CI: 0.6-8.8 
per 10,000 patient years) compares to a background incidence of 1.9 in 10,000 patient years in the 
general population. 
4.9  Overdose 
No cases of overdose have been reported. However, single doses up to 80 times the recommended 
dose (0.5 mg) were well tolerated in healthy volunteers. At 40 mg, 5 of 6 subjects reported mild chest 
tightness or discomfort which was clinically consistent with small airway reactivity. 
Fingolimod can induce bradycardia upon treatment initiation. The decline in heart rate usually starts 
within one hour of the first dose, and is steepest within 6 hours. The negative chronotropic effect of 
Gilenya persists beyond 6 hours and progressively attenuates over subsequent days of treatment (see 
section 4.4 for details). There have been reports of slow atrioventricular conduction, with isolated 
reports of transient, spontaneously resolving complete AV block (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the overdose constitutes first exposure to Gilenya, it is important to monitor patients with a 
continuous (real time) ECG and hourly measurement of heart rate and blood pressure, at least during 
the first 6 hours (see section 4.4). 
Additionally, if after 6 hours the heart rate is <45 bpm or if the ECG at 6 hours after the first dose 
shows second degree or higher AV block, or if it shows a QTc interval ≥500 msec, monitoring should 
be extended at least for overnight and until the findings have resolved. The occurrence at any time of 
third degree AV block should also lead to extended monitoring including overnight monitoring. 
Neither dialysis nor plasma exchange results in removal of fingolimod from the body. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AA27 
Mechanism of action 
Fingolimod is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator. Fingolimod is metabolised by 
sphingosine kinase to the active metabolite fingolimod phosphate. Fingolimod phosphate binds at low 
nanomolar concentrations to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor 1 located on lymphocytes, and 
readily crosses the blood-brain barrier to bind to S1P receptor 1 located on neural cells in the central 
nervous system. By acting as a functional antagonist of S1P receptors on lymphocytes, fingolimod 
phosphate blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes, causing a redistribution, 
rather than depletion, of lymphocytes. This redistribution reduces the infiltration of pathogenic 
lymphocyte cells into the central nervous system, where they would be involved in nerve 
inflammation and nervous tissue damage. Animal studies and in vitro experiments indicate that 
fingolimod may also act via interaction with S1P receptors on neural cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Within 4-6 hours after the first dose of fingolimod 0.5 mg, the lymphocyte count decreases to 
approximately 75% of baseline in peripheral blood. With continued daily dosing, the lymphocyte 
count continues to decrease over a two-week period, reaching a minimal count of approximately 
500 cells/microlitre or approximately 30% of baseline. Eighteen percent of patients reached a minimal 
count below 200 cells/microlitre on at least one occasion. Low lymphocyte counts are maintained with 
chronic daily dosing. The majority of T and B lymphocytes regularly traffic through lymphoid organs 
and these are the cells mainly affected by fingolimod. Approximately 15-20% of T lymphocytes have 
an effector memory phenotype, cells that are important for peripheral immune surveillance. Since this 
lymphocyte subset typically does not traffic to lymphoid organs it is not affected by fingolimod. 
Peripheral lymphocyte count increases are evident within days of stopping fingolimod treatment and 
typically normal counts are reached within one to two months. Chronic fingolimod dosing leads to a 
mild decrease in the neutrophil count to approximately 80% of baseline. Monocytes are unaffected by 
fingolimod. 
Fingolimod causes a transient reduction in heart rate and decrease in atrioventricular conduction at 
treatment initiation (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The maximal decline in heart rate is seen in the first 
within 6 hours post dose, with 70% of the negative chronotropic effect achieved on the first day. With 
continued administration heart rate returns to baseline within one month. The decrease in heart rate 
induced by fingolimod can be reversed by parenteral doses of atropine or isoprenaline. Inhaled 
salmeterol has also been shown to have a modest positive chronotropic effect. With initiation of 
fingolimod treatment there is an increase in atrial premature contractions, but there is no increased rate 
of atrial fibrillation/flutter or ventricular arrhythmias or ectopy. Fingolimod treatment is not associated 
with a decrease in cardiac output. Autonomic responses of the heart, including diurnal variation of 
heart rate and response to exercise are not affected by fingolimod treatment. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fingolimod treatment with single or multiple doses of 0.5 and 1.25 mg for two weeks is not associated 
with a detectable increase in airway resistance as measured by FEV1 and forced expiratory flow rate 
(FEF) 25-75. However, single fingolimod doses ≥5 mg (10-fold the recommended dose) are associated 
with a dose-dependent increase in airway resistance. Fingolimod treatment with multiple doses of 0.5, 
1.25, or 5 mg is not associated with impaired oxygenation or oxygen desaturation with exercise or an 
increase in airway responsiveness to methacholine. Subjects on fingolimod treatment have a normal 
bronchodilator response to inhaled beta-agonists. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Gilenya has been demonstrated in two studies which evaluated once-daily doses of 
fingolimod 0.5 mg and 1.25 mg in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Both 
studies included patients who had experienced ≥2 relapses in the prior 2 years or ≥1 relapse during the 
prior year. Expanded Disability Status Score (EDSS) was between 0 and 5.5. 
Study D2301 (FREEDOMS) was a 2-year randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III 
study of 1,272 patients (n=425 on 0.5 mg, 429 on 1.25 mg, 418 on placebo). Median values for 
baseline characteristics were: age 37 years, disease duration 6.7 years, and EDSS score 2.0. Outcome 
results are shown in Table 1. There were no significant differences between the 0.5 mg and the 
1.25 mg doses as regards either endpoint. 
Table 1: Study D2301 (FREEDOMS): Main results 
Fingolimod 
0.5 mg 
Placebo 
17% 
0.40 
46% 
0.18** 
70%** 
Clinical endpoints  
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
24 months 
Proportion with 3-month Confirmed Disability 
Progression† 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
MRI endpoints 
Median (mean) number of new or enlarging T2 
lesions over 24 months 
Median (mean) number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
at Month 24 
Median (mean) % change in brain volume over 
24 months 
† 
** 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat. MRI analyses used evaluable dataset. 
Disability progression defined as 1-point increase in EDSS confirmed 3 months later 
p<0.001, *p<0.05 compared to placebo 
0.70 (0.52, 0.96)* 
-0.7 (-0.8)** 
0.0 (0.2)** 
0.0 (2.5)** 
-1.0 (-1.3) 
5.0 (9.8) 
0.0 (1.1) 
24% 
Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS) was a 1-year randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active 
(interferon beta-1a)-controlled Phase III study of 1,280 patients (n=429 on 0.5 mg, 420 on 1.25 mg, 
431 on interferon beta-1a, 30 µg by intramuscular injection once weekly). Median values for baseline 
characteristics were: age 36 years, disease duration 5.9 years, and EDSS score 2.0. Outcome results 
are shown in Table 2. There were no significant differences between the 0.5 mg and the 1.25 mg doses 
as regards study endpoints. 
Table 2: Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS): Main results 
Clinical endpoints  
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
0.16** 
0.33 
Fingolimod 
0.5 mg 
Interferon beta-
1a, 30 μg 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
6% 
8% 
71% 
83%** 
0.71 (0.42, 1.21) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
12 months 
Proportion with 3-month Confirmed Disability 
Progression† 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
MRI endpoints 
Median (mean) number of new or enlarging T2 
lesions over 12 months 
Median (mean) number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
at 12 months 
Median (mean) % change in brain volume over 
12 months 
† 
* 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat. MRI analyses used evaluable dataset. 
Disability progression defined as 1-point increase in EDSS confirmed 3 months later. 
p<0.01,** p<0.001, compared to interferon beta-1a 
-0.2 (-0.3)** 
0.0 (0.2)** 
-0.4 (-0.5) 
0.0 (1.7)* 
0.0 (0.5) 
1.0 (2.6) 
Pooled results of Studies D2301 and D2302 showed a consistent and statistically significant reduction 
in annualised relapse rate compared to comparator in subgroups defined by gender, age, prior multiple 
sclerosis therapy, disease activity or disability levels at baseline. 
Further analyses of clinical trial data demonstrate consistent treatment effects in highly active 
subgroups of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis patients. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Gilenya in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in multiple sclerosis (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic data were obtained in healthy volunteers, in renal transplant patients and in multiple 
sclerosis patients. 
The pharmacologically active metabolite responsible for efficacy is fingolimod phosphate. 
Absorption 
Fingolimod absorption is slow (tmax of 12-16 hours) and extensive (≥85%). The apparent absolute oral 
bioavailability is 93% (95% confidence interval: 79-111%). Steady-state-blood concentrations are 
reached within 1 to 2 months following once-daily administration and steady-state levels are 
approximately 10-fold greater than with the initial dose. 
Food intake does not alter Cmax or exposure (AUC) of fingolimod. Fingolimod phosphate Cmax was 
slightly increased by 34% but AUC was unchanged. Therefore, Gilenya may be taken without regard 
to meals (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
Fingolimod highly distributes in red blood cells, with the fraction in blood cells of 86%. Fingolimod 
phosphate has a smaller uptake in blood cells of <17%. Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate are 
highly protein bound (>99%). 
Fingolimod is extensively distributed to body tissues with a volume of distribution of about 
1,200260 litres. 
Biotransformation 
Fingolimod is transformed in humans by reversible stereoselective phosphorylation to the 
pharmacologically active (S)-enantiomer of fingolimod phosphate. Fingolimod is eliminated by 
15 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oxidative biotransformation mainly via the cytochrome P450 4F2 isoenzyme and subsequent fatty 
acid-like degradation to inactive metabolites, and by formation of pharmacologically inactive non-
polar ceramide analogues of fingolimod. The main enzyme involved in the metabolism of fingolimod 
is partially identified and may be either CYP4F2 or CYP3A4. 
Following single oral administration of [14C] fingolimod, the major fingolimod-related components in 
blood, as judged from their contribution to the AUC up to 34 days post dose of total radiolabelled 
components, are fingolimod itself (23%), fingolimod phosphate (10%), and inactive metabolites (M3 
carboxylic acid metabolite (8%), M29 ceramide metabolite (9%) and M30 ceramide metabolite (7%)). 
Elimination 
Fingolimod blood clearance is 6.32.3 l/h, and the average apparent terminal half-life (t1/2) is 6-9 days. 
Blood levels of fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate decline in parallel in the terminal phase, leading 
to similar half-lives for both. 
After oral administration, about 81% of the dose is slowly excreted in the urine as inactive 
metabolites. Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate are not excreted intact in urine but are the major 
components in the faeces, with amounts representing less than 2.5% of the dose each. After 34 days, 
the recovery of the administered dose is 89%. 
Linearity 
Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate concentrations increase in an apparently dose proportional 
manner after multiple once-daily doses of 0.5 mg or 1.25 mg. 
Characteristics in specific groups of patients 
The pharmacokinetics of fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate do not differ in males and females, in 
patients of different ethnic origin, or in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. 
In subjects with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, B, and C), no 
change in fingolimod Cmax was observed, but fingolimod AUC was increased respectively by 12%, 
44%, and 103%. In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), fingolimod-
phosphate Cmax was decreased by 22% and AUC was not substantially changed. The pharmacokinetics 
of fingolimod-phosphate were not evaluated in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. 
The apparent elimination half-life of fingolimod is unchanged in subjects with mild hepatic 
impairment, but is prolonged by about 50% in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Fingolimod should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see 
section 4.3). Fingolimod should be introduced cautiously in mild and moderate hepatic impaired 
patients (see section 4.2). 
Clinical experience and pharmacokinetic information in patients aged above 65 years are limited. 
Gilenya should be used with caution in patients aged 65 years and over (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
There are limited data available from a renal transplant study that included 7 children above 11 years 
of age (study FTY720A0115). The comparison of these data to those in adult healthy volunteers is of 
limited relevance and no valid conclusions can be drawn regarding the pharmacokinetic properties of 
fingolimod in children. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The preclinical safety profile of fingolimod was assessed in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys. The major 
target organs were the lymphoid system (lymphopenia and lymphoid atrophy), lungs (increased 
weight, smooth muscle hypertrophy at the bronchio-alveolar junction), and heart (negative 
chronotropic effect, increase in blood pressure, perivascular changes and myocardial degeneration) in 
several species; blood vessels (vasculopathy) in rats only at doses of 0.15 mg/kg and higher in a 2-year 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study, representing an approximate 4-fold margin based on the human systemic exposure (AUC) at a 
daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in a 2-year bioassay in rats at oral doses of fingolimod 
up to the maximally tolerated dose of 2.5 mg/kg, representing an approximate 50-fold margin based on 
human systemic exposure (AUC) at the 0.5 mg dose. However, in a 2-year mouse study, an increased 
incidence of malignant lymphoma was seen at doses of 0.25 mg/kg and higher, representing an 
approximate 6-fold margin based on the human systemic exposure (AUC) at a daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
Fingolimod was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic in animal studies. 
Fingolimod had no effect on sperm count/motility or on fertility in male and female rats up to the 
highest dose tested (10 mg/kg), representing an approximate 150-fold margin based on human 
systemic exposure (AUC) at a daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
Fingolimod was teratogenic in the rat when given at doses of 0.1 mg/kg or higher. The most common 
foetal visceral malformations included persistent truncus arteriosus and ventricular septum defect. The 
teratogenic potential in rabbits could not be fully assessed, however an increased embryo-foetal 
mortality was seen at doses of 1.5 mg/kg and higher, and a decrease in viable foetuses as well as foetal 
growth retardation was seen at 5 mg/kg. 
In rats, F1 generation pup survival was decreased in the early postpartum period at doses that did not 
cause maternal toxicity. However, F1 body weights, development, behaviour, and fertility were not 
affected by treatment with fingolimod. 
Fingolimod was excreted in milk of treated animals during lactation. Fingolimod and its metabolites 
crossed the placental barrier in pregnant rabbits. 
Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) 
A risk for the environment due to use of Gilenya by patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis is not 
expected. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule core: 
Magnesium stearate 
Mannitol 
Capsule shell: 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Gelatin 
Printing ink: 
Shellac (E904) 
Dehydrated alcohol 
Isopropyl alcohol 
Butyl alcohol 
Propylene glycol 
Purified water 
Strong ammonia solution 
Potassium hydroxide 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Dimethicone 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium blister packs containing 7 or 28 hard capsules or multipacks containing 
84 (3 packs of 28) hard capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium perforated unit dose blister packs containing 7x 1 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/001-005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
17.03.2011 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
Marketing Authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the medicinal product is 
on the market. 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance 
Plan, as agreed in the RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any 
subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (CHMP). 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
 
 
reached 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Prior to launch in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree the 
educational material with the National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussions and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where GILENYA is marketed, at launch and after launch all 
physicians who intend to prescribe GILENYA are provided with an updated physician information 
pack containing the following elements: 
  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
  Physician’s checklist prior to prescribing GILENYA 
  Information about the Fingolimod Pregnancy Exposure Registry  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Patient reminder card 
The physician’s checklist shall contain the following key messages: 
o  Monitoring requirements at treatment initiation 
Before first dose 
o 
Perform baseline ECG prior to the first dose of GILENYA (or when the last dose of 
GILENYA was more than two weeks previously). 
Perform blood pressure measurement prior to the first dose of GILENYA (or when the 
last dose of GILENYA was more than two weeks previously). 
Perform a liver function test prior to treatment initiation. 
Arrange ophthalmological assessment prior to initiation with GILENYA in patients with 
diabetes mellitus or with a history of uveitis. 
o 
o 
o 
Until 6 hours after first dose (or if the last dose of GILENYA was more than two weeks 
previously) 
o  Monitor the patient for 6 hours after the first dose of GILENYA has been administered 
for signs and symptoms of bradycardia, including hourly pulse and blood pressure 
checks. Continuous (real time) ECG monitoring is recommended. 
Perform an ECG at the end of the 6-hour monitoring period. 
o 
>6 to 8 hours after first dose (or if the last dose of GILENYA was more than two weeks 
previously) 
o 
If, at the 6-hour time point, the heart rate is at the lowest value following the first dose, 
extend heart rate monitoring for at least 2 more hours and until the heart rate increases 
again. 
o 
Recommendation for overnight monitoring after the first dose (or if the last dose of GILENYA 
was more than two weeks previously). 
Extend heart rate monitoring for at least overnight in a medical facility and until resolution of 
findings in patients: 
o 
o  With third degree AV block occurring at any time. 
o  Where at the 6-hour time point: 
Requiring pharmacological intervention during monitoring at treatment initiation. 
 
 
 
Heart rate <45 bpm. 
New onset second degree or higher AV block. 
QTc interval 500 msec. 
o 
Second degree Mobitz Type II or higher AV block 
Sick-sinus syndrome 
Sino-atrial heart block 
QTc prolongation >470 msec (females) or >450 msec (males) 
Ischaemic cardiac disease including angina pectoris 
Cerebrovascular disease 
History of myocardial infarction 
Congestive heart failure 
History of cardiac arrest 
Severe sleep apnoea 
History of symptomatic bradycardia 
History of recurrent syncope 
Uncontrolled hypertension 
That GILENYA is not recommended in patients with: 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
If GILENYA treatment is considered in these patients anticipated benefits must outweigh 
potential risks and a cardiologist must be consulted to determine appropriate monitoring, at least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients concomitantly taking Class Ia or Class III anti-
arrhythmic medicines. 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients concomitantly taking medicines which are known to 
decrease the heart rate. If GILENYA treatment is considered in these patients anticipated 
benefits must outweigh potential risks and a cardiologist must be consulted to switch to non 
heart-rate-lowering therapy or, if not possible, to determine appropriate monitoring. At least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended. 
GILENYA reduces peripheral blood lymphocyte counts. There is a need to check the patient’s 
peripheral lymphocyte count (CBC) prior to initiation and to monitor during treatment with 
GILENYA. 
GILENYA may increase the risk of infections. Treatment initiation in patients with severe 
active infection should be delayed until the infection is resolved. Suspension of treatment during 
serious infections should be considered. Concomitant treatment with immunosuppressants or 
immune-modulating medicines should be avoided. 
The need to instruct patients to report signs and symptoms of infections immediately to their 
prescriber during and for up to two months after treatment with GILENYA. 
Specific recommendations regarding vaccination for patients initiating or currently on 
GILENYA treatment. 
The need for a full ophthalmological assessment 3-4 months after starting GILENYA therapy 
for the early detection of visual impairment due to drug-induced macular oedema. 
The need for ophthalmological assessment during treatment with GILENYA in patients with 
diabetes mellitus or with a history of uveitis. 
The teratogenic risk of GILENYA: the importance of avoiding pregnancy when undergoing 
treatment with GILENYA and the need for a negative pregnancy test result prior to treatment 
initiation. This should be repeated at suitable intervals. 
The need to advise women of child-bearing potential on the serious risk to the foetus and the 
need to practice effective contraception during treatment and for at least two months following 
discontinuation of treatment with GILENYA. 
The need for liver function monitoring at months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 during GILENYA therapy 
and periodically thereafter. 
The need to provide patients with the patient reminder card. 
The patient reminder card shall contain the following key messages: 
o 
o 
o 
That they will have a baseline ECG and blood pressure measurement prior to the first dose of 
GILENYA (or when the last dose of GILENYA has been administered more than two weeks 
ago). 
That their heart rate will need to be monitored for 6 or more hours after the first dose of 
GILENYA (or when the last dose of GILENYA has been administered more than two weeks 
ago), including hourly pulse and blood pressure checks. They will need an ECG at 6 hours and 
in some circumstances monitoring may involve an overnight stay. 
The need to report immediately symptoms indicating low heart rate (such as dizziness, vertigo, 
nausea or palpitations) after the first dose of GILENYA. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
o 
o 
o 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients with cardiac disease or those taking medicines 
concomitantly known to decrease heart rate and they should tell any doctor they see that they 
are being treated with GILENYA. 
The signs and symptoms of infection and the need to report these immediately to the prescriber 
during and up to two months after treatment with GILENYA. 
The need to report any symptoms of visual impairment immediately to the prescriber during and 
for up to two months after the end of treatment with GILENYA. 
That GILENYA is teratogenic so women with childbearing potential must: 
o 
o 
Have a negative pregnancy test. 
Be using effective contraception during and for at least two months following 
discontinuation of treatment with GILENYA. 
Report any (intended or unintended) pregnancy during and two months following 
discontinuation of treatment with GILENYA immediately to the prescriber. 
o 
o 
The need for a liver function test prior to treatment initiation and for liver function monitoring 
at months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 during GILENYA therapy and periodically thereafter. 
 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
Conduct of a prospective cohort study assessing the incidence of cardiovascular 
adverse events in patients starting GILENYA treatment for relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date 
Final Study 
report by 15 
December 
2020 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/005 
28 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK – WALLET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 hard capsules 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
To open: While pressing tab 1 firmly, pull on tab 2. 
Week 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/002 
EU/1/11/677/003 
7 capsules 
28 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK CONTAINING WALLETS (WITH BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack containing 84 (3 packs of 28) hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/004 
84 capsules (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK – WALLET (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
Component of a multipack comprising 3 cartons, each containing 28 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
To open: While pressing tab 1 firmly, pull on tab 2. 
Week 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/004 
84 capsules (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 hard capsules (in single-unit-dose blisters) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/001 
7 capsules (in single-unit-dose blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR WALLET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0,5 mg 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
5. 
OTHER 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Fingolimod 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their symptoms are the same as yours. 
If any of the side effects gets serious, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, 
please tell your doctor or pharmacist. 
- 
In this leaflet: 
1.  What Gilenya is and what it is used for 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Before you take Gilenya 
How to take Gilenya 
Possible side effects 
How to store Gilenya 
Further information 
1.  WHAT GILENYA IS AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
What Gilenya is 
The active substance of Gilenya is fingolimod. 
What Gilenya is used for 
Gilenya is used in adults to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), more specifically in: 
Patients who have failed to respond despite treatment with beta-interferon (another MS treatment). 
or 
Patients who have rapidly evolving severe MS. 
Gilenya does not cure MS, but it helps to reduce the number of relapses and to slow down the 
progression of physical disabilities due to MS. 
What is multiple sclerosis 
MS is a long-term condition that affects the central nervous system (CNS), comprised of the brain and 
spinal cord. In MS inflammation destroys the protective sheath (called myelin) around the nerves in 
the CNS and stops the nerves from working properly. This is called demyelination. 
Relapsing-remitting MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) of nervous system symptoms 
that reflect inflammation within the CNS. Symptoms vary from patient to patient but typically involve 
walking difficulties, numbness, vision problems or disturbed balance. Symptoms of a relapse may 
disappear completely when the relapse is over, but some problems may remain. 
How Gilenya works 
Gilenya helps to protect against attacks on the CNS by the immune system by reducing the ability of 
some white blood cells (lymphocytes) to move freely within the body and by stopping them from 
reaching the brain and spinal cord. This limits nerve damage caused by MS. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
BEFORE YOU TAKE GILENYA 
Do not take Gilenya 
- 
- 
if you have a lowered immune response (due to an immunodeficiency syndrome, a disease or 
to medicines that suppress the immune system). 
if you have a severe active infection or active chronic infection such as hepatitis or 
tuberculosis. 
if you have an active cancer (unless it is a type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma). 
if you have severe liver problems. 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to fingolimod or any of the other ingredients of Gilenya. 
- 
- 
- 
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Gilenya. 
Take special care with Gilenya 
Talk to your doctor before taking Gilenya: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have irregular, abnormal heart beat. 
if you suffer from symptoms of slow heart rate (e.g. dizziness, nausea, or palpitations). 
if you have any heart problems, blocked heart blood vessels, have had a heart attack, have 
a history of your heart having stopped or if you have angina. 
If you have had a stroke. 
if you suffer from heart failure. 
if you have severe breathing problems during sleep (severe sleep apnoea). 
if you have been told you have an abnormal electrocardiogram. 
if you are taking medicine for irregular heartbeat such as quinidine, disopyramide, 
amiodarone or sotalol. 
if you are taking medicines that slow your heart rate (such as beta blockers, verapamil, 
diltiazem or ivabradine, digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine). 
if you have a history of sudden loss of consciousness or fainting (syncope). 
if you plan to get vaccinated. 
if you have never had chickenpox. 
if you have or have had visual disturbances or other signs of swelling in the central vision 
area (macula) at the back of the eye (a condition known as macular oedema, see below), 
inflammation or infection of the eye (uveitis), or if you have diabetes (which can cause eye 
problems). 
if you have liver problems. 
if you have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicines. 
if you have severe lung problems or smoker’s cough. 
- 
- 
- 
If any of these applies to you, tell your doctor before taking Gilenya. 
Slow heart rate (bradycardia) and irregular heartbeat: At the beginning of treatment, Gilenya 
causes the heart rate to slow down. As a result, you may feel dizzy or tired, or be consciously aware of 
your heartbeat, or your blood pressure may drop. If these effects are pronounced, tell your doctor, 
because you may need treatment right away. Gilenya can also cause an irregular heartbeat, 
especially after the first dose. Irregular heartbeat usually returns to normal in less than one day. Slow 
heart rate usually returns to normal within one month. 
Your doctor will ask you to stay at the surgery or clinic for at least 6 hours, with hourly pulse and 
blood pressure measurements, after taking the first dose of Gilenya so that appropriate measures can 
be taken in the event of side effects that occur at the start of treatment. You should have an 
electrocardiogram performed prior to the first dose of Gilenya and after the 6-hour monitoring period. 
Your doctor may monitor your electrocardiogram continuously during that time. If after the 6-hour 
period you have a very slow or decreasing heart rate, or if your electrocardiogram shows 
abnormalities, you may need to be monitored for a longer period (at least 2 more hours and possibly 
overnight) until these have resolved. The same applies if you are resuming Gilenya after a break of 
more than two weeks. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have, or if you are at risk for, an irregular or abnormal heartbeat, if your electrocardiogram is 
abnormal, or if you have heart disease or heart failure, Gilenya may not be appropriate for you. 
If you have a history of sudden loss of consciousness or decreased heart rate, Gilenya may not be 
appropriate for you. You will be evaluated by a cardiologist (heart specialist) to advise how you 
should start treatment with Gilenya, including overnight monitoring. 
If you are taking medicines that can cause your heart rate to decrease, Gilenya may not be appropriate 
for you. You will need to be evaluated by a cardiologist, who will check whether you can be switched 
to alternative medication that does not decrease your heart rate in order to allow treatment with 
Gilenya. If such a switch is impossible, the cardiologist will advise how you should start treatment 
with Gilenya, including overnight monitoring. 
If you have never had chickenpox: If you have never had chickenpox, your doctor may want to 
check your immunity against the virus that causes it (varicella zoster virus). If you are not protected 
against the virus, you may need a vaccination before you start treatment with Gilenya. If this is the 
case, your doctor will delay the start of treatment with Gilenya by one month. 
Infections: Gilenya lowers the white blood cell count (particularly the lymphocyte count). White 
blood cells fight infection. While you are taking Gilenya (and for up to 2 months after you stop taking 
it), you may get infections more easily. Any infection that you already have may get worse. Infections 
could be serious and life-threatening. If you think you have an infection, have fever, or feel like you 
have the flu, call your doctor right away. 
Macular oedema: Before you start Gilenya, if you have or have had visual disturbances or other signs 
of swelling in the central vision area (macula) at the back of the eye, inflammation or infection of the 
eye (uveitis) or diabetes, your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination. 
Your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination 3 to 4 months after starting Gilenya 
treatment. 
The macula is a small area of the retina at the back of the eye which enables you to see shapes, 
colours, and details clearly and sharply. Gilenya may cause swelling in the macula, a condition that is 
known as macular oedema. The swelling usually happens in the first 4 months of Gilenya treatment. 
Your chance of developing macular oedema is higher if you have diabetes or have had an 
inflammation of the eye called uveitis. In these cases your doctor will want you to undergo regular eye 
examinations in order to detect macular oedema. 
If you have had macular oedema, talk to your doctor before you resume treatment with Gilenya. 
Macular oedema can cause some of the same vision symptoms as an MS attack (optic neuritis). Early 
on, there may not be any symptoms. Be sure to tell your doctor about any changes in your vision. 
Your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination, especially if: 
- 
- 
- 
the centre of your vision gets blurry or has shadows; 
you develop a blind spot in the centre of your vision; 
you have problems seeing colours or fine detail. 
Liver function tests: If you have severe liver problems, you should not take Gilenya. Gilenya may 
cause abnormal results of liver function tests. You will probably not notice any symptoms but if you 
notice yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, abnormal darkening of the urine or 
unexplained nausea and vomiting, tell your doctor straight away. 
If you get any of these symptoms after starting Gilenya, tell your doctor straight away. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the first twelve months of treatment your doctor will request blood tests to monitor your liver 
function. If your test results indicate a problem with your liver you may have to interrupt treatment 
with Gilenya. 
High blood pressure 
As Gilenya causes a slight elevation of blood pressure, your doctor may want to check your blood 
pressure regularly. 
Lung problems 
Gilenya has a slight effect on the lung function. Patients with severe lung problems or with smoker’s 
cough may have a higher chance of developing side effects. 
Blood count 
The desired effect of Gilenya treatment is to reduce the amount of white blood cells in your blood. 
This will usually go back to normal within 2 months of stopping treatment. If you need to have any 
blood tests, tell the doctor that you are taking Gilenya. Otherwise, it may not be possible for the doctor 
to understand the results of the test, and for certain types of blood test your doctor may need to take 
more blood than usual. 
Before you start Gilenya, your doctor will confirm whether you have enough white blood cells in your 
blood and may want to repeat a check regularly. In case you do not have enough white blood cells, 
you may have to interrupt treatment with Gilenya. 
Elderly 
Experience with Gilenya in elderly patients (over 65 years) is limited. Talk to your doctor if you have 
any concerns. 
Use in children 
Gilenya is not intended to be used in children and adolescents below 18 years old as it has not been 
studied in MS patients below 18 years old. 
Taking other medicines 
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, 
including medicines obtained without a prescription. Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the 
following medicines: 
  Medicines that suppress or modulate the immune system, including other medicines used 
 
to treat MS, such as beta interferon, glatiramer acetate, natalizumab or mitoxantrone. You must 
not use Gilenya together with such medicines as this could intensify the effect on the immune 
system (see also ‘Do not take Gilenya’). 
Vaccines. During and for up to 2 months after treatment with Gilenya, you should not be given 
certain types of vaccine (live attenuated vaccines) as they could trigger the infection that they 
were supposed to prevent. Other vaccines may not work as well as usual if given during this 
period. 
  Medicines that slow the heartbeat (for example beta blockers, such as atenolol). Use of 
Gilenya together with such medicines could intensify the effect on heartbeat in the first days 
after starting Gilenya. 
  Medicines for irregular heartbeat, such as quinidine, disopyramide, amiodarone or sotalol. 
Your doctor may decide not to prescribe Gilenya if you are taking such a medicine because it 
could intensify the effect on irregular heartbeat. 
Other medicines: protease inhibitors, anti-infectives such as ketoconazole, azole antifungals, 
clarithromycin or telithromycin. 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Before you start treatment with Gilenya your doctor may ask you to do a pregnancy test in order to 
ensure that you are not pregnant. You should avoid becoming pregnant while taking Gilenya or in the 
two months after you stop taking it because there is a risk of harm to the baby. Talk with your doctor 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
about reliable methods of birth control that you should use during treatment and for 2 months after you 
stop treatment. 
If you do become pregnant while taking Gilenya, stop taking the medicine and tell your doctor 
straight away. You and your doctor will decide what is best for you and your baby. 
You should not breast-feed while you are taking Gilenya. Gilenya can pass into breast milk and 
there is a risk of serious side effects for the baby. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Your doctor will tell you whether your illness allows you to drive vehicles and use machines safely. 
Gilenya is not expected to have an influence on your ability to drive and use machines. 
However, at initiation of treatment you will have to stay at the doctor’s surgery or clinic for 6 hours 
after taking the first dose of Gilenya. Your ability to drive and use machines may be impaired during 
and potentially after this time period. 
3. 
HOW TO TAKE GILENYA 
Treatment with Gilenya will be overseen by a doctor who is experienced in the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis. 
Always take Gilenya exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor if you 
are not sure. 
The dose is one capsule per day. Take Gilenya once a day with a glass of water. Gilenya can be 
taken with or without food. 
Taking Gilenya at the same time each day will help you remember when to take your medicine. 
Do not exceed the recommended dose. 
Your doctor may switch you directly from beta interferon to Gilenya if there are no signs of 
abnormalities caused by your previous treatment. Your doctor may have to do a blood test in order to 
exclude such abnormalities. After stopping natalizumab you may have to wait for 2-3 months before 
starting treatment with Gilenya. 
If you have questions about how long to take Gilenya, talk to your doctor or your pharmacist. 
If you take more Gilenya than you should 
If you have taken too much Gilenya, call your doctor straight away. 
If you forget to take Gilenya 
If you forget to take a dose, take the next dose as planned. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Gilenya 
Do not stop taking Gilenya or change your dose without talking to your doctor first. 
Gilenya will stay in your body for up to 2 months after you stop taking it. Your white blood cell count 
(lymphocyte count) may also remain low during this time and the side effects described in this leaflet 
may still occur. After stopping Gilenya you may have to wait for 6-8 weeks before starting a new MS 
treatment. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have to restart Gilenya more than 2 weeks after you stop taking it, the effect on heart rate 
normally seen when treatment is first started may re-occur and you will need to be monitored at the 
doctor’s surgery or clinic for re-initiation of treatment. Do not restart Gilenya after stopping it for 
more than two weeks without seeking advice from your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS 
Like all medicines, Gilenya can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects may occur with certain frequencies, which are defined as follows: 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
affects more than 1 user in 10 
affects 1 to 10 users in 100 
affects 1 to 10 users in 1,000 
affects 1 to 10 users in 10,000 
affects less than 1 user in 10,000 
frequency cannot be estimated from the available data. 
Some side effects could be or could become serious 
Common: 
- 
- 
- 
Cough with phlegm, chest discomfort, fever (signs of lung disorders) 
Feeling sick with nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea (signs of bowel problems) 
Herpes virus infection (shingles or herpes zoster) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, 
itching or pain around the mouth or genitals. Other symptoms may be fever and weakness in the 
early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching, and red patches or blisters on the face 
or trunk 
Slow heartbeat (bradycardia), irregular heart rhythm 
- 
Uncommon: 
- 
- 
Pneumonia with symptoms such as fever, cough, difficulty breathing 
Macular oedema (swelling in the central vision area of the retina at the back of the eye) with 
symptoms such as shadows or blind spot in the centre of the vision, blurred vision, problems 
seeing colours or details 
If you experience any of these, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects 
Very common 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Infection from flu virus with symptoms such as tiredness, chills, sore throat, aching in the joints 
or muscles, fever 
Headache 
Diarrhoea 
Back pain 
Cough 
Increase in blood levels of a liver enzyme (ALT) 
Feeling of pressure or pain in the cheeks and forehead (sinusitis) 
Fungal infections affecting the skin, hair or nails (ringworm) 
Dizziness 
Tingling or numbness 
Severe headache often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light (signs of 
migraine) 
Low level of white blood cells (lymphocytes, leucocytes) 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Weakness 
Itchy, red, burning rash (signs of eczema) 
Hair loss 
Itching 
Weight loss 
Breathlessness 
Depression 
Eye pain 
Blurred vision (see also the section on macular oedema under “Some side effects could be or 
could become serious”) 
Hypertension (Gilenya may cause a mild increase in blood pressure) 
Increase in blood levels of hepatic enzymes 
Increase in blood levels of certain lipids (triglycerides) 
Uncommon 
- 
- 
Low level of certain white blood cells (neutrophils) 
Depressed mood 
Rare 
- 
- 
- 
Blood vessel disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cancer of the lymphatic system (lymphoma) 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor 
If any of the side effects gets serious, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, please 
tell your doctor or pharmacist. 
5. 
HOW TO STORE GILENYA 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
Do not use Gilenya after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister foil after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
What Gilenya contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is fingolimod. Each capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as 
hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule core: magnesium stearate, mannitol 
Capsule shell: yellow iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), gelatin 
Printing ink: shellac (E904), dehydrated alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, butyl alcohol, propylene 
glycol, purified water, strong ammonia solution, potassium hydroxide, black iron oxide (E172), 
yellow iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), dimethicone 
What Gilenya looks like and contents of the pack 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules have a white opaque body and bright yellow opaque cap. “FTY0.5mg” 
is imprinted on the cap with black ink and two bands are imprinted on the body with yellow ink. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gilenya is available in packs containing 7 or 28 capsules or in multipacks containing 84 capsules 
(3 packs of 28 capsules). Not all pack sizes may be marketed in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Wimblehurst Road 
Horsham 
West Sussex, RH12 5AB 
United Kingdom 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Ireland 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. Pharma 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2298 3217 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 26 37 82 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd. 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
Lietuva 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
This leaflet was last approved in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
