EMA/685570/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002202 
Gilenya (fingolimod) 
An overview of Gilenya and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Gilenya and what is it used for? 
Gilenya is a type of medicine known as a ‘disease-modifying therapy’ that is used to treat adults and 
children over 10 years of age with highly active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease 
of the nerves in which inflammation destroys the protective sheath surrounding the nerve cells. 
‘Relapsing-remitting’ means that the patient has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods 
of recovery (remissions). Gilenya is used when the disease remains active despite appropriate 
treatment with at least one other disease-modifying therapy, or is severe and getting worse rapidly. 
Gilenya contains the active substance fingolimod.  
How is Gilenya used? 
Gilenya can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in multiple sclerosis. Gilenya is available as capsules (0.25 mg and 0.5 mg). The 
recommended dose for adults is one 0.5 mg capsule taken once a day by mouth, the recommended 
dose for children depends on body weight.  
Because Gilenya decreases the heart rate and can affect the heart’s electrical activity and rhythm, the 
patient’s blood pressure and heart activity is checked before starting treatment and during treatment, 
and also if Gilenya treatment is restarted after an interruption. Details on the recommendations for 
monitoring patients are found in the summary of product characteristics. 
For more information about using Gilenya, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Gilenya work? 
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system (the body’s defences) incorrectly attacks the protective 
sheath around the nerves in the brain and spinal cord. The active substance in Gilenya, fingolimod, 
prevents T cells (a type of white blood cell involved in the immune system) travelling from the lymph 
nodes towards the brain and spinal cord, thus limiting the damage they cause in multiple sclerosis. It 
does this by blocking the action of a receptor (target) on the T cells called the sphingosine-1-
phosphate receptor, which is involved in controlling the movement of these cells in the body.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Gilenya have been shown in studies? 
Three main studies in adults and one main study in children have found that Gilenya was more 
effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) or interferon beta-1a (another medicine for treating 
multiple sclerosis) in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The main measure of 
effectiveness in all the studies was based on the number of relapses the patients experienced each 
year. 
In two studies involving a total of 2,355 patients, Gilenya was compared with placebo over two years. 
Patients treated with Gilenya had around half the number of relapses compared with patients given 
placebo. 
In a third study involving 1,292 patients, Gilenya was compared with interferon beta-1a over one year. 
Patients receiving Gilenya had around half the number of relapses compared with patients given 
interferon beta-1a.  
In a study involving 215 children, Gilenya was compared with interferon beta-1a for up to 2 years. Of 
patients given Gilenya, 14% (15 out of 107) experienced relapses compared with 54% (58 out of 107) 
of patients given interferon beta-1a.  
What are the risks associated with Gilenya? 
The most common side effects with Gilenya (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are flu, sinusitis 
(inflammation of the sinuses), headache, cough, diarrhoea, back pain and raised liver enzyme levels (a 
sign of liver problems). The most serious side effects are infections, macular oedema (swelling in the 
central part of the retina at the back of the eye) and atrioventricular block (a type of heart rhythm 
disorder) at the start of treatment. For the full list of side effects of Gilenya, see the package leaflet. 
Gilenya must not be used in patients at risk of infections due to a weakened immune system, patients 
with a severe infection or a long-term active infection such as hepatitis, and patients with cancer or 
severe liver problems. Gilenya must also not be used in patients with certain diseases affecting the 
heart and blood vessels or in those who have had such diseases or problems with the blood supply to 
the brain. Women should not become pregnant while taking Gilenya and for two months after 
treatment has stopped. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Gilenya authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that there is clear evidence of the benefit of Gilenya in 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in both adults and children and noted that it had the benefit of 
being taken by mouth while most other medicines for this disease are given by injection. However, 
because of possible side effects, the Agency concluded that Gilenya should only be used in patients 
who have a real need for the medicine either because their disease has not improved with at least one 
other disease-modifying therapy or because it is severe and getting worse rapidly. In addition, the 
Agency concluded that all patients should have their heart activity closely monitored after the first 
dose. The Agency decided that Gilenya’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation.  
Gilenya (fingolimod)  
EMA/685570/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Gilenya? 
The company that markets Gilenya will provide results from a study to assess the risk of side effects 
on the heart and circulation. It must also ensure that all doctors who prescribe Gilenya receive an 
information pack containing important safety information, including a checklist of the risks with Gilenya 
and the situations where its use is not recommended. The checklist includes information on the tests 
and monitoring in patients before and during treatment with Gilenya. The pack will also include 
information on a registry to collect data on babies born to women treated with Gilenya, as well as a 
patient reminder card for patients or their carers with key safety information.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Gilenya have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Gilenya are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Gilenya are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Gilenya 
Gilenya received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 March 2011.  
Further information on Gilenya can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Gilenya.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Gilenya (fingolimod)  
EMA/685570/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
