Product Information as approved by the CHMP on 25 July 2019, pending endorsement by the 
European Commission 
ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
Each 0.25 mg capsule contains 0.25 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Each 0.5 mg capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
Capsule of 16 mm with ivory opaque cap and body, with black radial imprint “FTY 0.25mg” on cap 
and black radial band on body. 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Capsule of 16 mm with bright yellow opaque cap and white opaque body; imprint with black ink, 
“FTY0.5 mg” on cap and two radial bands imprinted on the body with yellow ink. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Gilenya is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following groups of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 10 years and older: 
- 
or 
- 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout periods see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
The treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in multiple sclerosis. 
Posology 
In adults, the recommended dose of Gilenya is one 0.5 mg capsule taken orally once daily. 
In paediatric patients (10 years of age and above), the recommended dose is dependent on body 
weight: 
- 
- 
Paediatric patients with body weight ≤40 kg: one 0.25 mg capsule taken orally once daily. 
Paediatric patients with body weight >40 kg: one 0.5 mg capsule taken orally once daily. 
Paediatric patients who start on 0.25 mg capsules and subsequently reach a stable body weight above 
40 kg should be switched to 0.5 mg capsules. 
When switching from a 0.25 mg to a 0.5 mg daily dose, it is recommended to repeat the same first 
dose monitoring as for treatment initiation. 
Gilenya can be taken with or without food. 
The capsules should always be swallowed intact, without opening them. 
The same first dose monitoring as for treatment initiation is recommended when treatment is 
interrupted for: 
- 
- 
- 
If the treatment interruption is of shorter duration than the above, the treatment should be continued 
with the next dose as planned (see section 4.4). 
1 day or more during the first 2 weeks of treatment. 
more than 7 days during weeks 3 and 4 of treatment. 
more than 2 weeks after one month of treatment. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
Gilenya should be used with caution in patients aged 65 years and over due to insufficient data on 
safety and efficacy (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Gilenya was not studied in patients with renal impairment in the multiple sclerosis pivotal studies. 
Based on clinical pharmacology studies, no dose adjustments are needed in patients with mild to 
severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Gilenya must not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see 
section 4.3). Although no dose adjustments are needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment, caution should be exercised when initiating treatment in these patients (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Gilenya in children aged below 10 years have not yet been established. No 
data are available. 
There are very limited data available in children between 10–12 years old (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 
5.1). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
This medicinal product is for oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised 
patients (including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those 
immunocompromised by prior therapies). 
Severe active infections, active chronic infections (hepatitis, tuberculosis). 
Active malignancies. 
Severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh class C). 
Patients who in the previous 6 months had myocardial infarction (MI), unstable angina pectoris, 
stroke/transient ischaemic attack (TIA), decompensated heart failure (requiring inpatient 
treatment), or New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III/IV heart failure (see section 4.4). 
Patients with severe cardiac arrhythmias requiring anti-arrhythmic treatment with class Ia or 
class III anti-arrhythmic medicinal products (see section 4.4). 
Patients with second-degree Mobitz type II atrioventricular (AV) block or third-degree AV 
block, or sick-sinus syndrome, if they do not wear a pacemaker (see section 4.4). 
Patients with a baseline QTc interval ≥ 500 msec (see section 4.4). 
During pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Bradyarrhythmia 
Initiation of Gilenya treatment results in a transient decrease in heart rate and may also be associated 
with atrioventricular conduction delays, including the occurrence of isolated reports of transient, 
spontaneously resolving complete AV block (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
After the first dose, the decline in heart rate starts within one hour, and is maximal within 6 hours. 
This post-dose effect persists over the following days, although usually to a milder extent, and usually 
abates over the next weeks. With continued administration, the average heart rate returns towards 
baseline within one month. However individual patients may not return to baseline heart rate by the 
end of the first month. Conduction abnormalities were typically transient and asymptomatic. They 
usually did not require treatment and resolved within the first 24 hours on treatment. If necessary, the 
decrease in heart rate induced by fingolimod can be reversed by parenteral doses of atropine or 
isoprenaline. 
All patients should have an ECG and blood pressure measurement performed prior to and 6 hours after 
the first dose of Gilenya. All patients should be monitored for a period of 6 hours for signs and 
symptoms of bradycardia with hourly heart rate and blood pressure measurement. Continuous (real 
time) ECG monitoring during this 6 hour period is recommended. 
The same precautions as for the first dose are recommended when patients are switched from the 
0.25 mg to the 0.5 mg daily dose. 
Should post-dose bradyarrhythmia-related symptoms occur, appropriate clinical management should 
be initiated and monitoring should be continued until the symptoms have resolved. Should a patient 
require pharmacological intervention during the first-dose monitoring, overnight monitoring in a 
medical facility should be instituted and the first-dose monitoring should be repeated after the second 
dose of Gilenya. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the heart rate at 6 hours is the lowest since the first dose was administered (suggesting that the 
maximum pharmacodynamic effect on the heart may not yet be manifest), monitoring should be 
extended by at least 2 hours and until heart rate increases again. Additionally, if after 6 hours, the heart 
rate is <45 bpm in adults, <55 bpm in paediatric patients aged 12 years and above, or <60 bpm in 
paediatric patients aged 10 to below 12 years, or the ECG shows new onset second degree or higher 
grade AV block or a QTc interval ≥500 msec, extended monitoring (at least overnight monitoring), 
should be performed, and until the findings have resolved. The occurrence at any time of third degree 
AV block should also lead to extended monitoring (at least overnight monitoring). 
The effects on heart rate and atrioventricular conduction may recur on re-introduction of Gilenya 
treatment depending on duration of the interruption and time since start of Gilenya treatment. The 
same first dose monitoring as for treatment initiation is recommended when treatment is interrupted 
for: 
- 
- 
- 
If the treatment interruption is of shorter duration than the above, the treatment should be continued 
with the next dose as planned. 
1 day or more during the first 2 weeks of treatment. 
more than 7 days during weeks 3 and 4 of treatment. 
more than 2 weeks after one month of treatment. 
Very rare cases of T-wave inversion have been reported in adult patients treated with fingolimod. In 
case of T-wave inversion, the prescriber should ensure that there are no associated myocardial 
ischaemia signs or symptoms. If myocardial ischaemia is suspected, it is recommended to seek advice 
from a cardiologist. 
Due to the risk of serious rhythm disturbances or significant bradycardia, Gilenya should not be used 
in patients with sino-atrial heart block, a history of symptomatic bradycardia, recurrent syncope or 
cardiac arrest, or in patients with significant QT prolongation (QTc>470 msec [adult female], QTc 
>460 msec [paediatric female] or >450 msec [adult and paediatric male]), uncontrolled hypertension or 
severe sleep apnoea (see also section 4.3). In such patients, treatment with Gilenya should be 
considered only if the anticipated benefits outweigh the potential risks, and advice from a cardiologist 
sought prior to initiation of treatment in order to determine the most appropriate monitoring. At least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended for treatment initiation (see also section 4.5). 
Gilenya has not been studied in patients with arrhythmias requiring treatment with class Ia (e.g. 
quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medicinal products. 
Class Ia and class III antiarrhythmic medicinal products have been associated with cases of torsades de 
pointes in patients with bradycardia (see section 4.3). 
Experience with Gilenya is limited in patients receiving concurrent therapy with beta blockers, heart-
rate-lowering calcium channel blockers (such as verapamil or diltiazem), or other substances which 
may decrease heart rate (e.g. ivabradine, digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine). Since the 
initiation of Gilenya treatment is also associated with slowing of the heart rate (see also section 4.8, 
Bradyarrhythmia), concomitant use of these substances during Gilenya initiation may be associated 
with severe bradycardia and heart block. Because of the potential additive effect on heart rate 
treatment with Gilenya should not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with these 
substances (see also section 4.5). In such patients, treatment with Gilenya should be considered only if 
the anticipated benefits outweigh the potential risks. If treatment with Gilenya is considered, advice 
from a cardiologist should be sought regarding the switch to non heart-rate lowering medicinal 
products prior to initiation of treatment. If the heart-rate-lowering medication cannot be stopped, 
cardiologist’s advice should be sought to determine appropriate first dose monitoring, at least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended (see also section 4.5). 
QT interval 
In a thorough QT interval study of doses of 1.25 or 2.5 mg fingolimod at steady-state, when a negative 
chronotropic effect of fingolimod was still present, fingolimod treatment resulted in a prolongation of 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QTcI, with the upper limit of the 90% CI ≤13.0 ms. There is no dose- or exposure-response 
relationship of fingolimod and QTcI prolongation. There is no consistent signal of increased incidence 
of QTcI outliers, either absolute or change from baseline, associated with fingolimod treatment. 
The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown. In the multiple sclerosis studies, clinically relevant 
effects on prolongation of the QTc-interval have not been observed but patients at risk for QT 
prolongation were not included in clinical studies. 
Medicinal products that may prolong QTc interval are best avoided in patients with relevant risk 
factors, for example, hypokalaemia or congenital QT prolongation. 
Immunosuppressive effects 
Fingolimod has an immunosuppressive effect that predisposes patients to an infection risk, including 
opportunistic infections that can be fatal, and increases the risk of developing lymphomas and other 
malignancies, particularly those of the skin. Physicians should carefully monitor patients, especially 
those with concurrent conditions or known factors, such as previous immunosuppressive therapy. If 
this risk is suspected, discontinuation of treatment should be considered by the physician on a case-by-
case basis (see also section 4.4 “Infections” and “Cutaneous neoplasms” and section 4.8 
“Lymphomas”). 
Infections 
A core pharmacodynamic effect of Gilenya is a dose-dependent reduction of the peripheral 
lymphocyte count to 20-30% of baseline values. This is due to the reversible sequestration of 
lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues (see section 5.1). 
Before initiating treatment with Gilenya, a recent complete blood count (CBC) (i.e. within 6 months or 
after discontinuation of prior therapy) should be available. Assessments of CBC are also 
recommended periodically during treatment, at month 3 and at least yearly thereafter, and in case of 
signs of infection. Absolute lymphocyte count <0.2x109/l, if confirmed, should lead to treatment 
interruption until recovery, because in clinical studies, fingolimod treatment was interrupted in 
patients with absolute lymphocyte count <0.2x109/l. 
Initiation of treatment with Gilenya should be delayed in patients with severe active infection until 
resolution. 
Patients need to be assessed for their immunity to varicella (chickenpox) prior to Gilenya treatment. It 
is recommended that patients without a health care professional confirmed history of chickenpox or 
documentation of a full course of vaccination with varicella vaccine undergo antibody testing to 
varicella zoster virus (VZV) before initiating Gilenya therapy. A full course of vaccination for 
antibody-negative patients with varicella vaccine is recommended prior to commencing treatment with 
Gilenya (see section 4.8). Initiation of treatment with Gilenya should be postponed for 1 month to 
allow full effect of vaccination to occur. 
The immune system effects of Gilenya may increase the risk of infections, including opportunistic 
infections (see section 4.8). Effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies should be employed in 
patients with symptoms of infection while on therapy. When evaluating a patient with a suspected 
infection that could be serious, referral to a physician experienced in treating infections should be 
considered. During treatment, patients receiving Gilenya should be instructed to report promptly 
symptoms of infection to their physician. 
Suspension of Gilenya should be considered if a patient develops a serious infection and consideration 
of benefit-risk should be undertaken prior to re-initiation of therapy. 
Cases of cryptococcal meningitis (a fungal infection), sometimes fatal, have been reported in the post-
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marketing setting after approximately 2-3 years of treatment, although an exact relationship with the 
duration of treatment is unknown (see section 4.8). Patients with symptoms and signs consistent with 
cryptococcal meningitis (e.g. headache accompanied by mental changes such as confusion, 
hallucinations, and/or personality changes) should undergo prompt diagnostic evaluation. If 
cryptococcal meningitis is diagnosed, fingolimod should be suspended and appropriate treatment 
should be initiated. A multidisciplinary consultation (i.e. infectious disease specialist) should be 
undertaken if re-initiation of fingolimod is warranted. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported under fingolimod treatment 
since marketing authorisation (see section 4.8). PML is an opportunistic infection caused by John 
Cunningham virus (JCV), which may be fatal or result in severe disability. Cases of PML have 
occurred after approximately 2-3 years of monotherapy treatment without previous exposure to 
natalizumab, although an exact relationship with the duration of treatment is unknown. Additional 
PML cases have occurred in patients who had been treated previously with natalizumab, which has a 
known association with PML. PML can only occur in the presence of a JCV infection. If JCV testing 
is undertaken, it should be considered that the influence of lymphopenia on the accuracy of anti-JCV 
antibody testing has not been studied in fingolimod-treated patients. It should also be noted that a 
negative anti-JCV antibody test does not preclude the possibility of subsequent JCV infection. Before 
initiating treatment with fingolimod, a baseline MRI should be available (usually within 3 months) as 
a reference. During routine MRI (in accordance with national and local recommendations), physicians 
should pay attention to PML suggestive lesions. MRI may be considered as part of increased vigilance 
in patients considered at increased risk of PML. If PML is suspected, MRI should be performed 
immediately for diagnostic purposes and treatment with fingolimod should be suspended until PML 
has been excluded. 
Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, including papilloma, dysplasia, warts and HPV-related 
cancer, has been reported under treatment with fingolimod in the post-marketing setting. Due to the 
immunosuppressive properties of fingolimod, vaccination against HPV should be considered prior to 
treatment initiation with fingolimod taking into account vaccination recommendations. Cancer 
screening, including Pap test, is recommended as per standard of care. 
Elimination of fingolimod following discontinuation of therapy may take up to two months and 
vigilance for infection should therefore be continued throughout this period. Patients should be 
instructed to report symptoms of infection up to 2 months after discontinuation of fingolimod. 
Macular oedema 
Macular oedema with or without visual symptoms has been reported in 0.5% of patients treated with 
fingolimod 0.5 mg, occurring predominantly in the first 3-4 months of therapy (see section 4.8). An 
ophthalmological evaluation is therefore recommended at 3-4 months after treatment initiation. If 
patients report visual disturbances at any time while on therapy, evaluation of the fundus, including 
the macula, should be carried out. 
Patients with history of uveitis and patients with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of macular 
oedema (see section 4.8). Gilenya has not been studied in multiple sclerosis patients with concomitant 
diabetes mellitus. It is recommended that multiple sclerosis patients with diabetes mellitus or a history 
of uveitis undergo an ophthalmological evaluation prior to initiating therapy and have follow-up 
evaluations while receiving therapy. 
Continuation of Gilenya in patients with macular oedema has not been evaluated. It is recommended 
that Gilenya be discontinued if a patient develops macular oedema. A decision on whether or not 
Gilenya therapy should be re-initiated after resolution of macular oedema needs to take into account 
the potential benefits and risks for the individual patient. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver function 
Increased hepatic enzymes, in particular alanine aminotransaminase (ALT) but also gamma 
glutamyltransferase (GGT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) have been reported in multiple sclerosis 
patients treated with Gilenya. In clinical trials, elevations 3-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) or 
greater in ALT occurred in 8.0% of adult patients treated with fingolimod 0.5 mg compared to 1.9% of 
placebo patients. Elevations 5-fold the ULN occurred in 1.8% of patients on fingolimod and 0.9% of 
patients on placebo. In clinical trials, fingolimod was discontinued if the elevation exceeded 5 times 
the ULN. Recurrence of liver transaminase elevations occurred with rechallenge in some patients, 
supporting a relationship to fingolimod. In clinical studies, transaminase elevations occurred at any 
time during treatment although the majority occurred within the first 12 months. Serum transaminase 
levels returned to normal within approximately 2 months after discontinuation of fingolimod. 
Gilenya has not been studied in patients with severe pre-existing hepatic injury (Child-Pugh class C) 
and should not be used in these patients (see section 4.3). 
Due to the immunosuppressive properties of fingolimod, initiation of treatment should be delayed in 
patients with active viral hepatitis until resolution. 
Recent (i.e. within last 6 months) transaminase and bilirubin levels should be available before 
initiation of treatment with Gilenya. In the absence of clinical symptoms, liver transaminases should 
be monitored at months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 on therapy and periodically thereafter. If liver transaminases 
rise above 5 times the ULN, more frequent monitoring should be instituted, including serum bilirubin 
and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) measurement. With repeated confirmation of liver transaminases 
above 5 times the ULN, treatment with Gilenya should be interrupted and only re-commenced once 
liver transaminase values have normalised. 
Patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, such as unexplained nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, or jaundice and/or dark urine, should have liver enzymes 
checked and Gilenya should be discontinued if significant liver injury is confirmed (for example liver 
transaminase levels greater than 5-fold the ULN and/or serum bilirubin elevations). Resumption of 
therapy will be dependent on whether or not another cause of liver injury is determined and on the 
benefits to patient of resuming therapy versus the risks of recurrence of liver dysfunction. 
Although there are no data to establish that patients with pre-existing liver disease are at increased risk 
of developing elevated liver function tests when taking Gilenya, caution in the use of Gilenya should 
be exercised in patients with a history of significant liver disease. 
Interference with serological testing 
Since fingolimod reduces blood lymphocyte counts via re-distribution in secondary lymphoid organs, 
peripheral blood lymphocyte counts cannot be utilised to evaluate the lymphocyte subset status of a 
patient treated with Gilenya. Laboratory tests involving the use of circulating mononuclear cells 
require larger blood volumes due to reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes. 
Blood pressure effects 
Patients with hypertension uncontrolled by medication were excluded from participation in 
premarketing clinical trials and special care is indicated if patients with uncontrolled hypertension are 
treated with Gilenya. 
In MS clinical trials, patients treated with fingolimod 0.5 mg had an average increase of approximately 
3 mmHg in systolic pressure, and approximately 1 mmHg in diastolic pressure, first detected 
approximately 1 month after treatment initiation, and persisting with continued treatment. In the two-
year placebo-controlled study, hypertension was reported as an adverse event in 6.5% of patients on 
fingolimod 0.5 mg and in 3.3% of patients on placebo. Therefore, blood pressure should be regularly 
monitored during treatment with Gilenya. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory effects 
Minor dose-dependent reductions in values for forced expiratory volume (FEV1) and diffusion 
capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were observed with Gilenya treatment starting at month 1 and 
remaining stable thereafter. Gilenya should be used with caution in patients with severe respiratory 
disease, pulmonary fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see also section 4.8). 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome 
Rare cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) have been reported at the 0.5 mg 
dose in clinical trials and in the post-marketing setting (see section 4.8). Symptoms reported included 
sudden onset of severe headache, nausea, vomiting, altered mental status, visual disturbances and 
seizure. Symptoms of PRES are usually reversible but may evolve into ischaemic stroke or cerebral 
haemorrhage. Delay in diagnosis and treatment may lead to permanent neurological sequelae. If PRES 
is suspected, Gilenya should be discontinued. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies 
There have been no studies performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Gilenya when switching 
patients from teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate or alemtuzumab treatment to Gilenya. When switching 
patients from another disease modifying therapy to Gilenya, the half-life and mode of action of the 
other therapy must be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect whilst at the same time 
minimising the risk of disease reactivation. A CBC is recommended prior to initiating Gilenya to 
ensure that immune effects of the previous therapy (i.e. cytopenia) have resolved. 
Gilenya can generally be started immediately after discontinuation of interferon or glatiramer acetate. 
For dimethyl fumarate, the washout period should be sufficient for CBC to recover before treatment 
with Gilenya is started. 
Due to the long half-life of natalizumab, elimination usually takes up to 2-3 months following 
discontinuation. Teriflunomide is also eliminated slowly from the plasma. Without an accelerated 
elimination procedure, clearance of teriflunomide from plasma can take from several months up to 
2 years. An accelerated elimination procedure as defined in the teriflunomide summary of product 
characteristics is recommended or alternatively washout period should not be shorter than 3.5 months. 
Caution regarding potential concomitant immune effects is required when switching patients from 
natalizumab or teriflunomide to Gilenya. 
Alemtuzumab has profound and prolonged immunosuppressive effects. As the actual duration of these 
effects is unknown, initiating treatment with Gilenya after alemtuzumab is not recommended unless 
the benefits of such treatment clearly outweigh the risks for the individual patient. 
A decision to use prolonged concomitant treatment with corticosteroids should be taken after careful 
consideration. 
Co-administration with potent CYP450 inducers 
The combination of fingolimod with potent CYP450 inducers should be used with caution. 
Concomitant administration with St John’s wort is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Cutaneous neoplasms 
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and other cutaneous neoplasms, including malignant melanoma, 
squamous cell carcinoma, Kaposi’s sarcoma and Merkel cell carcinoma, have been reported in patients 
receiving Gilenya (see section 4.8). Vigilance for skin lesions is warranted and a medical evaluation of 
the skin is recommended at initiation, and then every 6 to 12 months taking into consideration clinical 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
judgement. The patient should be referred to a dermatologist in case suspicious lesions are detected. 
Since there is a potential risk of malignant skin growths, patients treated with fingolimod should be 
cautioned against exposure to sunlight without protection. These patients should not receive 
concomitant phototherapy with UV-B-radiation or PUVA-photochemotherapy. 
Women of childbearing potential 
Due to risk to the foetus, fingolimod is contraindicated during pregnancy and in women of 
childbearing potential not using effective contraception. Before initiation of treatment, women of 
childbearing potential must be informed of this risk to the foetus, must have a negative pregnancy test 
and must use effective contraception during treatment and for 2 months after treatment discontinuation 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.6 and the information contained in the Physician Information Pack). 
Tumefactive lesions 
Rare cases of tumefactive lesions associated with MS relapse were reported in the post-marketing 
setting. In case of severe relapses, MRI should be performed to exclude tumefactive lesions. 
Discontinuation of Gilenya should be considered by the physician on a case-by-case basis taking into 
account individual benefits and risks. 
Return of disease activity (rebound) after fingolimod discontinuation 
In the post-marketing setting, severe exacerbation of disease has been observed rarely in some patients 
stopping fingolimod. This has generally been observed within 12 weeks after stopping fingolimod, but 
has also been reported up to 24 weeks after fingolimod discontinuation. Caution is therefore indicated 
when stopping fingolimod therapy. If discontinuation of fingolimod is deemed necessary, tThe 
possibility of recurrence of exceptionally high disease activity should be considered and patients 
should be monitored for relevant signs and symptoms and appropriate treatment initiated as required 
(see “Stopping therapy” below). 
Stopping therapy 
If a decision is made to stop treatment with Gilenya a 6 week interval without therapy is needed, based 
on half-life, to clear fingolimod from the circulation (see section 5.2). Lymphocyte counts 
progressively return to normal range within 1-2 months of stopping therapy in most patients (see 
section 5.1) although full recovery can take significantly longer in some patients. Starting other 
therapies during this interval will result in concomitant exposure to fingolimod. Use of 
immunosuppressants soon after the discontinuation of Gilenya may lead to an additive effect on the 
immune system and caution is therefore indicated. 
Caution is also indicated when stopping fingolimod therapy due to the risk of a rebound (see “Return 
of disease activity (rebound) after fingolimod discontinuation” above). If discontinuation of Gilenya is 
deemed necessary, patients should be monitored during this time for relevant signs of a possible 
rebound. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile in paediatric patients is similar to that in adults and the warnings and precautions for 
adults therefore also apply to paediatric patients. 
In particular, the following should be noted when prescribing Gilenya to paediatric patients: 
- 
Precautions should be followed at the time of the first dose (see “Bradyarrhythmia” above). The 
same precautions as for the first dose are recommended when patients are switched from the 
0.25 mg to the 0.5 mg daily dose. 
In the controlled paediatric trial D2311, cases of seizures, anxiety, depressed mood and 
depression have been reported with a higher incidence in patients treated with fingolimod 
- 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Caution is required in this subgroup 
population (see “Paediatric population” in section 4.8). 
Mild isolated bilirubin increases have been noted in paediatric patients on Gilenya. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients complete all immunisations in accordance with 
current immunisation guidelines before starting Gilenya therapy (see “Infections” above). 
There are very limited data available in children between 10–12 years old, less than 40 kg or at 
Tanner stage <2 (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). Caution is required in these subgroups due to very 
limited knowledge available from the clinical study. 
Long-term safety data in the paediatric population are not available. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Anti-neoplastic, immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive therapies 
Anti-neoplastic, immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive therapies should not be co-administered 
due to the risk of additive immune system effects (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Caution should also be exercised when switching patients from long-acting therapies with immune 
effects such as natalizumab, teriflunomide or mitoxantrone (see section 4.4). In multiple sclerosis 
clinical studies the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of corticosteroids was not 
associated with an increased rate of infection. 
Vaccination 
During and for up to two months after treatment with Gilenya vaccination may be less effective. The 
use of live attenuated vaccines may carry a risk of infections and should therefore be avoided (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Bradycardia-inducing substances 
Fingolimod has been studied in combination with atenolol and diltiazem. When fingolimod was used 
with atenolol in an interaction study in healthy volunteers, there was an additional 15% reduction of 
heart rate at fingolimod treatment initiation, an effect not seen with diltiazem. Treatment with Gilenya 
should not be initiated in patients receiving beta blockers, or other substances which may decrease 
heart rate, such as class Ia and III antiarrhythmics, calcium channel blockers (such as verapamil or 
diltiazem), ivabradine, digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine because of the potential 
additive effects on heart rate (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). If treatment with Gilenya is considered in such 
patients, advice from a cardiologist should be sought regarding the switch to non heart-rate lowering 
medicinal products or appropriate monitoring for treatment initiation, at least overnight monitoring is 
recommended, if the heart-rate-lowering medication cannot be stopped. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of other substances on fingolimod 
Fingolimod is metabolised mainly by CYP4F2. Other enzymes like CYP3A4 may also contribute to 
its metabolism, notably in the case of strong induction of CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of transporter 
proteins are not expected to influence fingolimod disposition. Co-administration of fingolimod with 
ketoconazole resulted in a 1.7-fold increase in fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate exposure (AUC) 
by inhibition of CYP4F2. Caution should be exercised with substances that may inhibit CYP3A4 
(protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, some macrolides such as clarithromycin or telithromycin). 
Co-administration of carbamazepine 600 mg twice daily at steady-state and a single dose of 
fingolimod 2 mg reduced the AUC of fingolimod and its metabolite by approximately 40%. Other 
strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers, for example rifampicin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, efavirenz and St. 
John’s Wort, may reduce the AUC of fingolimod and its metabolite at least to this extent. As this 
could potentially impair the efficacy, their co-administration should be used with caution. 
Concomitant administration with St. John’s Wort is however not recommended (see section 4.4). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of fingolimod on other substances 
Fingolimod is unlikely to interact with substances mainly cleared by the CYP450 enzymes or by 
substrates of the main transporter proteins. 
Co-administration of fingolimod with ciclosporin did not elicit any change in the ciclosporin or 
fingolimod exposure. Therefore, fingolimod is not expected to alter the pharmacokinetics of medicinal 
products that are CYP3A4 substrates. 
Co-administration of fingolimod with oral contraceptives (ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel) did not 
elicit any change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral 
contraceptives containing other progestagens, however an effect of fingolimod on their exposure is not 
expected. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in females 
Fingolimod is contraindicated in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception 
(see section 4.3). Therefore, Bbefore initiation of treatment in women of childbearing potential, a 
negative pregnancy test result needs tomust be available and counselling should be provided regarding 
the potential for serious risk to the foetus. and the need for Women of childbearing potential must use 
effective contraception during treatment and for 2 months after discontinuation of withGilenya, . 
Ssince itfingolimod takes approximately two 2 months to eliminate fingolimod from the body on 
stopping after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.4), the potential risk to the foetus may persist 
and contraception should be continued during that period. 
Specific measures are also included in the Physician Information Pack. These measures must be 
implemented before fingolimod is prescribed to female patients and during treatment. 
When stopping fingolimod therapy for planning a pregnancy the possible return of disease activity 
should be considered (see section 4.4). 
Pregnancy 
Based on human experience, post-marketing data suggest that use of fingolimod is associated with a 
2-fold increased risk of major congenital malformations when administered during pregnancy 
compared with the rate observed in the general population (2-3%; EUROCAT). 
The following major malformations were most frequently reported: 
- 
- 
- 
Congenital heart disease such as atrial and ventricular septal defects, tetralogy of Fallot 
Renal abnormalities 
Musculoskeletal abnormalities 
There are no data on the effects of fingolimod on labour and delivery. 
While on treatment, women should not become pregnant and active contraception is recommended. If 
a woman becomes pregnant while taking Gilenya, discontinuation of Gilenya is recommended. 
Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity including foetal loss and organ defects, notably 
persistent truncus arteriosus and ventricular septal defect (see section 5.3). Furthermore, the receptor 
affected by fingolimod (sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor) is known to be involved in vascular 
formation during embryogenesis. There are very limited data from the use of fingolimod in pregnant 
women. 
There are no data on the effects of fingolimod on labour and delivery. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consequently, fingolimod is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). Fingolimod should be 
stopped 2 months before planning a pregnancy (see section 4.4). If a woman becomes pregnant during 
treatment, fingolimod must be discontinued. Medical advice should be given regarding the risk of 
harmful effects to the foetus associated with treatment and ultrasonography examinations should be 
performed. 
Breast-feeding 
Fingolimod is excreted in milk of treated animals during lactation (see section 5.3). Due to the 
potential for serious adverse reactions to fingolimod in nursing infants, women receiving Gilenya 
should not breastfeed. 
Fertility 
Data from preclinical studies do not suggest that fingolimod would be associated with an increased 
risk of reduced fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Gilenya has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, dizziness or drowsiness may occasionally occur when initiating therapy with Gilenya. On 
initiation of Gilenya treatment it is recommended that patients be observed for a period of 6 hours (see 
section 4.4, Bradyarrhythmia). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adverse reactions reported with Gilenya 0.5 mg in Studies D2301 (FREEDOMS) and D2309 
(FREEDOMS II) are shown below. Adverse reactions derived from post-marketing experience with 
Gilenya via spontaneous case reports or literature cases are also reported. Frequencies were defined 
using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Influenza 
Sinusitis 
Herpes viral infections 
Bronchitis 
Tinea versicolor 
Pneumonia 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)** 
Cryptococcal infections** 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Malignant melanoma**** 
Lymphoma*** 
Squamous cell carcinoma**** 
Kaposi’s sarcoma****
Merkel cell carcinoma*** 
Very rare: 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Lymphopenia 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Immune system disorders 
Not known: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Cardiac disorders 
Common: 
Leucopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Peripheral oedema*** 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, urticaria and angioedema 
upon treatment initiation*** 
Depression 
Depressed mood 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Migraine 
Seizure 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES)*
Severe exacerbation of disease after Gilenya discontinuation*** 
Vision blurred 
Macular oedema 
Bradycardia 
Atrioventricular block 
T-wave inversion*** 
Hypertension 
Very rare: 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: 
Uncommon: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea*** 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Eczema 
Alopecia 
Pruritus 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Back pain 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common: 
Investigations 
Very common: 
Asthenia 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
* 
Hepatic enzyme increased (increased ALT, Gamma 
glutamyltransferase, Aspartate transaminase) 
Blood triglycerides increased 
Neutrophil count decreased 
** 
Not reported in Studies FREEDOMS, FREEDOMS II and TRANSFORMS. The frequency 
category was based on an estimated exposure of approximately 10,000 patients to fingolimod 
in all clinical trials. 
PML and cryptococcal infections (including cases of cryptococcal meningitis) have been 
reported in the post-marketing setting (see section 4.4). 
***  Adverse drug reactions from spontaneous reports and literature 
****   The frequency category and risk assessment were based on an estimated exposure of more 
than 24,000 patients to fingolimod 0.5 mg in all clinical trials. 
14 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies the overall rate of infections (65.1%) at the 0.5 mg dose was 
similar to placebo. However, lower respiratory tract infections, primarily bronchitis and to a lesser 
extent herpes infection and pneumonia were more common in Gilenya-treated patients. 
Some cases of disseminated herpes infection, including fatal cases, have been reported even at the 
0.5 mg dose. 
In the post-marketing setting, cases of infections with opportunistic pathogens, such as viral (e.g. 
varicella zoster virus [VZV], John Cunningham virus [JCV] causing Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy, herpes simplex virus [HSV]), fungal (e.g. cryptococci including cryptococcal 
meningitis) or bacterial (e.g. atypical mycobacterium), have been reported, some of which have been 
fatal (see section 4.4). 
Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, including papilloma, dysplasia, warts and HPV-related 
cancer, has been reported under treatment with fingolimod in the post-marketing setting. Due to the 
immunosuppressive properties of fingolimod, vaccination against HPV should be considered prior to 
treatment initiation with fingolimod taking into account vaccination recommendations. Cancer 
screening, including Pap test, is recommended as per standard of care. 
Macular oedema 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies macular oedema occurred in 0.5% of patients treated with the 
recommended dose of 0.5 mg and 1.1% of patients treated with the higher dose of 1.25 mg. The 
majority of cases occurred within the first 3-4 months of therapy. Some patients presented with blurred 
vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were asymptomatic and diagnosed on routine 
ophthalmological examination. The macular oedema generally improved or resolved spontaneously 
after discontinuation of Gilenya. The risk of recurrence after re-challenge has not been evaluated. 
Macular oedema incidence is increased in multiple sclerosis patients with a history of uveitis (17% 
with a history of uveitis vs. 0.6% without a history of uveitis). Gilenya has not been studied in 
multiple sclerosis patients with diabetes mellitus, a disease which is associated with an increased risk 
for macular oedema (see section 4.4). In renal transplant clinical studies in which patients with 
diabetes mellitus were included, therapy with fingolimod 2.5 mg and 5 mg resulted in a 2-fold increase 
in the incidence of macular oedema. 
Bradyarrhythmia 
Initiation of Gilenya treatment results in a transient decrease in heart rate and may also be associated 
with atrioventricular conduction delays. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies the maximal decline in 
heart rate was seen within 6 hours after treatment initiation, with declines in mean heart rate of 
12-13 beats per minute for Gilenya 0.5 mg. Heart rate below 40 beats per minute in adults, and below 
50 beats per minute in paediatric patients, was rarely observed in patients on Gilenya 0.5 mg. The 
average heart rate returned towards baseline within 1 month of chronic treatment. Bradycardia was 
generally asymptomatic but some patients experienced mild to moderate symptoms, including 
hypotension, dizziness, fatigue and/or palpitations, which resolved within the first 24 hours after 
treatment initiation (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies first-degree atrioventricular block (prolonged PR interval on 
ECG) was detected after treatment initiation in adult and paediatric patients. In adult clinical trials it 
occurred in 4.7% of patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg, in 2.8% of patients on intramuscular interferon 
beta-1a, and in 1.6% of patients on placebo. Second-degree atrioventricular block was detected in less 
than 0.2% adult patients on Gilenya 0.5 mg. In the post-marketing setting, isolated reports of transient, 
spontaneously resolving complete AV block have been observed during the six hour monitoring 
period following the first dose of Gilenya. The patients recovered spontaneously. The conduction 
abnormalities observed both in clinical trials and post-marketing were typically transient, 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asymptomatic and resolved within the first 24 hours after treatment initiation. Although most patients 
did not require medical intervention, one patient on Gilenya 0.5 mg received isoprenaline for 
asymptomatic second-degree Mobitz I atrioventricular block. 
In the post-marketing setting, isolated delayed onset events, including transient asystole and 
unexplained death, have occurred within 24 hours of the first dose. These cases have been confounded 
by concomitant medicinal products and/or pre-existing disease. The relationship of such events to 
Gilenya is uncertain. 
Blood pressure 
In multiple sclerosis clinical studies Gilenya 0.5 mg was associated with an average increase of 
approximately 3 mmHg in systolic pressure and approximately 1 mmHg in diastolic pressure, 
manifesting approximately 1 month after treatment initiation. This increase persisted with continued 
treatment. Hypertension was reported in 6.5% of patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg and in 3.3% of 
patients on placebo. In the post-marketing setting, cases of hypertension have been reported within the 
first month of treatment initiation and on the first day of treatment that may require treatment with 
antihypertensive agents or discontinuation of Gilenya (see also section 4.4, Blood pressure effects). 
Liver function 
Increased hepatic enzymes have been reported in adult and paediatric multiple sclerosis patients 
treated with Gilenya. In clinical studies 8.0% and 1.8% of adult patients treated with Gilenya 0.5 mg 
experienced an asymptomatic elevation in serum levels of ALT of ≥3x ULN (upper limit of normal) 
and ≥5x ULN, respectively. Recurrence of liver transaminase elevations has occurred upon re-
challenge in some patients, supporting a relationship to the medicinal product. In clinical studies, 
transaminase elevations occurred at any time during treatment although the majority occurred within 
the first 12 months. ALT levels returned to normal within approximately 2 months after 
discontinuation of Gilenya. In a small number of patients (N=10 on 1.25 mg, N=2 on 0.5 mg) who 
experienced ALT elevations ≥5x ULN and who continued on Gilenya therapy, the ALT levels 
returned to normal within approximately 5 months (see also section 4.4, Liver function). 
Nervous system disorders 
In clinical studies, rare events involving the nervous system occurred in patients treated with 
fingolimod at higher doses (1.25 or 5.0 mg) including ischaemic and haemorrhagic strokes and 
neurological atypical disorders, such as acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM)-like events. 
Cases of seizures, including status epilepticus, have been reported with the use of Gilenya in clinical 
studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Vascular disorders 
Rare cases of peripheral arterial occlusive disease occurred in patients treated with fingolimod at 
higher doses (1.25 mg). 
Respiratory system 
Minor dose-dependent reductions in values for forced expiratory volume (FEV1) and diffusion 
capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were observed with Gilenya treatment starting at month 1 and 
remaining stable thereafter. At month 24, the reduction from baseline values in percentage of predicted 
FEV1 was 2.7% for fingolimod 0.5 mg and 1.2% for placebo, a difference that resolved after treatment 
discontinuation. For DLCO the reductions at month 24 were 3.3% for fingolimod 0.5 mg and 2.7% for 
placebo. 
Lymphomas 
There have been cases of lymphoma of different varieties, in both clinical studies and the post-
marketing setting, including a fatal case of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) positive B-cell lymphoma. The 
incidence of lymphoma (B-cell and T-cell) cases was higher in clinical trials than expected in the 
general population. Some T-cell lymphoma cases were also reported in the post-marketing setting, 
including cases of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haemophagocytic syndrome 
Very rare cases of haemophagocytic syndrome (HPS) with fatal outcome have been reported in 
patients treated with fingolimod in the context of an infection. HPS is a rare condition that has been 
described in association with infections, immunosuppression and a variety of autoimmune diseases. 
Paediatric population 
In the controlled paediatric trial D2311 (see section 5.1), the safety profile in paediatric patients (10 to 
below 18 years of age) receiving fingolimod 0.25 mg or 0.5 mg daily was overall similar to that seen 
in adult patients. There were, nevertheless, more neurological and psychiatric disorders observed in 
the study. Caution is needed in this subgroup due to very limited knowledge available from the clinical 
study. 
In the paediatric study, cases of seizures were reported in 5.6% of fingolimod-treated patients and 
0.9% of interferon beta-1a-treated patients. 
Depression and anxiety are known to occur with increased frequency in the multiple sclerosis 
population. Depression and anxiety have also been reported in paediatric patients treated with 
fingolimod. 
Mild isolated bilirubin increases have been noted in paediatric patients on fingolimod. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses up to 80 times the recommended dose (0.5 mg) were well tolerated in healthy adult 
volunteers. At 40 mg, 5 of 6 subjects reported mild chest tightness or discomfort which was clinically 
consistent with small airway reactivity. 
Fingolimod can induce bradycardia upon treatment initiation. The decline in heart rate usually starts 
within one hour of the first dose, and is steepest within 6 hours. The negative chronotropic effect of 
Gilenya persists beyond 6 hours and progressively attenuates over subsequent days of treatment (see 
section 4.4 for details). There have been reports of slow atrioventricular conduction, with isolated 
reports of transient, spontaneously resolving complete AV block (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
If the overdose constitutes first exposure to Gilenya, it is important to monitor patients with a 
continuous (real time) ECG and hourly measurement of heart rate and blood pressure, at least during 
the first 6 hours (see section 4.4). 
Additionally, if after 6 hours the heart rate is <45 bpm in adults, <55 bpm in paediatric patients aged 
12 years and above, or <60 bpm in paediatric patients aged 10 years to below 12 years, or if the ECG 
at 6 hours after the first dose shows second degree or higher AV block, or if it shows a QTc interval 
≥500 msec, monitoring should be extended at least for overnight and until the findings have resolved. 
The occurrence at any time of third degree AV block should also lead to extended monitoring 
including overnight monitoring. 
Neither dialysis nor plasma exchange results in removal of fingolimod from the body. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA27 
Mechanism of action 
Fingolimod is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator. Fingolimod is metabolised by 
sphingosine kinase to the active metabolite fingolimod phosphate. Fingolimod phosphate binds at low 
nanomolar concentrations to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor 1 located on lymphocytes, and 
readily crosses the blood-brain barrier to bind to S1P receptor 1 located on neural cells in the central 
nervous system (CNS). By acting as a functional antagonist of S1P receptors on lymphocytes, 
fingolimod phosphate blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes, causing a 
redistribution, rather than depletion, of lymphocytes. Animal studies have shown that this 
redistribution reduces the infiltration of pathogenic lymphocytes, including pro-inflammatory Th17 
cells, into the CNS, where they would be involved in nerve inflammation and nervous tissue damage. 
Animal studies and in vitro experiments indicate that fingolimod may also act via interaction with S1P 
receptors on neural cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Within 4-6 hours after the first dose of fingolimod 0.5 mg, the lymphocyte count decreases to 
approximately 75% of baseline in peripheral blood. With continued daily dosing, the lymphocyte 
count continues to decrease over a two-week period, reaching a minimal count of approximately 
500 cells/microlitre or approximately 30% of baseline. Eighteen percent of patients reached a minimal 
count below 200 cells/microlitre on at least one occasion. Low lymphocyte counts are maintained with 
chronic daily dosing. The majority of T and B lymphocytes regularly traffic through lymphoid organs 
and these are the cells mainly affected by fingolimod. Approximately 15-20% of T lymphocytes have 
an effector memory phenotype, cells that are important for peripheral immune surveillance. Since this 
lymphocyte subset typically does not traffic to lymphoid organs it is not affected by fingolimod. 
Peripheral lymphocyte count increases are evident within days of stopping fingolimod treatment and 
typically normal counts are reached within one to two months. Chronic fingolimod dosing leads to a 
mild decrease in the neutrophil count to approximately 80% of baseline. Monocytes are unaffected by 
fingolimod. 
Fingolimod causes a transient reduction in heart rate and decrease in atrioventricular conduction at 
treatment initiation (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The maximal decline in heart rate is seen within 6 hours 
post dose, with 70% of the negative chronotropic effect achieved on the first day. With continued 
administration heart rate returns to baseline within one month. The decrease in heart rate induced by 
fingolimod can be reversed by parenteral doses of atropine or isoprenaline. Inhaled salmeterol has also 
been shown to have a modest positive chronotropic effect. With initiation of fingolimod treatment 
there is an increase in atrial premature contractions, but there is no increased rate of atrial 
fibrillation/flutter or ventricular arrhythmias or ectopy. Fingolimod treatment is not associated with a 
decrease in cardiac output. Autonomic responses of the heart, including diurnal variation of heart rate 
and response to exercise are not affected by fingolimod treatment. 
S1P4 could partially contribute to the effect but was not the main receptor responsible for the 
lymphoid depletion. The mechanism of action of bradycardia and vasoconstriction were also studied in 
vitro in guinea pigs and isolated rabbit aorta and coronary artery. It was concluded that bradycardia 
could be mediated primarily by activation of inward-rectifying potassium channel or G-protein 
activated inwardly rectifying K+ channel (IKACh/GIRK) and that vasoconstriction seems to be 
mediated by a Rho kinase and calcium dependent mechanism. 
Fingolimod treatment with single or multiple doses of 0.5 and 1.25 mg for two weeks is not associated 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with a detectable increase in airway resistance as measured by FEV1 and forced expiratory flow rate 
(FEF) 25-75. However, single fingolimod doses ≥5 mg (10-fold the recommended dose) are associated 
with a dose-dependent increase in airway resistance. Fingolimod treatment with multiple doses of 0.5, 
1.25, or 5 mg is not associated with impaired oxygenation or oxygen desaturation with exercise or an 
increase in airway responsiveness to methacholine. Subjects on fingolimod treatment have a normal 
bronchodilator response to inhaled beta-agonists. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Gilenya has been demonstrated in two studies which evaluated once-daily doses of 
fingolimod 0.5 mg and 1.25 mg in adult patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
Both studies included adult patients who had experienced ≥2 relapses in the prior 2 years or ≥1 relapse 
during the prior year. Expanded Disability Status Score (EDSS) was between 0 and 5.5. A third study 
targeting the same adult patient population was completed after registration of Gilenya. 
Study D2301 (FREEDOMS) was a 2-year randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III 
study of 1,272 patients (n=425 on 0.5 mg, 429 on 1.25 mg, 418 on placebo). Median values for 
baseline characteristics were: age 37 years, disease duration 6.7 years, and EDSS score 2.0. Outcome 
results are shown in Table 1. There were no significant differences between the 0.5 mg and the 
1.25 mg doses as regards either endpoint. 
Table 1 
Study D2301 (FREEDOMS): main results 
Fingolimod 
0.5 mg 
Placebo 
17% 
0.40 
46% 
0.18** 
70%** 
Clinical endpoints 
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
24 months 
Proportion with 3-month Confirmed Disability 
Progression† 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
MRI endpoints 
Median (mean) number of new or enlarging T2 
lesions over 24 months 
Median (mean) number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
at month 24 
Median (mean) % change in brain volume over 
24 months 
† 
** 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat. MRI analyses used evaluable dataset. 
Disability progression defined as 1-point increase in EDSS confirmed 3 months later 
p<0.001, *p<0.05 compared to placebo 
0.70 (0.52, 0.96)* 
-0.7 (-0.8)** 
0.0 (2.5)** 
0.0 (0.2)** 
-1.0 (-1.3) 
0.0 (1.1) 
5.0 (9.8) 
24% 
Patients who completed the 24-month core FREEDOMS study could enter a dose-blinded extension 
study (D2301E1) and receive fingolimod. In total, 920 patients entered (n=331 continued on 0.5 mg, 
289 continued on 1.25 mg, 155 switched from placebo to 0.5 mg and 145 switched from placebo to 
1.25 mg). After 12 months (month 36), 856 patients (93%) were still enrolled. Between months 24 and 
36, the annualised relapse rate (ARR) for patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg in the core study who 
remained on 0.5 mg was 0.17 (0.21 in the core study). The ARR for patients who switched from 
placebo to fingolimod 0.5 mg was 0.22 (0.42 in the core study). 
Comparable results were shown in a replicate 2-year randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
Phase III study on fingolimod in 1,083 patients (n=358 on 0.5 mg, 370 on 1.25 mg, 355 on placebo) 
with RRMS (D2309; FREEDOMS 2). Median values for baseline characteristics were: age 41 years, 
disease duration 8.9 years, EDSS score 2.5. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Study D2309 (FREEDOMS 2): main results 
Fingolimod 
0.5 mg 
Placebo 
25% 
0.40 
52.7% 
0.21** 
71.5%** 
Clinical endpoints 
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
24 months 
Proportion with 3-month Confirmed Disability 
Progression† 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
MRI endpoints 
Median (mean) number of new or enlarging T2 
lesions over 24 months 
Median (mean) number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
at month 24 
Median (mean) % change in brain volume over 
24 months 
† 
** 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat. MRI analyses used evaluable dataset. 
Disability progression defined as 1-point increase in EDSS confirmed 3 months later 
p<0.001 compared to placebo 
0.83 (0.61, 1.12) 
-0.71 (-0.86)** 
-1.02 (-1.28) 
0.0 (2.3)** 
0.0 (0.4)** 
4.0 (8.9) 
0.0 (1.2) 
29% 
Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS) was a 1-year randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active 
(interferon beta-1a)-controlled Phase III study of 1,280 patients (n=429 on 0.5 mg, 420 on 1.25 mg, 
431 on interferon beta-1a, 30 µg by intramuscular injection once weekly). Median values for baseline 
characteristics were: age 36 years, disease duration 5.9 years, and EDSS score 2.0. Outcome results 
are shown in Table 3. There were no significant differences between the 0.5 mg and the 1.25 mg doses 
as regards study endpoints. 
Table 3 
Study D2302 (TRANSFORMS): main results 
Fingolimod 
0.5 mg 
Interferon beta-
1a, 30 μg 
6% 
0.33 
71% 
0.16** 
83%** 
Clinical endpoints 
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
12 months 
Proportion with 3-month Confirmed Disability 
Progression† 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
MRI endpoints 
Median (mean) number of new or enlarging T2 
lesions over 12 months 
Median (mean) number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
at 12 months 
Median (mean) % change in brain volume over 
12 months 
† 
* 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat. MRI analyses used evaluable dataset. 
Disability progression defined as 1-point increase in EDSS confirmed 3 months later. 
p<0.01,** p<0.001, compared to interferon beta-1a 
0.71 (0.42, 1.21) 
-0.2 (-0.3)** 
0.0 (0.2)** 
-0.4 (-0.5) 
0.0 (1.7)* 
0.0 (0.5) 
1.0 (2.6) 
8% 
Patients who completed the 12-month core TRANSFORMS study could enter a dose-blinded 
extension (D2302E1) and receive fingolimod. In total, 1,030 patients entered, however, 3 of these 
patients did not receive treatment (n=356 continued on 0.5 mg, 330 continued on 1.25 mg, 167 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
switched from interferon beta-1a to 0.5 mg and 174 from interferon beta-1a to 1.25 mg). After 
12 months (month 24), 882 patients (86%) were still enrolled. Between months 12 and 24, the ARR 
for patients on fingolimod 0.5 mg in the core study who remained on 0.5 mg was 0.20 (0.19 in the 
core study). The ARR for patients who switched from interferon beta-1a to fingolimod 0.5 mg was 
0.33 (0.48 in the core study). 
Pooled results of Studies D2301 and D2302 showed a consistent and statistically significant reduction 
in annualised relapse rate compared to comparator in subgroups defined by gender, age, prior multiple 
sclerosis therapy, disease activity or disability levels at baseline. 
Further analyses of clinical trial data demonstrate consistent treatment effects in highly active 
subgroups of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis patients. 
Paediatric population 
The efficacy and safety of once-daily doses of fingolimod 0.25 mg or 0.5 mg (dose selected based on 
body weight and exposure measurements) have been established in paediatric patients aged 10 to 
<18 years with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Study D2311 (PARADIGMS) was a double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled study with 
flexible duration up to 24 months, with 215 patients 10 to <18 years old (n=107 on fingolimod, 108 on 
interferon beta-1a 30 µg by intramuscular injection once weekly). 
Median values for baseline characteristics were: age 16 years, median disease duration 1.5 years and 
EDSS score 1.5. The majority of patients were Tanner stage 2 or higher (94.4%) and were >40 kg 
(95.3%). Overall, 180 (84%) of patients completed the core phase on study drug (n=99 [92.5%] on 
fingolimod, 81 [75%] on interferon beta-1a). Outcome results are shown in Table 4. 
Table 4 
Study D2311 (PARADIGMS): main results 
Clinical endpoints 
Annualised relapse rate (primary endpoint) 
Percentage of patients remaining relapse-free at 
24 months 
MRI endpoints 
Annualised rate of the number of new or newly 
enlarging T2 lesions  
Adjusted mean 
Number of Gd-enhancing T1 lesions per scan up to 
month 24 
Adjusted mean 
Annualised rate of brain atrophy from baseline up to 
month 24 
Least Square Mean 
Fingolimod 
0.25 mg or 0.5 mg 
N=107 
0.122** 
85.7** 
Interferon beta-1a 
30 µg 
N=107# 
0.675 
38.8 
n=106 
4.393** 
n=105 
0.436** 
n=96 
-0.48* 
n=102 
9.269 
n=95 
1.282 
n=89 
-0.80 
# 
One patient randomised to receive interferon beta-1a by intramuscular injection was unable to 
swallow the double-dummy medication and discontinued from study. The patient was excluded 
from the full analysis and safety set. 
p<0.05, ** p<0.001, compared to interferon beta-1a. 
* 
All analyses of clinical endpoints were on the full analysis set. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic data were obtained in healthy adult volunteers, in renal transplant adult patients and 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in multiple sclerosis adult patients. 
The pharmacologically active metabolite responsible for efficacy is fingolimod phosphate. 
Absorption 
Fingolimod absorption is slow (tmax of 12-16 hours) and extensive (≥85%). The apparent absolute oral 
bioavailability is 93% (95% confidence interval: 79-111%). Steady-state-blood concentrations are 
reached within 1 to 2 months following once-daily administration and steady-state levels are 
approximately 10-fold greater than with the initial dose. 
Food intake does not alter Cmax or exposure (AUC) of fingolimod. Fingolimod phosphate Cmax was 
slightly decreased by 34% but AUC was unchanged. Therefore, Gilenya may be taken without regard 
to meals (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
Fingolimod highly distributes in red blood cells, with the fraction in blood cells of 86%. Fingolimod 
phosphate has a smaller uptake in blood cells of <17%. Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate are 
highly protein bound (>99%). 
Fingolimod is extensively distributed to body tissues with a volume of distribution of about 
1,200260 litres. A study in four healthy subjects who received a single intravenous dose of a 
radioiodolabelled analogue of fingolimod demonstrated that fingolimod penetrates into the brain. In a 
study in 13 male multiple sclerosis patients who received Gilenya 0.5 mg/day, the mean amount of 
fingolimod (and fingolimod phosphate) in seminal ejaculate, at steady-state, was approximately 
10,000 times lower than the oral dose administered (0.5 mg). 
Biotransformation 
Fingolimod is transformed in humans by reversible stereoselective phosphorylation to the 
pharmacologically active (S)-enantiomer of fingolimod phosphate. Fingolimod is eliminated by 
oxidative biotransformation catalysed mainly via CYP4F2 and possibly other isoenzymes and 
subsequent fatty acid-like degradation to inactive metabolites. Formation of pharmacologically 
inactive non-polar ceramide analogues of fingolimod was also observed. The main enzyme involved in 
the metabolism of fingolimod is partially identified and may be either CYP4F2 or CYP3A4. 
Following single oral administration of [14C] fingolimod, the major fingolimod-related components in 
blood, as judged from their contribution to the AUC up to 34 days post dose of total radiolabelled 
components, are fingolimod itself (23%), fingolimod phosphate (10%), and inactive metabolites (M3 
carboxylic acid metabolite (8%), M29 ceramide metabolite (9%) and M30 ceramide metabolite (7%)). 
Elimination 
Fingolimod blood clearance is 6.32.3 l/h, and the average apparent terminal half-life (t1/2) is 6-9 days. 
Blood levels of fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate decline in parallel in the terminal phase, leading 
to similar half-lives for both. 
After oral administration, about 81% of the dose is slowly excreted in the urine as inactive 
metabolites. Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate are not excreted intact in urine but are the major 
components in the faeces, with amounts representing less than 2.5% of the dose each. After 34 days, 
the recovery of the administered dose is 89%. 
Linearity 
Fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate concentrations increase in an apparently dose proportional 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manner after multiple once-daily doses of 0.5 mg or 1.25 mg. 
Characteristics in specific groups of patients 
The pharmacokinetics of fingolimod and fingolimod phosphate do not differ in males and females, in 
patients of different ethnic origin, or in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. 
In subjects with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, B, and C), no 
change in fingolimod Cmax was observed, but fingolimod AUC was increased respectively by 12%, 
44%, and 103%. In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), fingolimod-
phosphate Cmax was decreased by 22% and AUC was not substantially changed. The pharmacokinetics 
of fingolimod-phosphate were not evaluated in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. 
The apparent elimination half-life of fingolimod is unchanged in subjects with mild hepatic 
impairment, but is prolonged by about 50% in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Fingolimod should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see 
section 4.3). Fingolimod should be introduced cautiously in mild and moderate hepatic impaired 
patients (see section 4.2). 
Clinical experience and pharmacokinetic information in patients aged above 65 years are limited. 
Gilenya should be used with caution in patients aged 65 years and over (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
In paediatric patients (10 years of age and above), fingolimod-phosphate concentrations increase in an 
apparent dose proportional manner between 0.25 mg and 0.5 mg. 
Fingolimod-phosphate concentration at steady state is approximately 25% lower in paediatric patients 
(10 years of age and above) following daily administration of 0.25 mg or 0.5 mg fingolimod compared 
to the concentration in adult patients treated with fingolimod 0.5 mg once daily. 
There are no data available for paediatric patients below 10 years old. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The preclinical safety profile of fingolimod was assessed in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys. The major 
target organs were the lymphoid system (lymphopenia and lymphoid atrophy), lungs (increased 
weight, smooth muscle hypertrophy at the bronchio-alveolar junction), and heart (negative 
chronotropic effect, increase in blood pressure, perivascular changes and myocardial degeneration) in 
several species; blood vessels (vasculopathy) in rats only at doses of 0.15 mg/kg and higher in a 2-year 
study, representing an approximate 4-fold margin based on the human systemic exposure (AUC) at a 
daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in a 2-year bioassay in rats at oral doses of fingolimod 
up to the maximally tolerated dose of 2.5 mg/kg, representing an approximate 50-fold margin based on 
human systemic exposure (AUC) at the 0.5 mg dose. However, in a 2-year mouse study, an increased 
incidence of malignant lymphoma was seen at doses of 0.25 mg/kg and higher, representing an 
approximate 6-fold margin based on the human systemic exposure (AUC) at a daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
Fingolimod was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic in animal studies. 
Fingolimod had no effect on sperm count/motility or on fertility in male and female rats up to the 
highest dose tested (10 mg/kg), representing an approximate 150-fold margin based on human 
systemic exposure (AUC) at a daily dose of 0.5 mg. 
Fingolimod was teratogenic in the rat when given at doses of 0.1 mg/kg or higher. Drug exposure in 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rats at this dose was similar to that in patients at the therapeutic dose (0.5 mg). The most common 
foetal visceral malformations included persistent truncus arteriosus and ventricular septum defect. The 
teratogenic potential in rabbits could not be fully assessed, however an increased embryo-foetal 
mortality was seen at doses of 1.5 mg/kg and higher, and a decrease in viable foetuses as well as foetal 
growth retardation was seen at 5 mg/kg. Drug exposure in rabbits at these doses was similar to that in 
patients. 
In rats, F1 generation pup survival was decreased in the early postpartum period at doses that did not 
cause maternal toxicity. However, F1 body weights, development, behaviour, and fertility were not 
affected by treatment with fingolimod. 
Fingolimod was excreted in milk of treated animals during lactation at concentrations 2-fold to 3-fold 
higher than that found in maternal plasma. Fingolimod and its metabolites crossed the placental barrier 
in pregnant rabbits. 
Juvenile animal studies 
Results from two toxicity studies in juvenile rats showed slight effects on neurobehavioural response, 
delayed sexual maturation and a decreased immune response to repeated stimulations with keyhole 
limpet haemocyanin (KLH), which were not considered adverse. Overall, the treatment-related effects 
of fingolimod in juvenile animals were comparable to those seen in adult rats at similar dose levels, 
with the exception of changes in bone mineral density and neurobehavioural impairment (reduced 
auditory startle response) observed at doses of 1.5 mg/kg and higher in juvenile animals and the 
absence of smooth muscle hypertrophy in the lungs of the juvenile rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
Capsule fill 
Mannitol 
Hydroxypropylcellulose 
Hydroxypropylbetadex 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac (E904) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Ammonia solution, concentrated(E527) 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
Capsule fill 
Mannitol 
Magnesium stearate 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac (E904) 
Ethanol, anhydrous 
Isopropyl alcohol 
Butyl alcohol 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Purified water 
Ammonia solution, concentrated (E527) 
Potassium hydroxide 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Dimethicone 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
18 months 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium blister packs containing 28 hard capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium perforated unit dose blister packs containing 7x 1 hard capsules. 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium blister packs containing 7, 28 or 98 hard capsules or multipacks containing 
84 (3 packs of 28) hard capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/aluminium perforated unit dose blister packs containing 7x 1 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/11/677/007-008 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/11/677/001-006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 March 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 23 November 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of GILENYA in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority (NCA). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State (MS) where GILENYA is marketed, all physicians 
who intend to prescribe GILENYA are provided with an updated Physician Information Pack, 
including: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC); 
Physician’s checklist for adult and pediatric patients, to consider prior to prescribing 
GILENYA, including information about the fingolimod Pregnancy Outcomes Intensive 
Monitoring Program and the Pregnancy Exposure Registry; 
The Patient / Parent / Caregiver’s reminder cardguide, to be provided to all patients, their 
parents (or legal representatives), and caregivers. 
3.4.  The pregnancy-specific patient reminder card, to be provided to all patients, their parents (or 
legal representatives), and caregivers, as applicable. 
Physician’s checklist 
The physician’s checklist shall contain the following key messages: 
 
 
 
Monitoring requirements at treatment initiation: 
Before first dose 
o 
o 
o 
o 
Perform baseline ECG prior to the first dose of GILENYA; 
Perform blood pressure measurement prior to the first dose of GILENYA; 
Perform a liver function test prior to (within 6 months) treatment initiation; 
Arrange ophthalmological assessment before starting GILENYA treatment in patients 
with diabetes mellitus or with a history of uveitis. 
A negative pregnancy test result must be confirmed prior to starting treatment. 
o 
Until 6 hours after first dose 
o  Monitor the patient for 6 hours after the first dose of GILENYA has been administered 
for signs and symptoms of bradycardia, including hourly pulse and blood pressure 
checks. Continuous (real time) ECG monitoring is recommended; 
Perform an ECG at the end of the 6-hour monitoring period. 
o 
>6 to 8 hours after first dose 
o 
If, at the 6-hour time point, the heart rate is at the lowest value following the first dose, 
extend heart rate monitoring for at least 2 more hours and until the heart rate increases 
again. 
Recommendation for re-initiating GILENYA therapy after treatment interruption:: 
The same first dose monitoring as for treatment initiation is recommended when treatment is 
interrupted for: 
o 
o  More than 7 days during weeks 3 and 4 of treatment; 
o  More than 2 weeks after at least 1 month of treatment. 
One day or more during the first 2 weeks of treatment; 
Recommendation for overnight monitoring after the first dose (or if the first dose monitoring 
applies during treatment re-initiation): 
o 
Extend heart rate monitoring for at least overnight in a medical facility and until 
resolution of findings in patients requiring pharmacological intervention during 
monitoring at treatment initiation/re-initiation. Repeat the first dose monitoring after the 
second dose of GILENYA; 
Extend heart rate monitoring for at least overnight in a medical facility and until 
resolution of findings in patients: 
  With third degree AV block occurring at any time; 
  Where at the 6-hour time point: 
o 
a.  Heart rate <45 bpm, <55 bpm in paediatric patients aged 12 years old and 
above, or <60 bpm in pediatric patients 10 to below 12 years of age; 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b.  New onset second degree or higher AV block; 
c.  QTc interval 500 msec. 
GILENYA is contraindicated in patients with: 
o 
o 
Known immunodeficiency syndrome; 
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised 
patients (including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those 
immunocompromised by prior therapies); 
Severe active infections, active chronic infections (hepatitis, tuberculosis); 
Known active malignancies; 
Severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh class C); 
In the previous 6 months, myocardial infarction (MI), unstable angina pectoris, 
stroke/transient ischaemic attack (TIA), decompensated heart failure (requiring inpatient 
treatment), or New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III/IV heart failure; 
Severe cardiac arrhythmias requiring anti-arrhythmic treatment with class Ia or class III 
anti-arrhythmic medicinal products; 
Second-degree Mobitz type II atrioventricular (AV) block or third-degree AV block, or 
sick-sinus syndrome, if they do not wear a pacemaker; 
Patients with a baseline QTc interval ≥500 msec; 
Pregnant women and women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception; 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients with: 
o 
o 
Sino-atrial heart block; 
QTc prolongation >470 msec (adult females), QTc >460 msec (pediatric females) or 
>450 msec (adult and pediatric males); 
History of cardiac arrest; 
Severe sleep apnea; 
History of symptomatic bradycardia; 
History of recurrent syncope; 
Uncontrolled hypertension. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
If GILENYA treatment is considered in these patients anticipated benefits must outweigh 
potential risks and a cardiologist must be consulted to determine appropriate monitoring, at least 
overnight extended monitoring is recommended. 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients concomitantly taking medicines known to decrease 
the heart rate. If GILENYA treatment is considered in these patients anticipated benefits must 
outweigh potential risks and a cardiologist must be consulted to switch to non heart-rate-
lowering therapy or, if not possible, to determine appropriate monitoring. At least overnight 
extended monitoring is recommended. 
GILENYA reduces peripheral blood lymphocyte counts. Peripheral lymphocyte count (CBC) 
should be checked in all patients prior to initiation (within 6 months or after discontinuation of 
prior therapy) and monitored during treatment with GILENYA. Treatment should be interrupted 
if lymphocyte count is confirmed as <0.2x109/L. The approved dosing of 0.5 mg once daily (or 
0.25 mg once daily in pediatric patients 10 years of age and above with a body weight of 
≤40 kg) when restarting Gilenya should be administered. Other dosing regimens have not been 
approved. 
GILENYA has an immunosuppressive effect that predisposes patients to an infection risk, 
including opportunistic infections that can be fatal, and increases the risk of developing 
lymphomas (including mycosis fungoides) and other malignancies, particularly those of the 
skin. Surveillance should include vigilance for both skin malignancies and mycosis fungoides. 
Physicians should carefully monitor patients, especially those with concurrent conditions or 
known factors, such as previous immunosuppressive therapy. If this risk is suspected, 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinuation of treatment should be considered by the physician on a case-by-case basis. 
o 
o 
Treatment initiation in patients with severe active infection should be delayed until the 
infection is resolved. Suspension of treatment during serious infections should be 
considered. Anti-neoplastic, immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive therapies should 
not be co-administered due to the risk of additive immune system effects. For the same 
reason, a decision to use prolonged concomitant treatment with corticosteroids should be 
taken after careful consideration. 
Vigilance for basal cell carcinoma and other cutaneous neoplasms including malignant 
melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma, Kaposi’s sarcoma and Merckel cell carcinoma is 
recommended, with skin examination prior to treatment initiation and then every 6 to 12 
months taking into consideration clinical judgement. Patients should be referred to a 
dermatologist if suspicious lesions are detected. Caution patients against exposure to 
sunlight without protection. These patients should not receive concomitant phototherapy 
with UV-B-radiation or PUVA-photochemotherapy. 
 
Patients should be instructed to report signs and symptoms of infections immediately to their 
prescriber during and for up to two months after treatment with GILENYA. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
Prompt diagnostic evaluation should be performed in patient with symptoms and signs 
consistent with cryptococcal meningitis; appropriate treatment, if diagnosed, should be 
initiated.  
Reports of cryptococcal meningitis (sometimes fatal) have been received after 
approximately 2-3 years of treatment, although an exact relationship with the duration of 
treatment is unknown. 
Physicians should be vigilant for clinical symptoms or MRI findings suggestive of PML. 
If PML is suspected, treatment with GILENYA should be suspended until PML has been 
excluded. 
Cases of PML have occurred after approximately 2-3 years of monotherapy treatment 
although an exact relationship with the duration of treatment is unknown. 
Specific recommendations regarding vaccination for patients initiating or currently on 
GILENYA treatment. Check varicella zoster virus (VZV) antibody status in patients 
without a healthcare professional confirmed history of chickenpox or documentation of a 
full course of varicella vaccination. If negative, a full course of vaccination with varicella 
vaccine is recommended and treatment initiation should be delayed for 1 month to allow 
full effect of vaccination to occur. 
Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, including papilloma, dysplasia, warts and HPV-
related cancer, has been reported in the post-marketing setting. Cancer screening, 
including Pap test, and vaccination for HPV-related cancer is recommended for patients, 
as per standard of care. 
 
A full ophthalmological assessment should be considered: 
o 
3-4 months after starting GILENYA therapy for the early detection of visual impairment 
due to drug-induced macular oedema; 
During treatment with GILENYA in patients with diabetes mellitus or with a history of 
uveitis. 
o 
  GILENYA is teratogenic. Therefore,It is contraindicated in women of childbearing potential, 
(including female adolescents) not using effective contraception and in pregnant women should 
avoid pregnancy during GILENYA treatment; a negative pregnancy test result should be 
confirmed prior to starting treatment, and it should be repeated at suitable intervals;. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
A negative pregnancy test result must be confirmed prior to starting treatment, and it must 
be repeated at suitable intervals. 
o  Women of child-bearing potential, including adolescent females, their parents (or legal 
representatives), and caregivers, should be informed counselled before treatment 
initiation and regularly thereafter about the serious risks of GILENYA to the foetus, 
facilitated by the pregnancy-specific patient reminder card. 
o  Women of childbearing potential must use eEffective contraception during treatment and 
for at least two months following treatment discontinuation should be recommended. 
o  While on treatment, women should must not become pregnant. If a woman becomes 
pregnant while on treatment, GILENYA must be discontinued. When stopping 
GILENYA therapy due to pregnancy or for planning a pregnancy, the possible return of 
disease activity should be considered. Medical advice should be given regarding the risk 
of harmful effects to the foetus associated with GILENYA treatment and ultrasonography 
examinations should be performed. 
o 
o 
GILENYA must be stopped 2 months before planning a pregnancy. 
Physicians are encouraged to enroll pregnant patients, or pregnant women may register 
themselves, in the GILENYA pregnancy registry.Treatment discontinuation is 
recommended if a patient becomes pregnant. 
Liver function should be monitored at months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 during GILENYA therapy and 
periodically thereafter; the approved dosing of 0.5 mg daily (or 0.25 mg once daily in pediatric 
patients 10 years of age and above with a body weight of ≤40 kg) should be administered. Other 
dosing regimens have not been approved. 
In the post-marketing setting, severe exacerbation of disease has been observed rarely in some 
patients stopping  fingolimodGILENYA. The possibility of recurrence of exceptionally high 
disease activity should be considered. 
Cases of seizure, including status epilepticus, have been reported. Physicians should be vigilant 
for seizures and especially in those patients with underlying conditions or with a pre-existing 
history or family history of epilepsy. 
Physicians should reassess on an annual basis the benefit of GILENYA treatment versus risk in 
each patient, especially pediatric patients. 
 
 
 
 
  Physicians should provide patients/parents/caregivers with the patient/parents/caregiver reminder 
cardguide and with the pregnancy-specific patient reminder card. 
The safety profile in pediatric patients is similar to adults and therefore the warnings and precautions 
in adults also apply for pediatric patients. 
Specifically with pediatric patients, physicians should also: 
o 
o 
o 
Assess Tanner staging and measure height and weight as per standard of care; 
Perform cardiovascular monitoring; 
Take precautions when the first dose is administered / patients are switched from 0.25 to 
0.5 mg daily, due to the potential for bradyarrhythmia; 
o  Monitor the patient for sign and symptoms of depression and anxiety; 
o 
Emphasize treatment compliance and misuse to patients, especially about treatment 
interruption and the importance of repeating cardiovascular monitoring; 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
o 
o 
Emphasize GILENYA immunosuppressive effects; 
Consider a complete vaccination schedule before starting GILENYA; 
Provide guidance on seizure monitoring. 
Patient / Parent / Caregiver Reminder Cardguide 
The patient/parents/caregiver reminder card guide shall contain the following key messages: 
  What GILENYA is and how it works; 
  What multiple sclerosis is; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should read the package leaflet thoroughly before starting treatment and should keep it 
in case they need to refer to it again during treatment; 
Importance of reporting adverse reactions. 
Patients should have a baseline ECG and blood pressure measurement prior to receiving the first 
dose of GILENYA; 
Heart rate should be monitored for 6 or more hours after the first dose of GILENYA, including 
hourly pulse and blood pressure checks. Patients may be monitored with continuous ECG 
during the first 6 hours. An ECG at 6 hours should also be performed and, in some 
circumstances, monitoring may involve an overnight stay; 
Patients  should  call  their  doctor  in  case  of  treatment  interruption  as  the  first  dose  monitoring 
may  need  to  be  repeated,  depending  on  duration  of  interruption  and  time  since  starting  of 
GILENYA treatment; 
Patients  should  report  immediately  symptoms  indicating  low  heart  rate  (such  as  dizziness, 
vertigo, nausea or palpitations) after the first dose of GILENYA; 
GILENYA is not recommended in patients with cardiac disease or those taking medicines 
concomitantly known to decrease heart rate, and they should tell any doctor they see that they 
are being treated with GILENYA; 
Signs and symptoms of infection, which should be immediately reported to the prescriber 
physician during and up to two months after GILENYA treatment; 
The need to undergo cancer screening, including Pap test, and vaccination for HPV-related 
cancer, as per standard of care, will be assessed by the prescriber physician; 
Any symptoms of visual impairment should be reported immediately to the prescriber during 
and for up to two months after the end of treatment with GILENYA; 
GILENYA is teratogenic. Women of child-bearing potential, including adolescent females, 
should be informed about GILENYA’s serious risks to the fetus and must: 
o 
Be informed before treatment initiation and regularly thereafter by their physician about 
GILENYA’s serious risks to the foetus, and about the contraindication in pregnant 
women and in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception, 
facilitated by the pregnancy-specific patient reminder card; 
Have a negative pregnancy test before starting GILENYA; 
Be using effective contraception during and for at least two months following 
discontinuation of GILENYA treatment; 
Report immediately to the prescribing physician any (intended or unintended) pregnancy 
during and up to two months following discontinuation of GILENYA treatment; 
A liver function test should be performed prior to treatment initiation; liver function monitoring 
should be performed at months 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 during GILENYA therapy, and periodically 
thereafter; 
Skin cancers have been reported in MSmultiple sclerosis patients treated with GILENYA. 
Patients should inform their doctor immediately if any skin nodules (e.g., shiny, pearly 
nodules), patches or open sores that do not heal within weeks are noted. Symptoms of skin 
cancer may include abnormal growth or changes of skin tissue (e.g., unusual moles) with a 
change in color, shape or size over time; 
Seizure may occur. The doctor should be informed about a pre-existing history or family history 
of epilepsy; 
o 
o 
o 
33 
 
 
 
Stopping GILENYA therapy may result in return of disease activity. The prescribing physician 
should decide whether and how the patient should be monitored after stopping GILENYA. 
Specifically for Pediatric patients: 
The following should be considered: 
 
 
Physicians should assess Tanner staging and measure height and weight as per standard of care; 
Precautions should be taken during the first dose of GILENYA and when patients are switched 
from 0.25 to 0.5 mg daily; 
Depression and anxiety are known to occur with increased frequency in the MSmultiple 
sclerosis population and have been reported also in pediatric patients treated with GILENYA; 
Cardiac monitoring guidance; 
Patients should ensure medication compliance and avoid misuse, especially treatment 
interruption, and repeat cardiac monitoring; 
Signs and symptoms of infection; 
Seizure monitoring guidance. 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy-specific patient reminder card 
The pregnancy-specific patient reminder card shall contain the following key messages: 
 
GILENYA is contraindicated during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not 
using effective contraception. 
Doctors will provide counselling before treatment initiation and regularly thereafter regarding 
the teratogenic risk of GILENYA and required actions to minimise this risk. 
Patients must use effective contraception while taking GILENYA. 
A pregnancy test must be carried out and negative results verified by the doctor before starting 
treatment. It must be repeated at suitable intervals. 
Patients will be informed by their doctor of the need for effective contraception while on 
treatment and for 2 months after discontinuation. 
Doctors will provide counselling in the event of pregnancy and evaluation of the outcome of 
any pregnancy. 
 
 
 
 
 
  While on treatment, women must not become pregnant. If a woman becomes pregnant or wants 
 
to become pregnant, GILENYA must be discontinued. 
Patients should inform their doctor straight away if there is worsening of multiple sclerosis after 
stopping treatment with GILENYA. 
  Women exposed to GILENYA during pregnancy are encouraged to join the pregnancy exposure 
registry that monitors outcomes of pregnancy. 
 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Conduct of a prospective cohort study assessing the incidence of cardiovascular 
adverse events in patients starting GILENYA treatment for relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date
Final Study 
report by 15 
December 
2020 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.25 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.25 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/008 
28 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.25 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.25 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 x 1 hard capsule 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/007 
7 x 1 hard capsule 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.25 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.25 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
98 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/005 
EU/1/11/677/006 
28 capsules 
98 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK – WALLET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 hard capsules 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
To open: While pressing tab 1 firmly, pull on tab 2. 
Week 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/002 
EU/1/11/677/003 
7 capsules 
28 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
47 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK CONTAINING WALLETS (WITH BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 84 (3 packs of 28) hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/004 
84 capsules (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK – WALLET (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
To open: While pressing tab 1 firmly, pull on tab 2. 
Week 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/004 
84 capsules (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 x 1 hard capsule 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Swallow each capsule whole 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/677/001 
7 x 1 hard capsule 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR WALLET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
5. 
OTHER 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
SINGLE-UNIT-DOSE BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
GILENYA 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
fingolimod 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Gilenya is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Gilenya 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Gilenya 
Possible side effects 
How to store Gilenya 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Gilenya is and what it is used for 
What Gilenya is 
The active substance of Gilenya is fingolimod. 
What Gilenya is used for 
Gilenya is used in adults and in children and adolescents (10 years of age and above) to treat 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), more specifically in: 
- 
or 
- 
Patients who have failed to respond despite treatment with an MS treatment. 
Patients who have rapidly evolving severe MS. 
Gilenya does not cure MS, but it helps to reduce the number of relapses and to slow down the 
progression of physical disabilities due to MS. 
What is multiple sclerosis 
MS is a long-term condition that affects the central nervous system (CNS), comprised of the brain and 
spinal cord. In MS inflammation destroys the protective sheath (called myelin) around the nerves in 
the CNS and stops the nerves from working properly. This is called demyelination. 
Relapsing-remitting MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) of nervous system symptoms 
that reflect inflammation within the CNS. Symptoms vary from patient to patient but typically involve 
walking difficulties, numbness, vision problems or disturbed balance. Symptoms of a relapse may 
disappear completely when the relapse is over, but some problems may remain. 
How Gilenya works 
Gilenya helps to protect against attacks on the CNS by the immune system by reducing the ability of 
some white blood cells (lymphocytes) to move freely within the body and by stopping them from 
reaching the brain and spinal cord. This limits nerve damage caused by MS. Gilenya also reduces 
some of the immune reactions of your body. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Gilenya 
Do not take Gilenya 
- 
if you have a lowered immune response (due to an immunodeficiency syndrome, a disease or 
to medicines that suppress the immune system). 
if you have a severe active infection or active chronic infection such as hepatitis or 
tuberculosis. 
if you have an active cancer. 
if you have severe liver problems. 
if, in the last 6 months, you have had heart attack, angina, stroke or warning of a stroke or 
certain types of heart failure. 
if you have certain types of irregular or abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia), including patients 
in whom the electrocardiogram (ECG) shows prolonged QT interval before starting Gilenya. 
if you are taking or have recently taken medicine for irregular heartbeat such as quinidine, 
disopyramide, amiodarone or sotalol. 
if you are pregnant or a woman of childbearing potential not using effective contraception. 
if you are allergic to fingolimod or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Gilenya. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Gilenya: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have severe breathing problems during sleep (severe sleep apnoea). 
if you have been told you have an abnormal electrocardiogram. 
if you suffer from symptoms of slow heart rate (e.g. dizziness, nausea, or palpitations). 
if you are taking or have recently taken medicines that slow your heart rate (such as beta 
blockers, verapamil, diltiazem or ivabradine, digoxin, anticholinesteratic agents or pilocarpine). 
if you have a history of sudden loss of consciousness or fainting (syncope). 
if you plan to get vaccinated. 
if you have never had chickenpox. 
if you have or have had visual disturbances or other signs of swelling in the central vision 
area (macula) at the back of the eye (a condition known as macular oedema, see below), 
inflammation or infection of the eye (uveitis), or if you have diabetes (which can cause eye 
problems). 
if you have liver problems. 
if you have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicines. 
if you have severe lung problems or smoker’s cough. 
- 
- 
- 
If any of these applies to you, tell your doctor before taking Gilenya. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Slow heart rate (bradycardia) and irregular heartbeat 
At the beginning of treatment or after taking the first dose of 0.5 mg when you switch from a 0.25 mg 
daily dose, Gilenya causes the heart rate to slow down. As a result, you may feel dizzy or tired, or be 
consciously aware of your heartbeat, or your blood pressure may drop. If these effects are 
pronounced, tell your doctor, because you may need treatment right away. Gilenya can also cause 
an irregular heartbeat, especially after the first dose. Irregular heartbeat usually returns to normal in 
less than one day. Slow heart rate usually returns to normal within one month. 
Your doctor will ask you to stay at the surgery or clinic for at least 6 hours, with hourly pulse and 
blood pressure measurements, after taking the first dose of Gilenya or after taking the first dose of 
0.5 mg when you switch from a 0.25 mg daily dose, so that appropriate measures can be taken in the 
event of side effects that occur at the start of treatment. You should have an electrocardiogram 
performed prior to the first dose of Gilenya and after the 6-hour monitoring period. Your doctor may 
monitor your electrocardiogram continuously during that time. If after the 6-hour period you have a 
very slow or decreasing heart rate, or if your electrocardiogram shows abnormalities, you may need to 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be monitored for a longer period (at least 2 more hours and possibly overnight) until these have 
resolved. The same may apply if you are resuming Gilenya after a break in treatment, depending on 
both how long the break was and how long you had been taking Gilenya before the break. 
If you have, or if you are at risk for, an irregular or abnormal heartbeat, if your electrocardiogram is 
abnormal, or if you have heart disease or heart failure, Gilenya may not be appropriate for you. 
If you have a history of sudden loss of consciousness or decreased heart rate, Gilenya may not be 
appropriate for you. You will be evaluated by a cardiologist (heart specialist) to advise how you 
should start treatment with Gilenya, including overnight monitoring. 
If you are taking medicines that can cause your heart rate to decrease, Gilenya may not be appropriate 
for you. You will need to be evaluated by a cardiologist, who will check whether you can be switched 
to alternative medicine that does not decrease your heart rate in order to allow treatment with Gilenya. 
If such a switch is impossible, the cardiologist will advise how you should start treatment with 
Gilenya, including overnight monitoring. 
If you have never had chickenpox 
If you have never had chickenpox, your doctor will check your immunity against the virus that causes 
it (varicella zoster virus). If you are not protected against the virus, you may need a vaccination before 
you start treatment with Gilenya. If this is the case, your doctor will delay the start of treatment with 
Gilenya until one month after the full course of vaccination is completed. 
Infections 
Gilenya lowers the white blood cell count (particularly the lymphocyte count). White blood cells fight 
infection. While you are taking Gilenya (and for up to 2 months after you stop taking it), you may get 
infections more easily. Any infection that you already have may get worse. Infections could be serious 
and life-threatening. If you think you have an infection, have fever, feel like you have the flu, or have 
a headache accompanied by stiff neck, sensitivity to light, nausea, and/or confusion (these may be 
caused by a fungal infection and may be symptoms of meningitis), contact your doctor straight away, 
because it could be serious and life-threatening. If you believe your MS is getting worse (e.g. 
weakness or visual changes) or if you notice any new symptoms, talk to your doctor straight away, 
because these may be the symptoms of a rare brain disorder caused by infection and called progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a serious condition that may lead to severe disability 
or death. 
Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, including papilloma, dysplasia, warts and HPV-related 
cancer, has been reported in patients treated with Gilenya. Your doctor will consider whether you need 
to have a vaccination against HPV before starting treatment. If you are a woman, your doctor will also 
recommend HPV screening. 
Macular oedema 
Before you start Gilenya, if you have or have had visual disturbances or other signs of swelling in the 
central vision area (macula) at the back of the eye, inflammation or infection of the eye (uveitis) or 
diabetes, your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination. 
Your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination 3 to 4 months after starting Gilenya 
treatment. 
The macula is a small area of the retina at the back of the eye which enables you to see shapes, 
colours, and details clearly and sharply. Gilenya may cause swelling in the macula, a condition that is 
known as macular oedema. The swelling usually happens in the first 4 months of Gilenya treatment. 
Your chance of developing macular oedema is higher if you have diabetes or have had an 
inflammation of the eye called uveitis. In these cases your doctor will want you to undergo regular eye 
examinations in order to detect macular oedema. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have had macular oedema, talk to your doctor before you resume treatment with Gilenya. 
Macular oedema can cause some of the same vision symptoms as an MS attack (optic neuritis). Early 
on, there may not be any symptoms. Be sure to tell your doctor about any changes in your vision. 
Your doctor may want you to undergo an eye examination, especially if: 
- 
- 
- 
the centre of your vision gets blurry or has shadows; 
you develop a blind spot in the centre of your vision; 
you have problems seeing colours or fine detail. 
Liver function tests 
If you have severe liver problems, you should not take Gilenya. Gilenya may affect your liver 
function. You will probably not notice any symptoms but if you notice yellowing of your skin or the 
whites of your eyes, abnormally dark urine or unexplained nausea and vomiting, tell your doctor 
straight away. 
If you get any of these symptoms after starting Gilenya, tell your doctor straight away. 
During the first twelve months of treatment your doctor will request blood tests to monitor your liver 
function. If your test results indicate a problem with your liver you may have to interrupt treatment 
with Gilenya. 
High blood pressure 
As Gilenya causes a slight elevation of blood pressure, your doctor may want to check your blood 
pressure regularly. 
Lung problems 
Gilenya has a slight effect on the lung function. Patients with severe lung problems or with smoker’s 
cough may have a higher chance of developing side effects. 
Blood count 
The desired effect of Gilenya treatment is to reduce the amount of white blood cells in your blood. 
This will usually go back to normal within 2 months of stopping treatment. If you need to have any 
blood tests, tell the doctor that you are taking Gilenya. Otherwise, it may not be possible for the doctor 
to understand the results of the test, and for certain types of blood test your doctor may need to take 
more blood than usual. 
Before you start Gilenya, your doctor will confirm whether you have enough white blood cells in your 
blood and may want to repeat a check regularly. In case you do not have enough white blood cells, 
you may have to interrupt treatment with Gilenya. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
A condition called posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) has been rarely reported in 
MS patients treated with Gilenya. Symptoms may include sudden onset of severe headache, confusion, 
seizures and vision changes. Tell your doctor straight away if you experience any of these symptoms 
during your treatment with Gilenya, because it could be serious. 
Skin cancer 
Skin cancers have been reported in MS patients treated with Gilenya. Talk to your doctor straight 
away if you notice any skin nodules (e.g. shiny pearly nodules), patches or open sores that do not heal 
within weeks. Symptoms of skin cancer may include abnormal growth or changes of skin tissue (e.g. 
unusual moles) with a change in colour, shape or size over time. Before you start Gilenya, a skin 
examination is required to check whether you have any skin nodules. Your doctor will also carry out 
regular skin examinations during your treatment with Gilenya. If you develop problems with your 
skin, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who after consultation may decide that it is 
important for you to be seen on a regular basis. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to the sun and protection against the sun 
Fingolimod weakens your immune system. This increases your risk of developing cancers, in 
particular skin cancers. You should limit your exposure to the sun and UV rays by: 
 
 
wearing appropriate protective clothing. 
regularly applying sunscreen with a high degree of UV protection. 
Unusual brain lesions associated with MS relapse 
Rare cases of unusually large brain lesions associated with MS relapse have been reported in patients 
treated with Gilenya. In case of severe relapse, your doctor will consider performing MRI to evaluate 
this condition and will decide whether you need to stop taking Gilenya. 
Switch from other treatments to Gilenya 
Your doctor may switch you directly from beta interferon, glatiramer acetate or dimethyl fumarate to 
Gilenya if there are no signs of abnormalities caused by your previous treatment. Your doctor may 
have to do a blood test in order to exclude such abnormalities. After stopping natalizumab you may 
have to wait for 2-3 months before starting treatment with Gilenya. To switch from teriflunomide, 
your doctor may advise you to wait for a certain time or to go through an accelerated elimination 
procedure. If you have been treated with alemtuzumab, a thorough evaluation and discussion with 
your doctor is required to decide if Gilenya is appropriate for you. 
Women of childbearing potential 
If used during pregnancy, Gilenya can harm the unborn baby. Before you start treatment with Gilenya 
your doctor will explain the risk to you and ask you to do a pregnancy test in order to ensure that you 
are not pregnant. Your doctor will give you a card which explains why you should not become 
pregnant while taking Gilenya. It also explains what you should do to avoid becoming pregnant while 
you are taking Gilenya. You must use effective contraception during treatment and for 2 months after 
stopping treatment (see section “Pregnancy and breastfeeding”). 
Worsening of MS after stopping Gilenya treatment 
Do not stop taking Gilenya or change your dose without talking to your doctor first. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you think your MS is getting worse after you have stopped treatment 
with Gilenya. This could be serious (see “If you stop taking Gilenya” in section 3, and also section 4, 
“Possible side effects”). 
Elderly 
Experience with Gilenya in elderly patients (over 65 years) is limited. Talk to your doctor if you have 
any concerns. 
Children and adolescents 
Gilenya is not intended for use in children below 10 years old as it has not been studied in MS patients 
in this age group. 
The warnings and precautions listed above also apply to children and adolescents. The following 
information is particularly important for children and adolescents and their caregivers: 
- 
Before you start Gilenya, your doctor will check your vaccination status. If you have not had 
certain vaccinations, it may be necessary for you to be given them before Gilenya can be 
started. 
The first time you take Gilenya, or when you switch from a 0.25 mg daily dose to a 0.5 mg 
daily dose, your doctor will monitor your heart rate and heartbeat (see “Slow heart rate 
(bradycardia) and irregular heartbeat” above). 
If you experience convulsions or fits before or whilst taking Gilenya, let your doctor know. 
If you suffer from depression or anxiety or if you become depressed or anxious while you are 
taking Gilenya, let your doctor know. You may need to be monitored more closely. 
- 
- 
- 
Other medicines and Gilenya 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
medicines. Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
  Medicines that suppress or modulate the immune system, including other medicines used 
to treat MS, such as beta interferon, glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, mitoxantrone, 
teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate or alemtuzumab. You must not use Gilenya together with such 
medicines as this could intensify the effect on the immune system (see also “‘Do not take 
Gilenya”’). 
Corticosteroids, due to a possible added effect on the immune system. 
Vaccines. If you need to receive a vaccine, seek your doctor’s advice first. During and for up to 
2 months after treatment with Gilenya, you should not receive certain types of vaccine (live 
attenuated vaccines) as they could trigger the infection that they were supposed to prevent. 
Other vaccines may not work as well as usual if given during this period. 
 
 
  Medicines that slow the heartbeat (for example beta blockers, such as atenolol). Use of 
Gilenya together with such medicines could intensify the effect on heartbeat in the first days 
after starting Gilenya. 
  Medicines for irregular heartbeat, such as quinidine, disopyramide, amiodarone or sotalol. 
 
You must not use Gilenya if you are taking such a medicine because it could intensify the effect 
on irregular heartbeat (see also “‘Do not take Gilenya”’). 
Other medicines: 
o 
protease inhibitors, anti-infectives such as ketoconazole, azole antifungals, clarithromycin 
or telithromycin. 
carbamazepine, rifampicine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, efavirenz or St. John’s Wort 
(potential risk of reduced efficacy of Gilenya). 
o 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Do not use Gilenya during pregnancy, if you are trying to become pregnant or if you are a woman who 
could become pregnant and you are not using effective contraception. If Gilenya is used during 
pregnancy, there is a risk of harm to the unborn baby. The rate of congenital malformations observed 
in babies exposed to Gilenya during pregnancy is about 2 times the rate observed in the general 
population (in whom the rate of congenital malformations is about 2-3%). The most frequently 
reported malformations included cardiac, renal and musculoskeletal malformations. 
Therefore, if you are a woman of childbearing potential: 
-  
and,  
- 
bBefore you start treatment with Gilenya your doctor may will inform you about the risk to an 
unborn baby and ask you to do a pregnancy test in order to ensure that you are not pregnant., 
Yyou should avoid becoming pregnant must use effective contraception while taking Gilenya or 
in the and for two months after you stop taking it because there is a risk of harm to the baby to 
avoid becoming pregnant. Talk with to your doctor about reliable methods of birth control 
contraceptionthat you should use during treatment and for 2 months after you stop treatment. 
Your doctor will give you a card which explains why you should not become pregnant while taking 
Gilenya. 
If you do become pregnant while taking Gilenya, stop taking the medicine and tell your doctor 
straight away. Your doctor will decide to stop treatment (see “If you stop taking Gilenya” in 
section 3, and also section 4, “Possible side effects”). You and your doctor will decide what is best for 
you and your baby.Specialised pre-natal monitoring will be performed. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
You should not breast-feed while you are taking Gilenya. Gilenya can pass into breast milk and 
there is a risk of serious side effects for the baby. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Your doctor will tell you whether your illness allows you to drive vehicles, including a bicycle, and 
use machines safely. Gilenya is not expected to have an influence on your ability to drive and use 
machines. 
However, at initiation of treatment you will have to stay at the doctor’s surgery or clinic for 6 hours 
after taking the first dose of Gilenya. Your ability to drive and use machines may be impaired during 
and potentially after this time period. 
3. 
How to take Gilenya 
Treatment with Gilenya will be overseen by a doctor who is experienced in the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
The recommended dose is: 
Adults: 
The dose is one 0.5 mg capsule per day. 
Children and adolescents (10 years of age and above): 
The dose depends on body weight: 
 
Children and adolescents with body weight equal to or below 40 kg: one 0.25 mg capsule per 
day. 
 
Children and adolescents with body weight above 40 kg: one 0.5 mg capsule per day. 
Children and adolescents who start on one 0.25 mg capsule per day and later reach a stable body 
weight above 40 kg will be instructed by their doctor to switch to one 0.5 mg capsule per day. In this 
case, it is recommended to repeat the first-dose observation period. 
Do not exceed the recommended dose. 
Gilenya is for oral use. 
Take Gilenya once a day with a glass of water. Gilenya capsules should always be swallowed intact, 
without opening them. Gilenya can be taken with or without food. 
Taking Gilenya at the same time each day will help you remember when to take your medicine. 
If you have questions about how long to take Gilenya, talk to your doctor or your pharmacist. 
If you take more Gilenya than you should 
If you have taken too much Gilenya, call your doctor straight away. 
If you forget to take Gilenya 
If you have been taking Gilenya for less than 1 month and you forget to take 1 dose for a whole day, 
call your doctor before you take the next dose. Your doctor may decide to keep you under observation 
at the time you take the next dose. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have been taking Gilenya for at least 1 month and have forgotten to take your treatment for 
more than 2 weeks, call your doctor before you take the next dose. Your doctor may decide to keep 
you under observation at the time you take the next dose. However, if you have forgotten to take your 
treatment for up to 2 weeks, you can take the next dose as planned. 
Never take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Gilenya 
Do not stop taking Gilenya or change your dose without talking to your doctor first. 
Gilenya will stay in your body for up to 2 months after you stop taking it. Your white blood cell count 
(lymphocyte count) may also remain low during this time and the side effects described in this leaflet 
may still occur. After stopping Gilenya you may have to wait for 6-8 weeks before starting a new MS 
treatment. 
If you have to restart Gilenya more than 2 weeks after you stop taking it, the effect on heart rate 
normally seen when treatment is first started may re-occur and you will need to be monitored at the 
doctor’s surgery or clinic for re-initiation of treatment. Do not restart Gilenya after stopping it for 
more than two weeks without seeking advice from your doctor. 
Your doctor will decide whether and how you need to be monitored after stopping Gilenya. Tell your 
doctor straight away if you think your MS is getting worse after you have stopped treatment with 
Gilenya. This could be serious. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects could be or could become serious 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
Coughing with phlegm, chest discomfort, fever (signs of lung disorders) 
Herpes virus infection (shingles or herpes zoster) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, 
itching or pain of the skin, typically on the upper body or the face. Other symptoms may be 
fever and weakness in the early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching or red 
patches with severe pain 
Slow heartbeat (bradycardia), irregular heart rhythm 
A type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma (BCC) which often appears as a pearly nodule, 
although it can also take other forms 
Depression and anxiety are known to occur with increased frequency in the MS population and 
have also been reported in paediatric patients treated with Gilenya. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
Pneumonia with symptoms such as fever, cough, difficulty breathing 
Macular oedema (swelling in the central vision area of the retina at the back of the eye) with 
symptoms such as shadows or blind spot in the centre of the vision, blurred vision, problems 
seeing colours or details 
Reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
Malignant melanoma (a type of skin cancer which usually develops from an unusual mole). 
Possible signs of melanoma include moles which may change size, shape, elevation or colour 
over time, or new moles. The moles may itch, bleed or ulcerate 
Convulsion, fits (more frequent in children and adolescents than in adults) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
- 
A condition called posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES). Symptoms may 
65 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
include sudden onset of severe headache, confusion, seizures and/or vision disturbances 
Lymphoma (a type of cancer that affects the lymph system) 
Squamous cell carcinoma: a type of skin cancer which may present as a firm red nodule, a sore 
with crust, or a new sore on an existing scar 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
- 
- 
Electrocardiogram anomaly (T-wave inversion) 
Tumour related to infection with human herpes virus 8 (Kaposi’s sarcoma) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
Allergic reactions, including symptoms of rash or itchy hives, swelling of lips, tongue or face, 
which are more likely to occur on the day you start Gilenya treatment 
Risk of a rare brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The 
symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Symptoms might also arise that you might 
not become aware of by yourself, such as changes in mood or behaviour, memory lapses, speech 
and communication difficulties, which your doctor may need to investigate further to rule out 
PML. Therefore, if you believe your MS is getting worse or if you or those close to you notice 
any new or unusual symptoms, it is very important that you speak to your doctor as soon as 
possible 
Cryptococcal infections (a type of fungal infection), including cryptococcal meningitis with 
symptoms such as headache accompanied by stiff neck, sensitivity to light, nausea, and/or 
confusion 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer). Possible signs of Merkel cell carcinoma include 
flesh-coloured or bluish-red, painless nodule, often on the face, head or neck. Merkel cell 
carcinoma can also present as a firm painless nodule or mass. Long-term exposure to the sun and 
a weak immune system can affect the risk of developing Merkel cell carcinoma.  
After Gilenya treatment is stopped, symptoms of MS can return and may become worse than 
they were before or during treatment. 
If you experience any of these, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Infection from flu virus with symptoms such as tiredness, chills, sore throat, aching in the joints 
or muscles, fever 
Feeling of pressure or pain in the cheeks and forehead (sinusitis) 
Headache 
Diarrhoea 
Back pain 
Blood testing showing higher levels of liver enzymes 
Cough 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ringworm, a fungal infection of the skin (tinea versicolor) 
Dizziness 
Severe headache often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light (migraine) 
Low level of white blood cells (lymphocytes, leucocytes) 
Weakness 
Itchy, red, burning rash (eczema) 
Itching 
Blood fat (triglycerides) level increased 
Hair loss 
Breathlessness 
Depression 
Blurred vision (see also the section on macular oedema under “Some side effects could be or 
could become serious”) 
Hypertension (Gilenya may cause a mild increase in blood pressure)  
- 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
Muscle pain 
Joint pain 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
Low level of certain white blood cells (neutrophils) 
Depressed mood 
Nausea 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
- 
Cancer of the lymphatic system (lymphoma) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
Peripheral swelling 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Gilenya 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister foil after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25ºC. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Gilenya contains 
- 
The active substance is fingolimod. 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules 
- 
- 
Each capsule contains 0.25 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule fill: mannitol, hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxypropylbetadex, magnesium stearate. 
Capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172). 
Printing ink: shellac (E904), iron oxide black (E172), propylene glycol (E1520), ammonia 
solution, concentrated (E527). 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules 
- 
- 
Each capsule contains 0.5 mg fingolimod (as hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule fill: mannitol, magnesium stearate. 
Capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172). 
Printing ink: shellac (E904), ethanol anhydrous, isopropyl alcohol, butyl alcohol, propylene 
glycol (E1520), purified water, ammonia solution, concentrated (E527), potassium hydroxide, 
black iron oxide (E172), yellow iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), dimethicone. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Gilenya looks like and contents of the pack 
Gilenya 0.25 mg hard capsules have an ivory opaque body and cap. “FTY 0.25mg” is imprinted on the 
cap with black ink and a black radial band on the body. 
Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules have a white opaque body and bright yellow opaque cap. “FTY0.5mg” 
is imprinted on the cap with black ink and two bands are imprinted on the body with yellow ink. 
Gilenya 0.25 mg capsules are available in packs containing 7 or 28 capsules. Not all pack sizes may be 
marketed in your country. 
Gilenya 0.5 mg capsules are available in packs containing 7, 28 or 98 capsules or in multipacks 
containing 84 capsules (3 packs of 28 capsules). Not all pack sizes may be marketed in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Lietuva 
SIA „Novartis Baltics“ Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 26 37 82 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA “Novartis Baltics” 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd. 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
