20 September 2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): fingolimod 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001393/201802 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01-Mar-2017 - 28-Feb-2018 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for fingolimod, the scientific conclusions of 
CHMP are as follows: 
A cumulative review of the post-marketing cases identified five cases reporting events of interest [myalgia 
(n=3) and arthralgia (n=3)], which were considered noteworthy. Three of these five cases were reported 
with positive re-challenge for the events of interest and the other two cases were reported with positive 
de-challenge without any plausible alternative explanation for the event of interest. Additionally, 38 cases, 
reporting 41 events of interest [myalgia (n=15) and arthralgia (n=26)], were reported with positive 
de-challenge; however, there was limited information about medical history and/or concomitant medication 
in these 38 cases. Based on the noteworthy cases identified in post-marketing, ‘myalgia’ and ‘arthralgia’ will 
be added to the section of the adverse drug reactions in the SmPC and in the Package leaflet. 
Regarding malignant neoplasms including skin and malignant lymphoma, there is a trend for an increased 
incidence rate (3.3% for the first period then 4.04% for the current period). Lymphoma represented 9.3% 
(cumulative data) to 10.6% (current period). Lymphomas are heterogeneous but, the number of mycosis 
fungoides increased during the reporting interval (5 cases). At least 2 published cases of T cell lymphoma 
reported regression of the cutaneous lesions after fingolimod discontinuation, suggesting strong fingolimod 
causality and immunosuppressant effect. Based on the increasing frequency of mycosis fungoides, the event 
will be added under the description on lymphomas in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
In a search for ‘HPV and related cancers’ a total of 414 cases (464 events) were identified cumulatively with 
a stable incidence rate over time. The majority of cases reported HPV infection, papilloma, dysplasia and 
warts. There were 68 neoplasms reported (59 cervix and 9 anal). Underreporting is highly probable for these 
events and evaluation of causality is consequently hard to define. Nevertheless, reported noteworthy cases 
suggest temporal relation. More than transformation onto malignant neoplasm following HPV infection, 
reactivation is a more relevant event suggestive of immunological modifications. Given the pharmacological 
properties of fingolimod on immunity and cases of reactivation (in some cases after several years of latency) 
with close temporal association with fingolimod, these data strongly support possible HPV infection 
reactivation upon fingolimod treatment. These data support the change proposed for the SmPC and in the 
Package leaflet. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for fingolimod the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing fingolimod is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
  
  
