24 September 2015 
EMA/699354/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: fingolimod 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001393/201502 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 March 2014 – 28 February 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for, the scientific conclusions of CHMP 
are as follows:  
During this PSUR (EU PSUR 7) the MAH discussed risks related to fingolimod, and presented the data 
from spontaneous reporting, notably for skin cancers, infection risks including opportunistic infections 
and hypersensitivity. Especially vigilance for skin lesions is warranted and a dermatological assessment 
is needed in case suspicious lesions are detected. In addition, cases of infections with opportunistic 
pathogens such as viral or bacterial have been reported and this information should be made available 
to healthcare professionals. Upon treatment initiation hypersensitivity reactions including rash, 
urticaria and angioedema have been reported. The MAH proposed wording for amendments to the 
product information in relation to all the above mentioned cases. 
In addition the MAH submitted data from spontaneous reporting for adverse events including cases of 
lymphoma, T-wave inversion, peripheral oedema and nausea. After review of this data the PRAC 
considered that information should also be presented in the list of adverse events in the product 
information to increase vigilance by the healthcare professionals. Especially for lymphoma a statement 
is already included under section 4.8 of the summary of product characteristics; this preferred term 
should also be listed in the ADR table in the same section, and in the relevant section of the package 
leaflet. 
In conclusion and in view of all available data, the PRAC considered that changes to the product 
information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for fingolimod the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing fingolimod is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/699354/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
