25 April 2014 
EMA/405985/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Gilenya 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: fingolimod 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002202/PSUV/0027 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 March 2013 – 31 August 2013 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Gilenya, the scientific conclusions 
of PRAC are as follows:  
The adverse event profile in this Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) is consistent with the known 
safety profile of Gilenya to date. However, new safety information emerged from this PSUR period in 
relation to hypersensitivity and rash, cancers (cervix and brain): 
- Following the results of the safety analysis requested by the PRAC on hypersensitivity, no cases of 
toxic  epidermal  necrolysis,  Stevens  Johnson  syndrome  or  anaphylaxis  were  reported  from  clinical 
trials. Two non-serious cases of erythema multiform in the fingolimod 0.5mg group were reported. 
The incidence rate of hypersensitivity reactions in clinical trials was not significantly different from 
placebo. However, cumulatively, 802 cases describing “hypersensitivity” were reported. Among these 
cases, 784 cases were excluded from further analysis by the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
because these cases were not considered “noteworthy” according to the following criteria: 1) did not 
have positive dechallenge/rechallenge, 2) had reported confounders, 3) did not require intervention, 
and/or  4)  were  not  documented.  Based  on  these  criteria,  the  PRAC  considered  that  a  causal 
relationship  with  Gilenya  could  not  be  totally  ruled  out,  especially  for  the  non-documented  cases. 
Considering that a clear causal relationship was established for the remaining 18 cases (all positive 
dechallenges  or  positive  rechallenges)  and  taking  into  account  the  number  of  reported  cases 
(including  one  bullous  erythema  multiforme  coded  as  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome),  the  PRAC 
concluded that “hypersensitivity” and “rash” should be added as new adverse reactions of Gilenya. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding hypersensitivity, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information were warranted.  
- Regarding the review of other malignant neoplasms (potential risk), 15 cases of cervix cancer and 7 
cases of brain cancer have been reported cumulatively (6 were reported during the present PSUR 
period). Limited information has been presented in this PSUR, particularly for four of the cases of 
brain cancers, thus not allowing a proper causality assessment  between Gilenya and the reported 
cases. The MAH is requested to improve the quality of data regarding cervix cancer and brain cancer 
in  the  next  PSUR.  A  comprehensive  clinical  assessment  of  all  cervix  cancer  (taking  into  account 
epidemiological data in multiple sclerosis patients and general population) and all brain cancer cases 
should be provided in the next PSUR (covering PSUR period and cumulatively). 
In addition, the PRAC noted the following: 
-  Regarding  infections  (identified  risk),  1250  cases  of  infections  have  been  reported  during  the 
reporting period (the proportion of infection among all the reported cases in this current period is 
around  13.1%).  Due  to  the  seriousness  of  the  infections  reported  with  fingolimod,  these  events 
should be closely monitored. 
- Twelve cases of Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) were reported including 5 during 
the current period. In the last PSUR, 10 cases were reported cumulatively. Taking into account the 
case reported in the late breaking information, there are at least 13 cases reported cumulatively. 
These events should be closely monitored and a thorough review of all PML cases should be provided 
in the next PSUR. 
- Thrombocytopenia (including immune thrombocytopenic purpura) and pancytopenia were signals 
under review by the MAH. A safety review was performed by the MAH and reported 115  cases of 
thrombocytopenia. Moreover 7 cases of immune thrombocytopenic purpura were reported. Since 11 
cases  of  thrombocytopenia  had  positive  dechallenges  including  one  patient  with  a  positive 
Gilenya  
EMA/405985/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
rechallenge,  a  potential  causal  relationship  between  Gilenya  and  thrompocytopenia  could  not  be 
excluded. Regarding pancytopenia, 33 cases were cumulatively reported. The majority of these cases 
did not have sufficient information to allow a proper causality assessment. However, one case had a 
positive  dechallenge.  Based  on  these  data,  the  PRAC  considered  necessary  to  keep  these  signals 
under evaluation in the next PSUR for further characterisation. 
- Regarding the review of leukopenia/lymphopenia (identified risk), the percentage of cases reporting 
concomitantly  leukopenia  and  lymphopenia  (any)  was  found  higher  for  more  serious  types  of 
infections (sepsis) when compared with the percentage of infections overall. Based on this finding, the 
MAH  should discuss  whether  an  update  of  the Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (e.g  additional 
warning for the prescribers on the higher risk of serious infections) should be considered in the next 
PSUR. 
- The number of skin cancer (potential risk) to date and the duration of follow-up, remain relatively 
limited and do not permit to draw definitive conclusions on any potential long-term risk for this type 
of malignancy with fingolimod in particular for exposure greater than 2 years. The risk for basal cell 
carcinoma (BCC) increases with age. According to some published data, the incidence of BCC in the 
age group 30-59 years is rather low compared to older population. In addition, based on the available 
PSUR data, the majority of the patients diagnosed with melanoma were in the age group 30-49 years. 
In  order  to  further  characterise  this  potential  risk,  the  MAH  is  requested  to  provide  cumulative 
information in which age groups skin cancer occurred and match this to the general multiple sclerosis 
population in the next PSUR. 
The next PSUR should be submitted in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published 
on the European medicines web-portal. As requested by the MAH, the PRAC agreed that the frequency 
of the PSUR submission should thereafter be revised to a yearly cycle. 
The PRAC considered that the Risk Management Plan (RMP) is acceptable. In addition, revisions (e.g 
upgrade  of  hypersensitivity  from  potential  to  identified  risk)  were  recommended  to  be  taken  into 
account at the next RMP update.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Gilenya, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance FINGOLIMOD is favourable subject 
to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied.  
Gilenya  
EMA/405985/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
