17 October 2019 
EMA/601061/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): fingolimod 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001393/201902 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 March 2018 To 28 February 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for fingolimod, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Regarding the signal ‘autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA)’, the PRAC concluded that the cumulative 
review provided by the MAH as well as the plausible theoretical mechanism support a causal relationship 
between therapy with fingolimod and occurrence of AIHA: 
• 
Four cases without identified cofounders and with supportive chronology and clinical course with 
improvement/recovery following discontinuation of fingolimod. 
• 
One case with very suggestive chronology of the event with compatible outcome then de-challenge 
and re-challenge positive 
• 
Fingolimod is an immunosuppressant and immunosuppression conditions are risk factors for 
dysimmunity. 
Based on the noteworthy cases identified in post-marketing, AIHA should be added to the section of the 
adverse drug reactions in the SmPC and in the package leaflet. 
For weight decreased, section 4.8 of SmPC and section 4 of the package leaflet should be updated to 
include this AE following the current PSUSA with the frequency common. 
Regarding lymphoma, the MAH proposed to update the section 4.4 of the SmPC regarding the risk of 
lymphoma “There have been cases of lymphoma in clinical studies and the post-marketing setting. The 
cases reported were heterogeneous in nature, mainly non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, including B-cell and 
T-cell lymphomas. Cases of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides) have been observed.” and 
under the section 2 of the PL “A type of cancer of the lymphatic system (lymphoma) has been reported in 
MS patients treated with Gilenya”. The section 4.8 of the SmPC regarding lymphomas specifies that cases 
of lymphoma include also a fatal case of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) positive B-cell lymphoma. Detailed 
information of adverse reactions with no recommendation should not be included in this section. 
Therefore, information relating to fatal case of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) positive B-cell lymphoma and a 
precaution for use regarding the interruption of treatment if lymphoma is suspected, should be included 
in the PI.  
For PML, section 4.4 of the SmPC and section 2 of the PL should be updated in order to highlight the 
importance of MRI finding. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for fingolimod the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing fingolimod is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/601061/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
