24 October 2013  
EMA/177651/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Gilenya 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: fingolimod 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002202/PSUV/0023 
Period covered by the PSUR:  01.09.2012 - 28.02.2013 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Gilenya, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows: 
The adverse event profile in this Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) is consistent with the known 
safety profile of Gilenya to date. However new safety information emerged from this PSUR period in 
relation to disseminated herpes infection, interaction with carbamazepine and strong CYP450 inducers, 
cases of overdose: 
- 
- 
A detailed review of cases of cutaneous Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) dissemination and VZV 
reactivation with central nervous system involvement resulted in identification of 35 cases of 
disseminated herpes viral infections as of October 2012. According to literature, the risk of 
herpes viral infections increases with altered cell-mediated immune responses. From the PRAC 
viewpoint, the risk of viral infection should be considered with fingolimod treatment due to its 
mechanism of action. These disseminated herpes viral infections cases included: 1 case with 
visceral involvement (pulmonary), 3 cases with brain or spinal cord involvement and 
31 cutaneous dissemination (13 cases multidermatomal, 3 cases with bilateral lesions, 10 cases 
unilateral and 5 cases unspecified). An additional case of varicella disseminated infection leading 
to death was recently reported and occurred 6 months after fingolimod initiation. This case is 
still under evaluation and should be discussed in the next PSUR. Furthermore, the PRAC also 
noted the recent follow up received after the Data Lock Point of this PSUR regarding the autopsy 
of the patient who died following an Haemophagocytic syndrome was compatible with a possible 
origin of disseminated herpes infection. Overall, the PRAC considered that the Summary of 
Product Characteristics (SmPC) should be amended to reflect that some cases of disseminated 
herpes infection, including fatal cases, have been reported in post-marketing and clinical trials 
even at the 0.5 mg dose. 
In healthy volunteers, concomitant treatment of carbamazepine, at the maximal dose of 600 mg 
twice daily, decreases the exposure of fingolimod and fingolimod-P by approximately 40%. No 
conclusions can be drawn on which nuclear receptors are mostly activated or which enzymes are 
specifically impacted in this interaction. Whilst the mechanism causing such reduction in 
exposure of fingolimod remains to be elucidated, the results of this study question the real role 
of CYP3A4 in fingolimod metabolism. On this basis, the PRAC recommended a revision of the 
SmPC information regarding concomitant administration of CYP450 inducers and to include a 
specific warning on possible reduced efficacy of fingolimod when combined to CYP450-inducing 
stronger agents (i.e. rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, efavirenz, St John’s 
wort). 
- 
Cases of overdose have been reported. Thus, the PRAC also recommended deletion of the 
following sentence in section 4.9 of the SmPC: “No cases of overdose have been reported.” 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding disseminated herpes infection, interaction with 
carbamazepine and strong CYP450 inducers and cases of overdose, the PRAC considered that changes 
to the Product Information were warranted. 
The next PSUR should be submitted in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published 
on the European medicines web-portal. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Gilenya, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance FINGOLIMOD is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
Gilenya  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Gilenya  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
