EMA/62114/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004775 
Givlaari (givosiran) 
An overview of Givlaari and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Givlaari and what is it used for? 
Givlaari is a medicine for treating acute hepatic porphyria in patients aged 12 years or over. 
Acute hepatic porphyria is a rare genetic condition in which the liver cannot properly produce a 
substance called haem. As a result, substances used to make haem build up in the body, causing 
attacks of severe abdominal pain, vomiting and nervous system disorders. 
Acute hepatic porphyria is rare, and Givlaari was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 29 August 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3161731. 
Givlaari contains the active substance givosiran. 
How is Givlaari used? 
Givlaari is given by injection under the skin once a month. The dose depends on the patient’s weight.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a healthcare 
professional experienced in managing the condition. For more information about using Givlaari, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Givlaari work? 
The active substance in Givlaari, givosiran, is a synthetic small interfering RNA (a type of genetic 
material) that works by reducing the production of an enzyme involved in an early step of haem 
production in the liver. This prevents the build-up of the substances that cause the symptoms of the 
condition. 
What benefits of Givlaari have been shown in studies? 
Givlaari was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) in reducing the yearly number of 
serious porphyria attacks. In a main study involving 94 patients, those who received Givlaari had on 
average 3 serious attacks of symptoms per year compared with 13 in those receiving placebo. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Givlaari? 
The most common side effects with Givlaari (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are reactions 
at the site of the injection, nausea (feeling sick) and tiredness. For the full list of side effects and 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Givlaari authorised in the EU? 
A main study has shown that Givlaari is effective at reducing porphyria attacks. The side effects of 
Givlaari treatment were mostly mild and moderate and most resolved during the study. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Givlaari’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Givlaari? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Givlaari have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Givlaari are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Givlaari are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Givlaari 
Givlaari received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 March 2020. 
Further information on Givlaari can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/givlaari 
This overview was last updated in 03-2020. 
Givlaari (givosiran)  
EMA/62114/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
