1.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Gliomas  comprise  a  heterogeneous  group  of  neoplasms  that  differ  in  location  within  the  central 
nervous  system  (CNS),  age  and  sex  distribution,  growth  potential,  extent  of  invasiveness, 
morphological  features,  tendency  for  progression,  and  response  to  treatments.  In  adults,  the  most 
frequently  encountered  of  these  are  high-grade  or  malignant  neoplasms  of  astrocytic  and 
oligodendrocytic  lineage,  such  as  anaplastic  astrocytoma  (AA),  anaplastic  oligodendroglioma  (AO), 
and  glioblastoma  multiforme  (GBM),  respectively.  GBM  is  by  far  the  most  common  and  most 
malignant of the glial tumours, accounting for approximately 12-15% of all intracranial neoplasms and 
50-60%  of  all  astrocytic  tumours.  In  most  European  and  North  American  countries,  incidence  is 
approximately 2-3 new cases per 100,000 people per year. Though the prognosis of GBM is uniformly 
poor, treating patients in an attempt to improve the quality of life is worthwhile. Available treatment 
options are surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. The goal of surgery is to remove as much of the 
tumour  as  possible  without  damaging  the  neighbouring  healthy  brain  tissue.  Removal  is  often 
complicated by the nature of the tumour (especially if the tumour is invasive or highly vascularised) 
and  by  its  location.  Sometimes  only  partial  removal  (debulking)  of  the  tumour  is  possible; 
nevertheless,  debulking can improve a  patient's quality of life by alleviating symptoms  and possibly 
improving the chances for other treatments, such as radiation therapy or chemotherapy, to be effective. 
Even for experienced neurosurgeons, it is very difficult to define the margins of a GBM tumour during 
surgery.  In  many  cases,  there  is  no  sharp  demarcation  between  tumour  and  normal  tissue.  This  can 
result  in  unintentional  removal  of  healthy  tissue  or  failure  to  remove  malignant  tissue.  In  the  past, 
numerous attempts have been made to develop optical markers for the detection of tumours in order to 
improve the clinical results of cancer surgery. 
Aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride  (5-aminolevulinic  acid  HCl;  5-ALA)  is  a  prodrug  that  is 
metabolised  intracellularly  to  form  the  fluorescent  molecule  protoporphyrin  (PPIX).  The  exogenous 
application of 5-ALA leads to a highly selective accumulation of PPIX in tumour cells and epithelial 
tissues.  Following  excitation  with  blue  light  (λ  =  400  -  410  nm),  the  PPIX,  which  has  accumulated 
selectively in the malignant tissue, emits a red-violet light. This phenomenon is potentially exploitable 
to  guide  tumour  resection.  The  therapeutic  indication  claimed  for  Gliolan  was  visualisation  of 
malignant tissue during surgery for malignant glioma (WHO grade III and IV). Gliolan should only be 
used  by  experienced  neurosurgeons  conversant  with  surgery  of  malignant  gliomas  and  in-depth 
knowledge of functional brain anatomy, that have completed a training course in fluorescence-guided 
surgery  (see  SPC  section  4.2).  The  recommended  dosage  is  20 mg  5-aminolevulinic  acid 
hydrochloride  per  kilogram  body  weight.  The  solution  should  be  administered  orally  three hours 
(range 2-4 hours) before induction of anaesthesia. Use of 5-ALA under conditions other than the ones 
used  in  the  clinical  trials  entail  an  undetermined  risk.  Gliolan  is  contraindicated  in  case  of 
hypersensitivity  to  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride  or  porphyrins,  acute  or  chronic  types  of 
porphyria, or pregnancy (see SPC section 4.3). 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
Gliolan  contains  the  chemically  simple  active  substance  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride,  
(5-ALA.HCl) presented in the form of a powder for the subsequent preparation of an oral solution by 
dissolving  in  50  ml  water.  The  product  is  a  sterile  lyophilised  preparation  in  colourless  glass  vials,  
containing 1.5 g 5-ALA HCl (corresponding to 1.17 g of 5-ALA), and sealed with bromobutyl rubber 
stoppers. No other ingredients are used.  
Active Substance 
•  Manufacture 
Information has been supplied in an ASMF (open & closed).  Basically the commercial manufacturing 
process  for  the  synthesis  of  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride  utilizes  two  starting  materials 
©EMEA 2007 
1/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(γ-picoline).  This 
(succinic  acid  monomethyl  ester  chloride  and  hippuric  acid)  and  is  performed  in  three  steps:  In  the 
in  
first  reaction  step  succinic  acid  monomethyl  ester  chloride  reacts  with  hippuric  acid 
4-methylpyridine 
2-phenyl-4-(3-
carbomethoxypropionyl)-5-oxazolinone. In the second reaction step the oxazolinone is hydrolysed by 
hydrochloric acid treatment. This results in the formation of carbon dioxide, benzoic acid,  methanol 
and  crude  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride.  The  third  step  consists  of  purification  of  the  crude 
active substance. Discussion of critical manufacturing steps has been provided in the closed part of the 
ASMF, together with In-Process Controls, Control of Materials, Control of Intermediates, and Process 
Validation, and these are all considered to be satisfactory. 
formation 
results 
crude 
the 
in 
The  chemical  structure  of  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride  has  been  elucidated  by  elemental 
analysis, IR, 1H-, 13C-NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. All spectral data are consistent with 
the structure of 5-aminolevulinic acid.  
•  Specification 
The specification contains tests by validated methods for assay, identity, impurities etc.  
Process impurities originating from each of the starting material and carried over during the synthesis 
are  adequately  discussed  in  the  dossier  together  with  a  description  of  degradation  impurities.  The 
content of these substances was shown to be consistently low. Batch analyses show good uniformity 
and compliance with the agreed specification. 
•  Stability 
A  stability  report  on  nine  batches  of  5-aminolevulinic  acid  hydrochloride  drug  substance,  three  of 
which were pilot scale batches, was presented. The results for the pilot scale batches indicate that no 
significant  change  with  regard  to  the  assay,  the  known  impurities  as  well  as  the  known  degradation 
product pyrazin-2,5-dipropionic acid occurred during 14 months storage at -20 °C and 6 months at +5 
°C.    The  stability  data  support  a  satisfactory  retest  period  when  stored  at  -20  °C  in  the  proposed 
container. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
5-ALA.HCl is freely soluble in water and so an oral solution is a viable option, taking into account the 
high dose. Particle size and polymorphism are not relevant considering that 5-ALA is in solution, and 
the  solution  allows  rapid  absorption.  The  company  had  initially  chosen  to  sterilise  the  product  to 
accommodate  two  development  programs  in  different  indications.  In  order  to  produce  a  sterile 
product,  filtration  sterilisation  is  necessary  as  the  active  substance  is  unstable  to  heat.  The  poor 
stability in solution necessitated lyophilisation to the dry powder form in order to have a reasonable 
product shelflife. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  briefly  consists  of  the  dissolution  preparation,  sterile  filtration  (0.45 
followed by 0.22 microns ) aseptic filling and assembling process and lyophilisation. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specification  is  simple  and  includes  relevant  tests  by  validated  methods  for  identity  
(IR/HPLC)  ,  assay  (HPLC),  clarity,  colour,  purity  (  degradation  products  by  HPLC  ),  water  content  
(PhEur), sterility (PhEur), endotoxins , pH, particulate matter, residual solvents (GC) , etc. 
Batch analyses show good uniformity and compliance with the agreed specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Thirty-six  months  of  stability  data  are  provided  for  lyophilised  preparation  batches  stored  at 
25ºC/60%RH and six months of stability data are provided for the lyophilised preparation stored at the 
accelerated  condition  of  40ºC/75%RH.  The  results  of  the  stability  analyses  support  the  shelflife  and 
storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/35 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Gliolan is a simple formulation of a simple molecule and all quality aspects relating to manufacture 
and control of the active substance and product have been evaluated and found to be satisfactory. 
Perhaps the most interesting feature of the product is that it is presented in a sterile form, arising from 
an initial development program for a different indication. This sterile form is not strictly essential for 
an oral solution for the diagnosis of glioma. However, it is not a disadvantage in terms of quality, and 
the CHMP had no objection. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
5-ALA is naturally occurring, endogenous substance, which belongs to the group of sensitizers used 
in  photodynamic/radiation  therapy.  It  has  been  previously  developed  and  approved  for  local 
(topical)  treatment  of  some  kinds  of  skin  cancer  and  precancerous  conditions.  5-ALA  is  also  a 
subject  of  many  non-clinical  and  clinical  trials  designed  for  development  of  new  indications.  The 
idea of therapeutic use of 5-ALA is related to the role of this substance as porphyrins precursor in 
the  heme  synthesis  pathway.  The  tissue  porphyrin  accumulation  observed  in  some  diseases  (e.g. 
porphyrias)  and  induced  by  excessive  5-ALA  delivery  from  exogenous  sources  (e.g.  medicinal 
products)  generates  conditions  enabling,  light-dependent  activation.  This  activation  leads  to 
luminescence and/or porphyrins decomposition with free radicals generation with highly cytotoxic 
properties.Diagnostic use of 5-ALA  is based on  the  same  mechanism  of  action  as  therapeutic use. 
Similarly  to  therapeutic  use,  it  exploits  the  well-known  ability  of  some  malignant  tissues  to 
accumulation  porphyrins  at  higher  concentration  than  observed  in  normal  tissues.  This  difference 
gives  a  chance  for  obtaining  therapeutic  and/or  diagnostic  agent  with  potentially  encouraging 
selectivity.  The  possibilities  of  therapeutic  or  diagnostic  use  of  5-ALA  are  conditioned  by  huge 
number  of  factors,  including  tumour  sensitivity,  tumour  selectivity,  possible  dose  and  route  of 
administration to be used, drug toxicity, energy and method of activation (wave length). 
Prove of concept studies were not conducted by the Applicant. A literature review is included in the 
file  and  is  the  basis  for  the  primary  pharmacology  file  of  Gliolan.  The  pharmacodynamic  studies 
revised in the file conceptually support the use of 5-ALA for photodynamic detection of brain tumours 
and  provide evidence that 5-ALA penetrates into brain tumour after systemic administration and that 
surrounding  tissue  and  normal  brain  may  also  be  affected,  depending  on  their  ability  to  synthesize 
PpIX.  Studies  in  normal  and  animal  models  of  brain  tumours  as  well  as  in  vitro  studies  in  cultured 
glioma cells have been revised for PpIX formation from 5-ALA, tissue distribution and timings. The 
formation  of    the  photosensitizer  PpIX  and  its  production  in  tumours  or  by  tumour  cells  has  been 
shown,  in  vivo  and  in  vitro.  The  available  information  suggests  that  fluorescence  may  differ  in 
different  tumour  cell  types  and  different  grade  tumours.  Maximum  detection  in  tumour  sections  was 
observed  from  2  to  8  h  after  5-ALA  administration  and  its  almost  total  disappearance  –  after  22  h. 
Distribution of fluorescence was not restricted to tumour only; increased porphyrin fluorescence was also 
detected  in  normal  brain  tissue,  in  contralateral  white  matter,  ventricle  ependyma  and  pia  mater. 
Porphyrins  accumulation  in  brain  tumours  after  5-ALA  administration  is  therefore  preferential  at 
the most but not selective. Data about porphyrins distribution to normal and adjacent tissues shows 
that  the  possibility  of  toxic  effects  to  healthy  brain  exposed  to  light  after  5-ALA  administration 
cannot  be  excluded.  This  threat  is  especially  evident  in  experiments  designed  for  assessment  of  
5-ALA based photodynamic therapy with exposition to broad spectrum activating light. When used 
as potentially diagnostic agent under light protection (λ < 635 nm) 5-ALA seems to be more useful 
because  of  probably  better  safety  profile  with  good  visualization  properties.  The  photodynamic 
threshold  dose  for  5-ALA  induced  PpIX  after  i.v.  doses  of  20  and  100  mg/kg  to  induce  damage  was 
determined in tissue of normal and tumour-bearing rabbit brain. Little white matter damage was observed. 
In addition, the concentration of the photosensitizers was significantly lower in white matter than in cortex 
and tumour. Normal brain structures lacking a blood-brain barrier showed high uptake of the sensitizer. 
The lack of non-clinical studies simulating faithfully proposed clinical procedure of diagnostic use 
of  5-ALA  is  a  weak  side  of  pharmacological  part  of  this  dossier.  If  the  applicant  design  and 
performed  animal  studies  aiming  to  prove  diagnostic  utility  of  5-ALA  had  been  performed  under 
©EMEA 2007 
3/35 
 
 
 
 
 
conditions similar to operation theatre (the same wave length, the same exposition time for white 
and  filtered  light  as  recommended  clinically  and  used  in  neurosurgery  practice),  the  non-clinical 
knowledge  about  diagnostic  potential  of  5-ALA  would  be  more  useful  for  judgment  about  its 
clinical  perspectives.  Some of the studies do raise some questions but no answers in relation to the 
conditions  of  human  use.  Aspects/questions  on  the  human  use  that  were  considered  as  not 
supported/solved  by  nonclinical  data  include  the  selection  of  the  5-ALA  dose,  the  selection  of  the 
timing for administration before surgery and the criteria for definition of the «border» for resection, 
taking into consideration that normal tissues surrounding the tumour may present increased PpX levels 
which might have been formed in the tumour and diffused subsequently. In this aspect, the timing of 
PpX  formation  and  best  fluorescence  balanced  with  diffusion  into  normal  tissue  could  have  been 
discussed. Also, no reference is given to the need to adapt the 5-ALA use to different tumour types 
and  grades.  In  their  response  to  questions  put  by  CHMP  further  published  information  has  been 
provided  in  rat  and  rabbit  models,  which  reinforced  the  basis  for  a  persistence  of  lucid  contrast 
tumour/normal  tissue  for  at  least  6  hours.  In  addition,  a  rabbit  model  of  glioma  undergoing 
fluorescence assisted resection in addition to white light has presented a higher survival, and a lower 
volume of unresected tumour. These results provide some reassurance in relation to previously raised 
concerns.   
IN addition it might be that several of these aspects may have been addressed and solved in the clinical 
context  and  therefore  further  animal  studies  for  prove  of  concept  are  in  principle,  not  requested. 
However,  additional  nonclinical  information  may  provide  useful  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  the 
photosensitizer use as well as its safety.  
A  justification  for  the  administration  schedule  proposed  as  well  as  a  comment  in  relation  to  the 
existence  of  possible  differences  in  tumour  fluorescence  according  to  the  type  and  grade,  and  the 
impact of such differences in tumour visualisation is requested to the Applicant.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary Pharmacology: the set of studies from literature which were classified by the Applicant as 
secondary pharmacology studies are limited. For example, the binding of 5-ALA to different receptor 
types  or  interaction  with  neurotransmitters  only  covers  glutamate,  GABA  and  aspartate.  Other 
receptors  relevant  in  the  CNS,  particularly  in  the  brain  should  have  been  investigated.  For 
photodynamic detection this might be less a problem but if a photodynamic therapy with 5-ALA will 
be developed, then such aspects should be studied. The studies presented do suggest a possible effect 
of  5-ALA  on  GABA,  glutamate  and  aspartate  neurotransmission  as  well  as  on  neuronal  glucose 
uptake. Neuronal effects/toxicity under 5-ALA therapy cannot therefore be excluded on the basis of 
these  interactions.  The  potential  for  neuronal  toxicity  caused  by  PDD  with  5-ALA  is  therefore  not 
completely clarified. In addition, the two studies in the literature addressing the potential toxicity of 
photodynamic therapy on the normal brain, conducted in rats and rabbits are not consistent. While in 
rats (C6 tumours) 5-ALA induced damage in normal tissue has been considered not different from the 
one induced by photoirradiation alone, in the rabbit (VX2 tumours) a higher sensitivity of the normal 
vs  tumour  tissue  was  observed  and  neuronal  damage  has  been  identified.  Though  the  radiation 
wavelength for therapy and detection is different, the damaging effect of the light to be used in the last 
one  has  not  been  addressed.  In  the  rat  study,  animals  were  randomized  to  five  groups:  1)  photo 
irradiation of cortex (200 J/cm2, 635 nm argon-dye laser); 2) photo irradiation of cortex (200 J/cm2) 6 h 
after intravenous administration of 5-ALA (100 mg/kg);  3) cortical cold injury for edema induction; 4) 
cortical  cold  injury  with  simultaneous  administration  of  5-ALA  (100  mg/kg)  and  photo  irradiation  of 
cortex  (200  J/cm2)  6  hour  later;  5)  irradiation  of  cortex  (200  J/cm2)  6  hours  after  intravenous 
administration of Photofrin II (5 mg/kg). Tumours were induced by cortical inoculation of C6 cells and 9 
days  later,  MR  images  were  obtained.  On  Day  10,  animals  were  given  5-ALA  (100  mg/kg)  and  their 
brains were irradiated (100 J/cm2) 3 or 6 hours later. Irradiation of brains after administration of 5-ALA 
resulted in superficial cortical damage, the effects of which were not different from those of the irradiation 
alone. Induction of cold injury in combination with 5-ALA and irradiation slightly increased the depth of 
damage. In the group that received irradiation after intravenous administration of Photorfin II the depth of 
damage inflicted was significantly greater. The extent of damage in response to 5-ALA and irradiation in 
brains  harboring  C6  tumours  corresponded  to  the  extent  of  tumour  determined  from  pretreatment  MR 
images. Although the authors didn’t use wavelength recommended by the applicant for diagnostic use of 
Gliolan, results obtained in experimental therapeutic use indirectly revealed relative selectivity of 5-ALA 
with possible diagnostic application in glioma. Rabbit study has been performed to assess effectiveness of 
©EMEA 2007 
4/35 
 
 
 
  
four different photosensitizers for intracranial photodynamic therapy (PDT) of normal brain tissues and an 
intracranial  tumour  was  investigated  in  rabbits,  using  the  photodynamic  threshold  model..  Results 
obtained in this study indicated that photodynamic threshold values (number of photons absorbed by the 
photosensitizer per unit tissue to induce tissue necrosis) were significantly lower in normal tissue than in 
the tumour. It was concluded, that normal brain is sensitive to porphyrin photodynamic therapy, including 
5-ALA  induced  PpIX  photodynamic  therapy  (5-ALA  dose:  100  mg/kg).  This  is  an  important  safety 
complain  for  therapeutic  use  of  5-ALA  for  brain  tumours  PDT.  Nevertheless,  as  suggested  above,  the 
excitation light proposed for 5-ALA photodynamic diagnostic of brain tumours is not the same as tested 
in  the  above-mentioned  study  and  the  observed  risk  in  therapeutic  study  may  be  considered  as 
questionable from diagnostic point of view. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology experiments have been performed by the applicant and cover testing the effects of  
5-ALA on major systems such as gastro-intestinal, the central nervous, the renal, and the cardiovascular. 
The experiments have been conducted with light protection (the only light source didn’t emit light with λ 
< 635 nm) to avoid possible phototoxic reactions, similarly to conditions recommended for clinical use. 
Brief summary of safety pharmacology tests of 5-ALA performed by the applicant 
Test type 
Spasmolytic and 
spasmogenic effects 
on isolated guinea-pig 
ileum 
Hexobarbital induced 
sleeping time in mice 
after i.v. injection 
Spontaneous motility 
of mice 
Dose/Concentration 
of 5-ALA 
0.5 – 500 µg/ml bath 
fluid 
Results 
No spasmolytic or spasmogenic effects. The reduction 
of agonist-induced contractions observed at the highest 
tested concentration was considered unspecific.  
0; 40; 100; 250 mg/kg 
No influence after i.v. injection up to the highest dose 
tested. 
(i.v.) 
0; 40; 100; 250 mg/kg 
No influence of the spontaneous motility. 
(i.v.) 
Diuresis and saluresis 
in rats  
0; 40; 100; 250 mg/kg 
(i.v.) 
No effect on the diuresis. At 250 mg/kg possible 
marginal saluretic effect (cumulative increase in sodium 
excretion) and significant increase in potassium 
excretion during collection period 0 – 1 h.  
Cardiovascular and 
respiratory parameters 
in the dog 
0, 5, 15, 45 mg/kg 
(i.v.) 
NOEL 15 mg/kg. At 45 mg/kg slight decrease in 
peripheral arterial blood pressure and systolic left 
ventricular pressure was recorded. In addition, a 
significant decrease in dp/dt max was observed 
immediately after dosing. Five minutes after 
administration, the start values had been reached again. 
Effects observed were considered to be linked to the i.v. 
administration and rapidly reversible     
Results of applicant-sponsored studies were supplemented by literature reference containing data about 
5-ALA  influence  on  neurotransmitters  system  and  phototoxicity.  Phototoxic  damage  to  sebaceous 
glands  and  hair  follicles  of  mice  following  systemic  administration  of  5-ALA  was  evaluated  after 
intraperitoneal  dose  of  250  mg/kg.  The  skin  rapidly  developed  the  characteristic  red  fluorescence  of 
PpIX. Light microscopy of skin taken at 12, 24 and 36 h as well as 2, 3, 4, 6, 10 and 55days after whole 
body exposure of 5-ALA treated mice to photoactivating light (white light from a 100-watt lamp for 6 h, 
21  mW/cm2)  revealed  destruction  of  sebaceous  cells,  focal  epidermal  necrosis  with  a  transient  acute 
inflammation  and  diffuse  reactive  changes  in  the  keratinocytes.  The  location  and  severity  of  the 
©EMEA 2007 
5/35 
 
 
 
 
phototoxic  damage  correlated  well  with  the  location  and  intensity  of  the  red  fluorescence.  5-ALA 
induced PpIX was found to photosensitize the epidermis and epidermal appendages when 5-ALA was 
administered systemically, but does not appear to photosensitize the vascular structures or the connective 
tissue  elements.  the  safety  studies  presented,  including  those  conducted  by  the  Applicant  may  be 
relevant  for  the  indication  proposed  for  5-ALA  and  have  identified  the  potential  of  tumour 
photodynamic detection with 5-ALA to induce some level of toxicity at relevant organ systems like 
the brain and CSN, the skin and  intraperitoneal organs (this last due to exposure to white light in the 
operating  room).  At  the  cardiovascular  system,  the  potential  of  5-ALA  and  PpX  to  bind  to  HERG 
channels with the consequent arritmogenic effects have not been studied.   
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  were  not  performed  by  the  Applicant.  From  published 
literature L-tryptophan, reduced glutathione, N-acetylcysteine, melatonin, L-methionine, L -cysteine, 
mannitol and glycine were found to protect from photodamage induced by 5-ALA (incubation with 
0.2 mM) and laser irradiation (4.6 J/cm2, 630 nm) in vitro. The results of pharmacodynamic drug 
interactions studies described  in  the  literature didn’t give  an  evidence that  there  are interactions 
with significant, negative influence on single, diagnostic use of 5-ALA. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  profile  of  5-ALA  was  documented  by  the  applicant  by  mixed  documentation 
including his own studies and literature publications, and, in dogs, it revealed similar by both p.o. 
and  i.v.  route  of  administration,  excluding  half-life  (prolongation  after  oral  administration 
comparing  to  intravenous  administration).  Also  the  Pharmacokinetics  of  5-ALA  administered  to 
dogs  is  similar  to  human  pharmacokinetics  after  equivalent  oral  dose  (20  mg/kg)  but  there  is  no 
similarity  between  PpIX  concentrations  observed  after  the  same  doses  administered  to  dogs  and 
humans (PpIX concentrations in humans were much higher than in dogs). The dog appeared a good 
animal  model  for  5-ALA  pharmacokinetics  from  clinical  point  of  view,  although  not  for    PpIX 
pharmacokinetics  because  of  much  higher  PpIX  concentrations  observed  in  humans  compared  to 
dogs, after equivalent dose of 5-ALA. 
Absorption: the in vivo studies performed by the Applicant and the publication in dogs suggest that  
5-ALA  is  well  absorbed  and  do  support  the  use  of  the  oral  route  proposed  for  Gliolan.  Its  absolute 
bioavailability in dogs is about 86% after administration dose of 20 mg/kg that is equal to proposed 
clinical  dose.  When  comparing  the  dog  and  the  human  data  it  is  evident  that  plasma  PpIX  reaches 
much higher proportion vs 5-ALA in man than in dogs. The reason is not clarified. Tmax values were 
similar in man and dog. 
Distribution studies were not performed by the Applicant and a literature review is included in the file.  
Studies were conducted in (nonbrain) tumour-bearing mice, normal rats, nonbrain- and glioma-bearing 
rats and in dogs. In tumour  bearing mice (thymus aplasia, tubulo papillary adenocarcinoma of human 
colon) iv treated with 50mg/Kg 5-ALA HCl porphyrin fluorescence was studied and observed in all 
tissues. Brightest fluorescence was found in the tumour and the maximum contrast of the fluorescence 
intensity between the tumour and the non-malignant organs was observed at 4h-6h post injection. The 
kinetics of porphyrin concentration was organ-dependent.  
Also  in  tumour-bearing  mice  the  distribution  pattern  was  independent  of  the  route  (iv  or  oral)  of 
administration  and  at  3  hours  post  administration  5mg  5-ALA  induced  maximal  accumulation  of 
porphyrins in normal skin and skin overlaying the tumour. 
In  dogs  administered  100  mg/Kg  porphyrin  concentration  in  plasma  increased  in  1  hour  and  then 
gradually decreased though it was still markedly increased at 8 hours post administration. Maximum 
plasma  porphyrin  concentration  was  50  times  the  baseline  value  (2  dogs).  In most  tissues  porphyrin  
concentrations increased progressively up to 6-10 hours post 5-ALA and were higher in the liver than 
in    other    tissues.  Increased  porphyrin  concentration  were  significantly  increased  in  liver,  pancreas, 
prostate, bladder and muscle compared to baseline. Increase in the skin was slight but not significant.     
The  studies  presented  (namely  the  rat  studies)  have  highlighted  the  ability  of  5-ALA-induced 
porphyrins to distribute in normal  and tumour tissues, namely brain tumours, though in normal brain 
the  penetration  of  5-ALA  is  very  low  due  to  the  blood  brain  protection.  The  high  levels  of  5-ALA 
derived PpIX in tumours, including brain tumours are related to the metabolising capacity of tumour 
vs normal cells. The evidence that PpIX fluorescence in the surrounding tissue of the brain tumour do 
©EMEA 2007 
6/35 
 
 
 
 
 
raise  a  concern  related  to  the  risk  of  resection  of  normal  tissue  and  further  induction  of  neuronal 
damage when Gliolan is used for photodynamic detection. 
Studies on the metabolic profile of 5-ALA have not been performed by the applicant but are described 
in  the  literature  though  not  extensively.  Either  in  vivo  or  in  vitro  it  is  evident  that  PpXI  is  a  major 
metabolite, which is the basis for the use of exogenous 5-ALA for PDD of  tumours, since these will 
uptake  5-ALA  and  will  metabolise  it  into  the  photosensitizer.  The  uptake  of  5-ALA  in  the  normal 
brain is low, but the presence of the photosensitizer has been identified outside the tumour, possibly 
due to diffusion from the tumoural tissue. The metabolic pathway of 5-ALA is related to haemoglobin 
synthesis and is described in the figure below. 
Figure 1: Hemoglobin biosynthesis 
Excretion: after oral and i.v. administration of 5-ALA, PpIX and further metabolites are excreted via 
the kidneys in the rat and dog, through reabsorption and excretion mechanisms. In man 5-ALA seem 
to be excreted renally and prophyrins formed in the liver are excreted via urine and bile and partially 
reabsorbed enterally. 
The  pharmacokinetic  part  of  the  dossier  prepared  by  the  applicant  contained  misleading 
information  concerning  values  of  some  non-clinical  and  clinical  pharmacokinetic  parameters. 
Adequate correction and clarification has been provided. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
In  single  dose  toxicity  studies  on  5-ALA  HCl  in  the  rat  (p.o.)  and  mouse  (i.p.),  no  clinical  signs, 
macroscopic abnormalities at necropsy or mortalities were observed at any of the tested dose levels. 
The LD50 of 5-ALA HCl was determined to be above the highest dose tested (2500 mg/kg). 
Single  dose  i.v.  toxicity  studies  in  the  mouse  and  rat  revealed  intolerance  reactions  consisting  of 
reduced motility, ataxia, dyspnoea, lateral position and muscular hypertonia. No macroscopic findings 
were  noted  at  necropsy.  The  NOEL  was  500  mg/kg  in  mice  and  250  mg/kg  in  rats.  The  LD50  was 
calculated to be 1064 mg/kg for male mice, 949 mg/kg for female mice, 949 mg/kg for male rats and 
1064 mg/kg for female rats. There was no indication of delayed toxicity. The acute i.v. toxicity thus 
proved to be similar in both rodent species. 
©EMEA 2007 
7/35 
 
 
 
  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Oral administration of 5-ALA 2mg/Ml in the drinking water to SWR mice for 5 and  8 weeks and to 
DBA/2  mice  for  8  weeks  led  to  a  significant  increase  in  liver  porphyrin  levels.  Decarboxylase 
insufficiency was also observed in SWR mice after 8 weeks treatment. (Constantin et al, Biochemical 
Pharmacology, 52:1407-13, 1996).  
GLP repeated dose toxicity studies were performed in rats (oral and iv) and dogs (iv). The experiments 
were  performed  in  the  dark  with  a  light  source  which  did  not  produce  UV  light  to  avoid 
photosensitization of animals due to accumulation of PpIX. 
In rat using the oral route, 10 animals/sex/dose were treated with 5-ALA HCL for 14 days orally by 
gavage with  0, 30, 100 and 300 mg/Kg. Additional 5 animals/sex/group were used for recovery (14 
days).    6  satellite/sex  were  treated  with  the  low  and  the  high  dose  for  toxicokinetics  (determined  at 
days 1 and 14 of the study, through the evaluation of 5-ALA and PpIX). No mortality has occurred. 
Body  weight  was  slightly  decreased  in  high  dose  animals.  Body  weight  gain  of  males  was  less  9% 
than in controls. Total bilirubin activity was dose-dependently increased vs controls in male rats of all 
dose  groups  and  in  female  rats  of  the  medium  and  high-dose  groups.  ASAT  activity  was  slightly 
increased at 30 (+6%) and 300 mg/kg (+19%) in male animals. Urinary 5-ALA and urobilinogen were 
dose-dependently increased in  all main group animals. Relative liver weights were dose-dependently 
increased  in  both  sexes  at  the  medium  and  high-doses.    Microscopy:  dose-related  bile  duct  changes 
were noted in main group males at the medium and high-dose, which were not reversible within the 14 
day  recovery  period.  All  other  afore-mentioned  changes  had  subsided  at  the  end  of  the  14  day 
recovery period.  The NOEL in this study was below 30 mg/kg. 
Using the intravenous route, 10 animals/sex/dose were treated with 0, 125, 250 and 500 mg/Kg 5-ALA  
HCl for 14 days.  A recovery group of 5 animals/sex/dose and a TK group of 6 animals/sex/dose (for 
low and high dose only) were also included in the study. There were no premature deaths. No effects 
at  the  injection  sites  were  reported.  High  dose  animals:  from  Day  5  onwards  all  presented  ataxia, 
dyspnoea  and  a  slow  gait  after  injection  with  1  minute  duration.  Slight  decreased  body  weight  vs 
controls was also observed.     
The following changes were observed: 
-Dose-dependent increased of bilirrubin (significant at high dose M,F) 
-increase of cholesterol (dose dependent in M but not in F). 
-increased creatinine in all groups 
-increased blood urea in mid and high dose groups 
-increased total protein for all dose groups 
-increased calcium levels at the high dose animals 
-dose-dependent increase of ALAT and ASAT activity in mid and high dose groups, M,F. 
-increased LDH activity for all male groups and for mid dose female group. 
Miniamal  to  moderate  bile  duct  changes  consisting  of  bile  duct  proliferation,  enlargement  of  the 
biliary epithelium, peribiliar fibrosis and inflammatory infiltrates , intraductal plugs and peribiliar bile 
pigment accumulation, were observed in all males  and in 8,9 and 7 females from low, mid and high 
dose group. These changes were not reversibilized in the 14 Day period. The NOEL in this study was 
determined as below 125mg/Kg. 
There was no accumulation of 5-ALA or PpIX after 14 days of i.v. 5-ALA HCl administration to rats. 
Further, there was no difference in toxicokinetics between sexes. 
In  dog,  1  animal/sex/dose  were  treated  with  25  or  75mg/Kg  5-ALA  HCl  for  7  days  by  iv  route. 
Vomiting,  reduced  body  weight  and  food  consumption  and  dose-related  changes  in  clinical  and 
biochemical  parameters  (increased  bile  acid,  total  bilirrubina  nd  total  blood  urea,  ALAT  (GPT),  aP, 
ASAT  (GOT)  an  LDH  and  decreased  potassium)  were  observed.  ECG  recording  did  not  reveal 
abnormalities. On day 7 both animals presented ataxia, reduced motor activity, tremor, reduced body 
temperature and dispnoea, gelatinous feces and/or yellowish discoloured. The high dose female died 
©EMEA 2007 
8/35 
 
 
 
1 day after study termination, and the high dose  male was  sacrificed 2 days after study termination. 
Both  dogs  presented  around  20  reddish  foci  in  the  left  ventricle  in  the  heart.  A  NOEL  was  not 
determined.   
3 animals/sex/dose were treated with 5-ALA HCl at the doses of 0, 3, 9 or 27 mg/Kg for 14 days by iv 
route.  Additional  2  animals/sex/dose  served  as  recovery  for  14  days  period.  The  study  observations 
included ECG and heart rate recordings at the end of week 2  and at the end of recovery period. Blood 
pressure was measured in conscious animals at days 1, 14 and 28 in all animals, including the recovery 
group. No deaths were observed. Vomiting was observed among animals once or repeatedly between 
20min and 6 hour after injection. 
Slight decrease of body weight was observed in the high dose animals during weeks 1 and 2.  
Food consumption was not influenced in animals of the low dose group  but was decreased in animals 
of the other dose groups. Biochemical changes were observed in the animals of the intermediate and 
the  high  dose  groups.  Total  bilirubin  was  increased  in  males  at  9  and  27  mg/kg  and  significantly 
increased in females at 27 mg/kg. LAT activity was dose-dependently increased in both sexes at the 
intermediate  and  high-doses.  SAT  activity  was  increased  in  males  and  females  at  9  and  27  mg/kg. 
LDH activity was  increased at the high-dose in both sexes. These findings were substance-related and 
correlated with the hepatic changes noted at histopathology. Macroscopic inspection revealed a black 
discoloured  liver  in  high-dose  females.  The  finding  was  considered  substance-related  and  correlated 
with the hepatic changes noted at histopathology. Decreased liver weights were noted at the high-dose 
in  both  sexes.  An  intrahepatic  cholestasis  was  noted  in  animals  of  all  tested  dose  levels,  which  was 
dose-dependent in severity, and was characterised by bile plugs in the extended bile canaliculi and was 
considered  treatment-related.  There  were  no  left  ventricle  changes  of  the  heart,  as  seen  in  the 
preliminary i.v. dose-range-finding study in high-dose animals (75 mg/kg). 
Body weight reduction, increased ALAT activity and bile duct lesions were not completely reversible 
within  the  14  day  recovery  period  at  the  intermediate  and  high-dose.  All  other  afore-mentioned 
changes had subsided at the end of a 14 day recovery period.  The NOEL was determined to be below 
3  mg/kg.  There  was  no  accumulation  of  5-ALA  or  PpIX  after  14  days  of  i.v.  5-ALA  HCl 
administration to rats. There was no difference in toxicokinetics between sexes.  
•  Genotoxicity 
The genotoxic potential of 5-ALA has been studied by the Applicant through the battery as requested 
by  ICH  guidelines.  In  experiments  performed  in  the  dark  negative  results  were  obtained  and  it  has 
been concluded that 5-ALA per se, in absence of light is nongenotoxic. However, in presence of light, 
white  or  UV,  DNA  damage  has  been  observe  in  L1210  mouse  leukemia  cells  and  AS52  CHO  cells  
and formation of the mutagenic marker of oxidative damage 8-OxodGuo has been observed in other 
cell  types  in  culture  and  from  organs  of  rats  treated  with  5-ALA.  In  parallel,  in  most  experiments 
porphyrin levels were determined.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies on 5-ALA or 5-ALA HCl have neither been performed by the applicant nor 
been reported in literature. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive toxicity studies of 5-ALA were not performed by the Applicant, but some information 
exists in the literature and has been included in the dossier. 5-ALA exhibited embryotoxicity in chick 
embryos in the light, but not dark at concentrations ≥ 3 µg.  
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  of  aqueous  solutions  of  5-ALA  was  evaluated  in  the  rabbit.  The  experiments  were 
performed  in  the  dark.  Local  tolerance  was  very  good  following  intravenous  and  intraarterial 
administration.  Paravenous,  subcutaneous  and  intramuscular  administration  caused  local  irritant 
effects, which were believed to be linked to the low pH of the test solution (pH=2.4). Also in repeated 
dose studies in rats and dogs by the iv route no signs of local effects were identified.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
©EMEA 2007 
9/35 
 
 
 
Induction of phototoxicity was investigated in mice treated with 5-ALA HCl i.v. (250 and 750 mg/Kg) 
and  subsequent  1h  UV  irradiation  4h  or  24h  after  administration,  in  order  to  estimate  the 
photosensitizing potential of 5-ALA induced PpIX. I.v.  
Administration  of  5-ALA  HCl  followed  by  an  UV  irradiation  after  4  and  24  h  produced  phototoxic 
reactions, the effect was observed at both doses when 1h UV irradiation was performed 4 hours post 5-
ALA  administration,  and  in  high  dose  animals  only  when  UV  irradiation  occurred  24h  post  5-ALA 
administration.  After  UV  irradiation  at  4  hours  post  injection  3/5  low  dose  animals  survived  and 
revealed pronounced phototoxic reaction of edema grade 2. All 5 high dose animals died withing 24h 
after  UV  radiation.  Necropsy  revealed  inflammatory  reactions  of  the  shoulder  skin  and  eyelids 
consisting  of  granulocytic  dermatitis,  ulceration  and  epithelial  necrosis.  No  inflammatory  or 
degenerative  lesions  of  the  eyeball  were  observed.  UV  irradiation  24  hours  post  5-ALA  injection 
caused erythema (grade 1 and 2) in all high dose animals at investigation 24h after irradiation and 3 
animals  at  investigation  48h  after  irradiation.  72h  post  irradiation  2  hih  dose  animals  presented 
moderate to severe erythema (grade 3). Low dose animals did not show signs of phototoxicity.  
The  fluorescence  emission  kinetics  and  phototoxic  properties  of  ALA  were  assessed  in  C6  glioma 
cells.  No  dark  toxicity  was  observed  for  5-ALA.  Light  applied  after  incubation  with  ALA  led  to  a 
reduction  in  cell  survival.  Increasing  the  incubation  time  increased  the  phototoxicity  of  ALA.  ALA 
induced  phototoxicity  in  C6  glioma  cells  in  vitro  after  short  incubation  times  and  the  effect  was 
believed to be linked to an increase of the amount of PpIX synthesis. (Eléouet et al, Photochemistry 
and photobiology , 71:447-454, 2000) 
In  a  skin  sensitization  test  in  guinea-pigs,  no  skin  sensitizing  properties  for  5-ALA  have  been 
identified. 2% Benzocaine (positive control) promoted a sensitizing reaction in the animals.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The risk posed to the environment by Gliolan has been assessed  according to the draft guideline on 
ERA of Medicinal Products for Human Use CHMP/SWP/4447/00. The PECsurfacewater was calculated as 
0.0002µg/L not requiring further studies. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The acute toxicity of 5-ALA has been shown to be very low in rats and mice treated through different 
routes  of  administration,  including  the  oral  route  and  ip  and  iv  routes.  The  experiments  were 
performed in the absence of UV light, in the dark to avoid the production of PpIX. This seems to be a 
disadvantage since patients situation will not be the same. Patients are expected to be exposed to white 
light  during  operation  and  therefore  at  least  acute  toxicity  studies  mimicking  the  intended  clinical 
situation  would  have  been  meaningful.  In  this  perspective,  the  information  provided  by  these  single 
dose studies only concerns 5-ALA HCL and not the activated photosensitizer that will be formed in 
the  clinical  setting.  Again,  this  information  should  have  been  collected  before  the  administration  in 
man and therefore, since clinical data is available currently, no additional studies are requested. GLP 
repeated dose toxicity studies of up to 2 weeks duration were performed in rats (oral and iv) and dogs 
(iv). In rats 5-ALA orally administered for 2 weeks increased total bilirubin (dose-dependent), ASAT 
activity. Urinary 5-ALA and urobilinogen were dose-dependently increased in all main group animals. 
Relative liver weights were dose-dependently increased in both sexes at the medium and high-doses. 
Microscopic observations included dose-related bile duct changes noted in males at the medium and 
high-dose, which were not reversible within the 14 day recovery period. The NOEL in this study was 
below  30  mg/kg  corresponding  to  AUC  levels  similar  or  below  those  obtained  in  man  with  the 
proposed clinical dose. In the iv 2 weeks rat study dose-dependent increased of bilirrubin, creatinine, 
blood urea, total protein, calcium levels, ALAT and ASAT activity and LDH activity were observed. 
Soft  dark  masses  were  seen  in  the  caecum  with  dose-dependent  incidence  with  no  histological 
correlation.  The  meaning  of  the  observation  has  not  been  clarified.  Microscopic  evaluation  revealed 
minimal to moderate bile duct changes consisting of bile duct proliferation, enlargement of the biliary 
epithelium,  peribiliar  fibrosis  and  inflammatory  infiltrates,  intraductal  plugs  and  peribiliar  bile 
pigment accumulation. These changes were not reversibilized in the 14 Day period. The NOEL in this 
study was determined as below 125mg/Kg, for which dose a systemic exposure to 5-ALA more than 
20 times higher than the one observed in man was obtained. The exposure to PpIX was lower than in 
man. The safety margin could therefore not be determined. In dogs 14-day toxicity study by i.v. route 
of  administration  vomiting  was  observed  among  animals  once  or  repeatedly  between  20min  and  6 
©EMEA 2007 
10/35 
 
 
 
hour after injection. Clinical Biochemistry changes were observed in the animals of the intermediate 
and the high dose groups. Total Increased bilirubin,  LAT activity, SAT activity, LDH activity, which 
were  considered  substance-related  and  correlated  with  the  hepatic  changes  were  noted  at 
histopathology.  Also  black  discoloured  liver  in  high-dose  females  was  considered  substance-related 
and  correlated  with  the  hepatic  changes  noted  at  histopathology  which  included  intra-hepatic 
cholestasis  in  animals  of  all  tested  dose  levels,  which  was  dose-dependent  in  severity,  and  was 
characterised by bile plugs in the extended bile canaliculi. There were no left ventricle changes of the 
heart, as seen in the preliminary i.v. dose-range-finding study in high-dose animals (75 mg/kg). Body 
weight reduction, increased ALAT activity and bile duct lesions were not completely reversible within 
the 14 day recovery period at the intermediate and high-dose. The NOEL was determined to be below 
3  mg/kg  which  induced  a  systemic  exposure  of  5-ALA  and  PpIX  well  below  (less  than  twice)  the 
AUC levels to be expected in the clinic. Also repeated dose studies were performed in the absence of 
UV light, in the dark to avoid the production of PpIX. This does not allow determining the potential 
toxicity of photosensitised PpX which may be a gap on these studies.  
The genotoxic potential of 5-ALA has been studied in an appropriate battery of studies according to 
ICH.  Negative  results  were  obtained  in  the  dark.  Together,  the  information  available  suggests  that  
5-ALA  may  cause  photodynamic  oxidative  damage  of    DNA  and  that  porphyrins  are  involved.  The 
effect is observed either in presence of UV or white light and melatonin  seem to display protective 
effect. The oxidative damage of  tissues exposed to 5-ALA and PpIX and light, even white light of the 
operation  room    may  be  a  possibility.  Thus,  photogenotoxic  potential  has  been  identified  under 
irradiation  conditions  which  may  be  related  to  PpIX.  This  is  the  relevant  aspect  and  therefore  the 
Gliolan use may have to be considered as potential photogenotoxicant.  
Carcinogenicity studies were not performed and are not requested. Reproductive toxicity studies were 
also  not  performed  but  available  studies  in  the  literature  do  suggest  embryotoxic,  fetotoxic  and 
teratogenic potential.  
The published studies sugest 5-ALA to display reproductive toxicity potential, may affect pregnancy 
and be embriotoxic and teratogenic. The use of 5-ALA is contraindicated during pregnancy.  
A  revision  of  studies  addressing  male  and  female  fertility  do  not  suggest  a  relevant  effect.  If  less 
severe indication will be considered later, the reproductive toxicity of Gliolan may have to be revisited 
and studies may be requested. Also phototoxic properties have been identified for 5-ALA in vitro and 
in vivo, correlated to the PpIX formation in irradiated cells and tissues, where destruction of sebaceous 
cells,  focal  epidermal  necrosis,  inflammation  and  keratynocyte  changes  were  observed.  Skin  lesions 
were reversible with exception of the reduction of hair follicles.  
No effects were reported that could suggest oral intolerance or local effects after oral administration.  
Local intolerance is therefore not considered as a potential issue for Gliolan. 
5-ALA revealed to be phototoxic in vivo and in vitro, in a time-dependent way. In animals, when UV 
light is applied 4h post 5-ALA administration the phototoxicity is higher, which may be related to the 
PpIX production kinetics. The same conclusion has been reached in vitro with C6 glioma cells.  
A risk to the environment is not anticipated.  
In  conclusion,  if  clinical  use  in  the  indication  requested  in  the  current  application  is  considered 
beneficial, additional nonclinical studies are not considered as needed. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has stated that no clinical trials were conducted outside the community.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of 5-ALA was studied within the following two trials: 
©EMEA 2007 
11/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Listing of clinical pharmacology studies 
Study ID 
Study title 
Objectives 
MC-ALS.20/BV 
MC-ALS.8-I/GLI 
Single dose study on the absolute bio-
availability of oral doses of 20 
mg/kgBW 5-aminolevulinic acid in 
comparison to 2 mg/kg b.w. 
intravenous administration in healthy 
male subjects 
Clinical phase I/II study on 5-amino-
levulinic acid hydrochloride (5-ALA) 
for the fluorescence-guided resection 
of malignant gliomas 
Absolute bioavailability IV vs 
PO;  
Duration of photosensitisation 
Detection of a dose-efficacy 
relationship between the dose 
levels and quality of 
fluorescence in the tumour 
score 
The  primary  objective  of  trial  MC-ALS.20/BV  was  the  calculation  of  bioavailability  after  oral 
administration.  
The study provided the following pharmacokinetic parameters for 5-ALA: 
Pharmacokinetic data of 5-ALA*HCl in human volunteers 
Parameter 
IV Administration 
[Dose: 1 x 2 mg/kg IV] 
PO Administration 
[Dose: 1 x 20 mg/kg PO] 
Median (Range) 
Median  (Range) 
AUC0-∞ [mg x  h/L] 
3.46 (17.94 - 41.17) 
34.15  (17.94 – 41.17) 
Cmax [mg/L] 
tmax [h] 
t1/2 [h] 
Ae,ur [mg] 
6.77 (2.9 - 8.49) 
20.76  (11.65 – 27.67) 
0.17 (0.15 – 0.17) 
0.76  (0.5 – 1.0) 
0.71 (0.41 – 1.08) 
0.88  (0.79 – 1.34) 
43.73 (15.50 – 73.27)  
398.68  300.83 – 673.03) 
Ae,ur [% of dose] 
32.30 (15.72 – 61.62) 
30.58  (27.08 –56.61) 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of 5-ALA after oral administration of 1 x 20 mg/kg 5-ALA*HCl 
Parameter 
Number of patients: 
t 1/2 [h] 
tmax [h] 
cmax [mg/L] 
AUCinf [mg x h/L] 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Study 
MC-ALS.20/BV 
MC-ALS.8/GLI 
12 
0.92 (1.17) 
0.88 (0.79 - 1.34) 
n.a. 
0.76 (0.50 - 1.00) 
20.90 (1.25) 
20.76 (11.65 - 27.67) 
33.13 (1.26) 
34.15 (17.94 - 41.17) 
7 
3.05 (2.09) 
1.94 (1.60 – 10.04) 
0.94 (1.51) 
1.00 (0.52 – 2.00) 
8.27 (1.11) 
8.24 (7.42 – 9.70) 
26.91 (1.91) 
27.14 (20.41 – 34.63) 
©EMEA 2007 
12/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ae,ur [mg] 
Ae,ur [% of dose] 
Ari Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Ari Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
420.62 (108.16) 
398.68 (300.83 - 673.03) 
33.62 (7.93) 
30.58 (27.08 – 56.61) 
Not determined 
Not determined 
Geo Mean = geometric mean; DF = dispersion factors; Ari Mean = arithmetic means; SDEV = standard deviation 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of PPIX after oral administration of 1 x 20 mg/kg 5-ALA*HCl 
Parameter 
Number of patients: 
t 1/2 [h] 
tmax [h] 
cmax [µg/L] 
AUCinf [µg x h/L] 
Study 
MC-ALS.20/BV 
MC-ALS.8/GLI 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
Geo Mean (DF) 
Median (range) 
12 
3.57 (1.82) 
4.04 (1.19 – 7.76) 
n.a. 
4.00 (2.50 – 8.00) 
279.05 (1.36) 
259.18 (170.91 – 561.67) 
1,875.66 (1.47) 
1,906.64 (970.73-3,431.63) 
7 
2.61 (1.63) 
3.38 (1.52 – 4.08) 
5.73 (1.58) 
5.48 (2.97 – 11.92) 
Not calculated 
101.71 (0.00 – 258.83) 
779.90 (2.73) 
862.04 (247.96 – 2,655.06) 
Geo Mean = geometric mean; DF = dispersion factors; Ari Mean = arithmetic means; SDEV = standard deviation 
•  Absorption  
Absorption of 5-ALA occurs rapidly with maximum plasma concentrations reached 0.623 h (in dogs) 
and 0.88 h (in healthy volunteers) after oral administration of 20 mg/kg b.w. 5-ALA*HCl. Within the 
preclinical  development  programme  of  5-ALA*HCl,  bioavailability  after  oral  administration  of  20 
mg/kg 5-ALA*HCl in dogs was found to be 86%. In healthy volunteers, an absolute bioavailability of 
100%  was  calculated  based  on  the  AUC0-∞  data.  This  result  was  confirmed  by  comparing  the 
cumulated  amount  excreted  in  the  urine  (Ae,ur)  during  12  h  following  oral  or  IV  administration  of  
5-ALA*HCl. 
•  Distribution 
A  study on  the  plasma  protein  binding  of  5-ALA  showed  that  protein  binding  was  12%.  Previously 
published findings  indicate that orally administered 5-ALA*HCl is able to penetrate into brain tumour 
tissue  in  sufficient  amounts  to  form  intracellularly  enough  PPIX  which  is  necessary  to  visualise  the 
tumour.  
•  Elimination 
The  metabolic fate of endogenous 5-ALA is  well  known. Aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) 
condenses two molecules of 5-ALA to form the monopyrrole porphobilinogen (PBG). PBG deaminase 
catalyses the polymerisation of four molecules of PBG to hydroxymethylbilane. Hydroxymethylbilane 
is  further  metabolised 
to  uroporphyrinogen  I  and  III  (by  Uroporphyrinogen  cosynthase). 
Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase sequentially removes a carboxylic group from the acetic side chains 
of  each  of  the  pyrrole  rings  to  yield  coproporphyrinogen.  Coproporphyrinogen  oxidase  removes  a 
carboxyl group from the propionic groups on 2 of the pyrrole rings to yield protoporphyrinogen IX. 
Protoporphyrinogen  oxidase  forms  protoporphyrin  IX  (PPIX)  by  removing  6  hydrogen  atoms  from 
protoporphyrinogen  IX.  Finally,  ferrochelatase  mediates  the  insertion  of  ferrous  iron  into  the 
porphyrin  macrocycle,  forming  heme.  PPIX  is  the  last  step  before  incorporation  of  ferrous  iron. 
Furthermore, this species is responsible for the fluorescence occurring in tumour tissue after treatment 
with  5-ALA*HCl.  Pharmacokinetics  of  PPIX  were  studied  within  trial  MC-ALS.20/BV.  Maximum 
plasma PPIX levels were reached at 4 h after administration. In the next 20 hours, PPIX plasma levels 
rapidly declined and at 48 hours they were no more detectable. 
©EMEA 2007 
13/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following administration of a single 20  mg/kg oral dose of 5-ALA, approximately 30%  of the dose 
has  been  recovered  unchanged  in  the  urine  within  12  hours.  For  the  IV  dose  the  value  is  ca.  32%, 
confirming the absolute bioavailability result obtained from plasma determinations.   
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Pharmacokinetic parameters after oral administration of 0.2, 2.0, and 20 mg/kg b.w. 5-ALA*HCl were 
calculated in a total of 21 patients using non-compartmental procedures.  
•  Special populations 
Special  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  5-ALA*HCl  related  to  intrinsic  (e.g.,  age,  sex,  race,  renal  and 
hepatic  impairment)  or  extrinsic  factors  (e.g.,  smoking,  concomitant  drugs,  diet)  have  not  been 
performed by the applicant. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment as well as patients with known 
porphyria  or  hypersensitivity  to  porphyrins  had  been  excluded  from  all  clinical  trials  with  
5-ALA*HCl. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The applicant did not perform PK interaction studies. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Exogenous  administration  of  5-ALA  leads  to  a  selective  accumulation  of  its  metabolite  PPIX  in 
tumour  cells.  Upon  excitation  of  PPIX  by  blue  light,  red  fluorescence  is  emitted  which  allows  the 
detection  of  a  malignant  lesion.  The  mechanisms  explaining  the  selective  accumulation  of  PPIX  in 
neoplastic tissue upon systemic 5-ALA administration are not well understood. Possible mechanisms 
include  an  increased  activity  of  the  PPIX-producing  enzyme  porphobilinogen  deaminase  and/or  a 
decreased activity of the PPIX-converting enzyme ferrochelatase in tumour cells compared to normal 
cells, as well as the reduced availability of iron in tumour cells. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  MC-ALS.20/BV  the  extent  and  duration  of  skin  photosensitisation  after  oral  administration  of  
5-ALA*HCl was investigated within this trial in a total of 21 patients. This was done by measuring the 
Minimal  Erythema  Dose  (MED)  and  the  corresponding  PPIX  plasma  concentrations.  These  results 
will be shown in this section. The trial has been performed in healthy male Caucasian subjects aged 
18-55 years. A total of 21 healthy volunteers were included into this part of the study. A test described 
by Filbeck et al. was used to evaluate the photosensitisation of the skin.5 In brief, small skin areas on 
the  dorsum  and  the  gluteal  region  (which  were  not  usually  exposed  to  sun  light)  were  exposed  to  a 
progressively  graded  series  of  defined  UVA-light  doses  (n  =  8;  5-56  J/cm²;  light  intensity: 
approximately 60 mW/cm²; wave length 330-450 nm) one day before (baseline) as well as 12, 24 and 
48  h  ±  30  min  after  oral  administration  of  20  mg/kg  5-ALA*HCl.  The  dose  applied  to  the  skin 
depended on the distance between the UV light source and the skin, was auto-regulated by the light 
source  device  and  checked  by  a  sensor  placed  on  the  skin.  Immediate  and  late  reactions  were 
determined 16 min and 24 ± 0.5 h after starting the application of the light. The immediate reaction is 
thought to be due to an irritation of the skin pigments that depends on the 5-ALA dose in the tissue 
and the applied UVA dose. The late reaction is interpreted as  a  bronzing effect over time  following 
irritation and not related to any concentration of 5-ALA or PPIX in the skin. 
The Minimal Erythema Dose (MED) was defined as the dose of irradiation after which a minimal skin 
reaction  was  visible  in  the  respective  area.  The  skin  reaction  was  observed  by  two  distinct  sub-
investigators (one for the immediate reaction and another for the late reaction after 24 hours). The late 
skin reaction (24 hrs after irradiation) was observed by a physician who was blinded for the result of 
the immediate reaction directly after irradiation. 
Furthermore,  PPIX  levels  in  plasma  were  determined  at  baseline  (one  day  before  administration  of  
5-ALA) and 12, 24 and 48 h ± 30 min after oral administration of 5-ALA*HCl. 
All subjects who received medication and who had at least one evaluation of MED were included into 
the  analysis.  Individual  MEDs  were  compared  to  baseline  and  described  statistically  by  arithmetic 
means, standard deviation, coefficient of variation, ranges, and medians. 
12 and 24 hours after administration of 5-ALA*HCl, MED measured shortly after end of irradiation 
(immediate  reaction)  was  significantly  reduced  compared  to  baseline  (P  <  0.0001  [RM-ANOVA 
©EMEA 2007 
14/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
test*]).  MED  returned  to  baseline  values  at  48  hours,  a  time  where  PPIX  plasma  levels  had  already 
dropped below the limit of detection. 
For  late  reactions,  a  decrease  of  MED  could  only  be  observed  12  hours  after  administration  of  
5- ALA*HCl. 
Photosensitisation of the skin, immediate and late reaction (arithmetic mean ± SD) together with PPIX 
plasma concentrations (arithmetic mean) in 21 healthy volunteers after oral administration of 20 mg/kg 
b.w. 5-ALA*HCl 
Time-point of 
irradiation 
PPIX 
plasma 
level 
Immediate reaction 
Late reaction 
[µg/L] 
MED (J/cm²) 
Baseline (x0)  < LLQ 
18.19  ±  4.38 
x/x0 
1.00 ± 0.00 
MED (J/cm²) 
23.81 ± 7.59 
x/x0 
1.00  ± 0.00 
12 hrs a.a. 
104.44 
7.38  ±  3.41 
0.42 ± 0.19 
6.05 ± 2.22 
0.28  ± 0.14 
24 hrs a.a. 
10.12 
8.52  ±  3.39 
0.50 ± 0.25 
21.71 ± 7.16 
1.03  ± 0.54 
48 hrs a.a. 
< LLQ 
17.33  ±  5.49 
0.98 ± 0.32 
28.00 ± 12.87 
1.32  ± 0.83 
MED = minimal erythema dose; LLQ = lower limit of quantification;  a.a. = after administration of 5-ALA*HCl 
Correlation of PPIX plasma concentrations and MED values (immediate and late skin reaction) were 
analysed for the time point 12 h after administration of 5-ALA*HCl with both parametric (Pearson) as 
well as nonparametric (Spearman) measures. 
No correlation could be found with both methods 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA), the active substance of Gliolan, is a natural biochemical precursor of 
heme  that  is  metabolised  in  a  series  of  enzymatic  reactions  to  fluorescent  porphyrins,  particularly 
protoporphyrin  IX  (PPIX).  5-ALA  synthesis  is  regulated  by  an  intracellular  pool  of  free  heme  via  a 
negative feedback mechanism. 
Systemic  administration  of  5-ALA  results  in  an  overload  of  the  cellular  porphyrin  metabolism  and 
accumulation of PPIX in various epithelia and cancer tissues. Malignant glioma tissue (WHO-grade III 
and  IV,  e.g.  glioblastoma  multiforme,  gliosarcoma  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma)  has  also  been 
demonstrated  to  synthesise  and  accumulate  porphyrins  in  response  to  5-ALA  administration.  The 
concentration  of  PPIX  is  significantly  lower  in  white  matter  than  in  cortex  and  tumour.  Tissue 
surrounding  the  tumour  and  normal  brain  may  also  be  affected.  However,  5-ALA  induced  PPIX 
formation is significantly higher in malignant tissue than in normal brain. 
In contrast, in low-grade tumours (WHO-grade I and II, e.g. medulloblastoma, oligodendroglioma) no 
fluorescence  could  be  observed  after  application  of  the  active  substance.  Brain  metastases  revealed 
inconsistent or no fluorescence. 
The  phenomenon  of  PPIX  accumulation  in  WHO  grade  III  and  IV  malignant  gliomas  may  be 
explained by higher 5-ALA uptake into the tumour tissue or an altered pattern of expression or activity 
of enzymes (e.g. Ferrochelatase) involved in haemoglobin biosynthesis in tumour cells. Explanations 
for  higher  5-ALA  uptake  include  a  disrupted  blood-brain  barrier,  increased  neo-vascularisation,  and 
the overexpression of membrane transporters in glioma tissue. 
After excitation with blue light (λ=400-410 nm), PPIX is strongly fluorescent (peak at λ=635 nm) and 
can be visualised after appropriate modifications to a standard neurosurgical microscope. 
Fluorescence emission can be classified as intense (solid) red fluorescence (corresponds to vital, solid 
tumour tissue) and vague pink fluorescence (corresponds to infiltrating tumour cells), whereas normal 
brain tissue lacking enhanced PPIX levels reflects the violet-blue light and appears blue. 
In a phase I/II-trial including 21 patients, a dose-efficacy relationship between the dose levels and the 
extent  and  quality  of  fluorescence  in  the  tumour  core  was  detected:  Higher  doses  of  5-ALA  HCl 
©EMEA 2007 
15/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enhanced  the  fluorescence  quality  and  the  fluorescence  extent  of  the  tumour  core  compared  to 
demarcation of the tumour core under standard white illumination in a monotone, non-falling fashion. 
The highest dose (20 mg/kg body weight) was determined to be the most efficient. 
A  positive  predictive  value  of  tissue  fluorescence  of  84.8 %  (90 %  CI:  70.7 %-93.8 %)  was  found. 
This  value  was  defined  as  the  percentage  of  patients  with  positive  tumour  cell  identification  in  all 
biopsies  taken  from  areas  of  weak  and  strong  fluorescence.  The  positive  predictive  value  of  strong 
fluorescence  was  higher  (100.0 %;  90 %  CI:  91.1 %-100.0 %)  than  of  weak  fluorescence  (83.3 %; 
90 %  CI:  68.1 %-93.2 %).  Results  were  based  on  a  phase-II  trial  including  33  patients  receiving  
5-ALA  HCl  in  a  dose  of  20 mg/kg  body  weight.  The  resulting  fluorescence  was  used  as  an 
intraoperative marker for malignant glioma tissue with the aim of improving the surgical resection of 
these tumours. 
The main PK characteristics have been determined in a very scant way. Only two studies have been 
performed: one absolute bioavailability study at 0.2 mg/kg i.v. and 20mg/kg p.o.. This study helped 
characterise  5-ALA  and  PPIX  pharmacokinetics.  However  a  complete  mass  balance  study  has  not 
been  performed.  The  other  study  tried  to  establish  dose  proportionality  and  characterise  the  PK  of  
5-ALA and PPIX in patients. Together these studies provide minimal information for the safe use of  
5-ALA  in  the  proposed  indication.  No  studies  concerning  intrinsic  and  extrinsic  factors  have  been 
performed.  
General characteristics 
This  medicinal  product  shows  good  solubility  in  aqueous  solutions.  After  ingestion,  5-ALA  itself  is 
not fluorescent but is taken up by tumour tissue (see section 5.1) and is intracellularily metabolised to 
fluorescent porphyrins, predominantly protoporphyrin IX (PPIX). 
Absorption 
5-ALA HCl as drinking solution is rapidly and completely absorbed and peak plasma levels of 5-ALA 
are  reached  0.5–2 hours  after  oral  administration  of  20 mg/kg body  weight.  Plasma  levels  return  to 
baseline values 24 hours after administration of an oral dose of 20 mg/kg body weight. The influence 
of food has not been investigated because this medicinal product is generally given on empty stomach 
prior to induction of anaesthesia.  
Distribution and Biotransformation 
5-ALA is preferentially taken up by the liver, kidney, endothelials and skin as well as by malignant 
gliomas  (WHO  grade  III  and  IV)  and  metabolised  to  fluorescent  PPIX.  Four hours  after  oral 
administration  of  20 mg/kg  body  weight  5-ALA  HCl,  the  maximum  PPIX  plasma  level  is  reached. 
PPIX  plasma  levels  rapidly  decline  during  the  subsequent  20 hours  and  are  not  detectable  anymore 
48 hours  after  administration.  At  the  recommended  oral  dose  of  20 mg/kg body  weight,  tumour  to 
normal  brain  fluorescence  ratios  are  usually  high  and  offer  lucid  contrast  for  visual  perception  of 
tumour tissue under violet-blue light for at least 9 hours. 
Besides tumour tissue, faint fluorescence of the choroid plexus was reported. 5-ALA is also taken up 
and metabolised to PPIX by other tissues, e.g. liver, kidneys or skin (see section 4.4). Plasma protein 
binding of 5-ALA is unknown. 
Elimination  
5-ALA is eliminated quickly with a terminal half-life of 1-3 hours. Approximately 30 % of an orally 
administered dose of 20 mg/kg body weight are excreted unchanged in urine within 12 hours. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
There  is  dose  proportionality  between  AUC0-inf.  of  5-ALA  values  and  different  oral  doses  of  this 
medicinal product. 
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
Pharmacokinetics of 5-ALA in patients with renal or liver impairment has not been investigated.  
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
©EMEA 2007 
16/35 
 
 
 
No  studies  have  been  performed  in  patients  with  clinically  relevant  hepatic  or  renal  impairment. 
Therefore, this medicinal product should be used with caution in such patients.  
Paediatric population 
The active substance has not been investigated in children and adolescents. Therefore, this medicinal 
product is not recommended in the paediatric age group until further data become available. 
Elderly patients 
There are no special instructions for use in elderly patients with regular organ function. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study(ies) 
Study MC-ALS.8-I/GLI 
Primary  objective  of  this  trial  was  the  detection  of  a  relationship  between  the  orally  administered  
5-ALA*HCl dose and the efficacy of treatment as measured by the extent and quality of fluorescence 
in the tumour core. Within this study, pharmacokinetic parameters were determined, too. 
Pharmacodynamic results 
Dose-efficacy  relationship  was  assessed  by  determining  the  global  fluorescence  extent  and 
fluorescence  quality  of  the  tumour  core  at  the  end  of  operation  after  the  tumour  had  been  resected. 
This was done in the following way: 
During  tumour  resection,  global  fluorescence  extent  and  quality  was  assessed  continuously  by  two 
surgeons  by  repeated  switching  between  the  white  and  fluorescence  light  mode  of  the  operating 
microscope.  Both  surgeons  were  blinded  with  respect  to  the  administered  5-ALA*HCl  dose.  After 
complete resection of the tumour, the visual impressions of tumour fluorescence during surgery were 
summarised and assessed in two ways: 
- fluorescence extent: estimation, how much of the tumour core identified under white light conditions 
was fluorescent (0, one-third, two-thirds, 100%) 
-  fluorescence  quality:  estimation,  if  the  tumour  core  was  strongly,  weakly  or  not  fluorescing  under 
blue light excitation 
In  case  of  different  assessments  by  the  two  surgeons,  always  the  assessment  of  the  first  surgeon 
(which  was  in  all  cases  the  principal  investigator  Dr.  Stummer)  was  used.  The  result  was  judged  as 
successful, if statistical significance was reached with respect to both variables. 
Global fluorescence extent and quality in tumour core 
Dose level of 5-ALA*HCl 
Number of patients 
Fluorescence quality: 
Strong 
Weak 
None 
Extent of fluorescence: 
0 / 3 
1 / 3 
2 / 3 
3 / 3 
0.2 mg/kg b.w. 
7 
2 mg/kg b.w. 
7 
20 mg/kg b.w. 
7 
0 
0 
7 (100%) 
7 (100%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 (86%) 
1 (14%) 
1 (14%) 
5 (71%) 
1 (14%) 
0 
7 (100%)* 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
7 (100%) 
©EMEA 2007 
17/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Fluorescence intensity (a.u.) of tumour core; Mean [SD] 
Fluorescence quality 
Strong  
Weak 
None 
0.2 mg/kg b.w. 
- 
- 
0.0307 (0.0124) 
2 mg/kg b.w. 
- 
0.1983 (0.1347) 
0.0700 (0.0631) 
20 mg/kg b.w. 
3.0836 (2.1410) 
2.3000 (n=1) 
- 
In  summary,  the  visual  impression  of  a  stronger  fluorescence  quality  of  the  tumour  tissue  was 
paralleled (and therefore confirmed) by a higher spectrophotometrically measured fluorescence 
intensity. This correlation was statistically significant for both tumour areas (Jonckheere- Terpstra test: 
P < 0.0001). 
Furthermore, pairwise comparisons of fluorescence intensity of the tumour core between the different 
treatment  groups  revealed  significant  differences  (Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney  test,  P  <  0.001). 
Additionally,  biopsies  were  taken  from  the  selected  areas  of  tumour  core  and  margin  and  inspected 
histologically for tumour cellularity by the reference pathologist who was also blinded with respect to 
the treatment group. 
This “dose-finding” study allows a clear identification of a target dose – 20mg/kg. However one must 
note that between 2mg which shows some effect and 20 mg which is consistently picked as the best 
effect there is a wide range of values. Therefore it is unlikely that 20 mg/kg is the optimal dose. 
Study MC-ALS.28/GLI 
The  aim  of  this  prospective,  single-arm,  uncontrolled  multicentre  (n  =  4)  phase  II  study  was  to 
determine  the  positive  predictive  value  of  tissue  fluorescence,  defined  as  the  percentage  of  patients 
showing  positive  tumour  cell  identification  in  all  biopsies  taken  from  areas  of  weak  and  strong 
fluorescence. 
A  total  of  39  patients  were  assigned  to  undergo  fluorescence-guided  resection  which  yielded  33 
patients qualifying for the Full-Analysis-Set and 36 patients for the Safety-Analysis-Set. 
Treatment 
All  patients  received  a  single  dose  (20  mg/kg)  of  5-ALA*HCl  (MC  506/1)  orally  3  hours  prior  to 
induction of anaesthesia for surgery of newly diagnosed malignant glioma. 
Study endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  positive  predictive  value  of  tissue  fluorescence,  defined  as  the 
percentage of patients showing positive tumour cell identification in all biopsies taken from areas of 
weak and strong fluorescence. 
Diagnosis and main criteria for inclusion (extract): 
Males  or  females  aged  18  to  75  years  with  cranial  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  justifying 
diagnosis of malignant glioma (WHO grades III-IV), that is, showing distinct ring- or garland-shaped, 
contrast agent enhancing tumour structures and a core area of reduced intensity on the MRI (central 
tumour  necrosis),  but  lacking  significant  non-enhancing  tumour  tissue  (exclusion  of  a  secondary 
malignant  glioma),  for  whom  primary  surgical  treatment  was  indicated.  Histological  sections  were 
assessed  by  external  reviewers  blinded  to  treatment  at  all  times.  Patient's  had  to  Karnofsky 
Performance Scale (KPS) was required to be ≥60% and prior or tumour specific pre treatments were 
not allowed. 
Of  39  patients  included  into  the  study,  six  patients  (15.4%)  were  excluded  from  efficacy  analysis. 
Reasons  for  excluding  those  patients  were:  ineligible  histology  (n=2),  study  drug  not  administered 
(n=3), and study surgery not performed (n=1). 
The primary efficacy parameter was the positive predictive value of tissue fluorescence, defined as the 
percentage  of  patients  with  positive  tumour  cell  identification  in  all  biopsies  taken  from  areas  with 
weak  and  strong  fluorescence.  A  biopsy  was  termed  "positive  tumour  cell  identification"  if  the 
reference neuropathological institute observed a tumour cell content greater than 0%. 
The  mean  tumour  cellularity  per  patient  (i.e.  mean  area  on  a  section  occupied  by  tumour  cells)  in 
strongly  fluorescing  biopsies  was  79.1%  ±  20.1%,  whereas  mean  tumour  cellularity  in  weakly 
fluorescing biopsies was 30.78% ± 27.88% per patient. A  minimum tumour cellularity of 4.5% was 
©EMEA 2007 
18/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
detectable  by  virtue  of  its  (weak)  fluorescence  by  the  surgeon.  Taking  all  biopsies  together,  mean 
tumour cellularity with strong or weak fluorescence was 79.1% ± 19.8%. 
The number of truly-positive specimens (biopsies) was higher if the quality of fluorescence was strong 
(n=32)  rather  than  weak  (n=25).  Consequently,  the  positive  predictive  value  of  strong  fluorescence 
was  higher  (100.0%;  90%  CI:  91.1%  -  100.0%)  than  that  of  weak  fluorescence  (83.3%;  90%  CI: 
68.1% - 93.2%). In total, there were 28 patients where all fluorescing biopsies showed tumour in all 
biopsies  taken  from  areas  of  any  fluorescence  (strong  or  weak  fluorescence)  resulting  in  a  positive 
predictive value of 84.8% (90% CI: 70.7% - 93.8%). 
Biopsy-based tumour cellularities stratified by fluorescence quality (Full-Analysis-Set) 
Among  185  evaluated  biopsies,  seven  sections  did  not  reveal  any  tumour  cells  (false-positive 
specimens).  In  all  false-positive  specimens,  the  quality  of  fluorescence  in  was  weak.  Strongly 
fluorescing false-positive biopsies did not occur in this study. 
The  positive  predictive  value  of  tissue  fluorescence  at  the  biopsy  level,  defined  as  the  number  of 
tumour  positive  biopsies  among  all  biopsies  taken  from  areas  of  any  fluorescence  (weak  and  strong 
fluorescence), was 96.2% (90% CI: 93.0% - 98.2%). The positive predictive value was higher, if only 
strong fluorescent biopsies were taken into account (100.0%; 90% CI: 96.9% - 100.0%) compared to 
weak fluorescent biopsies only (92.2%; 90% CI: 85.9% - 96.3%). 
This study only provides data for the positive predictive value. Nothing was obtained for the negative 
predictive  value.  This  is  understandable  on  ethical  grounds.  One  would  not  resect  non  fluorescent 
tissue that could be normal just for the propose of study. However the samples were collected in the 
bulk  of  the  tumour  when  the  areas  of  clinical  interest  are  the  margins.  The  results  showed  that  the 
strong  fluorescent  area  has  a  much  higher  cellularity  than  the  comparators  areas  and  this  makes  the 
positive predictive value of strong fluorescence 100%. However none of the drugs clearly discriminate 
because  the  confidence  intervals  are  overlapping.  It  seems  that  if  an  area  is  strong  fluorescent  it  is 
tumour but if it is not it can be tumour also. This is an important drawback for the clinical utility of the 
method.  In  the  answers  provided  by  the  applicant  this  aspect  was  clarified  although  not  completely 
solved  because the data available is not sufficient. Yet, it satisfactorily shown that the fluorescence is 
highly specific for tumour. Since the major problem is to remove healthy tissue taken as tumour (false 
positives) the high specificity is reassuring. The issue of real sensitivity remains but it less critical for 
the clinical use. 
•  Main study(ies)  
MC-ALS.3/GLI 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Males  or  females  aged  18  to  72  years  with  cranial  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  justifying 
diagnosis  of  unilocular  malignant  glioma  (WHO  grades  III-IV)  for  whom  surgical  treatment  was 
indicated  were  included  into  this  study.  The  location  of  contrast  enhancing  tumour  should  have 
allowed  complete  resection.  Patients  with  tumours  located  in  the  midline,  the  basal  ganglia,  the 
cerebellum or brain stem and patients with more than one contrast agent-accumulating lesion unrelated 
to  the  primary  tumour  or  presenting  with  extracerebral  metastases  had  to  be  excluded.  Furthermore, 
©EMEA 2007 
19/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with a Karnofsky Performance Score < 70, known porphyria or hypersensitivity to porphyrins, 
renal or hepatic insufficiency or other malignomas had to be excluded. 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised to receive or not receive 20 mg/kg 5-ALA*HCl orally, 3 ± 1 hours before 
induction  of  anaesthesia.  Before  launching  the  study,  each  participating  centre  had  to  treat  three 
patients according to the 5-ALA arm of the study protocol to learn the method of fluorescence-guided 
tumour resection. 
With the intention to exclude any bias with respect to the amount of accumulating contrast agent in the 
early postoperative MRI (primary endpoint) due to different doses of corticosteroids, according to the 
study  protocol  patients  were  planned  to  receive  at  least  12  mg  dexamethasone  two  days  prior  to 
surgery  and  prior  to  performance  of  the  early  postoperative  MRI.  Postoperatively,  conventional 
external beam radiotherapy commencing within 14 days after surgery was mandatory according to the 
protocol.  90.9%  of  patients  in  the  experimental  arm  and  93.6%  of  patients  in  the  control  group 
received  that  treatment.  Reasons  for  not  applying  radiotherapy  were  patients  refusal,  missing  data, 
poor condition, early death. According to the protocol, no postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy was 
allowed because at the time of protocol development this was not a standard treatment option.  
Objectives 
The  aim  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  fluorescence-guided  resection  of 
malignant  gliomas  with  5-ALA  (experimental  or  FL-group)  compared  to  conventional  resection 
(control or WL-group) and to assess the clinical usefulness of this method. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In  order  to  determine  how  completely  tumour  can  be  removed  in  both  treatment  arms  and  if  this 
influences the outcome of patients, the following two primary endpoints were chosen: 
- percentage of patients without definite residual contrast-enhancing tumour seen on early 
(within 72 hours after surgery) postoperative MRI, 
- progression-free survival at the 6-month-visit after surgery. 
The  second  primary  endpoint  was  implemented  28  months  after  study  start  as  a  major  content  of 
amendment  3  of  February  07,  2002.  This  was  done  because  according  to  a  new  CPMP  directive 
“Points  to  consider  on  the  evaluation  of  diagnostic  agents;  CPMP,  2001)  “the  assessment  of  the 
clinical  usefulness  of  a  diagnostic  agent  is  essential  for  establishing  a  claim  for  that  agent”. 
Radiological progression was defined as the occurrence of a new tumour lesion (volume > 0.175 cm³) 
or an increase of residual tumour volume by more than 25% compared to baseline (within 72 hours 
after surgery) MRI.  According to the protocol, the six-month visit was defined as the visit scheduled 
six months after study surgery with a tolerated time deviation of ±1 month. Progression was defined as 
radiological progression according to the criteria outlined in the study protocol.  
Secondary  study  endpoints  were  progression-free  survival  9,  12,  15,  and  18  months  after  surgery, 
volume  of  residual  tumour,  overall  survival,  toxicity  of  5-ALA,  neurological  condition  up  to  18 
months  after  surgery,  and  a  comparison  of  fluorescence  diagnostics  (intraoperative  residual  tumour) 
with those of early postoperative MRI (radiological residual tumour). 
For evaluating the primary endpoints, MRI scans were evaluated within 72 hours after surgery 
(for  measuring  residual  tumour)  and  3,  6,  9,  12,  15,  and  18  months  after  surgery  (for  detection  of 
tumour progression). Radiological progression was defined as the occurrence of a new tumour lesion 
(volume  >  0.175  cm³)  or  an  increase  of  residual  tumour  by  more  than  25%  compared  to  baseline 
(within  72  hours  after  surgery)  MRI.  MRI  scans  and  histological  sections  of  resected  tumours  were 
assessed by external reviewers blinded to treatment at all times.  
Sample size 
Sample size was determined by assuming a 20% point increase in tumour-free resection (30% in WL-
group vs 50% in FL-group) and 15% point increase in progression-free survival rate at the 6-month-
visit (25% in WL-group vs 40% in FL-group) within the Full-Analysis-Set. 350 patients were required 
in the Full-Analysis-Set to provide 80% power within experiment-wise type I error of 0.05. To allow 
for  early  stopping,  interim  analysis  for  second  primary  efficacy  criterion  was  foreseen  with  270 
patients in the Full-Analysis-Set. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation was done centrally. A dynamic randomisation algorithm was used with respect 
©EMEA 2007 
20/35 
 
 
 
 
for the following 4 factors: surgeon, patient’s age (≤ 55, > 55 years), Karnofsky Performance Score (≤ 
80, > 80), surgeon’s impression with respect to tumour location within or close to eloquent areas or 
structures (risk present yes or no). 
Blinding (masking) 
It was impossible to blind the investigator (surgeon) for the two treatments because they differ in their 
visual effects (fluorescing tissue after 5-ALA treatment versus no fluorescence). 
Additionally, the use of a placebo did not make any sense within such a study. Therefore, the 
control group received no 5-ALA and was operated under conventional white light conditions. 
All  MRT  images  taken  for  analysing  the  two  primary  endpoints  of  the  study  were  evaluated  by  a 
central reference radiologist who was blinded with respect to the randomisation of the patient to one of 
the  two  treatment  arms  (rater-blinded  study  design).  Additionally,  the  reference  pathologist  who 
evaluated all tumour specimens was also blinded with respect to the study arm. 
Statistical methods 
All statistical tests were two-sided and the multiple level of significance was fixed at 0.05. A 
priori ordering of primary efficacy criteria and O´Brien-Fleming-like boundaries for progression-free 
survival rate at 6-month visit were applied to adjust nominal significance levels for multiple endpoints 
and multiple looks, respectively. This led to a nominal significance level of 0.05 for the first primary, 
0.022 and 0.043 for second primary endpoint at interim and final analysis, respectively. 
Chi-square tests were applied for confirmatory testing of primary efficacy parameters. Both primary 
efficacy  parameters  had  to  be  statistically  tested  in  a  predefined  hierarchical  order.  H01  denotes  the 
first null hypothesis of equality of the probabilities of tumour-free resection, H02 denotes the second 
null  hypothesis  of  equality  of  the  probabilities  of  progression-free  survival  at  6-month-visit.  The 
nominal  two-sided  significance  levels  needed  for  rejection  of  the  individual  null  hypotheses  are 
annotated. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
At the time of final study analysis, a total of 415 patients were randomly assigned to undergo either 
fluorescence-guided resection (FL-group) or standard white light surgery (WL-group)  
Recruitment 
Conduct of the study 
19  patients  (10.8%)  in  the  experimental  arm  had  a  treatment  deviation,  mostly  with  respect  to  the 
planned  dose  (n  =  5)  and  the  time  difference  between  5-ALA*HCl  administration  and  induction  of 
anaesthesia (n = 8). One patient in the control group accidentally received 5-ALA*HCl, however was 
operated under white light conditions only. 
©EMEA 2007 
21/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90.9%  of  patients  in  the  experimental  arm  and  93.6%  of  patients  in  the  control  group  received 
postoperative conventional external beam radiotherapy. 12.5% of patients in the experimental arm and 
13.3%  of  patients  in  the  control  arm  received  adjuvant  chemotherapy  before  radiological  proof  of 
tumour  progression.  The  most  common  type  of  chemotherapy  administered  in  these  patients  was 
temozolomide.  
After  radiologically  proven  progression,  approximately  half  of  the  patients  in  both  groups  received 
chemotherapy (54.5% vs 57.2%). Again, temozolomide was the most common type of chemotherapy 
applied.  30.1%  of  patients  in  the  experimental  arm  and  39.3%  in  the  control  arm  underwent  one 
reoperation,  and  further  5.1%  and  12.1%  two  re-operations  or  did  receive  other  tumour-specific 
therapies. 
Baseline data 
Treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  for  the  parameters  age,  KPS,  and  endangerment  of  eloquent 
areas within all data sets analysed as indicated by Table 11.1F. There was no particular surgeon who 
operated on significantly more patients in a particular treatment arm in any of the data sets analysed. 
Overall,  patients  in  the  two  treatment  arms  were  comparable  with  respect  to  age,  body  weight,  and 
gender. 
Parameter 
Age (years) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (Range) 
≤ 55 years 
> 55 years 
Gender n (%) 
Female 
Male 
Body weight (kg) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (Range) 
Fluorescence light 
N = 176 
58.3 (10.04) 
61.0 (23-73) 
55 (31.3%) 
121 (68.8%) 
74 (42.0%) 
102 (58.0%) 
79.1 (14.87) 
78 (50-120) 
Study group 
White light 
N = 173 
58.9 (9.27) 
60.0 (30-73) 
52 (30.1%) 
121 (69.9%) 
62 (35.8%) 
111 (64.2%) 
Overall 
N = 349 
58.6 (9.65) 
60.0 (23-73) 
107 (30.7%) 
242 (69.3%) 
136 (39.0%) 
213 (61.0%) 
79.1 (15.05) 
80.0 (43-119) 
79.1 (14.94) 
78.5 (43-120) 
Summary of tumour histology (Full-Analysis-Set) 
Study 
Tumour histology 
ALS.3/GLI 
ALS.8-I/GLI  ALS.28/GLI 
Treatment group
Number of patients
Missing 
WHO grade III tumours 
AOA 
AO 
AA 
FL 
176 
0 
4 (2.3%) 
0 
0 
4 (2.3%) 
WL 
173 
1 (0.6%) 
6 (3.5%) 
1 (0.6%) 
2 (1.2%) 
3 (1.7%) 
All 
21 
0 
1 (4.8%) 
0 
0 
1 (4.8%) 
All  
33 
0 
4 (12.1%) 
0 
0 
4 (12.1%) 
Tumour histology 
ALS.3/GLI 
ALS.8-I/GLI  ALS.28/GLI 
Study 
©EMEA 2007 
22/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment group
Number of patients
FL 
176 
WL 
173 
WHO grade IV tumours 
Glioblastoma gliosarcoma 
Gliobastoma gigantocellulare 
Glioblastoma multiforme 
Other 
Astroblastoma 
171 (97.2%)  166 (96.0%) 
11 (6.4%) 
2 (1.2%) 
10 (5.7%) 
5 (2.8%) 
156 (88.6%)  153 (88.4%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 
0 
All 
21 
20 (95.2%) 
2 (9.5%) 
0 
18 (85.7%) 
0 
0 
All  
33 
29 (87.9%) 
0 
1 (3.0%) 
28 (84.8%) 
0 
0 
AOA=anaplastic oligo-astrocytoma; AO= anaplastic oligodendroglioma; AA=anaplastic astrocytoma 
Karnofsky Performance Score 
Study 
ALS.3/GLI 
ALS.8-I/GLI 
ALS.28/GLI 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 
Median (range) 
FL 
WL 
176 
173 
1 (0.6%) 
0 
15 (8.5%) 
19 (11.0%) 
21 (11.9%) 
22 (12.7%) 
87 (49.4%) 
77 (44.5%) 
55 (31.8%) 
52 (29.5%) 
90 (60-100)  90 (70-100) 
All 
21 
0 
2 (9.5%) 
4 (19%) 
15 (71.5%) 
0 
90 (70-90) 
All 
33 
0 
5 (15.2%) 
9 (27.3%) 
11 (33.3%) 
8 (24.2%)  
90 (70-100) 
Numbers analysed 
Of  415  patients  randomised,  349  patients  qualified  for  the  Full-Analysis-Set.  31  patients  in  the 
experimental  arm  (FL)  and  35  patients  in  the  control  group  (WL)  were  excluded  from  efficacy 
analysis  mostly  because  of  ineligible  histology  (other  reasons:  ineligible  preoperative  MRI-findings, 
withdrawal of consent before surgery, no tumour resection performed). Additional three patients in the 
control group withdraw their consent after surgery or were lost during follow-up. These three patients 
were  included  in  the  Full-Analysis-Set  and  considered  as  non-responders.  Of  those  patients  in  the 
control  group  who  did  not  reveal  eligible  histology  or  preoperative  MRI  findings,  in  contrast  to  the 
experimental arm follow up was terminated with respect to safety analysis. This caused an imbalance 
in the Safety-Evaluation-Set between both treatment arms (201 vs 173 patients).  
Data sets analysed 
Outcomes and estimation 
Significantly more patients in the experimental arm were tumour-free on early postoperative 
MRI than in the control group (Full-Analysis-Set: 63.6% vs 37.6%; P < 0.0001). A very similar 
result  was  obtained  for  the  Per-Protocol-Set.  In  the  FL-group,  63.8%  of  patients  were  operated  on 
without residual tumour on the early MRI versus 39.2% of patients in the control-arm. This result was 
©EMEA 2007 
23/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
statistically significant (p<0.0001) with a crude odds ratio of 2.73 (95% CI: 1.75 - 4.28). Thus, results 
were homogenous in both patient sets analysed. 
Classification of subgroups were chosen according to the criteria for randomisation, i.e. age (≤55 vs 
>55 years), KPS (≤80% vs >80%), and endangerment of eloquent areas (no vs yes). There were more 
patients without residual tumour on early postoperative MRI if they were young (≤55 years: FL-group: 
74.5% vs WL-group: 48.1%; p=0.0049), had a better preoperative KPS (>80%: FL-group: 66.9% vs 
WL-group:  40.2%;  p<0.0001),  or  had  tumours  without  endangerment  of  eloquent  brain  areas  (FL-
group: 69.1% vs WL-group: 47.2%; p=0.0060). 
Odds ratios of almost all analysed subgroups indicated a higher percentage of patients without residual 
tumour in the FL-group compared to the WL-group. Pronounced heterogeneities between subgroups 
could not be observed. 
In  the  Full-Analysis-Set,  20.5%  of  patients  in  the  FL-group  and  11.0%  of  patients  in  the  WL-group 
were alive at the six-month visit without progression. This difference was statistically significant using 
the  Chi-square  test  (p=0.0152)  with  a  crude  odds  ratio  of  2.08  (95%  CI:  1.12  -  3.88).  In  the  Per-
Protocol-Set, the progression-free survival rate after at the six-month visit was 22.5% in the FL-group 
and 10.8% in the WL-group. This result was statistically significant (p=0.0047) with a crude odds ratio 
of 2.39 (95% CI: 1.27 - 4.50). 
The  progression-free  survival  rate  at  six-month  visit  was  further  analysed  by  stratifying  for  the 
prognostic factors age (≤55 vs >55 years), KPS (≤80% vs >80%), endangerment of eloquent areas (no 
vs yes), and combinations thereof. 
More  patients  were  alive  and  progression-free  at  the  six-month  visit  if  they  were  young  (≤55 years: 
FL-group: 25.5% vs WL-group: 13.5%; p=0.1185), had a better preoperative KPS (>80%: FL-group: 
21.6%  vs  WL-group:  10.6%;  p=0.0143),  or  tumours  without  endangerment  of  eloquent  brain  areas  
(FL-group: 27.2% vs WL-group: 9.7%; p=0.0060). 
Odds  ratios  of  almost  all  analysed  subgroups  indicated  superiority of  the  FL-group  compared  to  the 
WL-group. The beneficial treatment effect was equally present within the subgroups. Odd ratios and 
their  confidence  intervals  did  not  change  when  adjusted  for  the  prognostic  factors  age,  KPS, 
endangerment of eloquent areas, and combinations thereof, but were all of about the same size as the 
crude odds ratio. P-values adjusted for the prognostic factors using the Cochran- Mantel-Haenszel test 
were statistically significant with respect to the treatment effect. 
Similar results were obtained for the Per-Protocol-Set. 
Ancillary analyses 
−  Prognostic factors 
A  Cox  proportional  hazards  model  was  applied  to  estimate  the  simultaneous  effect  of  the 
treatment  and  other  prognostic  factors  on  PFS  while ignoring the effect of  the  study  centre. 
©EMEA 2007 
24/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  model  showed  a  hazard  ratio  of  0.792  (95%  CI:  0.638-0.983)  for  the  experimental 
treatment indicating a 21% reduction in the risk of radiologic progression (P = 0.0341) 
−  Volume of residual tumour 
The median residual tumour volume in the early postoperative MRI was smaller in the E perimental 
arm  than  in  the  control  group  (0.0  cm³  [range:  0-45.1  cm³]  vs  0.5  cm³  [range  0-32.6  cm³].  75%  of 
patients in the experimental arm had a residual volume of ≤ 0.7 cm³ whereas in the control arm 75% of 
patients had a residual volume of ≤ 2.1 cm³ (P < 0.0001; Wilcoxon-Mann- Whitney test). Except for 
patients with poor KPS (≤ 80%), there was significantly less residual tumour volume in all subgroups 
when stratifying by age, KPS, and endangerment of eloquent areas. 
A  maximum  of  80.7%  reduction  in  tumour  volume  could  be  achieved  in  95%  of  patients  of  the 
experimental  arm,  compared  to  a  maximum  of  70.1%  tumour  reduction  in  95%  of  patients  in  the 
control group (P < 0.0001; Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney). 
−  Progression-free survival at 9, 12, 15, and 18 months 
PFS rates at 9, 12, 15, and 18 months always favoured the experimental arm with odds ratios clearly 
above 1, however, the differences did not reach the level of statistical significance.  
−  Overall survival 
Median overall survival was comparable in both treatment arms (FL vs WL: 14.3 vs 13.7 months; P = 
0.9170, log-rank test) and the crude hazards ratio was 0.99 (95% CI: 0.78 - 1.24). Survival rate one 
year after study surgery was 58% in both study groups. 
Overall Survival – Kaplan Meier estimates 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies have been performed in the paediatric population. Subgroup analysis of efficacy in 
patients with special demographic or intrinsic/extrinsic factors 
(age; Karnofsky Performance Score, endangerment of eloquent areas) have been performed. 
PFS rate at 6 months (95% CI): Kaplan-Meier estimates according to several prognostic factors 
Parameter 
All patients 
Age ≤ 55 years 
Age > 55 years 
KPS ≤ 80% 
5-ALA group 
35.32 (28.17; 42.28) 
38.18 (25.34: 51.02) 
27.03 (12.72; 41.34) 
33.88 (25.45; 42.32) 
Control group 
21.76 (15.56; 27.97) 
25.49 (13.53; 37.45) 
20.17 (12.96; 27.38) 
17.95 (5.90; 29.99) 
©EMEA 2007 
25/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KPS > 80% 
No endangerment of eloquent areas 
Endangerment of eloquent areas 
37.41 (29.37; 45.45) 
39.51 (28.86; 50.15) 
31.58 (22.23; 40.93) 
22.90 (15.71; 30.10) 
18.31 (9.31; 27.31) 
24.24 (15.80; 32.68) 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA), the active substance of Gliolan, is a natural biochemical precursor of 
heme  that  is  metabolised  in  a  series  of  enzymatic  reactions  to  fluorescent  porphyrins,  particularly 
protoporphyrin  IX  (PPIX).  5-ALA  synthesis  is  regulated  by  an  intracellular  pool  of  free  heme  via  a 
negative feedback mechanism. 
Systemic  administration  of  5-ALA  results  in  an  overload  of  the  cellular  porphyrin  metabolism  and 
accumulation of PPIX in various epithelia and cancer tissues. Malignant glioma tissue (WHO-grade III 
and  IV,  e.g.  glioblastoma  multiforme,  gliosarcoma  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma)  has  also  been 
demonstrated  to  synthesise  and  accumulate  porphyrins  in  response  to  5-ALA  administration.  The 
concentration  of  PPIX  is  significantly  lower  in  white  matter  than  in  cortex  and  tumour.  Tissue 
surrounding  the  tumour  and  normal  brain  may  also  be  affected.  However,  5-ALA  induced  PPIX 
formation is significantly higher in malignant tissue than in normal brain. 
In contrast, in low-grade tumours (WHO-grade I and II, e.g. medulloblastoma, oligodendroglioma) no 
fluorescence  could  be  observed  after  application  of  the  active  substance.  Brain  metastases  revealed 
inconsistent or no fluorescence. 
The  phenomenon  of  PPIX  accumulation  in  WHO  grade  III  and  IV  malignant  gliomas  may  be 
explained by higher 5-ALA uptake into the tumour tissue or an altered pattern of expression or activity 
of enzymes (e.g. Ferrochelatase) involved in haemoglobin biosynthesis in tumour cells. Explanations 
for  higher  5-ALA  uptake  include  a  disrupted  blood-brain  barrier,  increased  neo-vascularisation,  and 
the overexpression of membrane transporters in glioma tissue. 
After excitation with blue light (λ=400-410 nm), PPIX is strongly fluorescent (peak at λ=635 nm) and 
can be visualised after appropriate modifications to a standard neurosurgical microscope. 
Fluorescence emission can be classified as intense (solid) red fluorescence (corresponds to vital, solid 
tumour tissue) and vague pink fluorescence (corresponds to infiltrating tumour cells), whereas normal 
brain tissue lacking enhanced PPIX levels reflects the violet-blue light and appears blue. 
In a phase I/II-trial including 21 patients, a dose-efficacy relationship between the dose levels and the 
extent  and  quality  of  fluorescence  in  the  tumour  core  was  detected:  Higher  doses  of  5-ALA  HCl 
enhanced  the  fluorescence  quality  and  the  fluorescence  extent  of  the  tumour  core  compared  to 
demarcation of the tumour core under standard white illumination in a monotone, non-falling fashion. 
The highest dose (20 mg/kg body weight) was determined to be the most efficient. 
A  positive  predictive  value  of  tissue  fluorescence  of  84.8 %  (90 %  CI:  70.7 %-93.8 %)  was  found. 
This  value  was  defined  as  the  percentage  of  patients  with  positive  tumour  cell  identification  in  all 
biopsies  taken  from  areas  of  weak  and  strong  fluorescence.  The  positive  predictive  value  of  strong 
fluorescence  was  higher  (100.0 %;  90 %  CI:  91.1 %-100.0 %)  than  of  weak  fluorescence  (83.3 %; 
90 %  CI:  68.1 %-93.2 %).  Results  were  based  on  a  phase-II  trial  including  33  patients  receiving  
5-ALA  HCl  in  a  dose  of  20 mg/kg  body  weight.  The  resulting  fluorescence  was  used  as  an 
intraoperative marker for malignant glioma tissue with the aim of improving the surgical resection of 
these tumours.  
Overall the trial was properly conducted with a well defined statistical plan that considered an interim 
analysis and an hierarchical evaluations of the 2 primary endpoints – absence of residual tumour in the 
post  surgical  NMR  and  PFS  at  6  months.  The  advantage  of  the    of  using  GLIOLAN  has  been 
demonstrated. The use of GLIOLAN almost doubled the PFS at 6 months. This advantage was kept at 
9 months. At longer FUPs time points the actual numbers analyzable were too low as expected for this 
disease.  
©EMEA 2007 
26/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Demographic profile of patients treated with the test product (Safety-Analysis-Set) 
Parameter 
Age (years) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (Range) 
Gender n (%) 
Female 
Male 
Body weight (kg) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (Range) 
ALS.20/BV 
N = 21 
ALS.8-I/GLI 
N = 21 
ALS.28/GLI 
N = 36 
ALS.3/GLI 
N = 201 
Study 
29.4 (6.6) 
(20-45) 
- 
21 (100%) 
59.0 (8.7) 
56.8 (13.1) 
59.0 (37-70) 
61.5 (21-72) 
57.6 (10.74) 
60.0 (19-73) 
14 (67%) 
7 (33%) 
17 (47.2%) 
19 (52.8%) 
82 (40.8%) 
119 (59.2%) 
78.3 (8.9) 
(64-95) 
75.82 (13.58) 
72.50 (52 – 102) 
76.4 (11.7) 
75 (58-105) 
78.7 (14.75) 
79.0 (50-120) 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse reactions observed after the use of this medicinal product for fluorescence-guided glioma 
resection are divided into the following two categories: 
- 
immediate reactions occurring after oral administration of the medicinal product before induction 
of anaesthesia (= active substance-specific side effects) 
combined effects of 5-ALA, anaesthesia, and tumour resection (= procedure-specific side effects). 
- 
Substance-specific side effects: 
Cardiac disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Uncommon: Hypotension 
Uncommon: Nausea 
Uncommon: Photosensitivity reaction,  
photodermatosis 
Abbreviations: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100, < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000, < 1/100), 
rare  (≥  1/10,000,  <  1/1,000),  very  rare  (≤  1/10,000),  not  known  (cannot  be  estimated  from  the 
available  data).  Within  each  frequency  grouping,  adverse  reactions  are  presented  in  order  of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Procedure-related side effects 
The extent and frequency of procedure-related neurological side effects depend on the localisation of 
the brain tumour and the degree of resection of tumour tissue lying in eloquent brain areas (see SPC 
section 4.4). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders  
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common:  Anaemia, thrombocytopenia,  
leukocytosis  
Common:  Neurological disorders (e.g.  
hemiparesis, aphasia, convulsions,  
hemianopsia) 
Very rare:   Hypesthesia 
Uncommon: Hypotension 
Common: Thromboembolism 
Common : Vomiting, nausea 
Very rare: Diarrhoea 
Very common: 
Blood bilirubin increased, 
Alanine aminotransferase increased, 
©EMEA 2007 
27/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased, 
Gamma glutamyltransferase increased, 
Blood amylase increased 
In a single-arm study including 21 healthy male volunteers, erythema of the skin could be provoked by 
direct exposure to UVA light up to 24 hours after  oral application of 20 mg/kg body weight 5-ALA 
HCl. Possibly drug-related mild nausea was reported in 1out of 21 volunteers. 
In another single-centre study, 21 patients with malignant glioma received 0.2, 2, or 20 mg/kg body 
weight  5-ALA  HCl  followed  by  fluorescence-guided  tumour  resection.  The  only  adverse  reaction 
reported in this trial was one case of mild sunburn occurring in a patient treated with the highest dose. 
In a single-arm study including 36 patients with malignant glioma, drug-related adverse events were 
reported  in  4  patients  (one  patient:  mild  diarrhoea,  one  patient:  moderate  hypesthesia,  one  patient: 
moderate chills, and one patient: arterial hypotension 30 minutes after application of 5-ALA HCl). All 
patients  received  the  medicinal  product  in  a  dose  of  20 mg/kg  body  weight  and  underwent 
fluorescence-guided resection. Follow-up time was 28 days. 
In  a  comparative,  unblinded  phase-III  trial  (MC-ALS.3/GLI),  201  patients  with  malignant  gliomas 
received  5-ALA  HCl  in  a  dose  of  20 mg/kg  body  weight  and  176  of  these  patients  underwent 
fluorescence-guided resection with subsequent radiotherapy. 173 patients received standard resection 
without  administration  of  the  medicinal  product  and  subsequent  radiotherapy.  Follow-up  time 
comprised  at  least  180 days  after  administration.  At  least  possibly  related  adverse  reactions  were 
reported  in  2/201  (1.0 %)  patients:  mild  vomiting  48 hours  after  surgery,  and  mild  photosensitivity 
48 hours  after  study  surgery.  Another  patient  accidentally  received  an  overdose  of  the  medicinal 
product (3000 mg instead of 1580 mg). Respiratory insufficiency, which was reported in this patient, 
was  managed  by  adaptation  of  ventilation  and  resolved  completely.  A  more  pronounced  transient 
increase of liver enzymes without clinical symptoms was observed in the 5-ALA HCl- treated patients. 
Peak  values  occurred  between  7  and  14 days  after  administration.  Increased  levels  of  amylase,  total 
bilirubin,  and  leukocytes,  but  decreased  levels  of  thrombocytes  and  erythrocytes  were  observed, 
however differences between treatment groups were not statistically significant. 
Nervous system disorders 
Most  frequently  observed  adverse  events  in  both  treatment  groups  were  of  neurological  origin 
followed  by  “sensory  organs”.  The  overall  incidence  of  non-serious  events  related  to  the 
nervous/sensory system was similar in the experimental and control arm of the pivotal trial with the 
exception  of  adverse  events  related  to  the  sensory  organs  (FL  vs  WL:  17  vs  8.7%;  P  =  0.02).  This 
might be an indication of a more aggressive surgery in the FL-arm (see table 2.7.4.2.1.1-4). 
Nearly  half  of  all  reported  AEs  related  to  the  neuro-/sensory  system  occurred  during  the  first  week 
after  brain  tumour  surgery.  Percentage  of  patients  with  deterioration  of  the  NIH  Sum  Score  were 
slightly higher in the experimental arm during the first three visits (significant at the 48 hours visit), 
however, this difference disappeared progressively during the further follow-up 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
A  dose-dependent  mild  to  moderate  increase  of  the  transaminases  (AST/ALT)  can  be  observed 
frequently  with  a  higher  incidence  in  the  5-ALA  arm  of  study  MCALS.  3/GLI  than  in  the  control 
group  (see  table  2.7.4.3-13).  These  laboratory  changes  peaked  between  7  and  14  days  after  surgery 
and were not accompanied by clinical symptoms. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
According  to  special  experiments  (measurement  of  minimal  erythema  dose)  performed  in  healthy 
subjects  (study  MC-ALS.20/BV),  photosensitivity  reactions  can  potentially  be  expected  during  the 
first  24  hours  after  administration  of  5-ALA*HCl  (table  2.7.2.2.-3).  A  photosensitivity  reaction  was 
reported in one of the glioma patients only. This low rate is probably due to the strict recommendation 
of reduced exposure to strong light sources up to 24 hours after surgery. 
©EMEA 2007 
28/35 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
None of the 6 deaths observed up to 28 (30) days after 5-ALA*HCl treatment could be related to the 
administration of the study drug. All deaths were considered as consequences of brain tumour surgery 
or pre-existing cardiac disease (see 2.7.4.2.1.2). 
Only two drug-related SAEs have been reported. One patient (# 073; study ALS.3/GLI) suffered from 
a  respiratory  insufficiency  after  administration  of  an  overdosage  of  5-ALA  which  resolved  after 
adaptation  of  ventilation.  Another  patient  (#033;  study  ALS.28/GLI)  experienced  hypotension  after 
administration of 5-ALA which resolved after adequate treatment. 
More patients with convulsions [12 (6%) vs 5 (2.9%)], aphasia [7 (3.5%) vs 1 (0.6%)], and pulmonary 
embolism  [13  (6.5%)  vs 2  (1.2%)  were  reported  in the  5-ALA-arm  of  the  pivotal  trial,  however  the 
differences were not statistically significant except for pulmonary embolism (P = 0.015; Fisher's exact 
test). The reason for the high number of pulmonary embolism in the 5- ALA arm is unclear, since 8 of 
these  13  events  in  the  experimental  arm  occurred  beyond  4  weeks  after  surgery  and  none  of  these 
events could be definitely related to the administration of 5-ALA. 
AEs/SAEs with respect to the neurosensory system 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  type  and  incidence  of  neurologic  AEs 
(excluding  SAEs)  related  to  the  nervous  system  between  the  experimental  and  the  control  arm  (see 
table  2.7.4.2.1.5-1).  In  contrast,  adverse  events  related  to  the  sensory  system  was  significantly  more 
frequent in the experimental arm (17% vs 8.7%; P = 0.02). 
This was mainly due to impaired vision (most frequently reported term: hemianopsia) which was twice 
as much observed in the 5-ALA group (14.8 vs 7.5%; P = 0.041). However, most of these events were 
of CTC grade I (FL group, grade I/II/III: n = 15/7/5 patients; WL group: n = 8/3/2 patients). 
There  were  more  patients  with  aphasia  (3.5%  vs  0.6%)  and  convulsions  (6%  vs  2.9%)  reported  as 
SAEs in the experimental arm, however, the number of reported events was low and the differences 
not statistically significant. 
The  above  discussed  small  differences  did  not  have  a  clinically  meaningful  negative  impact  on  the 
overall (KPS) and/or neurological (NIH-SS) well-being of the patients. 
Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) 
The  more  complete  tumour  surgery  in  the  5-ALA-group  did  not  result  in  a  worse  KPS.  Quite  the 
contrary, there is a trend for less deterioration and more improvement of KPS six months after surgery 
in the experimental arm. 
NIH-SS 
Results  of  the  three  clinical  studies  in  glioma  patients  have  shown  that  after  fluorescence-guided 
resection  of  malignant  gliomas,  observed  neurological  side  effects  are  mostly  mild  to  moderate, 
reaching at maximum 10 points on the 36 point scale. Indeed, the majority of patients had an NIH-sum 
score of 0 – 1 only and the change from baseline during follow-up were usually very small (mostly 1-3 
points). 
In  study  MC-ALS.3/GLI,  percentage  of  patients  with  deterioration  were  slightly  higher  in  the 
experimental  arm  during  the  first  three  visits  (significant  at  the  48  hours  visit),  however,  this 
difference disappeared progressively during the further follow-up. 
•  Overdosage 
Within a clinical trial, a 63-year old patient with known cardiovascular disease was accidentally given 
an overdose of 5-ALA HCl (3000 mg instead of 1580 mg). During surgery he developed respiratory 
insufficiency,  which  was  managed  by  adaptation  of  ventilation.  After  surgery  the  patient  also 
displayed facial erythema. It was stated that the patient had been exposed to more light than permitted 
for  the  trial.  Respiratory  insufficiency  and  erythema  completely  resolved.  In  the  event  of  overdose, 
supportive measures should be provided as necessary, including sufficient protection from strong light 
sources (e.g. direct sunlight). 
Discussion on Clinical Safety 
Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use  have  been  reflected  in  the  SPC  (see  section  4.4).  5-ALA-
induced  fluorescence  of  brain  tissue  does  not  provide  information  about  the  tissue’s  underlying 
neurological  function.  Therefore,  resection  of  fluorescing  tissue  should  be  weighed  up  carefully 
against the neurological function of fluorescing tissue. 
©EMEA 2007 
29/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special  care  must  be  taken  in  patients  with  a  tumour  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  an  important 
neurological  function  and  pre-existing  focal  deficits  (e.g.  aphasia,  vision  disturbances,  paresis  etc.) 
that  do  not  improve  on  corticosteroid  treatment.  Fluorescence-guided  resection  in  these  patients  has 
been found to impose a higher risk of critical neurological deficits. A safe distance to eloquent cortical 
areas and subcortical structures of at least one cm should be maintained independent of the degree of 
fluorescence. 
In  all  patients  with  a  tumour  in  the  vicinity  of  an  important  neurological  function,  either  pre-  or 
intraoperative  measures  should  be  used  to  localise  that  function  relative  to  the  tumour  in  order  to 
maintain safety distances. 
After administration of this medicinal product, exposure of eyes and skin to strong light sources (e.g. 
operating illumination, direct sunlight or brightly focused indoor light) should be avoided for 24 hours. 
Co-administration  with  other  potentially  phototoxic  substances  (e.g.  tetracyclines,  sulfonamides, 
fluoroquinolones, hypericin extracts) should be avoided (see also SPC section 5.3). 
Within  24 hours  after  administration,  other  potentially  hepatotoxic  medicinal  products  should  be 
avoided. 
In  patients  with  pre-existing  cardiovascular  disease,  this  medicinal  product  should  be  used  with 
caution  since  literature  reports  have  shown  decreased  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressures, 
pulmonary artery systolic and diastolic pressures as well as pulmonary vascular resistance. 
One case of an increased phototoxic reaction (severe sunburn lasting for 5 days) has been reported in a 
patient after co-administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid and a hypericin extract (a known phototoxic 
agent). 
There are no adequate data from the use of this medicinal product in pregnant woman. Some limited 
animal studies suggest an embryotoxic activity of 5-ALA plus light exposure (see SPC section 5.3). 
Therefore, this medicinal product should not be used during pregnancy.  
It is unknown whether 5-ALA or its metabolite PPIX are excreted in human breast milk. The excretion 
of 5-ALA or PPIX in milk has not been studied in animals. Breast-feeding should be interrupted for 
24 hours after treatment with this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
In  the  event  of  overdose,  supportive  measures  should  be  provided  as  necessary,  including  sufficient 
protection from strong light sources (e.g. direct sunlight). 
5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
©EMEA 2007 
30/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance  
activities  
Substance-specific adverse events 
Hypotension 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Nausea 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Photosensitivity reaction;  
Photodermatosis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Procedure-related adverse events 
Anaemia; Thrombocytopenia; 
Leukocytosis  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Neurological disorders (e.g. 
hemiparesis, aphasia, 
convulsions, hemianopsia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Hypoaesthesia  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Hypotension 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Thromboembolism 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Nausea, vomiting 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Diarrhoea  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Blood bilirubin increased; 
ALAT increased; ASAT 
increased; γ-GT increased 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Blood amylase increased 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Warning  in section  4.4 of the SPC for use 
in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular 
disease 
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC to reduce 
exposure of eyes and skin to strong light 
sources and warning for co-administration 
with other potentially photoxic substances  
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC.  
Listed as undesirable effects in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Restriction in 4.2 of the SPC that Gliolan 
should only be used by neurosurgeons that 
have attended a training course in 
fluorescence-guided surgery.     
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC for 
special care in patients with tumours in the 
vicinity of an important neurological 
function 
Listed as undesirable effects in section 4.8 of 
the SPC. 
Restricted prescription 
Training courses for neurosurgeons; 
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC for use in 
patients with pre-existing cardiovascular 
disease  
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC  
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC  
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC to avoid 
co-administration of other potentially 
hepatotoxic medicinal products within 24 
hours after administration of Gliolan  
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
Listed as undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
©EMEA 2007 
31/35 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  this  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: See as detailed in Section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report. Risk minimisation in the use 
of  Gliolan  requires  knowledge  on  the  theory  behind  the  Glioma-fluorescence-guided  surgery 
technique  and  the  accurate  performance  of  fluorescence-guided  resection,  especially  regarding 
neurological  serious  adverse  events  noted  during  that  study.  Risk  minimisation  also  requires 
knowledge  on  the  risk/benefit  ratio  of  resection  in  malignant  glioma  surgery  per  se  and  the  pitfalls 
involved in this type of surgery in general. Therefore, the use of Gliolan in glioma surgery requires 
adequate training (see SPC section 4.2).  
6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  Quality  of  this  product  was  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues that could have an impact on the benefit/risk balance for this product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Standard  safety  pharmacology  experiments  were  performed  under  light  protection  in  the  mouse,  rat 
and dog. 5-ALA HCl administration does not influence the function of the gastro-intestinal and central 
nervous systems. A slight increase in saluresis cannot be excluded. 
Single  administration  of  high  doses  of  5-ALA  HCl  to  mice  or  rats  leads  to  unspecific  findings  of 
intolerance  without  macroscopic  abnormalities  or  signs  of  delayed  toxicity.  Repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies performed in rats and dogs demonstrate dose-dependent adverse reactions affecting changes in 
bile  duct  histology  (non-reversible  within  a  14 day  recovery  period),  transient  increase  in 
transaminases,  LDH,  total  bilirubin,  total  cholesterin,  creatinine,  urea  and  vomiting  (only  in  dogs). 
Signs of systemic toxicity (cardiovascular and respiratory parameters) occurred at higher doses in the 
anaesthetised dog: at 45 mg/kg body weight intravenously a slight decrease in peripheral arterial blood 
pressure  and  systolic  left  ventricular  pressure  was  recorded.  Five  minutes  after  administration,  the 
baseline values had been reached again. The cardiovascular effects seen are considered to be related to 
the intravenous route of administration. 
Phototoxicity observed after 5-ALA HCl treatment in vitro and in vivo was closely related to dose- and 
time-  dependent  induction  of  fluorescent  molecule  protoporphyrin  (PPIX)  synthesis  in  the  irradiated 
cells  or  tissues.  Destruction  of  sebaceous  cells,  focal  epidermal  necrosis  with  a  transient  acute 
inflammation and diffuse reactive changes in the keratinocytes as well as transient secondary oedema 
and  inflammation  of  dermis  are  observed.  Light  exposed  skin  recovered  completely  except  for  a 
persistent reduction in the number of hair follicles. Accordingly, general light protective measures of 
eyes and skin are recommended for at least 24 hours after administration of this medicinal product.  
Although pivotal studies on the reproductive and developmental behaviour of 5-ALA have not been 
performed, based on pharmacological grounds there is a risk that 5-ALA induced porphyrin synthesis 
leads  to  embryotoxic  activity  in  mouse,  rat  and  chick  embryos  only  under  the  condition  of  direct 
concomitant light exposure. This medicinal product should, therefore, not be administered to pregnant 
women. Excessive single dose treatment of rats with 5-ALA reversibly impaired male fertility for two 
weeks after dosing. 
The  majority  of  genotoxicity  studies  performed  in  the  dark  do  not  reveal  a  genotoxic  potential  of 
5-ALA.  The  compound  potentially  induces  photogenotoxicity  after  subsequent  irradiation  or  light 
exposure which is related to the induction of porphyrin synthesis. 
Long-term  in  vivo  carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  conducted.  However,  considering  the 
therapeutic  indication,  a  single  oral  treatment  with  5-ALA  HCl  might  not  be  related  to  any  serious 
potential carcinogenic risk.  
©EMEA 2007 
32/35 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no issues concerning the non-clinical pharmacology or the toxicology of 5-ALA HCl that 
negatively affected the overall benefit-risk assessment.  
Efficacy 
In a phase-III trial with 349 patients with suspected malignant glioma amenable to complete resection 
of  contrast-enhancing  tumour  were  randomised  to  fluorescence-guided  resection  after  administration 
of 20 mg/kg body weight 5-ALA HCl or conventional resection under white light. Contrast-enhancing 
tumour was resected in 64 % of patients in the experimental group compared to 38 % in the control-
group (p<0.001). At the visit six months after tumour resection, 20.5 % of 5-ALA-treated-patients and 
11 %  of  patients  who  underwent  standard  surgery  were  alive  at  the  six-month  visit  without 
progression.  The  difference  was  statistically  significant  using  the  chi-square  test  (p=0.015).  No 
significant  increase  in  overall  survival  has  been  observed  in  this  study,  however,  the  trial  was  not 
powered to detect such a difference. 
Safety 
Adverse  reactions  observed  after  the  use  of  this  medicinal  product  for  fluorescence-guided  glioma 
resection  are  either  active  substance-specific  side  effects,  characterised  by  an  immediate  reactions 
occurring  after  oral  administration  of  the  medicinal  product  before  induction  of  anaesthesia,  or 
procedure-specific  side  effects,  which  are  combined  effects  of  5-ALA,  anaesthesia,  and  tumour 
resection.  The  most  common  side  effects  observed  with  the  use  of  5-ALA  HCl  in  the  clinical  trials 
were mild alterations of blood cell counts without clinical symptoms, slight increase of some enzymes 
(transaminases, γ-GT, amylase) or bilirubin in the blood. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The CHMP raised concerned regarding the quality and the readability of the package leaflet (PL). A 
former  user  consultation  was  not  performed  in  view  of  the  setting  and  indication  whereby  patients 
undergoing  malignant  glioma  surgery  will  routinely  undergo  information  session  with  the  surgical 
health care professionals. The applicant was asked, during the procedure, to improve the readability of 
the package leaflet and provide a more understandable and patient-friendly text. The CHMP agreed to 
finalise the text of the PL via a short written procedure, after the June CHMP meeting. In addition, the 
applicant  committed  to  conduct  user  testing  and  submit  a  revised  package  leaflet  as  a  follow-up 
measure.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
There is general consensus that an optimal treatment of malignant glioma should involve the resection 
of as much tumour as possible, without causing neurological deficits. 
Surgery reduces the number of cancer cells requiring treatment and often removes the hypoxic core of 
the tumour that is relatively resistant to radiation and inaccessible to chemotherapy.  
The optimal dose was not determined, but the 20 mg/kg dose proved to be the best of the three doses 
tested, based on the efficacy and safety outcome observed in the pivotal trial.  
The benefits observed with the use of fluorescence-guidance after oral administration of 5-ALA*HCl 
was observed in a large prospectively (before surgery) randomised phase-III trial, and was based on 
the increase of tumour visualisation and rate of radiological complete tumour resection. In this pivotal 
trial, it was demonstrated that that a more aggressive debulking of contrast-enhancing tumour rather 
than conventional resection under white light leads to a significant benefit in terms of PFS rate.  
©EMEA 2007 
33/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compared to the control group, approximately twice as many patients in the experimental group were 
progression-free  at  6  months.  Since  PFS  was  mostly  based  on  an  imaging  criteria,  the  clinical 
relevance of the finding was questioned.  
In  order  to  explore  the  treatment  effect  on  neurological  progression-free  survival,  the  time  form 
randomization  to  radiological  progression  or  neurological  progression  or  death  (whichever  occured 
first)  was  analysed  for  the  full  analysis  set.  In  analogy  to  the  definition  given  by  Macdonald  et  al 
(Macdonald DR, et al. Response criteria for phase II studies of supratentorial malignant glioma. J Clin 
Oncol. 1990; 8(7):1277-80) neurological progression was defined as deterioration in NIH sum score 
by at least 1 point in case of stable or increased corticosteroids. 
A clear clinical benefit in patients receiving 5-ALA was observed (46% vs. 29.3%, p=0.0331) event-
free at six months after surgery for first analysis; p=0.0316 in favour of the experimental arm for NIH 
deterioration  (27.3%  vs.  15.5%,  p=0.0122)  and  in  favour  of  Gliolan  arm  for  steroids  increase  or 
radiologic progression or death. Analysis (Full-Analysis-Set) of cumulative incidence of re-operation 
after study surgery showed a statistically prolonged time to re-surgery for the Gliolan group compared 
to  the  conventional  resection  under  white  light  group  (at  6-months  rate  0.10  vs.  0.15,  and  for  12 
months  0.22  vs.  0.33;  for  18  months  0.28  vs.  0.38  and  for  24  months  0.30  vs.  0.39,  respectively). 
These results analysed by test of Gray showed statistical significant difference p=0.0311. 
The cumulative incidence of chemotherapy after study surgery (Full-Analysis-Set) for all administered 
chemotherapeutics  regiments  and  for  temozolomide  only  were  also  analused.  There  was  no 
statistically significant differences between groups: accordingly p=0.0918 and p=0.635. 
In terms of efficacy, postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy, chemotherapy and re-operation after tumour 
progression could have compensated the reduced tumour debulking in the control group and therefore 
biased a possible survival benefit. One of the main safety issue was the risk of increased brain function 
deficits associated with the more extensive surgery, as an indirect consequence of the use of 5-ALA.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  issue  of  the  net  benefit  of  the  use  of  Gliolan  given  the  increased 
neurological deficit of patients having the larger resections with the use of Gliolan was debatable and 
requested to consult the CHMP Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) for Oncology on issues related to 
the efficacy and safety of Gliolan. Following the CHMP request, a Scientific Advisory Group meeting 
had been convened to provide advice on the list of questions raised by the CHMP. 
Answers to the questions to the SAG 
1.  What  is  the  general  view  about  more  extensive  surgery  improving  outcome  in  high  grade 
gliomas based on any prospective or retrospective studies?  
There are no prospective data available on the association between extent of surgery and treatment 
outcome  in  high  grade  gliomas.  The  available  retrospective  analyses  consistently  point  to  an 
association with outcome although for many studies the determination of extent of resection has 
been difficult, as it was based on the surgeon’s judgment and not on MRI measurements. Whether 
the improved outcome observed with more extensive resection is due to the resection itself, or to 
fact that resectability is just the  marker that characterises  smaller  and more superficially located 
tumours that are associated with a better outcome regardless of the extent of resection, remains to 
be established. Nevertheless, the current consensus among neurosurgeons and neuro-oncologists is 
that the aim of the surgery of primary high grade glioma is to achieve a resection that is safe and 
that  is  the  most  extensive  as  possible.  Furthermore  recent  data  also  point  to  better  outcome  of 
patients with a more extensive resection with adjuvant therapy (concurrent chemo-irradiation with 
temozolomide). 
2.  Are  the  benefits  of  Gliolan  adequately  demonstrated  based  on  appropriate  primary  and 
secondary clinical benefit endpoints? 
Progression-free survival is an appropriate clinical benefit endpoint per se, and is possibly also an 
informative  surrogate  endpoint  for  overall  survival.  The  radiological  endpoint  based  on  MRI 
imaging is adequate. Overall, the benefits of Gliolan have been adequately demonstrated based on 
appropriate primary and secondary clinical benefit endpoints. Surprisingly, no benefits in terms of 
overall survival have been observed although it is acknowledged that the trial was not powered to 
©EMEA 2007 
34/35 
 
 
 
 
detect  differences  in  overall  survival.  Also,  this  endpoint  is  disturbed  by  treatment  given  after 
progression.  The  extent  of  resection  in  the  control  arm  was  significantly  superior  so  that  the 
difference observed can be attributed to Gliolan. 
However,  use  of  Gliolan  and  operating  using  fluorescent  light  poses  significant  challenges  in 
practice.  Use  of  Gliolan  should  only  be  allowed  after  adequate  training  of  operating  with 
fluorescent light in a dark operating field.  
3.  How does the observed increase in neurological deficit compare to the main clinical benefits 
for Gliolan as observed in terms of primary endpoints, and main secondary endpoints? 
Differences  in  the  incidence  of  hemianopsia,  aphasia  and  epilepsy  have  been  observed.  The 
difference  is  associated  with  a  small  detriment  in  terms  of  performance  status  within 
approximately the first 3 months after surgery, but the difference disappears and actually reverses 
to  an  advantage  in  the  Gliolan  arm  later  on.  Epilepsy  is  generally  expected  after  surgery,  it  is 
generally  manageable  using  antiepilectic  drugs  and  does  not  constitute  a  concern.  Concerning 
aphasia and emianopsia, the difference was small in absolute terms, and tended to be associated 
with SAEs in patients who already had deficits before surgery. A clear warning should be given to 
surgeons to keep stay within safe boundaries in case of pre-existing aphasia or other critical focal 
deficits that do not improve on corticosteroid treatment, since this may identify a group of patients 
that is at risk of deterioration after more extensive surgery. 
The CHMP concluded that it is clearly demonstrated that the use of Gliolan leads to larger resections 
and  to  a  benefit  in  PFS  at  6  months.  There  is  no  direct  evidence  that  this  translates  in  a  survival 
advantage  but  the  trial  was  not  designed  to  address  this  question.  The  data  indicate  that  enhanced 
resections  bear  a  slightly  more  increased  risk  of  developing  transient  neurological  deficits  and  a 
variety of different factors may be responsible for this. In this context it appears noteworthy that the 
KPS which was determined prior to and 6 weeks after surgery, did not differ between study arms and 
tended to be superior in the ALA arm at 6 months after surgery.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  the  following  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required:  see  as  detailed  in 
section 2.3. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Gliolan in adult patients for visualisation of malignant tissue 
during  surgery  for  malignant  glioma  (WHO  grade  III  and  IV)  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
35/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
