31 January 2019 
EMA/224414/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): imatinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001725/201805 
Period covered by the PSUR: 11 May 2015 – 10 May 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for imatinib, the scientific conclusions of 
CHMP are as follows:  
A cumulative search of adverse events coded for MedDRA Preferred Terms of TMA (thrombotic 
microangiopathy, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, haemolytic uraemic syndrome, microangiopathic 
haemolytic anaemia) from spontaneous sources and clinical trials linked to imatinib use retrieved 37 cases; 
8 from literature, 4 from post-marketing surveillance, 13 from spontaneous sources and 12 retrieved from 
clinical trials. In three cases the event appeared in temporal association with imatinib therapy, two of them 
after a very short time of exposure and the third one after long-term exposure to imatinib. The three 
subjects were reported to improve when the drug was discontinued and the laboratory work up excluded 
all other main causes of primary TMA. Additionally, 9 cases from post marketing sources including clinical 
trials and literature with no confounding factors support this association.  
In summary, the reviewd evidence points towards a causal association between imatinib therapy and the 
risk of thrombotic microangiopathy. Therefore, the PRAC considers that changes to the product 
information of medicinal products containing imatinib, are warranted. The term “thrombotic 
microangiopathy” should be included in section 4.8 under the SOC Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
with the frequency “rare” and section 4.4 should be updated with information on clinical management of 
thrombotic microangiopathy. The Package leaflet should be updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for imatinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing imatinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/224414/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
