European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 April 2009   
Doc. Ref No.:EMEA/CHMP/323593/2009  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
GLIVEC 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
imatinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/406/II/0048 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Glivec,  containing  imatinib,  was  first  authorised  in  the  EU  in  2001  under  the  Centralised  Procedure 
and subsequently the license was extended to include the following indications:  
•  Adult  and  paediatric  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  Philadelphia  chromosome  (bcr-abl)  positive 
(Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not considered as 
the first line of treatment. 
•  Adult  and  paediatric  patients  with  Ph+  CML  in  chronic  phase  after  failure  of  interferon-alpha 
therapy, or in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
•  Adult  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  Philadelphia  chromosome  positive  acute  lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy. 
• Adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ ALL as monotherapy. 
•  Adult  patients  with  myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative  diseases  (MDS/MPD)  associated  with 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) gene re-arrangements. 
•  Adult  patients  with  advanced  hypereosinophilic  syndrome  (HES)  and/or  chronic  eosinophilic 
leukaemia (CEL) with FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement.  
• Adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic malignant gastrointestinal 
stromal tumours (GIST). 
• Adult patients with unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) and 
adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic DFSP who are not eligible for surgery. 
In the current application, the MAH is seeking an extension of the imatinib indication, to include the 
adjuvant treatment of adult patients following resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. 
The proposed dose for this indication is 400 mg/day.  
Glivec in malignant GIST was issued an orphan drug designation in September 2001.  
2 
Clinical aspects 
This extension is based on the preliminary analysis of a pivotal randomised phase III trial (Z9001) of 
Glivec  and  placebo  as  adjuvant  therapy  in  adult  patients  following  resection  of  KIT-positive  GIST. 
Currently there is no approved therapy for this indication. 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  data  on  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  variation 
application  EMEA/H/C/00406/II/0048  for  Glivec  (Imatinib  mesilate)  as  adjuvant  treatment  of  adult 
patients following resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST was not approvable unless the MAH could 
provide satisfactory responses to the request for supplementary information. 
Gastrointestinal  stromal  tumors  (GIST)  are  the  most  common  mesenchymal  neoplasms  of  the 
gastrointestinal tract and are thought to arise from the interstitial cells of Cajal or their mesenchymal 
stem  cell  precursor.  These  neoplasms  account  for  1%  to  3%  of  all  malignant  GI  tumours.  The 
estimated incidence ranges from 11 to 15 cases per million population/year and are consistent across 
different populations (Iceland 11, Holand 12.7, Sweden 14.5). GIST can occur from infancy to old age, 
but  median  age  of  presentation  is  58  years.  The  incidence  is  slightly  higher  in  men  than  in  women. 
This  neoplasm  can  arise  in  any  site  within  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  but  the  most  frequent  site  of 
presentation  is  the  stomach  (60-70%),  followed  by  the  small  intestine  (20-30%).  Extraintestinal 
abdominopelvic sites such as omentum, mesentery and retroperitoneum have also been reported. GIST 
spreads intraabdominaly, to the liver, omentum or peritoneal cavity.  Metastatic spread to lymph nodes 
is very rare. 
Approximately  85%  of  GISTs  are  driven  by  oncogenic  mutations  in  either  of  two  receptor  tyrosine 
kinases: KIT or PDGFRα. Activating mutations in KIT are the most common, with exon 11 mutations 
found in about 68% of cases. Otherwise KIT exon 9 mutations have been found in approximately 10% 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  cases,  with  point  mutations  in  exons  13  and  17  being  rare.  Among  the  GISTs  without  KIT 
mutations,  one  subgroup  has  mutations  in  the  platelet-derived  growth  factor  receptor  A  (PDGFRα), 
constituting 5-8% of GISTS overall, and another subgroup lack identified mutations.  
Risk of recurrence after surgery 
Efforts have been made to identify the individual risk of a patient with a resected primary tumour to 
develop metastases. The most important prognostic factors are the size and the mitotic count. The site 
of the primary tumour has been also associated with prognostic significance. The prognostic impact of 
kinase  mutations  has  been  examined  in  a  number  of  retrospective  studies.  Many  groups  have  noted 
that KIT exon 11 mutations are a negative prognostic factor. PDGFRA mutant GISTs appear to be less 
aggressive than KIT mutant GISTs. Once GISTs become metastatic, kinase genotype does not factor 
into overall survival. 
Unfortunately, knowledge of these additional mutations remains limited, and current recommendations 
for  assessing  the  risk  of  progression  of  a  newly  diagnosed  primary  GIST  are  based  on  three  simple 
parameters: tumor size, tumor location, and mitotic index (mitoses per 50 high-power fields).  
In April 2001 the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH) convened a GIST workshop with 
the  goal  of  developing  a  consensus  approach  to  diagnosis  and  morphologic  prognostication.  Key 
elements of the consensus were the defining role of KIT immunopositivity in diagnosis and a proposed 
scheme for estimating metastatic risk in these lesions, based on tumor size and mitotic count, table 1. 
Table 1. Risk groups by the NIH criteria. 
Risk Group 
Size (cm)  Mitotic count /50 GCA  Risk of recurrence 
Very low 
Low 
Intermediate 
High 
< 2 
2-5 
<5 
5-10 
>10 
Any 
5-10 
<5 
<5 
5-10 
<5 
Any 
>10 
5-10 
0% 
2.5% 
19% 
62.5% 
The  most  complete  data  currently  available  have  been  provided  by  Miettinen  and  colleagues  at  the 
United  States  Armed  Forces  Institute  of  Pathology  (AFIP).  They  have  performed  considerable 
efforts in studying the outcome of patients prior to the advent of modern therapies, and have reported 
pathological diagnosis and long-term follow up of 1765 gastric, 906 small intestinal, 144 duodenal and 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111  rectal  GISTs.  They  have  developed  a  classification  based  on  this  parameters  to  estimate  the 
individual risk of progression after primary GIST diagnosis. 
Table 2. Risk groups by the AFIP classification. 
A great proportion of cases of limited disease are cured with surgery, all over those with lower mitotic 
count and size smaller than 5 cm, with an expected recurrence rate lower than 5%. On the other hand 
tumours higher than 10 cms in their greatest diameter and with high mitotic count (>5 per 50 hpf) are 
rarely  cured  with  surgery with  a  recurrence  rate  higher  than  85%.  An  adequate  selection  of  patients 
candidates for adjuvant treatment is of importance, and should be based on known prognostic factors 
and risk stratifications. 
At  the  moment,  the  gold  standard  of  treatment  in  primary  resectable  GIST  is  surgery  with  gross 
margin resection. To date there is no accepted adjuvant treatment. 
2. 1.   Clinical trials 
There  are  5  non  randomised  studies  in  high  risk  GIST.  The  first  of  these  studies  was  conducted  by 
ACOSOG, the sponsor of the Z9001 study. Two other studies in Japan and korea have been conducted 
in  the  same  population.  Two  other  studies,  with  biological  endpoints  are  ongoing  in  neoadjuvant 
operable GIST. The next two tables summarises the non randomised studies in GIST.  
Sponsors and 
collaborators  
CTC 
Number  
Phase 
Durati
on 
II 
1 year 
NCT 
0002524
6 
ACOSOG 
(American 
College of 
Surgeons), NCI 
(National Cancer 
Institute ) 
Novartis. Japan  NCT001
71977 
IV  
1 year 
High 
risk 
Asan Medical 
Center. South 
Korea 
RTOG, NCI,  
ACR Imaging 
Network, ECOG 
M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center 
Novartis 
NCT002
78876 
II 
NCT000
28002 
NCT005
00188 
II 
Neoadj 
& Adj 
II  
Neoadj 
& Adj 
NA 
High 
risk & 
exon 11 
KIT mut 
2 years  Operabl
e Gist 
2 years  Operabl
e GIST 
Risk  
Populati
on 
High 
risk 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Survival & 
RFS 
Status 
N 
Start date
Ongoing,  
not 
recruiting 
89  September 
2001 
RFS 
RFS 
Ongoing, 
not 
recruiting 
Completed 
60  July  
2004 
47  April 
2005 
Ongoing, 
but not 
recruiting 
63  February 
2002 
Recruiting 
48 
July 
2003 
Biological 
effect, 
recurrence 
rate, RFS. 
Inhibition 
of angio-
genesis and 
predictors 
of response. 
In  2008,  Dr  De  Matteo  presented  the  results  of  the  ACOSOG  Z9000  phase  2  trial  at  the  2008 
Gastrointestinal Cancers Symposium. The study Z9000 is an open label phase 2 trial of Glivec in 107 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients diagnosed of high risk GIST. The criteria to define high risk were diameter > 10 cms, ruptured 
tumor  or  multifocal.  The  trial  was  conducted  between  September  2001  and  September  2003,  and 
median follow up at presentation was 4 years. There is a delay in the recurrence of the tumours, with 
most recurrence beginning after stopping treatment at 1 year. The recurrence rate at 1,2 and 3 years 
were 94% ,73% and 61%, and the OS rate at 1,2 and 3 years were 99%, 97% and 97% respectively. 
The comparison with valid historical controls is not possible, since the historical series report patients 
treated  before  the  GIST  era,  and  to  date  we  know  that  most  patients  at  recurrence  are  rescued  with 
Glivec  (>80%)  and  that  the  median  overall  survival  of  metastatic  patients  exceeds  5  years.  At  the 
meeting  outcomes  according  to  the  mutational  status  were  reported.  Interestingly  exon  9-mutated 
tumours  have  higher  relapse  rate  than  the  exon  11,  wild-type  or  PDFRA  mutated  tumours.  This  is 
increasingly  interesting,  since  correlative  studies  could  help  to  identify  patients  that  achieve  the 
maximum  benefit  form  this  treatment,  and  the  benefit  in  exon  9  mutated  tumours  has  yet  to  be 
demonstrated.  
There are three randomised trials in resected primary GIST. Two of these studies have been conducted 
comparing Glivec with placebo. One of these studies, conducted in the US is the supportive study in 
this  application  while  the  other  conducted  in  Europe  and  Australasia  has  not  been  reported  to  date. 
There  are  three  major  differences  between  these  trials:  the  primary  endpoint  (RFS  vs  OS),  the 
population included (All GISTs> 3 cms vs Intermediate or High risk) and the duration of Glivec (1 vs 
2 years). The third randomised trial in adjuvant GIST pretends to address the optimal duration of the 
adjuvant treatment. The Scandinavian Sarcoma Group is conducting a randomised trial comparing 1 
and 3 years of adjuvant Glivec. 
Sponsors and 
collaborators  
CTC 
Number  
Phase 
Treatmen
t 
Duration 
Risk  
Population 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Status 
N 
Start date 
American College 
of Surgeons 
(ACOSOG), 
NCI, CALGB, 
SWOG.  
NCT0004
1197 
III 
Glivec 
vs 
Placebo 
1 year 
All KIT + 
GIST > 3 
cms 
RFS 
ongoing, 
not 
recruiting 
732 
June 
2002 
EORTC, 
Australasian 
Gastro-Intestinal 
Trials Group, 
Italian Sarcoma 
Group 
Federation 
Nationale des 
Centres de Lutte 
Contre le Cancer 
Grupo Espanol de 
Investigacion en 
Sarcomas 
NCT0010
3168 
III, 
Glivec 
vs 
Placebo 
2 years 
Intermediat
e and High 
risk GIST 
Overall 
survival 
Ongoing, 
recruiting 
752 
December 
2004 
Scandinavian 
Sarcoma Group 
NCT0011
6935 
III 
Glivec 
Short  
vs  
long  
1 vs 3 
years 
High risk 
GIST 
RFS 
recruiting 
400 
February 
2004 
Pivotal study  
The  indication  is  supported  by  one  pivotal  phase  III  trial,  ACOSOG  Z9001/  BUS89:  “A  phase  III 
randomized double-blind study of adjuvant STI571 (GleevecTM) versus placebo in patients following 
the  resection  of  primary  gastrointestinal  stromal  tumor  (GIST)”  conducted  in  the  US.  This  trial  was 
stopped  early,  and  unblinded.  Results  were  presented  in  2007  in  the  American  Society  of  Clinical 
Oncology Annual Meeting (De Matteo R, Abstract 10079A).  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following resection of primary GIST, patients were randomized  to one of the two arms: imatinib at 
400 mg/day or matching placebo for one year. This randomization was stratified according to tumor 
size (≥ 3 and < 6 cm, ≥ 6 and < 10 cm, ≥ 10 cm). 
Upon recurrence, patients were to be unblinded: (i) In the imatinib arm, if the disease recurred during 
the  year  of  initial  treatment,  the  imatinib  dose  was  to  be  increased  to  800 mg/day.  If  the  disease 
recurred  after  the  year  of  initial  treatment,  the  drug was  to  be  restarted  at  400 mg/day  and  could  be 
increased to 800 mg/day, and (ii) in the placebo arm, if the disease recurred at any time, imatinib was 
started at 400 mg/day and could be increased to 800 mg/day. 
Due to the third efficacy interim analysis (IA) results, the data  monitoring committee recommended 
discontinuation  of  placebo-controlled  randomization  in  April  2007.  All  patients  registered  between 
12/04/2007 and 18/042007 received imatinib. Accrual was discontinued permanently on 18/04/2007. 
Patients receiving placebo as of 01/04/2006 and those  randomized to placebo between that  date and 
12/04/2007 were eligible to crossover to one year of imatinib upon unblinding of the study. 
The  original  primary  endpoint  was  overall  survival.  The  original  Protocol  envisaged  380  eligible 
patients  being  recruited  providing  90%  power  to  detect  a  35%  lower  hazard  rate  of  OS  at 
approximately 6.8 years after the start of the study, based on an overall one sided α level of 0.05.  
Following  a  protocol  amendment  in  July  2005  (Protocol  version  A4),  the  primary  endpoint  was 
changed from OS to RFS and the sample size section changed accordingly. Under the new design, 732 
eligible patients (803 patients in total including 60 patients with forced randomization to placebo and 
11 patients allocated to treatment using an unbalanced randomization scheme) were to be recruited to 
provide 90% power to detect a HR of 0.714 at 7.36 years (or 387 events), based on a one-sided α level 
of 0.025. Accrual of patients into the study continued until 18-Apr-2007; however, after unblinding on 
12-Apr-2007 patients were only assigned to the imatinib arm.  
In  total,  773  patients  were  registered.  Sixty  patients  were  wrongly  assigned,  and  713  patients  were 
randomised to study treatment (ITT population). 367 (51.4%) completed the study protocol, while 315 
(44.2%) did not. 
2. 2.   Clinical Efficacy 
Median  RFS  follow-up  time  for  the  ITT  population  was  14.0  months.  There  is  a  significant  overall 
difference in RFS probability estimate by first documented recurrence in favour of the imatinib group 
(two-sided p-value < 0.0001 compared with a two sided p-value significance boundary of 0.002). The 
difference  is  observed  as  early  as  6  months  (99.3%  vs.  90.7%),  continues  through  to  the  end  of  the 
treatment  period  at  12  months  (97.7%  vs.  82.3%)  and  remains  large  up  to  30  months  (84.2%  vs. 
69.6%) before decreasing progressively.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 30 patients with events in the imatinib group (8.4%) compared to 70 patients with events 
in  the  placebo  group  (19.8%).  Of  the  30  patients  with  events  in  the  imatinib  group,  25  patients 
recurred  and  5  died  of  causes  other  than  GIST  without  prior  recurrence.  Of  the  25  patients  who 
recurred  in  the  imatinib  group  according  to  medical  review  only  2  recurred  while  on  treatment  or 
within 30 days following last dose; all others recurred more than 30 days following withdrawal from 
treatment.  In  contrast,  of  the  70  patients  with  events  in  the  placebo  group,  62  patients  recurred  and 
remained  alive  at  cut-off,  7  patients  recurred  and  subsequently  died,  and  one  died  without  prior 
recurrence.  Of  the  69  patients  who  recurred  according  to  medical  review,  50  recurred  while  on 
treatment.  
The study was stratified by tumor size. There is consistent treatment effect in favour of imatinib for all 
tumor  size  categories.  The  treatment  effect  estimates  were  significant  for  the  smallest  tumour  size 
(HR=0.228,  95%  CI:  0.066,  0.787,  p=  0.0105),  the  medium  tumor  size  (HR=0.496,  95%  CI:  0.250, 
0.987; p=0.0415) and the highest tumour size (HR= 0.296, 95% CI: 0.157, 0.556; p <.0001). 
7 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
Other treatment analyses have been also performed. The study was not powered to detect a difference 
in  individual  subgroups  and  no  adjustments  for  multiplicity  were  implemented.  Treatment  effect  is 
consistent across the different subgroups. In the reported analysis there are some subgroups for which 
the HR 95% CI does include 1. These subgroups are: location other than stomach, age group > 70, and 
race other than white. In all of these groups there is a HR tendency in favour of imatinib. 
The treatment for patients with stomach tumours are highly in favour of imatinib (HR=0.285, 95% CI: 
0.154,  0.527)  while  the  treatment  group  difference  for  patients  with  other  sites  of  tumor  is  not 
statistically significant, whilst shows a favorable tendency in favour of imatinib (HR=0.579, 95% CI: 
0.309, 1.086; p=0.0845). 
The overall HR for the full study period is large and statistically significant. However there is a high 
variation on recurrence rate along time between both arms. During the first 12 months there were only 
6  events  out  of  359  patients  (1.67%)  on  imatinib  compared  with  51  events  out  of  354  patients 
(14.41%) observed on placebo (HR= 0.113, 95% CI 0.049, 0.264; p<0.0001). Whilst there is a clear 
benefit  regarding  RFS  in  favour  of  imatinib  during  the  first  12  months,  this  benefit  decreases  over 
time.  During  the  second  year  (12-24  months)  there  is  no  clear  benefit,  with  an  equivalent  rate  of 
events, with 12 events out of 198 patients (6.06 %) on imatinib and 15 events out of 173 patients (8.67 
%)  on  placebo  (HR=0.682,  95%  CI:  0.319,  1.457;  p=  0.3235).  After  the  second  year  (>24  months) 
there is a strong statistical tendency favouring placebo, accounting 12 events out of 93 (12.90 %) on 
imatinib and 4 events out of 82 (4.88 %) on placebo (HR= 2.822, 95% CI: 0.909, 8.760; p-= 0.0726). 
This  finding  suggests  that  the  greatest  effect  of  imatinib  is  seen  while  on  treatment  up  to  one  year 
following randomisation. The difference between the groups then decreases over time, even an inverse 
benefit is observed. This data should be taken with caution, since only 175 patients, 93 on imatinib and 
82 on placebo, have a follow up longer than 24 months, and after this period the benefit observed for 
imatinib during the first year appears to be inverted. A further number of patients with longer follow 
up could probably reduce the magnitude of the observed benefit. 
9 
 
 
 
 
There was no difference  on overall survival (OS)  (HR=0.663, 95% CI 0.217, 2.028; p= 0.468). The 
survival data is immature and, due to the unblinding of the study and the cross over possibility, it is 
improbable that any benefit could be shown, even if it would be present. Eight deaths were recorded 
on the placebo group, 5 due to GIST, and 5 deaths were recorded on Imatinib, none recorded as being 
due to GIST. These results can not lead us to drive any definitive conclusion, since there are very few 
events and  median follow up is no longer enough. 
Tumor  tissue,  blood  specimens  and  serum  specimens  were  collected.  Correlative  science  analyses 
have not been reported at this moment. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 3.   Clinical Safety 
Overall  safety  of  Glivec  in  resected  GIST  is  similar  to  the  reported  in  advanced  GIST,  with  no 
unexpected AE.  
Despite AE were common in both arms, severe adverse events were observed in 30.9% of patients on 
Imatinib,  and  in  18%  on  placebo.  Most  severe  AE  (grades  3  or  higher)  were  neutrophils  count 
decrease or gastrointestinal, and were manageable with conservative treatment. Most toxicities appears 
during the first 3 months, and treatment during 1 year appears acceptable. 
No  GIST  related  deaths  were  reported  in  the  imatinib  group.  However,  two  patients  died  of  other 
cancers  during  the  follow-up  period  (lung  cancer  and  rectal  cancer).  The  cancer  More  patients 
discontinued  treatment  on  Imatinib  (17%)  than  on  placebo  (3%)  as  it  was  expected.  Deaths  were 
similar  in  both  arms.  Additional  information  concerning  the  two  patients  who  died  of  other  cancers 
during the follow-up period, and more details on the 20 cases of neoplasms, were provided. 
2. 4. Supplementary Information provided at the request of the CHMP 
As part of the responses to the CHMP request for supplementary information the MAH provided: 
(cid:131)  Data on the efficacy of Glivec at relapse from 23 out of 25 patients relapsed in the Glivec arm 
in Z9001 study and from 21 selected patients reported by European investigators. In both groups 
median PFS was longer than 18 months. These data suggest that Glivec continues to be a good 
option at relapse, with prolonged disease control in most patients. However the available data is 
currently scarce, the quality of responses is not available and definitive conclusions cannot be 
drawn. Lower efficacy of Glivec at relapse cannot be excluded and this issue should be further 
studied.  
(cid:131) A committment to provide during 2009 additional data related to prognostic factors other than 
size:  mitotic  index,  location  and  mutational  status.  These  data  was  considered  important  to 
stratify according to currently accepted risk subgroups. 
(cid:131) the limited experience available on dose escalation to Glivec 800. Only three patients from the 
ACOSOG  trial  and  1  patient  from  the  European  Investigators  report  had  been  treated  with 
Glivec 800 mg. 
As the CHMP was concerned that the approval of Glivec in this indication could compromise ongoing 
research, the MAH contacted the responsible of the two other ongoing adjuvant trials in kit-positive 
resected GIST. Both trials, the EORTC and the SSGXVIII/AIO, had closed accrual in October 2008, 
and responsible from both trials found highly unlikely that the availability of Glivec in the adjuvant 
setting would compromise the trials development.  
In  December  2008  the  CHMP  considered  Glivec  not  approvable  for  the  whole  population  in  the 
indication  claimed  by  the  Applicant,  but  the  acceptability  of  an  indication  restricted  to  high  risk 
resected GIST could be considered. With this aim, the MAH was asked to provide more information 
and prior to the final CHMP discussion, consultation with the SAG was proposed.  
Therefore the MAH revised the claimed indication to: Glivec is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of 
adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. 
The risk of relapse should be assessed by the treating physician based on tumors size, mitotic index , 
location  of  the  primary  tumor  and  other  prognostic  factors.  Currently  there  is  insufficient  data  to 
support the use of Glivec in the adjuvant setting of GIST in patients who have a low risk of recurrence 
after surgery 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 5.  Overall Discussion  
The discussion focused on the extent that the data from the pivotal study could allow a straightforward 
identification of patients at high risk of relapse that might benefit from Glivec adjuvant therapy and 
the possibility to extrapolate this patient population to the currently used criteria for risk categorization 
in clinical practise. 
The MAH has provided additional information on mitotic index (MI) from banked tissue samples in 
the Z9001 trial. MI from 556 out of 713 (78%) ITT patients are available. The MI population includes 
72%  of  the  events.  As  reported  by  the  MAH,  the  MI  were  performed  by  pathologist  blinded  to  the 
clinical  information  and  no  selection  bias  is  apparent  when  compared  by  tumor  size,  location, 
treatment  exposure  duration  or  events  distribution.    Re-analysis  according  to  the  NIH  and  the  AFIP 
criteria based on the population with available MI is provided. The tumor size is not available in the 
data set and a modification of the NIH and AFIP criteria, including the size stratification designed in 
the trial, was applied.  
According to the NIH modified criteria, the RFS improvement is limited to the high risk group (HR 
0.29; 95% CI 0.18-0.49). This benefit is not confirmed in the intermediate (HR 0.59; 95% CI: 0.17-
2.10)  or  low  risk  population  (NE).  Applying  the  modified  AFIP  criteria,  which  also  includes  tumor 
site, there is a statistically significant RFS improvement in both high (HR: 0.27; 95%CI 0.15-0.48) and 
moderate (HR:0.16; 95% CI: 0.03-0.70) risk groups. This benefit is not observed in the low (NE) and 
the  very  low  (NE)  risk  groups.  These  results  reflect  a  different  distribution  of  events.  As  it  was 
expected, most of the events are included in the high and intermediate risks groups. 
These  re-analyses  point  out  that  the  benefit  is  mainly  limited  to  the  high  risk  groups.  The  equal 
distribution in HR improvement across all studied size groups observed in the original analysis, is not 
confirmed  in  the  re-analysis  according  to  NIH  and  AFIP  criteria.  This  could  be  explained  by  a 
redistribution  of  many  small  tumors,  with  high  MI  and  locations  at  high  risk  of  recurrence,  to 
moderate or high risk groups, and conversely a “downgrading” of many tumors with low MI and in 
locations at low risk of recurrence, to the AFIP low risk groups (i.e. gastric tumors > 6 cm and low 
MI).  
The NNT in the AFIP criteria high risk group is 3.4 (2.3 at 12 months and 2.6 at 24 months) and in the 
moderate  risk  group  is  7.4  (14.1  at 12 months,  and  4.1  at  24  months).  The  estimated  NNH,  defined 
harm as discontinuations due to AE in the trial, was 7.3.  
Despite  these  re-analyses  could  be  subject  to  many  methodological  criticisms,  the  information 
provided  could  be  more  easily  exported  to  the  current  population,  and  fits  better  with  the  risk  of 
recurrence of each group.  
The  knowledge  related  to  risk  stratification  is  continuously  evolving,  and  new  stratification  criteria 
including mutational status are  expected in the forthcoming years. Mutational analyses has  not been 
provided at this moment, but the company should commit to provide these results when available. 
In conclusion, with the provided information, this analyses observe an improvement in the RFS in the 
high and moderate risk groups in the AFIP classification. However due to the brief available follow-
up, many issues remain to be solved: Does this benefit in RFS translates into an improvement in OS?, 
does Glivec retain the same activity at relapse?, how long should treatment be taken 1, 2 or 3 years..?. 
For these reasons, patients at high risk of relapse might benefit from this treatment. However further 
follow-up and OS data should be carefully assessed. The proposed indication is directed to high risk 
Kit-positive resected GIST. More data are needed in moderate risk tumors, and no benefit is apparent 
in the low risk group. 
A detailed plan for the provision of additional data (and nature of the expected analysis) allowing a 
further characterization of patients at high risk of relapse according to currently used criteria and how 
the relationship of this risk categorization with patient outcome will be assessed. 
The MAH commits to provide follow-up information from the Z9001 trial at scheduled time points in 
November 2010 and November 2011. This last report will have a median follow up of 5 years, which 
will bring more information related to quality of the RFS improvement and overall survival. 
12 
 
Additionally, reports from the SSG XVIII/AIO, comparing 1 versus 3 years of treatment in high risk 
tumors, will be also provided by November 2011.  Results from the EORTC study 62024, with OS as 
the primary endpoint in moderate and high risk groups, will also be provided when available (event 
pending).  
The  company  also  commits  to  provide  information  on  the  mutational  status  of  the  enrolled  patients 
and future risk classifications.  
A revised Risk Minimization Plan for Glivec is to be submitted post-approval with the objective of the 
RMP is to ensure that the use of Glivec will be effectively restricted to patients who have a high risk 
of relapse of their GIST after surgery. Evaluation of the effectiveness of this RM plan is planned.   
2.6. 
Discussion at the SAG- Oncology meeting of 6 March 2009 
As a general comment, the SAG noted that a major shortcoming of the clinical data presented was that 
no mutational data from the study was presented so that important prognostic factor for response and 
survival could not be taken into account. Absence of such information is difficult to justify since 
mutational status can be established from paraffin material (although sometimes complicated). 
Question 1:  Does the SAG believe that the submitted data are mature enough to allow a 
reliable assessment on the effect of Glivec on RFS? 
In the pivotal clinical study Z9001, Glivec was administered for one year. The SAG agreed that this 
should be reflected in the prescribing information and that the optimal treatment duration with Glivec 
is not known. Clinical trials are ongoing to address this important issue. 
The SAG unanimously agreed that the follow-up was very short and that more mature data would have 
been preferable for a reliable assessment of efficacy and in particular any impact of treatment on 
overall survival. An updated analysis of efficacy with additional follow-up since the last updated 
should be presented.  
The SAG agreed that the data submitted establish that imatinib has a clear effect on delaying 
recurrence. However, no effect on the proportion of patients that eventually recur within 4-5 years was 
observed. Furthermore, no effect on overall survival was observed based on the available data.  
The SAG debated whether a delay of recurrence, in the absence of an effect on proportion of patients 
that eventually recur or overall survival, constitutes a clinical benefit.  
− 
− 
The majority of the SAG agreed that delaying recurrence by some years in the proportion of 
patients expected to recur represents a significant clinical benefit. According to this view, it is 
reasonable to assume that use of imatinib to delay recurrence should not adversely affect the 
outcome of further therapies in patients who eventually recur and who will require additional 
treatments.  
According to a minority view, it is important to consider that the majority of patients are cured 
by surgery alone and would be treated unnecessarily with imatinib. Besides the burden to 
patients of unnecessary treatment, an additional concern is the possibility that adjuvant use of 
imatinib may induce resistance to further treatments and further limit the available treatment 
options after recurrence. According to this view, benefits or at least a lack of a detrimental effect 
in terms of overall survival would have to be established in order to address these concerns. At 
the end of the observation period there was no clear difference in RFS, and in the absence of a 
clear effect on recurrence prevention (as opposed to just delaying recurrence), no effect on 
overall survival is expected. 
13 
 
 
 
 
Question 2: Does the SAG consider RFS in this clinical context equally relevant for all risk 
groups (i.e. high, intermediate and low risk groups)? 
The risk of death in low-risk patients is close to that of the normal population. Given the unknown 
impact on the overall outcome of adjuvant treatment with imatinib, the SAG agreed that adjuvant 
treatment with imatinib should not be indicated for low-risk patients. The NIH classification can be 
considered an acceptable classification system to identify low-risk patients, until more reliable systems 
based on molecular markers have become established. 
Question 3: Does the SAG consider that from study Z9001a subgroup of patients at high risk of 
relapse could get particular benefit of adjuvant therapy with Glivec? Is this subgroup easily 
extrapolable to current practice, where additional risk characterization criteria other than 
tumor size are used? 
The SAG unanimously agreed that adjuvant treatment with imatinib is not indicated in low-risk 
patients. Concerning the higher risk groups, the SAG agreed that high risk patients were no more or 
less likely to benefit as intermediate risk patients. 
The NIH classification can be considered an acceptable classification in clinical practice to stratify 
patients into risk groups, until more reliable systems based on molecular markers have become 
established. 
3. 
Overall Conclusion and Benefit –Risk Assessment 
In  conclusion,  The  Z90001  trial  is  the  first  study  in  adjuvant  kit-positive  resected  GIST,  and  is  the 
only phase 3 trial that include all tumours higher than 3 cms. This study  shows an improvement in 
RFS (HR= 0.3989, 95%CI 0.259-0.610; p<0.0001) with Glivec 400 mg for 1 year in >3 cms resected 
KIT-positive GIST. The trial is stratified according to the size and the relative benefit is observed in 
all size groups. However, this result comes from an early stopped study, with brief median follow up 
(14 months) that has yield immature data and has raised important questions.  
The data are  immature to study overall survival, and more  mature results from this and others trials 
will take several years to become available. Additionally, the surrogate value of RFS for OS in GIST 
has not been studied to date, and no definitive conclusions can be drawn at this moment.   
The  results  are  time  dependent.  Despite  the  results  are  highly  statistically  significant  at  12  months, 
after stopping Glivec this effect is diluted, and there is an increase in the relapse rate  at 24 months, 
suggesting  a  delay,  rather  than  an  avoidance,  of  several  recurrences.  Whether  this  delay  will  finally 
translate into a benefit in overall survival is still a matter of debate, and cannot be assumed from the 
data provided. 
The available data on the efficacy of Glivec at relapse after adjuvant treatment are very limited. The 
applicant was asked to provide the available efficacy results of Glivec at relapse in patients previously 
treated with the adjuvant treatment. The MAH has provided data on the efficacy of Glivec at relapse 
from 23 out of 25 patients relapsed in the Glivec arm in Z9001 study and from 21 selected patients 
reported by European investigators. In both groups median PFS is longer than 18 months. This data 
suggest that Glivec continues to be active at relapse, with prolonged disease control in most patients. 
However  the  data  are  currently  scarce,  the  quality  of  responses  is  not  available  and  definitive 
conclusions cannot be drawn. Lower efficacy of Glivec at relapse cannot be excluded and this issue 
should be further studied.  
The original data provided from the Z9001 trial may be difficult to extrapolate to the current treatment 
of GIST, since it has been stratified according to size, and current classifications and the two ongoing 
phase  3  trials  in  resected  GISTs  incorporate  other  factors:  mitotic  count,  location  and  recently 
mutational status. The MAH has provide the mitotic index in 78% of patients and 72% of the events, 
and the data has been re-analyzed according to the NIH and the AFIP criteria. In these re-analyzes the 
RFS improvement is limited to the high risk group in the NIH criteria and to the moderate and high 
risk group in the AFIP criteria analysis. New risk criteria including mutational status are warranted, 
and the company has committed to provide mutational results when available. The currently available 
data make recommendations more easily exportable. No benefit has been demonstrated in the low risk 
14 
 
 
group, and no other ongoing trials include this group. The NNT in the AFIP criteria high risk group is 
3.4 (2.3 at 12 months and 2.6 at 24 months) and in the moderate risk group is 7.4 (14.1 at 12 months, 
and 4.1 at 24 months), conversely the estimated NNH, defined harm as discontinuations due to AE in 
the trial, was 7.3 for the treated population. Further data is needed in the moderate risk group to accept 
a benefit. 
The two other adjuvant trials in resected GIST, the EORTC and SSGXVIII/AIO trials, are currently 
ongoing,  and  have  recently  closed  accrual.  The  MAH  has  contacted  with  the  responsible  of  the 
ongoing  trials,  and  they  find  highly  unlikely  that  the  availability  of  Glivec  in  the  adjuvant  setting 
would compromise the trials development. These trials could potentially bring important answers, like 
overall survival results, and the optimal duration of Glivec. 
The surrogate value of RFS in this disease and with this treatment cannot be directly accepted and OS 
data  should  be  revised  when  available.  However,  an  improvement  in  RFS  of  such  magnitude  in  a 
group at intermediate or high risk of relapse, could be of benefit for some patients even if this does not 
translate into a survival increase.  
Taking into account that Glivec appears to retain activity at relapse in most patients with conventional 
doses (400 mg), the acceptable safety profile of the treatment and that survival data will take several 
years  to  become  available,  it  appears  reasonable  to  consider  whether,  in  high  risk  treatment  with 
Glivec  as  adjuvant  therapy  could  be  approvable.  The  overall  benefit/risk  conclusion  for  the  new 
claimed indication for: “the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse 
following resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST” is positive. 
Patients who have a low or very low risk of recurrence should not receive adjuvant treatment. 
This evaluation will definitively require further follow up at scheduled time points and the inclusion of 
accepted prognostic factors like mutational status when available. The RMP should be further revised 
in order to make sure that the target population is appropriately treated. 
Risk Management Plan 
A  summary  of  the  important  identified  risks  and  proposed  Pharmacovigilance  actions  and  risk 
minimization activities is presented in table 5. 
Safety concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
activities (Routine and additional) 
Proposed  Risk  minimization 
activities (Risk and additional)
Myelosuppression 
Monitoring  of  laboratory  data  for 
ongoing clinical trials 
All other routine PhV activities 
Oedema 
retention 
and 
fluid 
routine PhV activities 
GI 
and 
haemorrhage 
CNS 
Monitoring  of  laboratory  data  for 
ongoing clinical trials 
All other routine PhV activities 
GI 
perforation 
obstruction  
ulceration, 
and 
Hepatotoxicity 
Routine PhV activities 
Monitoring  of  laboratory  data  for 
ongoing clinical trials 
All other routine PhV activities 
15 
Labelled in SPC section  
4.2  Posology  and  Method  of 
Administration 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
5.3 Preclinical data 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section  
4.2  Posology  and  Method  of 
Administration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
5.1 
properties 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic Properties  
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Relevant  preferred 
labelled 
Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
terms  are 
in  SPC  section  4.8 
Skin  Rashes  and  severe 
cutaneous reactions 
routine PhV activities 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypophosphataemia 
Cardiac Failure 
Renal Failure 
Respiratory 
Pulmonary 
and 
Acute 
Failure, 
Hypertension 
Pulmonary Fibrosis 
Second  Malignancies  in 
Survivors 
Disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
included 
hormone 
level 
Thyroid 
measurements  in  patients  without  a 
thyroid  history  are 
in 
ongoing  and  planned  mechanistic 
studies 
All other routine PhV activities 
Ongoing  and  planned  mechanistic 
studies 
All  other  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Subclinical  LVD  monitored  by  2D 
echocardiography 
the  nilotinib 
imatinib  as  active 
studies  with 
comparator 
All  other  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Labelled in SPC section  
Relevant  preferred 
labelled 
Undesirable Effects 
in 
Labelled in SPC section 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
terms  are 
in  SPC  section  4.8 
4.2  Posology  and  Method  of 
Administration 
4.4.  Special  Warnings  and 
precautions for use 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic Properties  
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Relevant  preferred 
terms  are 
in  SPC  section  4.8 
labelled 
Undesirable Effects 
Labelled in SPC section  
5.3 Preclinical safety data 
Extnded data collection up to 8 years 
in designated registration study 
Regular  Annual  Review  of  age-
adjusted 
incidence 
standardised 
ratios from registration studies 
All  other  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  No  risk  minimization  activities 
are proposed. 
There  is  a  lack  of  conclusive 
data 
causal 
indicating 
relationship at this time. Should 
the  PhV  activities  uncover 
additional  data,  the  risk  will  be 
communicated 
the 
labelling  and  additional  risk 
minimization  activities  may  be 
proposed if necessary. 
Relevant  preferred 
labelled 
Undesirable Effects 
terms  are 
in  SPC  section  4.8 
through 
Hypoglycaemia  
Monitoring  of  laboratory  data  for 
ongoing clinical trials 
All other routine PhV activities 
16 
 
Suicidality 
Routine PhV activities 
Tolerability 
Pregnancy 
Pregnancy outcomes 
during 
and 
Rhabdomyolysis 
myopathy 
and 
Pregnancy  Registry  for  imatinib  and 
nilotinib 
All  other  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine PhV activities 
No  risk  minimization  activities 
are proposed. 
There  is  a  lack  of  conclusive 
data 
causal 
indicating 
relationship at this time. Should 
the  PhV  activities  uncover 
additional  data,  the  risk  will  be 
communicated 
the 
labelling  and  additional  risk 
minimization  activities  may  be 
proposed if necessary. 
Labelled in SPC section  
4.6  Pregnancy  and  Lactation 
and 5.3 Preclinical safety  
through 
No  risk  minimization  activities 
are proposed. 
There  is  a  lack  of  conclusive 
data 
causal 
indicating 
relationship at this time. Should 
the  PhV  activities  uncover 
additional  data,  the  risk  will  be 
communicated 
the 
labelling  and  additional  risk 
minimization  activities  may  be 
proposed if necessary. 
through 
Ovarian 
and 
ovarian cyst 
haemorrhage 
haemorrhagic 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Relevant  preferred 
terms  are 
in  SPC  section  4.8 
labelled 
Undesirable Effects 
The MAH commits to provide to submit a revised Risk Minimization Plan for Glivec. The objective is 
to ensure that the use of Glivec will be effectively restricted to patients who have a high risk of relapse 
of their GIST after surgery. Evaluation of the effectiveness of this plan is planned.    
4. 
CONCLUSION 
On  19  March  2009  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Annex II. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area1 
Non-clinical 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Description 
The MAH should present the study  OECD 219 sediment-
dwelling organism, as requested 
The MAH commits to submit the mutational data from 
ACOSOG-Z9001 study 
Novartis commits to submit a study report on follow-up of the 
ASCOSOG-Z9001 study based on data cut-off date of March 15, 
2010. 
Novartis commits to submit a study report on follow-up of the 
ASCOSOG-Z9001 study based on data cut-off date of March 15, 
Due date2 
April 2009 
June 2010 
November 
2010 
November 
2011 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011. 
Novartis commits to submit a study report of the European study, 
SSG XVIII/AIO. This study is a randomized Phase III trial that 
examines one year versus three years of imatinib therapy 400 
mg/day in adjuvant GIST patients with a high risk of recurrence. 
Novartis commits to submit manuscripts of the European study, 
EORTC Study 62024. This study is an open-label, multicenter, 
phase III trial comparing adjuvant therapy with imatinib 
400 mg/day for 2 years vs. no treatment in patients with 
KIT(CD117)+ intermediate or high risk GIST following complete 
resection. 
The MAH commits to submit a revised RMP 
November 
2011 
Reporting is 
expected 
2015 at the 
earliest. 
April 2009 
Clinical 
Clinical 
PhV 
1. 
2. 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be 
committed to. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
