EMA/436309/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000406 
EPAR summary for the public 
Glivec 
imatinib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Glivec. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Glivec. 
What is Glivec? 
Glivec is a medicine that contains the active substance imatinib. It is available as capsules (50 and 
100 mg) and tablets (100 and 400 mg). 
What is Glivec used for? 
Glivec is an anticancer medicine. It is used to treat the following diseases: 
• 
chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a cancer of the white blood cells in which granulocytes (a type of 
white blood cell) start growing out of control. Glivec is used when the patients are ‘Philadelphia 
chromosome positive’ (Ph+). This means that some of their genes have re-arranged themselves to 
form a special chromosome called the Philadelphia chromosome. Glivec is used in adults and 
children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ CML and who are not eligible for a bone marrow 
transplant. It is also used in adults and children in the ‘chronic phase’ of the disease if it is not 
responding to interferon alpha (another anticancer medicine), and in more advanced phases of the 
disease (‘accelerated phase’ and ‘blast crisis’); 
• 
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a type of cancer in which lymphocytes (another type of 
white blood cell) multiply too quickly. Glivec is used in combination with other anticancer medicines 
in adults and children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ ALL. It is also used alone to treat 
adults with Ph+ ALL that has returned following previous treatment, or is not responding to other 
medicines. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
•  myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative diseases (MD/MPD), a group of diseases in which the body 
produces large numbers of abnormal blood cells. Glivec is used to treat adults with MD/MPD who 
have re-arrangements of the gene for platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR); 
• 
• 
• 
advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL), diseases in 
which eosinophils (another type of white blood cell) start growing out of control. Glivec is used to 
treat adults with HES or CEL who have a specific re-arrangement of two genes called FIP1L1 and 
PDGFRα; 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST), a type of cancer (sarcoma) of the stomach and bowel, 
when there is uncontrolled growth of cells in the supporting tissues of these organs. Glivec is used 
to treat adults with GIST that cannot be removed with surgery or have spread to other parts of the 
body, and adults who are at risk of GIST coming back after surgical removal; 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a type of cancer (sarcoma) in which cells in the tissue 
beneath the skin divide uncontrollably. Glivec is used to treat adults with DFSP that cannot be 
removed with surgery, and in adults who are not eligible for surgery when the cancer has returned 
after treatment or has spread to other parts of the body. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Glivec used? 
Glivec treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of patients with 
cancers of the blood or solid tumours. Glivec is given by mouth with a meal and a large glass of water 
to reduce the risk of irritation of the stomach and gut. The dose depends on the disease being treated, 
the age and condition of the patient, and the response to treatment, but it should not exceed 800 mg a 
day. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Glivec work? 
The active substance in Glivec, imatinib, is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This means that it blocks 
some specific enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found in some receptors on 
the surface of cancer cells, including the receptors that are involved in stimulating the cells to divide 
uncontrollably. By blocking these receptors, Glivec helps to control cell division. 
How has Glivec been studied? 
For CML, Glivec has been examined in four main studies involving 2,133 adults and one study of 54 
children. These included a study involving 1,106 adults that compared Glivec with the combination of 
interferon alpha plus cytarabine (other anticancer medicines). This study measured how long the 
patients lived without their cancer getting worse. 
For Ph+ ALL, Glivec has been examined in three studies involving 456 adults, including one study 
comparing Glivec with standard chemotherapy (medicines used to kill cancer cells) in 55 newly 
diagnosed patients. It has also been examined in a fourth main study involving 160 children and young 
people aged 1 to 22 years. 
For GIST, Glivec has been examined in two main studies. One involved 147 patients whose GIST could 
not be surgically removed or had spread to other parts of the body, and looked at whether the tumours 
shrank in size. This study did not compare Glivec with any other medicines. The other study compared 
Glivec with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 713 patients whose cancer had been removed with 
surgery. This study measured how long the patients lived without their cancer coming back. 
Glivec  
EMA/436309/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
For MD/MPD (31 patients), HES and CEL (176 patients), and DFSP (18 patients), Glivec was not 
compared with any other medicines. These studies examined whether blood cell counts returned to 
normal levels, or whether the number of cancerous blood cells or the size of tumours fell. 
What benefit has Glivec shown during the studies? 
Glivec was more effective than the comparator medicines. In patients with CML, the cancer had got 
worse in 16% of the patients taking Glivec after five years, compared with 28% of those taking 
interferon alpha plus cytarabine. Glivec was also better than standard chemotherapy in patients with 
Ph+ ALL. In patients with GIST that had been removed with surgery, patients taking Glivec lived for 
longer than those taking placebo without their cancer coming back. In the non-comparative studies of 
CML, Ph+ ALL and GIST, between 26 and 96% of patients showed a response to Glivec. In the study of 
patients aged 1 to 22 years who had Ph+ ALL, Glivec was shown to increase how long the patients 
lived without any major events (such as a relapse).  
Due to their rarity, limited data were available for the other diseases, but around two thirds of the 
patients showed at least a partial response to Glivec. 
What is the risk associated with Glivec? 
The most common side effects with Glivec (seen in more than 1 in 10 patients) are weight increase, 
neutropenia (low levels of the white blood cells that fight infection), thrombocytopenia (low blood 
platelet counts), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), headache, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, 
diarrhoea, dyspepsia (indigestion), abdominal (tummy) pain, periorbital oedema (swelling around the 
eyes), rash, muscle spasm and cramps, muscle, bone and joint pain, fluid retention and fatigue 
(tiredness). For the full list of all side effects reported with Glivec, see the package leaflet. 
Glivec must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to imatinib or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Why has Glivec been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Glivec’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Glivec 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Glivec on 7 November 2001.  
The full EPAR for Glivec can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Glivec, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2013. 
Glivec  
EMA/436309/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
