SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR GLYXAMBI 
(EMPAGLIFLOZIN + LINAGLIPTIN)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Glyxambi. The RMP details 
important risks of Glyxambi, and how more information will be obtained about Glyxambi’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Glyxambi’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Glyxambi should be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for Glyxambi should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Glyxambi’s RMP.
I.
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Glyxambi is authorised for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 
diabetes mellitus (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains empagliflozin and linagliptin 
as the active substances and it is given by oral administration.
Further information about the evaluation of Glyxambi’s benefits can be found in Glyxambi’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage.
II.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS
Important risks of Glyxambi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Glyxambi’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
-
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
-
- The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
- The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Glyxambi is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Glyxambi are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Glyxambi. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Complicated urinary tract infection1
Genital infection1
Diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation1
Pancreatitis3
Urinary tract carcinogenicity1
Liver injury1
Bone fracture1
Amputation risk1
Pancreatic cancer2
Pregnancy/breast-feeding
Missing information
1 Safety concern derived from mono compound empagliflozin
2 Safety concern derived from mono compound linagliptin
3 Important identified risk for the mono compound linagliptin, important potential risk for the mono 
compound empagliflozin
II.B
Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product.
II.C
Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Glyxambi.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
PASS 1245.146
Purpose of the study: To evaluate the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in patients treated with 
empagliflozin
ABBREVIATIONS
EMA
EPAR
PASS
PSUR
RMP
SmPC
European Medicine Agency
European Public Assessment Report
Post-authorisation safety study
Periodic Safety Update Report
Risk Management Plan
Summary of Product Characteristics
