Part VI: 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan  
Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Gonal-f® 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Gonal-f®. The RMP details important 
risks of Gonal-f®, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Gonal-f® risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Gonal-f®  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Gonal-f® should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Gonal-f®  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Gonal-f® 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is used for 
Gonal-f® is authorized: 
In adult women: 
•  Anovulation  [including  polycystic  ovarian  syndrome  (PCOS)]  in  women  who  have  been 
unresponsive to treatment with clomiphene citrate. 
•  Stimulation of multifollicular development in women undergoing superovulation for assisted 
reproductive  technologies  (ART)  such  as  in  vitro  fertilisation  (IVF),  gamete  intra-fallopian 
transfer (GIFT) and zygote intra-fallopian transfer (ZIFT). 
•  Gonal-f® in association with a luteinising hormone (LH) preparation is recommended for the 
stimulation of follicular development in women with severe LH and FSH deficiency.  
In adult men: 
•  Gonal-f® is indicated for the stimulation of spermatogenesis in men who have congenital or 
concomitant  human  Chorionic 
acquired  hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  with 
Gonadotrophin (hCG) therapy. 
It contains follitropin alfa as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Gonal-f®’s benefits can be found in Gonal-f®’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the  European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage link to the product’s EPAR summary landing page on the 
EMA website. 
 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize 
or Further Characterize the Risks 
Important  risks  of  Gonal-f®,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Gonal-f®'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine  risk  minimization  measures.  In  addition  to  these 
measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly analyzed, 
including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate action can be taken 
as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Gonal-f® is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  Gonal-f®  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Gonal-f®. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
There are no important identified or important potential risks or missing information  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  None 
•  None 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
There  are  no  important  identified  or  important  potential  risks  and  missing  information  for  the 
 
product.  
II.C 
II.C.1 
Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the Marketing Authorization or specific obligation of 
Gonal-f®. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in the Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Gonal-f®. 
 
