SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of GONAL-f. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 July 2004. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
The  active  substance  of  GONAL-f  is  a  recombinant  human  follicle-stimulating  hormone  (r-hFSH, 
Follitropin  alfa  as  INN)  produced  by  genetically  engineered  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  (CHO)  cells. 
GONAL-f is presented as a sterile powder for solution for injection in three single-use strengths (37.5 
IU, 75 IU and 150 IU) in glass ampoules or vials together with sterile water for injections as solvent in 
glass ampoules or vials or prefilled syringes. In addition, two  multidose presentations (1050 IU/1.75 
ml and 450 IU/0.75 ml) are available as sterile powder for solution for injection in glass vials together 
with  bacteriostatic  water  for  injections  as  solvent  in  prefilled  syringes.  The  reconstituted  product  is 
intended  for  subcutaneous  injection.  Moreover, a  ready-to-use  formulation  designed  to  facilitate  the 
administration  of the product is available, in  which GONAL-f is presented as a  new pharmaceutical 
form: solution  for injection in a pre-filled pen. GONAL-f  contains pure  r-hFSH as opposed to  other 
preparations that contain variable amounts of Luteinising Hormone (LH). 
FSH is an heterodimeric  hormone, in  which the alpha-subunit (92 amino  acids) is  common to  other 
glycoprotein  hormones  and  the  beta-subunit  (111  amino  acids)  is  specific.  It  is  secreted  into  the 
bloodstream  by  the  endocrine  cells  of  the  anterior  pituitary  gland.  In  female,  FSH  controls  ovarian 
follicular growth and in men it plays an essential role in inducing spermatogenesis. 
The  therapeutic  uses  are  Stimulation  of  multifollicular  development  in  patients  undergoing  assisted 
reproductive treatment (ART); Anovulation in women who have been unresponsive to treatment with 
clomiphene  citrate;  Stimulation  of  follicular  development  in  women  with  severe  LH  and  FSH 
deficiency; Male hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Due to large inter-individual variations, there is no 
general  dosage  which  can  be  recommended.  Only  general  guidelines  can  be  given.  In  in  vitro 
fertilisation  (IVF)  schedules,  it  is  generally  associated  with  GnRH  agonists  and  followed  by  hCG 
administration. 
The production of GONAL-f by recombinant DNA technology, has the following characteristics: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
it is a urine-independent production process; 
good batch-to-batch consistency is ensured; 
effective purification takes place; 
absence of LH activity; 
the final product is suitable for subcutaneous injection. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
GONAL-f is a sterile powder for solution for injection in  four strengths, 37.5 IU, 75 IU, 150 IU and 
600IU/ml (there are two presentations for this latter strength: 1050 IU/1.75 ml and 450 IU/0.75 ml), 
and  is  presented  in  glass  ampoules  or  vials.  GONAL-f  solution  for  injection  in  a  pre-filled  pen 
contains 44 micrograms/1 ml (600 IU/1 ml) of follitropin alfa and is available in three pack sizes i.e. 
300 IU/0.5 ml (22 micrograms/0.5 ml), 450 IU/0.75 ml (33 micrograms/0.75 ml) and 900 IU/1.5 ml 
(66 micrograms/1.5 ml). 
The  active  ingredient  is  a  recombinant  human  FSH,  a  heterodimeric  glycoprotein  composed  of  two 
linked subunits α and β. 
The  cell  line  used  for  the  production  of  r-hFSH  is  a  CHO  cell  line  co-transfected  with  the  relevant 
plasmids containing the genes coding for the subunits. 
Genetic stability has been assessed by the company with several different methods. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  MAH  has  established  master  and  working  cell  banks  and  an 
extended population doubling bank. 
1/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  downstream  purification  consists  of  a  complex  process  divided  into  six  phases  for  which  the 
process validation has been provided by the MAH. The ability  of the process to remove / inactivate 
viruses has been studied and the results submitted are reassuring. 
The  MAH  committed  to retain a specific  viral  clearance step in their  manufacturing process, and to 
provide a six-month progress report concerning validation of the membrane and implementation of an 
in-house integrity test. 
Ultrafiltration and freeze drying steps are part of the manufacturing process. 
Following review of the MAH’s initial application (December 1993) and responses to the consolidated 
list of pharmaceutical questions (December 1994), the company submitted  additional  clarification to 
the Rapporteur in April 1995. 
The  application  was  considered  at  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  Biotechnology  and  Pharmacy  at 
their April 1995 meeting which recommended the following: 
• 
• 
a positive opinion be given to this application for Marketing Authorisation, 
the shelf-life of the finished product was set at 12 months with the possibility of extension to a 
longer period provided that  further stability  data including physico-chemical analytical  results 
are submitted.  
On 23 May 1996, the MAH submitted additional information on stability supporting a shelf-life of 24 
months. 
On 25 February 1999, the CPMP adopted a positive opinion for the new strength GONAL-f 37.5 IU 
with  a  shelf-life  of  12  months  based  on  real-time  stability  data  only  available  for  12  months.  This 
shelf-life could be extended provided that stability data over a longer period are presented. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The properties of GONAL-f have been compared to a reference substance (urinary menopausal FSH: 
u-hFSH) throughout the dossier. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The specific pharmacodynamic action has been studied in vivo, in a dose-related fashion in rats and in 
monkeys. The preparations including r-hFSH and urinary-FSH showed similar activity. 
Competition binding assays have been carried out in vitro, and the shape of competition curves were 
parallel using r-hFSH, pituitary and urinary derived hFSH and a comparison of ED50 values suggested 
the following order of potency: r-hFSH≥Metrodin>Metrodin HP>WHO 83/575. 
General pharmacodynamic studies in rodents and in dogs showed that there is very little general action 
on the major body systems (cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, renal, respiratory, central and peripheral 
nervous systems). 
A major issue has been to assess to what extent anti-human FSH antibodies may have interfered with 
the effects observed in animals and therefore lead to an underestimation of FSH toxicity. In fact poor 
responsiveness  to  exogenous  human  gonadotropins  suggestive  of  neutralising  antibodies  does  not 
occur in monkeys until after the second course of therapy. 
As anticipated the repeated administration of r-hFSH as foreign protein resulted in antibodies forming 
in all species. Despite this, in non-rodent species the serum levels of FSH and the pharmacological 
effect seen indicate adequate systemic exposure to active FSH. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single and repeated  dose studies  were  conducted in  rat and  monkey  and some information  was also 
derived from the toxicity studies. 
Greater  variation  has  been  observed  in  the  subcutaneous  and  intramuscular  studies,  suggesting 
variable absorption from these sites. Absorption was good with both routes (70+% bioavailability) but 
was slower by the subcutaneous route. 
2/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
A  point  for  discussion  was  whether  the  biological  half-life  of  r-hFSH  changes  as  a  function  of  the 
sialic acid  content of the peptide. The  effect  of oligosaccharide  composition  of a  glycoprotein  on  in 
vivo  clearance  rate  and  in  vivo  efficacy  is  well-known.  With  pituitary  FSH  and  r-hFSH,  the  most 
sialylated isoforms have the longer half-lives and are the more active forms in vivo. Since u-hFSH and 
r-hFSH have similar pharmacokinetic profiles in vivo in both animals and humans, it is very likely that 
they  follow  the  same  metabolic  pathway,  although  no  specific  studies  have  been  carried  out  to 
document the hepatic uptake of r-hFSH by the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor 
In conclusion the animal pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data are compatible with GONAL-f 
having the same pharmacological characteristics as the natural human hormone. 
Toxicology 
The  observed  toxicity  of  GONAL-f  was  almost  entirely  related  to  the  primary  pharmacodynamic 
action of the active substance, namely the stimulation of spermatogenesis, follicle/cyst development in 
ovaries and trophic effects on uterine endometrium. Exceptions were mild hepatic toxicity in dogs (at 
a dose of 100 IU/kg/day) and moderate thymic atrophy in monkeys (at a dose of 300 IU/kg/day). 
In the subchronic toxicology studies, levels of antibodies were variable after repeated administration. 
Whereas all rats treated subcutaneously developed anti-human FSH antibodies, they were not found in 
any dogs treated intravenously and in only 50% of monkeys treated intramuscularly.  
Toxicokinetic and clinical studies however confirmed that animals had been exposed to high levels of 
r-hFSH despite antibody formation.  
There  was  general  similarity  of  toxicological  findings  in  the  shorter  and  longer-term  studies,  which 
represent the pharmacological actions of high doses of FSH, demonstrating evidence of the continuous 
exposure to r-hFSH despite antibody formation. There was no pathological evidence suggestive of the 
formation of immune complexes.  
Toxicity studies have been conducted on different species. No deaths were seen in any study and the 
overall data showed that r-hFSH has very low toxicity. 
Although clinically contra-indicated during pregnancy, reproductive toxicity studies were undertaken 
with  r-hFSH.  No  teratogenic  effects  of  r-hFSH  were  demonstrated.  Rats  showed  increased  rates  of 
foetal absorption, abortion and stillbirth at doses  of 40 IU/kg/day (4 times the maximal human  dose) 
and  above.  The  resorptions  were  considered  to  be  due  to  a  severe  hormonal  imbalance  during 
gestation  and  this  was  supported  by  the  similar  results  observed  in  an  hMG  group  included  in  the 
rabbit study. 
The  Rapporteur  and  Co-Rapporteur  did  not  consider  it  necessary  to  include  statements  on  the 
environmental risk assessment. 
Indication of GONAL-f in male hypogonadotropic hypogonadism 
In  order  to  support  long-term  treatment  in  men,  two  additional toxicity  studies of  52-week  duration 
were performed in male rats and male monkeys. The findings in both studies indicated no treatment-
related  effects  on  clinical  signs  (except  an  effect  on  testes  weight),  bodyweight,  food  consumption, 
ophthalmologic examinations, haematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis. 
In  the  rat,  histological  examination  revealed  an  increase  in  frequency  and/or  degree  of  immature 
spermatic  elements  in  epididymides  in  the  mid-dose  and  high-dose  groups  compared  to  the  control 
group.  This  was  interpreted  as  an  indication  of  increased  testicular  germinal  cell  turnover.  In  the 
monkey,  histological  examination  showed  tubular  dilatation  in  all  animals  in  the  high-dose  group 
generally  associated  with  increased  amount  of  luminal  fluid.  No  other  histological  changes  were 
observed which were considered to be treatment-related. 
No immunocomplexes related to treatment  were  found in the kidneys  of any animal. Due to species 
difference, virtually all rats treated with GONAL-f developed anti-human FSH antibodies. Antibodies 
to human FSH were detected in about half of the treated monkeys within the 6th week and in virtually 
all animals at the end of dosing. Serum testosterone levels were unaffected by treatment at any dose. 
Serum levels of FSH were apparently dose-related and there was some evidence for accumulation on 
repeated dosing. There were no local injection site reactions considered to be related to treatment with 
3/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
r-hFSH  in  either  rats  or  monkeys.  The  pre-clinical  studies  were  satisfactory  and  left  no  outstanding 
pre-clinical safety concerns. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The formulation of r-hFSH used in the presented studies was the one that is proposed for marketing. 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics  
One phase I study  compared r-hFSH and  natural  u-FSH. It was performed in a  group  of 12  healthy 
women  after  pituitary  desensitisation  with  GnRH  agonists  and  shows  that  a  single  150  IU  daily 
GONAL-f  dose  for  7  days  is  effective  in  inducing  follicular  growth.  The  inter-individual  variation 
observed  was  considered  by  the  Rapporteur  related  to  variable  ovarian  sensitivity,  rather  than 
differences in FSH pharmacokinetics. 
Other  Phase  I  studies  have  demonstrated  that  r-hFSH  and  u-hFSH  by  the  IM  route  have  similar 
absolute bioavailability both by immunoassay and by in vitro bioassay. 
The  absolute  bioavailabilities  of  r-hFSH  by  the  IM  and  SC  routes  are  similar  when  measured  by 
immunoassay. 
Table 1: Apparent terminal phase of u-hFSH half-life following IM/SC administration. 
REFERENCES 
Flamigni et al.; 1985 
Diczfalusy et al.; 1988 
Jockenhovel et al.; 1990 
Mizunuma et al.; 1990 
Le Cotonnec et al.; 1993 
NO. OF  
SUBJECTS 
(SEX) 
3 (Female) 
5 (Female) 
7 (Male) 
5 (Male) 
16 (Male) 
12 (Male) 
SERONO Study GF5117 
Le Cotonnec et al.; 1994 
12 (Female) 
FSH PREPARATION 
(IU) 
hMG (600) (IM) 
hMG (150)  (IM) 
METRODIN (150) (IM) 
METRODIN (450) (IM) 
METRODIN (150) (IM) 
METRODIN (150) (IM) 
METRODIN (150) (IM) 
METRODIN (150) (IM) 
GONAL-f (150) (IM) 
GONAL-f (150) (SC) 
ESTIMATED  
TERMINAL 
HALF-LIFE (h) 
35 
48 
25 
36 
36 ± 16 
36 ± 8 
39 ± 15 
45 ± 21 
37 ± 25 
37 ± 28 
Based on the pre-clinical studies presented, r-hFSH and u-hFSH appear to be equivalent functionally, 
pharmacokinetically and pharmacodynamically. 
Although the IM and SC  routes  of administration are regarded as equivalent pharmacologically, the 
pivotal  Phase  III  study  was  performed  only  with  SC  administered  GONAL-f.  In  view  of  this  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics was amended to mention only the SC route. 
Therapeutic efficacy  
Stimulation  of  multifollicular  development  in  patients  undergoing  assisted  reproductive  treatment 
(ART) (ii) 
Three  clinical  studies  had  been  completed.  These  included  a  total  of  148  subjects,  85  of  whom  had 
been treated with r-hFSH. At the time of submission, safety data was also available from an additional 
147 patients treated with r-hFSH in nine ongoing studies. 
Study GF 5503 is regarded as the major study allowing evaluation of safety and efficacy of GONAL-f 
compared  with  u-hFSH  (Metrodin)  in  patients  undergoing  IVF-ET.  This  was  a  randomised  parallel 
group study in which 61 patients received GONAL-f and 63 Metrodin. 
Ovulation stimulation in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) was considered as the best means 
of  clinically  evaluating  r-hFSH  as  it  allows the  assessment  of the  follicular  response  as  well  as  the 
subsequent  steps  of  the procedure  (including  the  number  of  pregnancies  and  live  births).  The  study 
was  designed  to  detect  a  difference  of  a  2-pre-ovulatory  follicles  (>10mm)  difference  between 
treatment groups (106 patients would provide 80% power at the 5% level of significance.) 
4/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  mean  number  of  large  follicles  (equal  or  greater  than  14  mm  in  diameter)  obtained  in  the  two 
groups differed by 1.4. This difference was statistically significant in favour of greater efficacy of u-
hFSH compared  with r-hFSH. However, in the subsequent steps  of the IVF-ET procedure the  mean 
differences between the two groups were not statistically significant. 
As the  number  of patients in this study  was relatively small, it was  considered that insufficient  data 
was available to claim equivalent potency between GONAL-f and Metrodin at this stage. A statement 
to this effect has been added to the SPC (Section 4.2).  
Preliminary results of a further study “GF 5533” of similar design to study “GF 5503” are available 
and  demonstrate  no  significant  difference  between  r-hFSH  and  u-hFSH  in  terms  of  generation  of 
follicles greater or equal to 14 mm in diameter. The company fulfilled its commitment to provide the 
final report of study GF 5533 on 31 October 1995. 
The MAH provided additional data on the relative potency between GONAL-f and u-hFSH from two 
clinical studies:  
• 
• 
a double-blind, randomised study involving 278 patients (study GF 8407) to compare efficacy 
and safety  of GONAL-f  with that  of highly purified  urinary FSH (Metrodin HP)  for inducing 
superovulation in women undergoing assisted reproductive techniques (ART);  
a single centre, assessor-blind, randomised, parallel group study involving 44 patients (study GF 
9180) to compare the safety and efficacy of GONAL-f with follitropin beta to stimulate multiple 
follicular development prior to IVF-ET in patients pre-treated with a GnRH agonist. 
The trial data presented suggested that GONAL-f does indeed require a lower total dose and a shorter 
treatment  period  to  achieve  pre-ovulatory  conditions  than  urinary  follicle  stimulating  hormone.  The 
small  comparative  trial,  while  not  sufficiently  powered  to  be  considered  a  formal  equivalence  trial, 
suggested  that  the two  recombinant  DNA  technology  compounds  require  a  similar  total  dose  and  a 
similar  length  of  treatment  to  achieve  pre-ovulatory  conditions.  Although  the  clinical  trial  data  was 
derived  exclusively  from studies in the indication  ovarian stimulation, the information is relevant to 
the posology of GONAL-f in all indications. Section 4.2 in the SPC was updated accordingly (positive 
CPMP opinion on 25 February 1999). 
Anovulation in women who have been unresponsive to treatment with clomiphene citrate.(i) 
Although  the  same  pharmacological  activity  of  GONAL-f  (stimulation  of  follicular  development)  is 
relevant to the WHO group II anovulatory indication, the clinical data relating to this indication was 
submitted  after  the  authorisation  of  GONAL-f  as  a  Type  II  Variation,  for  the  inclusion  of  this  new 
indication.  
A new clinical study GF 5642, was submitted by the company in support of this new indication. This 
study  compared  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  GONAL-f  given  subcutaneously,  to  Metrodin  given 
intramuscularly  in  patients  with  WHO  type  II  anovulation,  who  have  failed  to  ovulate  or  conceive 
during  previous  therapy  with  clomiphene  citrate.  Study  GF  5642  was  an  open, randomized,  parallel 
group study, where the patient population was chosen  appropriately for this indication. Two hundred 
and twenty two patients entered treatment; 110 receiving GONAL-f and 112 receiving Metrodin. The 
study continued for 3 cycles. 
The  results  from  this  study  showed  that  the  cumulative  ovulation  rate  was  84%  for  the  GONAL-f 
group and 91% for the Metrodin group: the difference was not statistically significant. No difference 
in  secondary  variables  was  observed  except  for  oestradiol  levels  which  were  higher  (during  certain 
cycles)  in  the  Metrodin  group  and  FSH  levels  which  were  greater  for  GONAL-f  (during  certain 
cycles). 
Indication in women with severe LH and FSH deficiency. (iii) 
The Marketing  Authorisation Holder applied  for the  extension  of the indication to include FSH and 
LH  deficient  females  “GONAL-F  in  association  with  a  luteinising  hormone  (LH)  preparation  is 
recommended  for  the  stimulation  of  follicular  development  in  women  with  severe  LH  and  FSH 
deficiency. In clinical trials these patients were defined by an endogenous serum LH level <1.2 IU/l." 
5/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
Co-administration  of  GONAL-f  and  r-hLH  does  not  modify  their  respective  pharmacokinetic 
characteristics.  
Three phase II/III studies, one European pivotal (n=38) and two supportive in the US and Spain (n=40, 
n=38), were completed at the time of application. The number of patients enrolled in the studies was 
considered sufficient, considering the rarity of the condition. The studies were  designed primarily to 
determine  the  minimum  effective  dose  and  assess  the  safety  of  r-hLH  to  support  r-hFSH-  induced 
follicular  development in LH and FSH  deficient  anovulatory  women. The  dose  of 150  IU FSH  was 
chosen based on clinical experience showing that most patients respond to <150 IU FSH. The results 
also indicate that r-hLH increases ovarian sensitivity to r-hFSH and that a conservative starting dose of 
r-hFSH should be chosen. The dosing recommendations for GONAL-f proposed in the SPC are in line 
with  clinical  practice  rather  than  the  posology  used  in  the  clinical  trial.  The  risk-benefit  of  the 
concomitant  use  of  r-hFSH  and  r-hLH  in  the  treatment  of  anovulatory  women  with  severe  LH  and 
FSH deficiency was judged to be favourable and to meet the requirements for the addition of a new 
indication. 
Male hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. (iv) 
For this extension of the  indications the MAH has presented results of two phase III, multinational, 
multicentre,  non-comparative,  uncontrolled  open  clinical  studies,  one  pivotal  (GF  5844)  and  one 
supportive  (GF  6410).  Both  studies  had  the  same  objectives,  to  determine  whether  subcutaneous 
GONAL-f  in  combination  with  hCG  (human  chorionic  gonadotrophin,  Profasi)  would  initiate 
spermatogenesis,  achieving  sperm  counts  of  at  least  1.5  x  106/ml,  and  whether  administration  of 
GONAL-f subcutaneously for 18 months in combination with Profasi was safe and tolerable. 
Patients  received  a  pre-treatment  with  Profasi  for  up  to  6  months,  with  adjustment  of  the  dose  to 
maintain testosterone  concentrations at an adequate  concentration. Patients  who  had adequate serum 
testosterone  concentrations  and  who  remained  azoospermic  proceeded  to  the  treatment  phase  of  the 
study. For treatment patients  received 150 IU GONAL-f by subcutaneous injection into the anterior 
abdominal  wall three  times  a  week.  The  dose  was  increased  to  225  IU  three  times  a  week  (pivotal 
study) and up to 150 IU daily (supportive study) if the response was poor. A dose of at least 2000 IU 
Profasi  was  administered  twice  a  week  either  intramuscularly  or  subcutaneously.  Treatment  was 
continued for 18 months. 
In the pivotal study, 12/19 (63%) patients achieved the primary endpoint (sperm counts of at least 1.5 
x 106/ml), 3/19 (16%) achieved counts of less than 1.5 x 106/ml but greater than 1.0 x 106/ml, and 4/19 
(21%)  remained  azoospermic.  Of  the  7  couples  wishing  to  conceive,  6  pregnancies  occurred  in  the 
partners  of  4  patients,  of  which  5  went  to  term,  with  vaginal  delivery  of  healthy  babies.  In  the 
supportive study, 5/8 (62.5%) patients achieved the primary  endpoint (sperm counts of at least 1.5 x 
106/ml),  2/8  (25%)  achieved  counts  less  than  1.5  x  106/ml  but  greater  than  0,  and  1/8  (12.5%) 
remained azoospermic.  Two pregnancies occurred, with vaginal delivery of healthy babies. 
Although  both  clinical  trials  involved  a  limited  number  of  patients,  given  that  male  congenital  or 
acquired  hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  is  already  an  approved  indication  for  highly  purified 
urinary  derived  follicle  stimulating  hormone,  and  given  the  rarity  of  the  disease,  the  submitted 
documentation was considered sufficient. 
During  the  assessment  of  the  application  for  the  new  indication,  it  was  noted  that  the  posology 
instructions do  not include pre-treatment with hCG as used in the clinical studies. Since concomitant 
treatment with hCG can also be started without pre-treatment and this is common practice, supported 
by clinical studies, with urinary follicle stimulating hormone, the MAH did not wish to appear to be 
suggesting a different management approach for the two types of follicle stimulating hormone. 
Safety 
The  adverse  events  profile  of  FSH  preparations  often  related  to  ovarian  stimulation.  These  adverse 
events were mostly non-serious (ovarian cysts) and reflected also the efficacy of the preparation. 
Although  no  reports  of  hypersensitivity  to  GONAL-f  have  been  reported  this  was  felt  to  be  a 
theoretical risk in patients  with  a  prior  history  of  hypersensitivity to  gonadotropin preparations. The 
SPC has therefore been modified to say that the first injection of GONAL-f in such patients must be 
6/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
performed  under  direct  medical  supervision,  with  full  cardio-pulmonary  resuscitation  facilities 
immediately available. 
Local injection site reactions were more common in the GONAL-f group than in the Metrodin group 
(23%  vs  14%  moderate/severe  reactions  respectively).  Analysis  of  the  data  demonstrated  the 
differences were small and generally not statistically significant, and were, at least in part, due to the 
different route of administration of the two medicinal products (SC vs IM).  
The frequency and severity of the reactions decreased markedly after the first few days of treatment.  
In  view  of  these  findings  additional  information  on  injection  site  reactions  was  added  to  the  SPC, 
together with a statement that self-injection should only be recommended in adequately trained, well-
motivated patients with access to expert advice. 
In study GF 5642, two serious adverse events were observed with GONAL-f; 1 major malformation 
and  1  miscarriage.  Ovarian  cysts  were  also  observed  in  both  treatment  groups  (GONAL-f  (4)  and 
Metrodin  (6)).  The  risk  of  developing  ovarian  hyperstimulation  syndrome  (OHSS),  as  proportion  of 
the cycles in the total treated population was observed to be 3.6% for GONAL-f treated patients and 
5.7%  for  Metrodin  treated  patients.  No  cases  of  thrombotic  events  or  deaths  were  reported  in  this 
study.The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  benefit/risk  balance  was  comparable  for  the  two  medicinal 
products, GONAL-f and Metrodin. 
In  female  patients,  the  majority  of  adverse  events  observed  are  ovarian  hyperstimulation  (or  its 
complications),  injection  site  reactions,  GI  disturbances,  headache  and  very  rarely  mild  systemic 
allergy and thromboembolism. Rarely, complications of OHSS, for example ovarian torsion have been 
seen. In section 4.4 of the SPC other complications of severe OHSS, such as ascites are as well as mild 
systemic allergic reactions such as erythema, rash or facial swelling.  
Safety in men 
In men common undesirable effects are gynecomastia, acne and weight gain. 
No  deaths  were  reported  in  clinical  trials.  In  the  pivotal  study  four  serious  adverse  events  were 
reported:  increased  testicular  size  and  cryptorchidism,  haemoptysis,  infected  pilonidal  sinus  and 
lymphadenopathy  caused  by  Epstein-Barr  virus.  Among  other  adverse  events,  those  considered 
probably  or  possibly  related  to  the  study  medication  were  varicocoele  (4  patients),  acne  (2), 
gynaecomastia (1), local reactions (3), headache (1), elevated liver function tests (1). 
Since  no  follow  up  information  after  the  termination  of  the  clinical  study  were  provided,  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder will provide data from long-term follow up of patients entered in the 
clinical trials as a post approval commitment. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  pivotal  study  in  IVF-ET  adequately  supported  use  of  GONAL-f  in 
Assisted  Reproductive  Technologies.  It  was  recommended  that  the  indication  WHO  Group  II 
anovulation  be  withheld  pending  provision  of  further  data.  Deletion  of  the  intramuscular  route  of 
administration was recommended. 
The CPMP during its meeting of 16-17 May 1995 discussed the texts of the SPC, Labels and Package 
Leaflets  and  adopted  by  consensus  four  separate  favourable  opinions  on  granting  Marketing 
Authorisations to GONAL-f in the European Union. 
The conclusions are  reflected in the final versions of the SPC, package leaflet and labelling. As it is 
proposed that GONAL-f may be self-administered, the Rapporteurs and the CPMP requested that the 
package  leaflet  be  revised  to  include  diagrams  and  instructions  on  self-administration.  The  Package 
leaflet was revised accordingly. 
On  the  basis  of  a  new study  (study  5642),  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  GONAL-f  in  patients  with 
anovulation who  failed to ovulate or conceive during previous clomiphene citrate therapy, the CPMP 
during its meeting on 13-15 February 1996, agreed to include this extension to the indication. The new 
information led to changes in the SPC as well as the package leaflet. The proposed amendments to the 
SPC and Package Leaflets were also adopted during the February CPMP meeting. 
7/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
On 25 February 1999 the CPMP adopted three positive opinions:  
• 
• 
• 
the  first for the use of GONAL-f in men affected by hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism on the 
basis of new toxicological and clinical studies and because this new indication had already been 
approved, with the same posology, for urinary follicle stimulating hormone;  
the  second  for  updating  the  SPC,  Package  Leaflet  and  Labelling  according  to  new  scientific 
information. A major change concerning the relative potency of GONAL-f compared to urinary 
FSH was introduced in Section 4.2 of the SPC; 
the third for the addition of a new strength: GONAL-f 37.5 IU in ampoules. 
On 21 September 2000, the CPMP adopted a  positive opinion  for GONAL-f 600 IU/ml (multidose) 
and  on  1  March  2001  the  CPMP  approved  a  new  indication:  GONAL-F  in  association  with  a 
luteinising hormone (LH) preparation is recommended for the stimulation of follicular development in 
women  with  severe  LH  and  FSH  deficiency.  In  clinical  trials  these  patients  were  defined  by  an 
endogenous serum LH level <1.2 IU/l. 
On the same date (21 September 2000), the CPMP was of the opinion that the quality, the safety and 
the  efficacy  of this  medicinal product  continued to be adequately  and sufficiently  demonstrated  and 
therefore  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  GONAL-f  continued  to  be  favourable  for  the 
authorised indications and issued on 21 September 2000 a positive opinion for the first Renewal of the 
Marketing Authorisation. 
On  13  December  2001,  the  CPMP  adopted  2  positive  opinions  for  GONAL-f  affecting  the  product 
range: 
• 
• 
Change to  formulate and  fill the  medicinal product by  mass  (based on protein  content) rather 
than  by  definition  of  activity  (IU)  (based  on  bioassay).  As  a  result,  the  quantity  of  active 
substance  and  strength  are  defined  in  mass  units.  Based  on  the  provided  data,  a  conversion 
factor of 75 IU (target bioavailability) to 5.46 micrograms was determined (rounded up to 5.5 
micrograms). GONAL-f is dual labelled: mass as the primary unit and International Units. It is 
considered necessary to include both mass and IU on product information/labels, at least until 
users are familiarised with the new units. 
Addition  of  methionine  and  polysorbate  20  as  excipients  to  the  filled  by  mass  monodose 
presentations  with  the  solvent  presented  in  prefilled  syringes,  to  improve  the  stability  of  the 
product and to reduce the rate of oxidation 
The  SPC,  Labelling  and  Package  Leaflet  were  amended  accordingly.On  25  September  2003,  the  CPMP 
considered that the benefit/risk profile of a new pharmaceutical form for GONAL-f  (i.e. solution for 
injection presented in a pre-filled pen)  was favourable. A positive  opinion  was therefore adopted on 
the  addition  of  this  new  pharmaceutical  form,  a  ready-to-use  formulation  designed  to  facilitate  the 
administration of the product. 
On the same date (25 September 2003), the CPMP adopted a positive opinion for a Type II variation 
for  a  new  multidose  presentation  for  GONAL-f  powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection  300 
IU/0.50 ml (22 micrograms/0.50ml). After reconstitution with 0.75 ml of solvent, its concentration is 
the same as for the already authorised multidose presentations i.e. 600 IU/ml. 
8/8 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
