EMA/622310/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004289 
EPAR summary for the public 
Granpidam 
sildenafil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Granpidam. It explains how 
the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. 
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Granpidam. 
For practical information about using Granpidam, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Granpidam and what is it used for? 
Granpidam is a medicine used to treat adults and children from 1 year of age with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH, abnormally high blood pressure in the arteries in the lungs). In adults, it is used in 
patients with class II (slight limitation of physical activity) or class III (marked limitation of physical 
activity) PAH. 
Granpidam contains the active substance sildenafil. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Granpidam is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called 
Revatio. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Granpidam used? 
Granpidam can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by 
a doctor who has experience in the treatment of PAH.  
Granpidam is available as tablets (20 mg). In adults, Granpidam is taken at a dose of 20 mg three 
times a day. Lower doses of Granpidam may be needed in patients taking some medicines that affect 
the way Granpidam is broken down in the body. 
In children aged 1 to 17 years, the recommended dose is 20 mg three times a day in those over 20 kg. 
Higher doses should not be used. In children weighing less than 20 kg the maximum recommended 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
dose would be 10 mg three times a day but Granpidam can only be used when a 20-mg dose is to be 
given. For lower doses, other medicines containing sildenafil should therefore be used. 
How does Granpidam work? 
PAH is a debilitating disease where there is severe constriction (narrowing) of the blood vessels of the 
lungs. This leads to high blood pressure in the vessels taking blood from the heart to the lungs and 
reduces the amount of oxygen that can get into the blood in the lungs, making physical activity more 
difficult. The active substance in Granpidam, sildenafil, belongs to a group of medicines called 
‘phosphodiesterase-type-5 (PDE5) inhibitors’, which means that it blocks the PDE5 enzyme. This 
enzyme is found in the blood vessels of the lungs. When it is blocked, a substance called ‘cyclic 
guanine monophosphate’ (cGMP) cannot be broken down, so that it remains in the vessels where it 
causes relaxation and widening of the blood vessels. In patients with PAH, sildenafil widens the blood 
vessels of the lungs, which lowers the blood pressure and improves symptoms. 
How has Granpidam been studied? 
Because the effectiveness and safety of sildenafil in PAH is already well established, studies in people 
have been limited to tests to determine that it is bioequivalent to another authorised sildenafil-
containing tablet. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active 
substance in the body. In this case Granpidam was not compared with the reference product Revatio, 
but with Viagra. This was considered acceptable since Revatio and Viagra have the same composition 
and are made in the same way by the same manufacturer. 
What are the benefits and risks of Granpidam? 
Because Granpidam is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Granpidam approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Granpidam was considered to be comparable to Revatio. Therefore, the CHMP’s 
view was that, as for Revatio, the benefit of Granpidam outweighs the identified risk. The Committee 
recommended that Granpidam be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Granpidam? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Granpidam have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.   
Other information about Granpidam 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Granpidam on 14 November 2016. 
The full EPAR for Granpidam can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Granpidam, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Granpidam  
EMA/622310/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016. 
Granpidam  
EMA/622310/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
