Summary of risk management plan for Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 
48  MU/0.5  ml  solution  for  injection/infusion  in  pre-filled  syringe 
(filgrastim) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Grastofil  30  MU/0.5  ml  and 
48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe. The RMP details important risks 
for Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about for Grastofil 
30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe’s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml  and 48 MU/0.5 ml  solution for injection/infusion  in pre-filled syringe’s 
summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and  its package leaflet give essential  information  to 
healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  for  Grastofil  30  MU/0.5  ml  and  48  MU/0.5  ml 
solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/ 
infusion  in  pre-filled  syringe  should  be  read  in  the  context of  all  this  information  including  the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5  ml and 48  MU/0.5  ml solution  for injection/infusion  in pre-filled syringe’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe is 
indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia 
in adult patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic 
myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) (see SmPC for the full indication).  
It contains filgrastim as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous or intravenous route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for 
injection/infusion  in  pre-filled  syringe’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Grastofil  30  MU/0.5  ml  and 
48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe’s EPAR, including in its plain-
language  summary,  available  on 
the  EMA  website,  under 
the  medicine’s  webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/grastofil 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-
filled syringe, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning 
more about Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled 
syringe's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment and signal management activity, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml 
solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing 
information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-
filled  syringe  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof 
 
 
of a link with the use of Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/ infusion 
in  pre-filled  syringe.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine); 
Important identified risks 
  Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet’s 
syndrome) 
  Acute respiratory distress syndrome 
  Capillary leak syndrome 
  Cutaneous Vasculitis 
  Exacerbation of rheumatoid arthritis 
  Graft versus Host Disease (GvHD) 
  Haemoptysis 
  Hypersensitivity (including anaphylaxis) 
 
Interstitial pneumonia 
  Lung infiltration 
  Osteoporosis in patient with SCN 
  Pulmonary haemorrhage 
  Sickle cell anaemia with crisis 
  Splenomegaly/Splenic rupture 
  Transformation to leukaemia or myelodisplastic 
syndrome (in patients with severe chronic neutropenia) 
  Thrombocytopenia 
Important potential risks 
  Cytokine release syndrome 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
Interaction with lithium 
  Malignant cell growth (haematological malignancy and 
myelodysplastic syndrome) in healthy stem cell donors 
  Risks in long term use 
  Risks in off-label use 
  Extramedullary hematopoiesis 
 
Missing information 
  Risks in pregnancy and lactation 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific  obligation  of 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml and 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Grastofil  30  MU/0.5  ml  and  48  MU/0.5  ml  solution  for 
injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe as post-authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
