ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 million units (MU)/300 micrograms of filgrastim in 0.5ml 
(0.6 mg/ml) solution for injection/infusion. 
Filgrastim is a recombinant methionyl human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor produced in 
Escherichia coli (BL21) by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect:  
Each ml of solution contains 50 mg of sorbitol (E420).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection/infusion. 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINCAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Grastofil is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the 
exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the reduction in the 
duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow 
transplantation considered to be at increased risk of prolonged severe neutropenia.  
The safety and efficacy of Grastofil are similar in adults and children receiving cytotoxic 
chemotherapy.  
Grastofil is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs). 
In patients, children or adults with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 x 109/L, and a history of severe or recurrent infections, long term 
administration of Grastofil is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to reduce the incidence and 
duration of infection-related events. 
Grastofil is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal to 
1.0 x 109/L) in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial infections 
when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Grastofil therapy should only be given in collaboration with an oncology centre which has experience 
in granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) treatment and haematology and has the necessary 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
diagnostic facilities. The mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration 
with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the 
monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed.  
Established cytotoxic chemotherapy  
Posology  
The recommended dose of Grastofil is 0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day). The first dose of 
Grastofil should be administered at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. In randomised 
clinical trials, a subcutaneous dose of 230 micrograms/m2/day (4.0 to 8.4 micrograms/kg/day) was 
used.  
Daily dosing with Grastofil should continue until the expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the 
neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. Following established chemotherapy for solid 
tumours, lymphomas, and lymphoid leukaemia, it is expected that the duration of treatment required to 
fulfil these criteria will be up to 14 days. Following induction and consolidation treatment for acute 
myeloid leukaemia the duration of treatment may be substantially longer (up to 38 days) depending on 
the type, dose and schedule of cytotoxic chemotherapy used.  
In patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, a transient increase in neutrophil counts is typically seen 
1-2 days after initiation of Grastofil therapy. However, for a sustained therapeutic response, Grastofil 
therapy should not be discontinued before the expected nadir has passed and the neutrophil count has 
recovered to the normal range. Premature discontinuation of Grastofil therapy, prior to the time of the 
expected neutrophil nadir, is not recommended.  
Method of administration  
Grastofil may be given as a daily subcutaneous injection or as a daily intravenous infusion diluted in 
5% glucose solution given over 30 minutes (see section 6.6). The subcutaneous route is preferred in 
most cases. There is some evidence from a study of single dose administration that intravenous dosing 
may shorten the duration of effect. The clinical relevance of this finding to multiple dose 
administration is not clear. The choice of route should depend on the individual clinical circumstance.  
In patients treated with myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow transplantation  
Posology  
The recommended starting dose of Grastofil is 1.0 MU/kg/day (10 micrograms/kg/day). The first dose 
of Grastofil should be administered at least 24 hours following cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least 24 
hours after bone marrow injection/infusion.  
Once the neutrophil nadir has been passed, the daily dose of Grastofil should be titrated against the 
neutrophil response as follows: 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
ANC > 1.0 x 109/L for 3 consecutive days  
Then, if ANC remains > 1.0 x 109/L for 3 more 
consecutive days  
If the ANC decreases to < 1.0 x 109/L during the treatment period, the dose of Grastofil should be re-
escalated according to the above steps  
ANC = absolute neutrophil count  
Grastofil dose adjustment  
Reduce to 0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day)  
Discontinue Grastofil  
Method of administration  
3 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grastofil may be given as a 30 minute or 24 hour intravenous injection/infusion or given by 
continuous 24 hour subcutaneous injection/infusion. Grastofil should be diluted in 20 mL of 5% 
glucose solution  (see section 6.6).  
For the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs) in patients undergoing 
myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy followed by autologous PBPC transplantation  
Posology  
The recommended dose of Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation when used alone is 1.0 MU/kg/day (10 
micrograms/kg/day) for 5-7 consecutive days. The timing of leukapheresis: one or two leukapheresis 
on days 5 and 6 are often sufficient. In other circumstances, additional leukapheresis may be 
necessary. Grastofil dosing should be maintained until the last leukapheresis.  
The recommended dose of Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy is 
0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day) from the first day after completion of chemotherapy until the 
expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. 
Leukapheresis should be performed during the period when the ANC rises from < 0.5 x 109/L to  
> 5.0 x 109/L. For patients who have not had extensive chemotherapy, one leukapheresis is often 
sufficient. In other circumstances, additional leukapheresis are recommended.  
Method of administration  
Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation when used alone  
Grastofil may be given as a 24 hour subcutaneous continuous infusion or subcutaneous injection. For 
injection/infusions Grastofil should be diluted in 20 mL of 5% glucose solution (see section 6.6).  
Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy 
Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
For the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC transplantation  
Posology  
For PBPC mobilisation in normal donors, Grastofil should be administered at 1.0 MU/kg/day 
(10 micrograms/kg/day) for 4 - 5 consecutive days. Leukapheresis should be started at day 5 and 
CD34+ cells/kg recipient bodyweight.  
continued until day 6 if needed in order to collect 4 x 106
Method of administration  
Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with severe chronic neutropenia (SCN)  
Posology  
Congenital neutropenia: the recommended starting dose is 1.2 MU/kg/day (12 micrograms/kg/day) as 
a single dose or in divided doses.  
Idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia:  the recommended starting dose is 0.5 MU/kg/day  
(5 micrograms/kg/day) as a single dose or in divided doses.  
Dose adjustment: Grastofil should be administered daily by subcutaneous injection until the neutrophil 
count has reached and can be maintained at more than 1.5 x 109/L. When the response has been 
obtained, the minimal effective dose to maintain this level should be established. Long-term daily 
administration is required to maintain an adequate neutrophil count. After one to two weeks of 
therapy, the initial dose may be doubled or halved depending upon the patient's response. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsequently, the dose may be individually adjusted every 1-2 weeks to maintain the average 
neutrophil count between 1.5 x 109/L and 10 x 109/L. A faster schedule of dose escalation may be 
considered in patients presenting with severe infections. In clinical studies, 97% of patients who 
responded had a complete response at doses of ≤ 2.4 MU/kg/day (24 micrograms/kg/day). The  
long-term safety of administration of Grastofil at doses above 2.4 MU/kg/day (24 micrograms/kg/day) 
in patients with SCN has not been established.  
Method of administration  
Congenital, idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia: Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with HIV infection  
Posology  
For reversal of neutropenia  
The recommended starting dose of Grastofil is 0.1 MU/kg/day (1 micrograms/kg/day)  with titration 
up to a maximum of 0.4 MU/kg/day (4 micrograms/kg/day) until a normal neutrophil count is reached 
and can be maintained (ANC > 2.0 x 109/L). In clinical studies, > 90% of patients responded at these 
doses, achieving reversal of neutropenia in a median of 2 days.  
In a small number of patients (< 10%), doses up to 1.0 MU/kg/day (10 micrograms/kg/day) were 
required to achieve reversal of neutropenia. 
For maintenance of normal neutrophil counts  
When reversal of neutropenia has been achieved, the minimal effective dose to maintain a normal 
neutrophil count should be established. Initial dose adjustment to alternate day dosing with 30 MU/day 
(300 micrograms/day) is recommended. Further dose adjustment may be necessary, as determined by 
the patient's ANC, to maintain the neutrophil count at > 2.0 x 109/L. In clinical studies, dosing with 30 
MU/day (300 micrograms/day) on 1 - 7 days per week was required to maintain the ANC 
 > 2.0 x 109/L, with the median dose frequency being 3 days per week. Long-term administration may 
be required to maintain the ANC > 2.0 x 109/L.  
Method of administration  
Reversal of neutropenia or maintaining normal neutrophil counts: Grastofil should be given by 
subcutaneous injection. 
Special populations  
Elderly patients  
Clinical studies with filgrastim have included a small number of elderly patients but special studies 
have not been performed in this group and therefore specific posology recommendations cannot be 
made. 
Patients with renal/hepatic impairment  
Studies of filgrastim in patients with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function demonstrate that it 
exhibits a similar pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile to that seen in normal individuals. 
Dose adjustment is not required in these circumstances.  
Paediatric use in the SCN and cancer settings  
Sixty-five percent of the patients studied in the SCN trial program, were under 18 years of age. The 
efficacy of treatment was clear for this age group, which included most patients with congenital 
neutropenia. There were no differences in the safety profiles for paediatric patients treated for SCN. 
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults, children and adolescents receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose recommendations in paediatric patients are the same as those in adults receiving 
myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.   
Special warnings and precautions across indications 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have 
been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. Permanently discontinue filgrastim in patients with 
clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer filgrastim to patients with a history of 
hypersensitivity to filgrastim or pegfilgrastim.  
Pulmonary adverse reactions 
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial lung disease, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of lung infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher risk. 
The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever and dyspnoea in association with radiological signs 
of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in pulmonary function may be preliminary signs of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Filgrastim should be discontinued and appropriate treatment 
given. 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome  
Capillary leak syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported after 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor administration, and is characterised by hypotension, 
hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and hemoconcentration. Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak 
syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may 
include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and Splenic rupture 
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture have been reported in 
patients and normal donors following administration of filgrastim. Some cases of splenic rupture were 
fatal. Therefore, spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A 
diagnosis of splenic rupture should be considered in donors and/or patients reporting left upper 
abdominal or shoulder tip pain. Dose reductions of filgrastim have been noted to slow or stop the 
progression of splenic enlargement in patients with severe chronic neutropenia, and in 3% of patients a 
splenectomy was required. 
Malignant cell growth 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and similar effects 
may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome or Chronic myeloid leukemia 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chronic myelogenous leukaemia have not been established. Filgrastim is not indicated for use in these 
conditions. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of 
chronic myeloid leukaemia from acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
In view of limited safety and efficacy data in patients with secondary AML, filgrastim should be 
administered with caution. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in de novo AML 
patients aged < 55 years with good cytogenetics [t(8; 21), t(15; 17), and inv(16)] have not been 
established. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim. Platelet counts should be 
monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks of filgrastim therapy. Consideration should be 
given to temporary discontinuation or dose reduction of filgrastim in patients with severe chronic 
neutropenia who develop thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 100 x 109/l). 
Leukocytosis 
White blood cell counts of 100 x 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 5% of cancer 
patients receiving filgrastim at doses above 0.3 MU/kg/day (3 µg/kg/day). No undesirable effects 
directly attributable to this degree of leukocytosis have been reported. However, in view of the 
potential risks associated with severe leukocytosis, a white blood cell count should be performed at 
regular intervals during filgrastim therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50 x 109/L after the expected 
nadir, filgrastim should be discontinued immediately. When administered for PBPC mobilisation, 
filgrastim should be discontinued or its dosage should be reduced if the leukocyte counts rise to  
> 70 x 109/L. 
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against filgrastim is generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF. See also section 4.8.  
Special warnings and precautions associated with co-morbidities 
Special precautions in sickle cell trait and sickle cell disease 
Sickle cell crises, in some cases fatal, have been reported with the use of filgrastim in patients with 
sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. Physicians should use caution when prescribing filgrastim in 
patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. 
Osteoporosis 
Monitoring of bone density may be indicated in patients with underlying osteoporotic bone diseases 
who undergo continuous therapy with filgrastim for more than 6 months. 
Special precautions in cancer patients 
Filgrastim should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic chemotherapy beyond established 
dosage regimens. 
Risks associated with increased doses of chemotherapy 
Special caution should be used when treating patients with high dose chemotherapy because improved 
tumour outcome has not been demonstrated and intensified doses of chemotherapeutic medicinal 
products may lead to increased toxicities including cardiac, pulmonary, neurologic and dermatologic 
effects (please refer to the prescribing information of the specific chemotherapy medicinal products 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used). 
Effect of chemotherapy on erythrocytes and thrombocytes 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Because of the potential of receiving higher doses of chemotherapy 
(e.g. full doses on the prescribed schedule) the patient may be at greater risk of thrombocytopenia and 
anaemia. Regular monitoring of platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should 
be taken when administering single or combination chemotherapeutic agents which are known to 
cause severe thrombocytopenia. 
The use of filgrastim-mobilised PBPCs has been shown to reduce the depth and duration of 
thrombocytopenia following myelosuppressive or myeloablative chemotherapy. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients 
In the post-marketing observational study setting, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim, an alternative G-CSF 
medicine, in conjunction with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in breast and lung cancer patients. A 
similar association between filgrastim and MDS/AML has not been observed. Nonetheless, patients 
with breast cancer and patients with lung cancer should be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
MDS/AML. 
Other special precautions 
The effects of filgrastim in patients with substantially reduced myeloid progenitors have not been 
studied. Filgrastim acts primarily on neutrophil precursors to exert its effect in elevating neutrophil 
counts. Therefore, in patients with reduced precursors, neutrophil response may be diminished (such 
as those treated with extensive radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or those with bone marrow infiltration 
by tumour). 
Vascular disorders, including veno-occlusive disease and fluid volume disturbances, have been 
reported occasionally in patients undergoing high dose chemotherapy followed by transplantation. 
There have been reports of graft versus host disease (GvHD) and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF 
after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient abnormal bone scans. This should be considered when interpreting bone-
imaging results. 
Special precautions in patients undergoing PBPC mobilisation 
Mobilisation  
There are no prospectively randomised comparisons of the two recommended mobilisation methods 
(filgrastim alone, or in combination with myelosuppressive chemotherapy) within the same patient 
population. The degree of variation between individual patients and between laboratory assays of 
CD34+ cells mean that direct comparison between different studies is difficult. It is therefore difficult 
to recommend an optimum method. The choice of mobilisation method should be considered in 
relation to the overall objectives of treatment for an individual patient.  
Prior exposure to cytotoxic agents  
Patients who have undergone very extensive prior myelosuppressive therapy may not show sufficient 
mobilisation of PBPC to achieve the recommended minimum yield (2.0 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) or 
acceleration of platelet recovery to the same degree. 
Some cytotoxic agents exhibit particular toxicities to the haematopoietic progenitor pool and may 
adversely affect progenitor mobilisation. Agents such as melphalan, carmustine (BCNU) and 
carboplatin, when administered over prolonged periods prior to attempts at progenitor mobilisation, 
may reduce progenitor yield. However, the administration of melphalan, carboplatin or carmustine 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(BCNU) together with filgrastim has been shown to be effective for progenitor mobilisation. When 
peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation is envisaged it is advisable to plan the stem cell 
mobilisation procedure early in the treatment course of the patient. Particular attention should be paid 
to the number of progenitors mobilised in such patients before the administration of high-dose 
chemotherapy. If yields are inadequate, as measured by the criteria above, alternative forms of 
treatment not requiring progenitor support should be considered. 
Assessment of progenitor cell yields 
In assessing the number of progenitor cells harvested in patients treated with filgrastim, particular 
attention should be paid to the method of quantitation. The results of flow cytometric analysis of 
CD34+ cell numbers vary depending on the precise methodology used and therefore, recommendations 
of numbers based on studies in other laboratories need to be interpreted with caution. 
Statistical analysis of the relationship between the number of CD34+ cells re-infused and the rate of 
platelet recovery after high-dose chemotherapy indicates a complex but continuous relationship. 
The recommendation of a minimum yields of ≥ 2.0 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg is based on published 
experience resulting in adequate haematologic reconstitution. Yields in excess of this appear to 
correlate with more rapid recovery; those below with slower recovery. 
Special precautions in normal donors undergoing peripheral blood progenitor cell mobilisation 
Mobilisation of PBPC does not provide a direct clinical benefit to normal donors and should only be 
considered for the purposes of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. 
PBPC mobilisation should be considered only in donors who meet normal clinical and laboratory 
eligibility criteria for stem cell donation with special attention to haematological values and infectious 
disease.  
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim has not been assessed in normal donors less than 16 years or 
greater than 60 years of age.  
Transient thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/L) following filgrastim administration and 
leukapheresis was observed in 35% of subjects studied. Among these, two cases of platelets  
< 50 x 109/L  were reported and attributed to the leukapheresis procedure.  
If more than one leukapheresis is required, particular attention should be paid to donors with platelets 
< 100 x 109/L prior to leukapheresis; in general apheresis should not be performed if platelets < 75 x 
109/L.  
Leukapheresis should not be performed in donors who are anticoagulated or who have known defects 
in haemostasis.  
Donors who receive G-CSFs for PBPC mobilisation should be monitored until haematological indices 
return to normal.  
Special precautions in recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim 
Current data indicate that immunological interactions between the allogeneic PBPC graft and the 
recipient may be associated with an increased risk of acute and chronic GvHD when compared with 
bone marrow transplantation. 
Special precautions in SCN patients 
Filgrastim should not be administered to patients with severe congenital neutropenia who develop 
leukaemia or have evidence of leukaemic evolution. 
Blood cell counts 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other blood cell changes occur, including anaemia and transient increases in myeloid progenitors, 
which require close monitoring of cell counts. 
Transformation to leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndrome 
Special care should be taken in the diagnosis of SCNs to distinguish them from other haematopoietic 
disorders such as aplastic anaemia, myelodysplasia and myeloid leukaemia. Complete blood cell 
counts with differential and platelet counts and an evaluation of bone marrow morphology and 
karyotype should be performed prior to treatment. 
There was a low frequency (approximately 3%) of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or leukaemia in 
clinical trial patients with SCN treated with filgrastim. This observation has only been made in 
patients with congenital neutropenia. MDS and leukaemias are natural complications of the disease 
and are of uncertain relation to filgrastim therapy. A subset of approximately 12% of patients who had 
normal cytogenetic evaluations at baseline were subsequently found to have abnormalities, including 
monosomy 7, on routine repeat evaluation. It is currently unclear whether long-term treatment of 
patients with SCN will predispose patients to cytogenetic abnormalities, MDS or leukaemic 
transformation. It is recommended to perform morphologic and cytogenetic bone marrow 
examinations in patients at regular intervals (approximately every 12 months). 
Other special precautions 
Causes of transient neutropenia such as viral infections should be excluded. 
Haematuria was common and proteinuria occurred in a small number of patients. Regular urinalysis 
should be performed to monitor these events. 
The safety and efficacy in neonates and patients with autoimmune neutropenia have not been 
established. 
Special precautions in patients with HIV infection  
Blood cell counts 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks 
of filgrastim therapy. Some patients may respond very rapidly and with a considerable increase in 
neutrophil count to the initial dose of filgrastim. It is recommended that the ANC is measured daily for 
the first 2 to 3 days of filgrastim administration. Thereafter, it is recommended that the ANC is 
measured at least twice weekly for the first two weeks and subsequently once per week or once every 
other week during maintenance therapy. During intermittent dosing with 30 MU (300 microgram)/day 
of filgrastim, there can be wide fluctuations in the patient's ANC over time. In order to determine a 
patient's trough or nadir ANC, it is recommended that blood samples are taken for ANC measurement 
immediately prior to any scheduled dosing with filgrastim. 
Risk associated with increased doses of myelosuppressive medications 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive medications. As a result of the potential to receive higher doses or a greater number 
of these medications with filgrastim therapy, the patient may be at higher risk of developing 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia. Regular monitoring of blood counts is recommended (see above). 
Infections and malignancies causing myelosuppression 
Neutropenia may be due to bone marrow infiltrating opportunistic infections such as Mycobacterium 
avium complex or malignancies such as lymphoma. In patients with known bone marrow-infiltrating 
infections or malignancy, consider appropriate therapy for treatment of the underlying condition in 
addition to administration of filgrastim for treatment of neutropenia. The effects of filgrastim on 
neutropenia due to bone marrow-infiltrating infection or malignancy have not been well established. 
All patients 
This medicinal product contains 50 mg sorbitol. Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) 
must not be given this medicinal product unless strictly necessary.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Babies and young children (below 2 years of age) may not yet be diagnosed with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI). Medicines (containing sorbitol/fructose) given intravenously may be life-
threatening and should be contraindicated in this population unless there is an overwhelming clinical 
need and no alternatives are available. 
A detailed history with regard to HFI symptoms has to be taken of each patient prior to being given 
this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex), which 
may cause allergic reactions. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim given on the same day as myelosuppressive cytotoxic 
chemotherapy have not been definitively established. In view of the sensitivity of rapidly dividing 
myeloid cells to myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy, the use of filgrastim is not recommended 
in the period from 24 hours before to 24 hours after chemotherapy. Preliminary evidence from a small 
number of patients treated concomitantly with filgrastim and 5-Fluorouracil indicates that the severity 
of neutropenia may be exacerbated. 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not yet been 
investigated in clinical trials. 
Since lithium promotes the release of neutrophils, lithium is likely to potentiate the effect of filgrastim. 
Although this interaction has not been formally investigated, there is no evidence that such an 
interaction is harmful. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of filgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity. An increased incidence of embryo-loss has been observed 
in rabbits at high multiples of the clinical exposure and in the presence of maternal toxicity (see 
section 5.3). There are reports in the literature where the transplacental passage of filgrastim in 
pregnant women has been demonstrated.  
Filgrastim is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether filgrastim / metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue  
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from filgrastim therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Filgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Filgrastim has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur 
11 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following the administration of filgrastim (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most serious adverse reactions that may occur during filgrastim treatment include: anaphylactic 
reaction, serious pulmonary adverse events (including interstitial pneumonia and ARDS), capillary 
leak syndrome, severe splenomegaly/splenic rupture, transformation to myelodysplastic syndrome or 
leukaemia in SCN patients, GvHD in patients receiving allogeneic bone marrow transfer or peripheral 
blood cell progenitor cell transplant and sickle cell crisis in patients with sickle cell disease. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are pyrexia, musculoskeletal pain (which includes 
bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal 
chest pain, neck pain), anaemia, vomiting, and nausea. In clinical trials in cancer patients 
musculoskeletal pain was mild or moderate in 10%, and severe in 3% of patients. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The data in the tables below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical trials and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness.  
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Infections and 
infestations 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 
1/10) 
Sepsis 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000) 
Bronchitis 
Upper 
respiratory tract 
infection 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Splenomegalya 
Haemoglobin 
decreasede 
Decreased 
appetitea 
Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase 
increased  
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
12 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anaemiae 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headachea 
Leukocytosisa 
Splenic rupturea 
Hypersensitivity 
Drug 
hypersensitivitya  
Graft versus Host 
Diseaseb 
Hyperuricaemia 
Blood uric acid 
increased  
Sickle cell anaemia with 
crisis 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Blood glucose decreased  
Pseudogouta  
(Chondrocalcinosis 
Pyrophosphate)  
Fluid volume 
disturbances 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 
1/10) 
Hypoaesthesia  
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000) 
Vascular 
Disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Paraesthesia 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
Haemoptysis 
Dyspnoea 
Cougha  
Veno-occlusive 
diseased 
Capillary leak syndromea 
Aortitis 
Acute respiratory 
distress syndromea  
Respiratory 
failurea  
Oropharyngeal 
paina, e  
Pulmonary 
oedemaa  
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Diarrhoeaa, e  
Oral Pain 
Vomitinga, e  
Constipatione  
Nauseaa 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Hepatomegaly 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Interstitial lung 
diseasea  
Lung infiltrationa  
Hypoxia 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Gamma-glutamyl 
transferase 
increased 
Rash maculo- 
papular 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Alopeciaa 
Rasha  
Erythema 
Musculoskeletal 
painc 
Muscle spasms 
Osteoporosis 
Dysuria 
Proteinuria 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Fatiguea  
Mucosal 
inflammationa 
Pyrexia 
Injection site 
reaction 
Haematuria 
Chest paina 
Paina 
Astheniaa 
Malaisee  
Oedema 
13 
Cutaneous vasculitisa 
Sweets syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic dermatosis) 
Bone density decreased  
Exacerbation of 
rheumatoid arthritis 
Glomerulonephritis 
Urine abnormality 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 
1/10) 
peripherale 
Transfusion 
reactione 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000) 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
a See section: Description of selected adverse reactions  
b There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see section 
Description of selected adverse reactions)  
c Includes bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, neck 
pain  
d Cases were observed in the post-marketing setting in patients undergoing bone marrow transplant or PBPC mobilization  
e Adverse events with higher incidence in filgrastim patients compared to placebo and associated with the sequelae of the 
underlying malignancy or cytotoxic chemotherapy  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea and 
hypotension occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have been reported in clinical studies and in 
post-marketing experience. Overall, reports were more common after intravenous administration. In 
some cases, symptoms have recurred with rechallenge, suggesting a causal relationship. Filgrastim 
should be permanently discontinued in patients who experience a serious allergic reaction.  
Pulmonary adverse events 
In clinical studies and the post-marketing setting pulmonary adverse effects including interstitial lung 
disease, pulmonary oedema, and lung infiltration have been reported in some cases with an outcome of 
respiratory failure or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which may be fatal (see section 
4.4). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Cases of splenomegaly and splenic rupture have been reported following administration of filgrastim. 
Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal (see section 4.4).   
Capillary leak syndrome 
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor use. 
These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking multiple 
chemotherapy medications or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4). 
Cutaneous vasculitis 
Cutaneous vasculitis has been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. The mechanism of vasculitis 
in patients receiving filgrastim is unknown. During long-term use cutaneous vasculitis has been 
reported in 2% of SCN patients. 
Leukocytosis 
Leukocytosis (WBC > 50 x 109/L) was observed in 41% of normal donors and transient 
thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/L) following filgrastim treatment and leukapheresis was 
observed in 35% of donors (see section 4.4). 
Sweets syndrome 
Cases of Sweets syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis) have been reported in patients 
treated with filgrastim. 
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate) 
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate) has been reported in patients with cancer treated with 
filgrastim. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GvHD 
There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF after allogeneic bone 
marrow transplantation (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Paediatric population  
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults and children receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy suggesting no   age-related 
differences in the pharmacokinetics of filgrastim. The only consistently reported adverse event was 
musculoskeletal pain which is no different from the experience in the adult population. 
There is insufficient data to further evaluate filgrastim use in paediatric subjects.  
Other special populations  
Geriatric use 
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects over 65 years of age 
compared to younger adult (>18 years of age) subjects receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy and clinical 
experience has not identified differences in the responses between elderly and younger adult patients. 
There is insufficient data to evaluate filgrastim use in geriatric subjects for other approved Grastofil 
indications.  
Paediatric SCN patients 
Cases of decreased bone density and osteoporosis have been reported in paediatric patients with severe 
chronic neutropenia receiving chronic treatment with filgrastim.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The effects of Grastofil overdosage have not been established. Discontinuation of filgrastim therapy 
usually results in a 50% decrease in circulating neutrophils within 1 to 2 days, with a return to normal 
levels in 1 to 7 days. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunostimulants, colony stimulating factors, ATC code: L03AA02 
Grastofil is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Human G-CSF is a glycoprotein which regulates the production and release of functional neutrophils 
from the bone marrow. Grastofil containing r-metHuG-CSF (filgrastim) causes marked increases in 
peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases in monocytes. In some SCN 
patients, filgrastim can also induce a minor increase in the number of circulating eosinophils and 
basophils relative to baseline; some of these patients may present with eosinophilia or basophilia 
already prior to treatment. Elevations of neutrophil counts are dose-dependent at recommended doses. 
Neutrophils produced in response to filgrastim show normal or enhanced function as demonstrated by 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tests of chemotactic and phagocytic function. Following termination of filgrastim therapy, circulating 
neutrophil counts decrease by 50% within 1 to 2 days, and to normal levels within 1 to 7 days.  
Use of filgrastim in patients undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy leads to significant reductions in the 
incidence, severity and duration of neutropenia and febrile neutropenia. Treatment with filgrastim 
significantly reduces the duration of febrile neutropenia, antibiotic use and hospitalisation after 
induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia or myeloablative therapy followed by bone 
marrow transplantation. The incidence of fever and documented infections were not reduced in either 
setting. The duration of fever was not reduced in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed 
by bone marrow transplantation.  
Use of filgrastim, either alone, or after chemotherapy, mobilises haematopoietic progenitor cells into 
the peripheral blood. These autologous PBPCs may be harvested and infused after high-dose cytotoxic 
therapy, either in place of, or in addition to bone marrow transplantation. Infusion of PBPCs 
accelerates haematopoietic recovery reducing the duration of risk for haemorrhagic complications and 
the need for platelet transfusions.  
Recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim experienced significantly more rapid 
haematological recovery, leading to a significant decrease in time to unsupported platelet recovery 
when compared with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. 
One retrospective European study evaluating the use of G-CSF after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation in patients with acute leukaemias suggested an increase in the risk of GvHD, treatment 
related mortality (TRM) and mortality when G-CSF was administered. In a separate retrospective 
international study in patients with acute and chronic myelogenous leukaemias, no effect on the risk of 
GvHD, TRM and mortality was seen. A meta-analysis of allogeneic transplant studies, including the 
results of nine prospective randomised trials, 8 retrospective studies and 1 case-controlled study, did 
not detect an effect on the risks of acute GvHD, chronic GvHD or early treatment-related mortality.  
Relative risk (95% CI) of GvHD and TRM following treatment with G-CSF after bone 
marrow (BM) transplantation 
Publication  
TRM 
N 
Period of 
study 
1986 - 2001a 
1198  
1992 – 2002b 
1789  
Acute grade          
II - IV GvHD 
1.08 
(0.87, 1.33)  
1.33 
    (1.08, 1.64)  
Chronic 
GvHD 
1.02 
(0.82, 1.26)  
1.29 
(1.02, 1.61)  
0.70 
(0.38, 1.31)  
1.73 
(1.30, 2.32)  
1995 – 2000b 
2110  
1.11 
  (0.86, 1.42)  
1.10 
1.26 
(0.86, 1.39)  
(0.95, 1.67)  
Meta-Analysis   
(2003)  
European 
Retrospective  
Study (2004)  
International 
Retrospective  
Study (2006)  
a 
Analysis includes studies involving BM transplant during this period; some studies used GM-CSF  
b 
Analysis includes patients receiving BM transplant during this period  
Use of filgrastim for the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC 
transplantation  
In normal donors, a 10 micrograms/kg/day dose administered subcutaneously for 4 - 5 consecutive 
days allows a collection of ≥ 4 x 106 
donors after two leukaphereses.  
CD34+ cells/kg recipient body weight in the majority of the 
Use of filgrastim in patients, children or adults, with SCN (severe congenital, cyclic, and idiopathic 
neutropenia) induces a sustained increase in absolute neutrophil counts in peripheral blood and a 
reduction of infection and related events.  
Use of filgrastim in patients with HIV infection maintains normal neutrophil counts to allow scheduled 
dosing of antiviral and/or other myelosuppressive medication. There is no evidence that patients with 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HIV infection treated with filgrastim show an increase in HIV replication. 
As with other haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro stimulating properties on 
human endothelial cells. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following subcutaneous administration of recommended doses, serum concentrations were maintained 
above 10 ng/mL for 8 - 16 hours.  
Distribution  
The volume of distribution in blood is approximately 150 mL/kg.  
Elimination  
Clearance of filgrastim has been shown to follow first-order pharmacokinetics after both subcutaneous 
and intravenous administration. The serum elimination half-life of filgrastim is approximately 3.5 
hours, with a clearance rate of approximately 0.6 mL/min/kg. Continuous infusion with filgrastim over 
a period of up to 28 days, in patients recovering from autologous bone-marrow transplantation, 
resulted in no evidence of drug accumulation and comparable elimination half-lives.  
Linearity 
There is a positive linear correlation between the dose and the serum concentration of filgrastim, 
whether administered intravenously or subcutaneously.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Filgrastim was studied in repeated dose toxicity studies up to 1 year in duration which revealed 
changes attributable to the expected pharmacological actions including increases in leukocytes, 
myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, extramedullary granulopoiesis and splenic enlargement. These 
changes all reversed after discontinuation of treatment. 
Effects of filgrastim on prenatal development have been studied in rats and rabbits. Intravenous (80 
μg/kg/day) administration of filgrastim to rabbits during the period of organogenesis was maternally 
toxic and increased spontaneous abortion, post-implantation loss, and decreased mean live litter size 
and foetal weight were observed. 
Based on reported data for another filgrastim product similar to Grastofil, comparable findings plus 
increased foetal malformations were observed at 100 μg/kg/day, a maternally toxic dose which 
corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 50-90 times the exposures observed in patients 
treated with the clinical dose of 5 μg/kg/day. The no observed adverse effect level for embryo-foetal 
toxicity in this study was 10 μg/kg/day, which corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 
3-5 times the exposures observed in patients treated with the clinical dose. 
In pregnant rats, no maternal or foetal toxicity was observed at doses up to 575 μg/kg/day. Offspring 
of rats administered filgrastim during the peri-natal and lactation periods, exhibited a delay in external 
differentiation and growth retardation (≥20 μg/kg/day) and slightly reduced survival rate  
(100 μg/kg/day).  
Filgrastim had no observed effect on the fertility of male or female rats. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glacial acetic acid  
Sodium hydroxide 
Sorbitol (E420)  
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Diluted filgrastim may be adsorbed to glass and plastic materials. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted solution for injection/infusion has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should 
be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C, unless 
dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Accidental one-time exposure to freezing temperatures does not adversely affect the stability of 
Grastofil. If exposure has been greater than 24 hours or frozen more than once then Grastofil should 
not be used. 
Within its shelf-life and for the purpose of ambulatory use, the patient may remove Grastofil from the 
refrigerator and store it at room temperature (not above 25°C) for one single period of up to 15 days. 
At the end of this period, Grastofil should not be put back in the refrigerator and should be disposed of 
in accordance with local requirements. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Type I glass pre-filled syringe with permanently attached stainless steel needle in the tip and 1/40 
printed markings for graduations from 0.1 mL to 1 mL on the barrel. The needle cover of the pre-filled 
syringe contains dry natural rubber (latex, see section 4.4). Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 mL 
solution. 
Pack sizes: Cartons containing 1 or 5 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
If required, Grastofil may be diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection/infusion. Dilution to a final 
concentration less than 0.2 MU (2 µg) per mL is not recommended at any time. 
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used. Do not shake.  
For patients treated with filgrastim diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 µg) per mL, human 
serum albumin (HSA) should be added to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. Example: In a final 
injection volume of 20 mL, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 µg) should be given with 
0.2 mL of 200 mg/mL (20%) human albumin solution added. 
Grastofil contains no preservative. In view of the possible risk of microbial contamination, Grastofil 
pre-filled syringes are for single use only. 
When diluted in 5% glucose, Grastofil is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics including 
PVC, polyolefin (a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene. 
Disposal  
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/877/001 
EU/1/13/877/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 October 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 4 October 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grastofil 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 48 million units (MU)/480 micrograms of filgrastim in 0.5ml.  
(0.960 mg/ml) solution for injection/infusion. 
Filgrastim is a recombinant methionyl human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor produced in 
Escherichia coli (BL21) by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect  
Each ml of solution contains 50 mg of sorbitol (E420).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection/infusion  
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINCAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Grastofil is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the 
exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the reduction in the 
duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow 
transplantation considered to be at increased risk of prolonged severe neutropenia.  
The safety and efficacy of Grastofil are similar in adults and children receiving cytotoxic 
chemotherapy.  
Grastofil is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs). 
In patients, children or adults with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 x 109/L, and a history of severe or recurrent infections, long term 
administration of Grastofil is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to reduce the incidence and 
duration of infection-related events. 
Grastofil is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal to  
1.0 x 109/L) in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial infections 
when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Grastofil therapy should only be given in collaboration with an oncology centre which has experience 
in granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) treatment and haematology and has the necessary 
diagnostic facilities. The mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the 
monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed.  
Established cytotoxic chemotherapy  
Posology 
The recommended dose of Grastofil is 0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day). The first dose of 
Grastofil should be administered at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.  In randomised 
clinical trials, a subcutaneous dose of 230 micrograms/m2/day (4.0 to 8.4 micrograms/kg/day) was 
used.  
Daily dosing with Grastofil should continue until the expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the 
neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. Following established chemotherapy for solid 
tumours, lymphomas, and lymphoid leukaemia, it is expected that the duration of treatment required to 
fulfil these criteria will be up to 14 days. Following induction and consolidation treatment for acute 
myeloid leukaemia the duration of treatment may be substantially longer (up to 38 days) depending on 
the type, dose and schedule of cytotoxic chemotherapy used.  
In patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, a transient increase in neutrophil counts is typically seen 
1-2 days after initiation of Grastofil therapy. However, for a sustained therapeutic response, Grastofil 
therapy should not be discontinued before the expected nadir has passed and the neutrophil count has 
recovered to the normal range. Premature discontinuation of Grastofil therapy, prior to the time of the 
expected neutrophil nadir, is not recommended.  
Method of Administration  
Grastofil may be administered as a daily subcutaneous injection or as a daily intravenous infusion 
diluted in 5% glucose solution given over 30 minutes (see section 6.6). The subcutaneous route is 
preferred in most cases. There is some evidence from a study of single dose administration that 
intravenous dosing may shorten the duration of effect. The clinical relevance of this finding to 
multiple dose administration is not clear. The choice of route should depend on the individual clinical 
circumstance.  
In patients treated with myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow transplantation  
Posology 
The recommended starting dose of Grastofil is 1.0 MU/kg/day (10 micrograms/kg/day). The first dose 
of Grastofil should be administered at least 24 hours following cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least 24 
hours after bone marrow injection/infusion.  
Once the neutrophil nadir has been passed, the daily dose of Grastofil should be titrated against the 
neutrophil response as follows: 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
ANC > 1.0 x 109/L for 3 consecutive days  
Then, if ANC remains > 1.0 x 109/L for 3 more 
consecutive days  
If the ANC decreases to < 1.0 x 109/L during the treatment period, the dose of Grastofil should be re-
escalated according to the above steps  
ANC = absolute neutrophil count  
Grastofil dose adjustment  
Reduce to 0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day)  
Discontinue Grastofil  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of Administration  
Grastofil may be given as a 30 minute or 24 hour intravenous injection/infusion or given by 
continuous 24 hour subcutaneous injection/infusion. Grastofil should be diluted in 20 mL of 5% 
glucose solution  (see section 6.6).  
For the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs in patients undergoing 
myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy followed by autologous PBPC transplantation  
Posology 
The recommended dose of Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation when used alone is 1.0 MU/kg/day 
(10 micrograms/kg/day) for 5-7 consecutive days. The timing of leukapheresis: one or two 
leukapheresis on days 5 and 6 are often sufficient. In other circumstances, additional leukapheresis 
may be necessary. Grastofil dosing should be maintained until the last leukapheresis.  
The recommended dose of Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy is 
0.5 MU/kg/day (5 micrograms/kg/day) from the first day after completion of chemotherapy until the 
expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. 
Leukapheresis should be performed during the period when the ANC rises from < 0.5 x 109/L to  
> 5.0 x 109/L. For patients who have not had extensive chemotherapy, one leukapheresis is often 
sufficient. In other circumstances, additional leukapheresis are recommended.  
Method of administration  
Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation when used alone 
Grastofil may be given as a 24 hour subcutaneous continuous infusion or subcutaneous injection. For 
injection/infusions Grastofil should be diluted in 20 mL of 5% glucose solution (see section 6.6).  
Grastofil for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy 
Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
For the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC transplantation  
Posology  
For PBPC mobilisation in normal donors, Grastofil should be administered at 1.0 MU/kg/day 
(10 micrograms/kg/day) for 4 - 5 consecutive days. Leukapheresis should be started at day 5 and 
CD34+ cells/kg recipient bodyweight.  
continued until day 6 if needed in order to collect 4 x 106
Method of administration  
Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with severe chronic neutropenia (SCN)  
Posology 
Congenital neutropenia: the recommended starting dose is 1.2 MU/kg/day (12 micrograms/kg/day) as 
a single dose or in divided doses.  
Idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia: the recommended starting dose is 0.5 MU/kg/day (5 
micrograms/kg/day) as a single dose or in divided doses.  
Dose adjustment: Grastofil should be administered daily by subcutaneous injection until the neutrophil 
count has reached and can be maintained at more than 1.5 x 109/L. When the response has been 
obtained, the minimal effective dose to maintain this level should be established. Long-term daily 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration is required to maintain an adequate neutrophil count. After one to two weeks of 
therapy, the initial dose may be doubled or halved depending upon the patient's response. 
Subsequently, the dose may be individually adjusted every 1-2 weeks to maintain the average 
neutrophil count between 1.5 x 109/L and 10 x 109/L.A faster schedule of dose escalation may be 
considered in patients presenting with severe infections. In clinical studies, 97% of patients who 
responded had a complete response at doses of ≤ 2.4 MU/kg/day (24 micrograms/kg/day). The  
long-term safety of administration of Grastofilat doses above 2.4 MU/kg/day (24 micrograms/kg/day) 
in patients with SCN has not been established.  
Method of Administration 
Congenital, idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia: Grastofil should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with HIV infection  
Posology  
For reversal of neutropenia  
The recommended starting dose of Grastofil is 0.1 MU/kg/day (1 micrograms/kg/day) with titration up 
to a maximum of 0.4 MU/kg/day (4 micrograms/kg/day) until a normal neutrophil count is reached 
and can be maintained (ANC > 2.0 x 109/L). In clinical studies, > 90% of patients responded at these 
doses, achieving reversal of neutropenia in a median of 2 days.  
In a small number of patients (< 10%), doses up to 1.0 MU/kg/day (10 micrograms/kg/day) were 
required to achieve reversal of neutropenia. 
For maintenance of normal neutrophil counts  
When reversal of neutropenia has been achieved, the minimal effective dose to maintain a normal 
neutrophil count should be established. Initial dose adjustment to alternate day dosing with 30 MU/day 
(300 micrograms/day) is recommended. Further dose adjustment may be necessary, as determined by 
the patient's ANC, to maintain the neutrophil count at > 2.0 x 109/L. In clinical studies, dosing with 30 
MU/day (300 micrograms/day) on 1 - 7 days per week was required to maintain the ANC  
> 2.0 x 109/L, with the median dose frequency being 3 days per week. Long-term administration may 
be required to maintain the ANC > 2.0 x 109/L.  
Method of Administration 
Reversal of neutropenia or maintaining normal neutrophil counts: Grastofil should be given by 
subcutaneous injection. 
Special populations  
Elderly patients  
Clinical studies with filgrastim have included a small number of elderly patients but special studies 
have not been performed in this group and therefore specific posology recommendations cannot be 
made. 
Patients with renal/hepatic impairment  
Studies of filgrastim in patients with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function demonstrate that it 
exhibits a similar pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile to that seen in normal individuals. 
Dose adjustment is not required in these circumstances.  
Paediatric use in the SCN and cancer settings  
Sixty-five percent of the patients studied in the SCN trial program, were under 18 years of age. The 
efficacy of treatment was clear for this age group, which included most patients with congenital 
neutropenia. There were no differences in the safety profiles for paediatric patients treated for SCN. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults, children and adolescents  receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
The dose recommendations in paediatric patients are the same as those in adults receiving 
myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
Special warnings and precautions across indications 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have 
been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. Permanently discontinue filgrastim in patients with 
clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer filgrastim to patients with a history of 
hypersensitivity to filgrastim or pegfilgrastim.  
Pulmonary adverse reactions 
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial lung disease, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of lung infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher risk. 
The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever and dyspnoea in association with radiological signs 
of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in pulmonary function may be preliminary signs of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Filgrastim should be discontinued and appropriate treatment 
given. 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome  
Capillary leak syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported after 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor administration, and is characterised by hypotension, 
hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and hemoconcentration. Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak 
syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may 
include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and Splenic rupture 
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture have been reported in 
patients and normal donors following administration of filgrastim. Some cases of splenic rupture were 
fatal. Therefore, spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A 
diagnosis of splenic rupture should be considered in donors and/or patients reporting left upper 
abdominal or shoulder tip pain. Dose reductions of filgrastim have been noted to slow or stop the 
progression of splenic enlargement in patients with severe chronic neutropenia, and in 3% of patients a 
splenectomy was required. 
Malignant cell growth 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and similar effects 
may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myelodysplastic syndrome or Chronic myeloid leukemia 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or 
chronic myelogenous leukaemia have not been established. Filgrastim is not indicated for use in these 
conditions. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of 
chronic myeloid leukaemia from acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
In view of limited safety and efficacy data in patients with secondary AML, filgrastim should be 
administered with caution. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in de novo AML 
patients aged < 55 years with good cytogenetics [t(8; 21), t(15; 17), and inv(16)] have not been 
established. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim. Platelet counts should be 
monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks of filgrastim therapy. Consideration should be 
given to temporary discontinuation or dose reduction of filgrastim in patients with severe chronic 
neutropenia who develop thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 100 x 109/l). 
Leukocytosis 
White blood cell counts of 100 x 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 5% of cancer 
patients receiving filgrastim at doses above 0.3 MU/kg/day (3 µg/kg/day). No undesirable effects 
directly attributable to this degree of leukocytosis have been reported. However, in view of the 
potential risks associated with severe leukocytosis, a white blood cell count should be performed at 
regular intervals during filgrastim therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50 x 109/L  after the expected 
nadir, filgrastim should be discontinued immediately. When administered for PBPC mobilisation, 
filgrastim should be discontinued or its dosage should be reduced if the leukocyte counts rise to  
> 70 x 109/L. 
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against filgrastim is generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF. See also section 4.8.  
Special warnings and precautions associated with co-morbidities 
Special precautions in sickle cell trait and sickle cell disease 
Sickle cell crises, in some cases fatal, have been reported with the use of filgrastim in patients with 
sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. Physicians should use caution when prescribing filgrastim in 
patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. 
Osteoporosis 
Monitoring of bone density may be indicated in patients with underlying osteoporotic bone diseases 
who undergo continuous therapy with filgrastim for more than 6 months. 
Special precautions in cancer patients 
Filgrastim should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic chemotherapy beyond established 
dosage regimens. 
Risks associated with increased doses of chemotherapy 
Special caution should be used when treating patients with high dose chemotherapy because improved 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tumour outcome has not been demonstrated and intensified doses of chemotherapeutic medicinaal 
products may lead to increased toxicities including cardiac, pulmonary, neurologic and dermatologic 
effects (please refer to the prescribing information of the specific chemotherapy medicinal products 
used). 
Effect of chemotherapy on erythrocytes and thrombocytes 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Because of the potential of receiving higher doses of chemotherapy 
(e.g. full doses on the prescribed schedule) the patient may be at greater risk of thrombocytopenia and 
anaemia. Regular monitoring of platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should 
be taken when administering single or combination chemotherapeutic agents  which are known to 
cause severe thrombocytopenia. 
The use of filgrastim-mobilised PBPCs has been shown to reduce the depth and duration of 
thrombocytopenia following myelosuppressive or myeloablative chemotherapy. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients 
In the post-marketing observational study setting, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim, an alternative G-CSF 
medicine, in conjunction with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in breast and lung cancer patients. A 
similar association between filgrastim and MDS/AML has not been observed. Nonetheless, patients 
with breast cancer and patients with lung cancer should be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
MDS/AML. 
Other special precautions 
The effects of filgrastim in patients with substantially reduced myeloid progenitors have not been 
studied. Filgrastim acts primarily on neutrophil precursors to exert its effect in elevating neutrophil 
counts. Therefore, in patients with reduced precursors, neutrophil response may be diminished (such 
as those treated with extensive radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or those with bone marrow infiltration 
by tumour). 
Vascular disorders, including veno-occlusive disease and fluid volume disturbances, have been 
reported occasionally in patients undergoing high dose chemotherapy followed by transplantation. 
There have been reports of graft versus host disease (GvHD) and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF 
after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient abnormal bone scans. This should be considered when interpreting bone-
imaging results. 
Special precautions in patients undergoing PBPC mobilisation 
Mobilisation  
There are no prospectively randomised comparisons of the two recommended mobilisation methods 
(filgrastim alone, or in combination with myelosuppressive chemotherapy) within the same patient 
population. The degree of variation between individual patients and between laboratory assays of 
CD34+ cells mean that direct comparison between different studies is difficult. It is therefore difficult 
to recommend an optimum method. The choice of mobilisation method should be considered in 
relation to the overall objectives of treatment for an individual patient.  
Prior exposure to cytotoxic agents  
Patients who have undergone very extensive prior myelosuppressive therapy may not show sufficient 
mobilisation of PBPC to achieve the recommended minimum yield (2.0 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) or 
acceleration of platelet recovery to the same degree. 
Some cytotoxic agents exhibit particular toxicities to the haematopoietic progenitor pool and may 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adversely affect progenitor mobilisation. Agents such as melphalan, carmustine (BCNU) and 
carboplatin, when administered over prolonged periods prior to attempts at progenitor mobilisation, 
may reduce progenitor yield. However, the administration of melphalan, carboplatin or carmustine 
(BCNU) together with filgrastim has been shown to be effective for progenitor mobilisation. When 
peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation is envisaged it is advisable to plan the stem cell 
mobilisation procedure early in the treatment course of the patient. Particular attention should be paid 
to the number of progenitors mobilised in such patients before the administration of high-dose 
chemotherapy. If yields are inadequate, as measured by the criteria above, alternative forms of 
treatment not requiring progenitor support should be considered. 
Assessment of progenitor cell yields 
In assessing the number of progenitor cells harvested in patients treated with filgrastim, particular 
attention should be paid to the method of quantitation. The results of flow cytometric analysis of 
CD34+ cell numbers vary depending on the precise methodology used and therefore, recommendations 
of numbers based on studies in other laboratories need to be interpreted with caution. 
Statistical analysis of the relationship between the number of CD34+ cells re-infused and the rate of 
platelet recovery after high-dose chemotherapy indicates a complex but continuous relationship. 
The recommendation of a minimum yields of ≥ 2.0 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg is based on published 
experience resulting in adequate haematologic reconstitution. Yields in excess of this appear to 
correlate with more rapid recovery; those below with slower recovery. 
Special precautions in normal donors undergoing peripheral blood progenitor cell mobilisation 
Mobilisation of PBPC does not provide a direct clinical benefit to normal donors and should only be 
considered for the purposes of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. 
PBPC mobilisation should be considered only in donors who meet normal clinical and laboratory 
eligibility criteria for stem cell donation with special attention to haematological values and infectious 
disease.  
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim has not been assessed in normal donors less than 16 years or 
greater than 60 years of age.  
Transient thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/L) following filgrastim administration and 
leukapheresis was observed in 35% of subjects studied. Among these, two cases of platelets  
< 50 x 109/L were reported and attributed to the leukapheresis procedure.  
If more than one leukapheresis is required, particular attention should be paid to donors with platelets 
< 100 x 109/L prior to leukapheresis; in general apheresis should not be performed if platelets < 75 x 
109/L.  
Leukapheresis should not be performed in donors who are anticoagulated or who have known defects 
in haemostasis.  
Donors who receive G-CSFs for PBPC mobilisation should be monitored until haematological indices 
return to normal.  
Special precautions in recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim 
Current data indicate that immunological interactions between the allogeneic PBPC graft and the 
recipient may be associated with an increased risk of acute and chronic GvHD when compared with 
bone marrow transplantation. 
Special precautions in SCN patients 
Filgrastim should not be administered to patients with severe congenital neutropenia who develop 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leukaemia or have evidence of leukaemic evolution. 
Blood cell counts 
Other blood cell changes occur, including anaemia and transient increases in myeloid progenitors, 
which require close monitoring of cell counts. 
Transformation to leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndrome 
Special care should be taken in the diagnosis of SCNs to distinguish them from other haematopoietic 
disorders such as aplastic anaemia, myelodysplasia and myeloid leukaemia. Complete blood cell 
counts with differential and platelet counts and an evaluation of bone marrow morphology and 
karyotype should be performed prior to treatment. 
There was a low frequency (approximately 3%) of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or leukaemia in 
clinical trial patients with SCN treated with filgrastim. This observation has only been made in 
patients with congenital neutropenia. MDS and leukaemias are natural complications of the disease 
and are of uncertain relation to filgrastim therapy. A subset of approximately 12% of patients who had 
normal cytogenetic evaluations at baseline were subsequently found to have abnormalities, including 
monosomy 7, on routine repeat evaluation. It is currently unclear whether long-term treatment of 
patients with SCN will predispose patients to cytogenetic abnormalities, MDS or leukaemic 
transformation. It is recommended to perform morphologic and cytogenetic bone marrow 
examinations in patients at regular intervals (approximately every 12 months). 
Other special precautions 
Causes of transient neutropenia such as viral infections should be excluded. 
Haematuria was common and proteinuria occurred in a small number of patients. Regular urinalysis 
should be performed to monitor these events. 
The safety and efficacy in neonates and patients with autoimmune neutropenia have not been 
established. 
Special precautions in patients with HIV infection 
Blood cell counts 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks 
of filgrastim therapy. Some patients may respond very rapidly and with a considerable increase in 
neutrophil count to the initial dose of filgrastim. It is recommended that the ANC is measured daily for 
the first 2 to 3 days of filgrastim administration. Thereafter, it is recommended that the ANC is 
measured at least twice weekly for the first two weeks and subsequently once per week or once every 
other week during maintenance therapy. During intermittent dosing with 30 MU (300 microgram)/day 
of filgrastim, there can be wide fluctuations in the patient's ANC over time. In order to determine a 
patient's trough or nadir ANC, it is recommended that blood samples are taken for ANC measurement 
immediately prior to any scheduled dosing with filgrastim. 
Risk associated with increased doses of myelosuppressive medications 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive medications . As a result of the potential to receive higher doses or a greater number 
of these medications  with filgrastim therapy, the patient may be at higher risk of developing 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia. Regular monitoring of blood counts is recommended (see above). 
Infections and malignancies causing myelosuppression 
Neutropenia may be due to bone marrow infiltrating opportunistic infections such as Mycobacterium 
avium complex or malignancies such as lymphoma. In patients with known bone marrow-infiltrating 
infections or malignancy, consider appropriate therapy for treatment of the underlying condition in 
addition to administration of filgrastim for treatment of neutropenia. The effects of filgrastim on 
neutropenia due to bone marrow-infiltrating infection or malignancy have not been well established. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All patients 
This medicinal product contains 50 mg sorbitol. Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) 
must not be given this medicinal product unless strictly necessary. 
Babies and young children (below 2 years of age) may not yet be diagnosed with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI). Medicines (containing sorbitol/fructose) given intravenously may be life-
threatening and should be contraindicated in this population unless there is an overwhelming clinical 
need and no alternatives are available. 
A detailed history with regard to HFI symptoms has to be taken of each patient prior to being given 
this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex), which 
may cause allergic reactions. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim given on the same day as myelosuppressive cytotoxic 
chemotherapy have not been definitively established. In view of the sensitivity of rapidly dividing 
myeloid cells to myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy, the use of filgrastim is not recommended 
in the period from 24 hours before to 24 hours after chemotherapy. Preliminary evidence from a small 
number of patients treated concomitantly with filgrastim and 5-Fluorouracil indicates that the severity 
of neutropenia may be exacerbated. 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not yet been 
investigated in clinical trials. 
Since lithium promotes the release of neutrophils, lithium is likely to potentiate the effect of filgrastim. 
Although this interaction has not been formally investigated, there is no evidence that such an 
interaction is harmful. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of filgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity.  An increased incidence of embryo-loss has been observed 
in rabbits at high multiples of the clinical exposure and in the presence of maternal toxicity (see 
section 5.3). There are reports in the literature where the transplacental passage of filgrastim in 
pregnant women has been demonstrated.  
Filgrastim is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether filgrastim / metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue  
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from filgrastim therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Filgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats (see section 5.3).  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Filgrastim has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur 
following the administration of filgrastim (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most serious adverse reactions that may occur during filgrastim treatment include: anaphylactic 
reaction, serious pulmonary adverse events (including interstitial pneumonia and ARDS), capillary 
leak syndrome, severe splenomegaly/splenic rupture, transformation to myelodysplastic syndrome or 
leukaemia in SCN patients, GvHD in patients receiving allogeneic bone marrow transfer or peripheral 
blood cell progenitor cell transplant and sickle cell crisis in patients with sickle cell disease. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are pyrexia, musculoskeletal pain (which includes 
bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal 
chest pain, neck pain), anaemia, vomiting, and nausea. In clinical trials in cancer patients 
musculoskeletal pain was mild or moderate in 10%, and severe in 3% of patients. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The data in the tables below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical trials and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness.    
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Infections and 
infestations 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anaemiae 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Adverse reactions 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 
1/10) 
Sepsis 
Bronchitis 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Splenomegalya 
Haemoglobin 
decreasede 
Decreased 
appetitea 
Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase 
increased  
30 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000) 
Leukocytosisa 
Splenic rupturea 
Hypersentivity 
Drug 
hypersensitivitya  
Graft versus Host 
Diseaseb 
Hyperuricaemia 
Blood uric acid 
increased  
Sickle cell anaemia 
with crisis 
Anaphylactic 
reaction 
Blood glucose 
decreased  
Pseudogouta  
(Chondrocalcinosis 
Pyrophosphate)  
Fluid volume 
disturbances 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Veno-occlusive 
diseased 
Capillary leak 
syndromea 
Aortitis 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headachea 
Vascular 
Disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
Hypoaesthesia  
Paraesthesia 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
Haemoptysis 
Dyspnoea 
Cougha  
Oropharyngeal 
paina, e  
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Diarrhoeaa, e  
Oral Pain 
Vomitinga, e  
Constipatione  
Nauseaa 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Hepatomegaly 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Alopeciaa 
Rasha  
Erythema 
Acute respiratory 
distress syndromea  
Respiratory failurea  
Pulmonary oedemaa  
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Interstitial lung 
diseasea  
Lung infiltrationa  
Hypoxia 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Gamma-glutamyl 
transferase increased 
Rash maculo- 
papular 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
painc 
Muscle spasms 
 Osteoporosis 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Fatiguea  
Mucosal 
inflammationa 
Pyrexia 
Dysuria 
Proteinuria 
Injection site 
reaction 
Haematuria 
Chest paina 
Paina 
Astheniaa 
Malaisee  
Oedema 
peripherale 
31 
Cutaneous vasculitisa 
Sweets syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis) 
Bone density 
decreased  
Exacerbation of 
rheumatoid arthritis 
Glomerulonephritis 
Urine abnormality 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfusion 
reactione 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
a See section: Description of selected adverse reactions  
b There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see section 
Description of selected adverse reactions)  
c Includes bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, neck 
pain  
d Cases were observed in the post-marketing setting in patients undergoing bone marrow transplant or PBPC mobilization 
e Adverse events with higher incidence in filgrastim patients compared to placebo and associated with the sequelae of the 
underlying malignancy or cytotoxic chemotherapy 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea and 
hypotension occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have been reported in clinical studies and in 
post-marketing experience. Overall, reports were more common after intravenous administration. In 
some cases, symptoms have recurred with rechallenge, suggesting a causal relationship. Filgrastim 
should be permanently discontinued in patients who experience a serious allergic reaction.  
Pulmonary adverse events 
In clinical studies and the post-marketing setting pulmonary adverse effects including interstitial lung 
disease, pulmonary oedema, and lung infiltration have been reported in some cases with an outcome of 
respiratory failure or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which may be fatal (see section 
4.4). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Cases of splenomegaly and splenic rupture have been reported following administration of filgrastim. 
Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal (see section 4.4).   
Capillary leak syndrome 
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor use. 
These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking multiple 
chemotherapy medications or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4). 
Cutaneous vasculitis 
Cutaneous vasculitis has been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. The mechanism of vasculitis 
in patients receiving filgrastim is unknown. During long-term use cutaneous vasculitis has been 
reported in 2% of SCN patients. 
Leukocytosis 
Leukocytosis (WBC > 50 x 109/L) was observed in 41% of normal donors and transient 
thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/L) following filgrastim treatment and leukapheresis was 
observed in 35% of donors (see section 4.4). 
Sweets syndrome 
Cases of Sweets syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis) have been reported in patients 
treated with filgrastim. 
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate) 
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate) has been reported in patients with cancer treated with 
filgrastim. 
GvHD 
There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF after allogeneic bone 
marrow transplantation (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population  
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults and children receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy suggesting no   age-related 
differences in the pharmacokinetics of filgrastim. The only consistently reported adverse event was 
musculoskeletal pain which is no different from the experience in the adult population. 
There is insufficient data to further evaluate filgrastim use in paediatric subjects.  
Other special populations  
Geriatric use 
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects over 65 years of age 
compared to younger adult (>18 years of age) subjects receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy and clinical 
experience has not identified differences in the responses between elderly and younger adult patients. 
There is insufficient data to evaluate filgrastim use in geriatric subjects for other approved Grastofil 
indications.  
Paediatric SCN patients 
Cases of decreased bone density and osteoporosis have been reported in paediatric patients with severe 
chronic neutropenia receiving chronic treatment with filgrastim.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The effects of Grastofil overdosage have not been established. Discontinuation of filgrastim therapy 
usually results in a 50% decrease in circulating neutrophils within 1 to 2 days, with a return to normal 
levels in 1 to 7 days. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunostimulants, colony stimulating factors, ATC code: L03AA02 
Grastofil is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Human G-CSF is a glycoprotein which regulates the production and release of functional neutrophils 
from the bone marrow. Grastofil containing r-metHuG-CSF (filgrastim) causes marked increases in 
peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases in monocytes. In some SCN 
patients, filgrastim can also induce a minor increase in the number of circulating eosinophils and 
basophils relative to baseline; some of these patients may present with eosinophilia or basophilia 
already prior to treatment. Elevations of neutrophil counts are dose-dependent at recommended doses. 
Neutrophils produced in response to filgrastim show normal or enhanced function as demonstrated by 
tests of chemotactic and phagocytic function. Following termination of filgrastim therapy, circulating 
neutrophil counts decrease by 50% within 1 to 2 days, and to normal levels within 1 to 7 days.  
33 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of filgrastim in patients undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy leads to significant reductions in the 
incidence, severity and duration of neutropenia and febrile neutropenia. Treatment with filgrastim 
significantly reduces the duration of febrile neutropenia, antibiotic use and hospitalisation after 
induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia or myeloablative therapy followed by bone 
marrow transplantation. The incidence of fever and documented infections were not reduced in either 
setting. The duration of fever was not reduced in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed 
by bone marrow transplantation.  
Use of filgrastim, either alone, or after chemotherapy, mobilises haematopoietic progenitor cells into 
the peripheral blood. These autologous PBPCs may be harvested and infused after high-dose cytotoxic 
therapy, either in place of, or in addition to bone marrow transplantation. Infusion of PBPCs 
accelerates haematopoietic recovery reducing the duration of risk for haemorrhagic complications and 
the need for platelet transfusions.  
Recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim experienced significantly more rapid 
haematological recovery, leading to a significant decrease in time to unsupported platelet recovery 
when compared with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.  
One retrospective European study evaluating the use of G-CSF after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation in patients with acute leukaemias suggested an increase in the risk of GvHD, treatment 
related mortality (TRM) and mortality when G-CSF was administered. In a separate retrospective 
international study in patients with acute and chronic myelogenous leukaemias, no effect on the risk of 
GvHD, TRM and mortality was seen. A meta-analysis of allogeneic transplant studies, including the 
results of nine prospective randomised trials, 8 retrospective studies and 1 case-controlled study, did 
not detect an effect on the risks of acute GvHD, chronic GvHD or early treatment-related mortality.  
Relative risk (95% CI) of GvHD and TRM following treatment with G-CSF after bone 
marrow (BM) transplantation 
Publication  
TRM 
N 
Period of 
study 
1986 – 2001a
1198  
1992 – 2002b
1789  
Acute grade          
II - IV GvHD 
1.08 
(0.87, 1.33)  
1.33 
    (1.08, 1.64)  
Chronic 
GvHD 
1.02 
(0.82, 1.26)  
1.29 
(1.02, 1.61)  
0.70 
(0.38, 1.31)  
1.73 
(1.30, 2.32)  
1995 – 2000b
2110  
1.11 
  (0.86, 1.42)  
1.10 
1.26 
(0.86, 1.39)  
(0.95, 1.67)  
Meta-Analysis   
(2003)  
European 
Retrospective  
Study (2004)  
International 
Retrospective  
Study (2006)  
a
b
Analysis includes studies involving BM transplant during this period; some studies used GM-CSF  
Analysis includes patients receiving BM transplant during this period  
Use of filgrastim for the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC 
transplantation  
In normal donors, a 10 micrograms/kg/day dose administered subcutaneously for 4 - 5 consecutive 
days allows a collection of ≥ 4 x 106 
donors after two leukaphereses.  
CD34+ cells/kg recipient body weight in the majority of the 
Use of filgrastim in patients, children or adults, with SCN (severe congenital, cyclic, and idiopathic 
neutropenia) induces a sustained increase in absolute neutrophil counts in peripheral blood and a 
reduction of infection and related events.  
Use of filgrastim in patients with HIV infection maintains normal neutrophil counts to allow scheduled 
dosing of antiviral and/or other myelosuppressive medication. There is no evidence that patients with 
HIV infection treated with filgrastim show an increase in HIV replication. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As with other haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro stimulating properties on 
human endothelial cells. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following subcutaneous administration of recommended doses, serum concentrations were maintained 
above 10 ng/mL for 8 - 16 hours.  
Distribution  
The volume of distribution in blood is approximately 150 mL/kg.  
Elimination  
Clearance of filgrastim has been shown to follow first-order pharmacokinetics after both subcutaneous 
and intravenous administration. The serum elimination half-life of filgrastim is approximately 3.5 
hours, with a clearance rate of approximately 0.6 mL/min/kg. Continuous infusion with filgrastim over 
a period of up to 28 days, in patients recovering from autologous bone-marrow transplantation, 
resulted in no evidence of drug accumulation and comparable elimination half-lives.  
Linearity 
There is a positive linear correlation between the dose and the serum concentration of filgrastim, 
whether administered intravenously or subcutaneously.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Filgrastim was studied in repeated dose toxicity studies up to 1 year in duration which revealed 
changes attributable to the expected pharmacological actions including increases in leukocytes, 
myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, extramedullary granulopoiesis and splenic enlargement. These 
changes all reversed after discontinuation of treatment. 
Effects of filgrastim on prenatal development have been studied in rats and rabbits. Intravenous  
(80 μg/kg/day) administration of filgrastim to rabbits during the period of organogenesis was 
maternally toxic and increased spontaneous abortion, post-implantation loss, and decreased mean live 
litter size and foetal weight were observed. 
Based on reported data for another filgrastim product similar to Grastofil, comparable findings plus 
increased foetal malformations were observed at 100 μg/kg/day, a maternally toxic dose which 
corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 50-90 times the exposures observed in patients 
treated with the clinical dose of 5 μg/kg/day. The no observed adverse effect level for embryo-foetal 
toxicity in this study was 10 μg/kg/day, which corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 
3-5 times the exposures observed in patients treated with the clinical dose. 
In pregnant rats, no maternal or foetal toxicity was observed at doses up to 575 μg/kg/day. Offspring 
of rats administered filgrastim during the peri-natal and lactation periods, exhibited a delay in external 
differentiation and growth retardation (≥20 μg/kg/day) and slightly reduced survival rate  
(100 μg/kg/day).  
Filgrastim had no observed effect on the fertility of male or female rats. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glacial acetic acid  
Sodium hydroxide 
Sorbitol (E420)  
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Diluted filgrastim may be adsorbed to glass and plastic materials. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted solution for injection/infusion has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should 
be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C, unless 
dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Accidental one-time exposure to freezing temperatures does not adversely affect the stability of 
Grastofil. If exposure has been greater than 24 hours or frozen more than once then Grastofil should 
not be used. 
Within its shelf-life and for the purpose of ambulatory use, the patient may remove Grastofil from the 
refrigerator and store it at room temperature (not above 25°C) for one single period of up to 15 days. 
At the end of this period, Grastofil should not be put back in the refrigerator and should be disposed of 
in accordance with local requirements. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
 Type I glass pre-filled syringe with permanently attached stainless steel needle in the tip and 1/40 
printed markings for graduations from 0.1 mL to 1 mL on the barrel. The needle cover of the pre-filled 
syringe contains dry natural rubber (latex, see section 4.4). Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 mL 
solution. 
Pack sizes: Cartons containing 1 or 5 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
If required, Grastofil may be diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection/infusion. Dilution to a final 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration less than 0.2 MU (2 µg) per mL is not recommended at any time. 
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used. Do not shake.  
For patients treated with filgrastim diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 µg) per mL, human 
serum albumin (HSA) should be added to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. Example: In a final 
injection volume of 20 mL, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 µg) should be given with 
0.2 mL of 200 mg/mL (20%) human albumin solution added. 
Grastofil contains no preservative. In view of the possible risk of microbial contamination, Grastofil 
pre-filled syringes are for single use only. 
When diluted in 5% glucose, Grastofil is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics including 
PVC, polyolefin (a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene. 
Disposal  
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/877/003 
EU/1/13/877/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 October 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 4 October 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Plot no: 423 P/A 
Sarkhej Bavla Highway  
Moraiya; Taluka: Sanand, 
Ahmedabad – 382213 Gujarat, India 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Apotex Nederland B.V. 
Archimedesweg 2 
2333 CN Leiden  
Netherlands 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing Authorisation Application and any 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe 
filgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each syringe of 0.5 mL solution contains 30 MU (300 micrograms) of filgrastim  
(600 micrograms/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Glacial acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 80, and water for injections. See 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.5 mL) 
5 pre-filled syringes (0.5 mL) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For single use only. 
Do not shake. 
Subcutaneous and intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
A diluted solution of Grastofil for injection/infusion should be used within 24 hours when stored at  
2 °C to 8 °C. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/877/001 1 prefilled syringe 
EU/1/13/877/002 5 prefilled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 mL 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC:  
SN:  
NN:  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe   
filgrastim  
SC/IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grastofil 48 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe   
filgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each syringe of 0.5 mL solution contains 48 MU (480 micrograms) of filgrastim  
(960 micrograms/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Glacial acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 80, and water for injections. See 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.5 mL) 
5 pre-filled syringes (0.5 mL) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For single use only. 
Do not shake. 
Subcutaneous and intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
A diluted solution of Grastofil for injection/infusion should be used within 24 hours when stored at  
2 °C to 8 °C. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/877/003 1 prefilled syringe 
EU/1/13/877/004 5 prefilled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Grastofil 48 MU/0.5 mL 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC:  
SN:  
NN:  
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Grastofil 48 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe   
filgrastim  
SC/IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
Grastofil 30 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe 
filgrastim 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Grastofil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Grastofil 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Grastofil 
Possible side effects 
How to store Grastofil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Grastofil is and what it is used for 
Grastofil contains the active substance filgrastim. Grastofil is a white blood cell growth factor 
(granulocyte colony stimulating factor) and belongs to a group of medicines called cytokines. Growth 
factors are proteins that are produced naturally in the body but they can also be made using 
biotechnology for use as a medicine. Grastofil works by encouraging the bone marrow to produce 
more white blood cells.  
A reduction in the number of white blood cells (neutropenia) can occur for several reasons and makes 
your body less able to fight infection. Filgrastim stimulates the bone marrow to produce new white 
cells quickly.  
Grastofil can be used: 
 
 
 
 
 
to increase the number of white blood cells after treatment with chemotherapy to help prevent 
infections; 
to increase the number of white blood cells after a bone marrow transplant to help prevent 
infections; 
to increase the number of white blood cells if you suffer from severe chronic neutropenia to help 
prevent infections; 
in patients with advanced HIV infection which will help reduce the risk of infections;  
before high-dose chemotherapy to make the bone marrow produce more stem cells which can be 
collected and given back to you after your treatment. These can be taken from you or from a 
donor. The stem cells will then go back into the bone marrow and produce blood cells.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Grastofil 
Do not use Grastofil 
 
if you are allergic to filgrastim or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Grastofil. 
Please tell your doctor before starting treatment if you have: 
 
 
osteoporosis (bone disease), 
sickle cell anaemia, as filgrastim may cause sickle cell crisis. 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment with Grastofil, if you:  
 
 
 
 
 
have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the face, lips, 
tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing as these 
could be signs of a severe allergic reaction (hypersensitivity). 
experience puffiness in your face or ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you 
notice you urinate less than usual (glomerulonephritis). 
get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or at the tip of your left 
shoulder (these may be symptoms of an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), or possibly rupture of 
the spleen).  
notice unusual bleeding or bruising (these may be symptoms of a decrease in blood platelets 
(thrombocytopenia), with a reduced ability of your blood to clot). 
have symptoms of inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from 
the heart to the body), this has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors. The 
symptoms can include fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers. Tell your doctor if you experience those symptoms.  
Loss of response to filgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with filgrastim treatment, your 
doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise filgrastim’s activity. 
Your doctor may want to monitor you closely, see section 4 of the package leaflet. 
If you are a patient with severe chronic neutropenia, you may be at risk of developing cancer of the 
blood (leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)). You should talk to your doctor about your risks 
of developing cancers of the blood and what testing should be done. If you develop or are likely to 
develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Grastofil, unless instructed by your doctor. 
If you are a stem cell donor, you must be aged between 16 and 60 years. 
Take special care with other medicines that stimulate white blood cells 
Grastofil is one of a group of medicines that stimulate the production of white blood cells. Your 
healthcare professional should always record the exact medicine you are using. 
Other medicines and Grastofil 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Grastofil has not been tested in pregnant or breast-feeding women.  
Grastofil is not recommended during pregnancy.  
It is important to tell your doctor if you: 
 
 
 
are pregnant; or breast-feeding; 
think you may be pregnant, or 
are planning to have a baby. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you become pregnant during Grastofil treatment, please inform your doctor. 
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Grastofil.  
Driving and using machines 
Grastofil may have a minor influence on your ability to drive and use machines. This medicine may 
cause dizziness. It is advisable to wait and see how you feel after taking Grastofil and before driving 
or operating machinery. 
Grastofil contains sorbitol 
Grastofil contains 50 mg sorbitol in each ml.  
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If you (or your child) have hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare 
genetic disorder, you (or your child) must not receive this medicine. Patients with HFI cannot break 
down fructose, which may cause serious side effects. 
You must tell your doctor before receiving this medicine if you (or your child) have HFI or if your 
child can no longer take sweet foods or drinks because they feel sick, vomit or get unpleasant effects 
such as bloating, stomach cramps or diarrhoea. 
Grastofil contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.  
Grastofil pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex) which may 
cause an allergic reaction. 
3.  How to use Grastofil 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How is Grastofil given and how much should I take? 
Grastofil is usually given as a daily injection into the tissue just under the skin (known as a 
subcutaneous injection). It can also be given as a daily slow injection into the vein (known as an 
intravenous infusion). The usual dose varies depending on your illness and weight. Your doctor will 
tell you how much Grastofil you should take. 
Patients having a bone marrow transplant after chemotherapy: 
You will normally receive your first dose of Grastofil at least 24 hours after your chemotherapy and at 
least 24 hours after receiving your bone marrow transplant. 
You, or people caring for you, can be taught how to give subcutaneous injections so that you can 
continue your treatment at home. However, you should not attempt this unless you have been properly 
trained first by your health care provider. 
How long will I have to take Grastofil? 
You will need to take Grastofil until your white blood cell count is normal. Regular blood tests will 
be taken to monitor the number of white blood cells in your body. Your doctor will tell you how long 
you will need to take Grastofil. 
Use in children 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grastofil is used to treat children who are receiving chemotherapy or who suffer from severe low 
white blood cell count (neutropenia). The dosing in children receiving chemotherapy is the same as for 
adults. 
Instructions for injecting Grastofil 
This section contains information on how to give yourself an injection of Grastofil.  
Important: do not try to give yourself an injection unless you have received training from your doctor 
or nurse.  
Grastofil is injected into the tissue just under the skin. This is known as a subcutaneuous injection. 
Equipment that you need 
To give yourself a subcutaneous injection you will need:  
 
 
a new pre-filled syringe of Grastofil; and  
alcohol wipes or similar.  
What should I do before I give myself a subcutaneous injection of Grastofil?  
1. 
Remove the syringe from the refrigerator. Leave the syringe at room temperature  
(15ºC to 25 ºC)  for approximately 30 minutes or hold the pre-filled syringe gently in your hand 
for a few minutes. This will make the injection more comfortable. Do not warm Grastofil in any 
other way (for example, do not warm it in a microwave or in hot water). 
2.  Do not shake the pre-filled syringe. 
3.  Do not remove the needle cover until you are ready to inject. 
4.  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
5. 
Find a comfortable, well-lit, clean surface and put all the equipment you need within reach. 
How do I prepare my Grastofil injection?  
To avoid bending the needle, gently pull the cover from the needle without twisting. 
Before you inject Grastofil you must do the following:  
1. 
2.  Do not touch the needle or push the plunger.  
3.  You may notice a small air bubble in the pre-filled syringe. You do not need to remove the air 
4. 
bubble before injecting. Injecting the solution with the air bubble is harmless.   
The Grastofil syringe has a scale on the syringe barrel. Hold the syringe with the needle pointing 
up. Push the plunger up slowly to the number (given in mL) that matches the dose of Grastofil 
which your doctor has prescribed. 
5.  You can now use the pre-filed syringe, 
Where should I give my injection?  
The best places to inject are the top of the thighs and the abdomen. If someone else is injecting you, 
they can also use the back of your arms. 
You may change the injection site if you notice the area is red or sore. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How do I give my injection?  
1.  Disinfect your skin by using an alcohol wipe and pinch (without squeezing) the skin between 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
your thumb and forefinger.  
Put the needle fully into the skin as shown by your nurse or doctor.  
Pull slightly on the plunger to check that a blood vessel has not been punctured. If you see blood 
in the syringe, pull the needle out and re-insert it in another place.  
Push the plunger with a slow constant pressure, always keeping your skin pinched, until the 
syringe is empty. 
Remove the needle and let go of your skin. Do not put the cover back on used needles, as you 
may accidentally prick yourself. 
If you notice a spot of blood you may gently dab it away with a cotton ball or tissue. Do not rub 
the injection site. If needed, you may cover the injection site with a plaster.  
7.  Only use each syringe for one injection. Do not use any Grastofil that may be left in the syringe. 
Remember:  if you have any problems, please ask your doctor or nurse for help and advice.  
If you use more Grastofil than you should 
Do not increase the dose your doctor has given you. If you think you have injected more than you 
should, contact your doctor as soon as possible. 
If you forget to use Grastofil 
If you have missed an injection, or injected too little, contact your doctor as soon as possible. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for any missed doses.  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), skin rash, itchy rash (urticaria), swelling of the 
face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat (angioedema) and shortness of breath (dyspnoea).  
you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) as this can be a sign of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS).  
   you experience kidney injury (glomerulonephritis). Kidney injury has been seen in patients who 
received filgrastim. Call your doctor right away if you experience puffiness in your face or 
ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you notice you urinate less than usual. 
you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects:  
o  swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling 
of tiredness. These symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion.  
These could be symptoms of a condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood 
to leak from the small blood vessels into your body and needs urgent medical attention.  
you have a combination of any of the following symptoms: 
o 
fever, or shivering, or feeling very cold, high heart rate, confusion or disorientation, 
shortness of breath, extreme pain or discomfort and clammy or sweaty skin. 
These could be symptoms of a condition called “sepsis” (also called "blood poisoning"), a 
severe infection with whole-body inflammatory response which can be life threatening and 
needs urgent medical attention. 
you get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or pain at the tip of your 
shoulder, as there may be a problem with your spleen (enlargement of the spleen (splenomegaly) 
or rupture of the spleen). 
you are being treated for severe chronic neutropenia and you have blood in your urine 
(haematuria). Your doctor may regularly test your urine if you experience this side effect or if 
protein is found in your urine (proteinuria). 
A common side effect of Grastofil use is pain in your muscles or bones (musculoskeletal pain), which 
can be helped by taking standard pain relief medicines (analgesics). In patients undergoing a stem cell 
or bone marrow transplant, Graft versus host disease (GvHD) may occur- this is a reaction of the 
donor cells against the patient receiving the transplant; signs and symptoms include rash on the palms 
of your hands or soles of your feet and ulcer and sores in your mouth, gut, liver, skin, or your eyes, 
lungs, vagina and joints.  
In normal stem cell donors an increase in white blood cells (leukocytosis) and a decrease of platelets 
may be seen, this reduces the ability of your blood to clot (thrombocytopenia), these will be monitored 
by your doctor. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decrease of platelets which reduces the ability of blood to clot (thrombocytopenia) 
low red blood cell count (anaemia) 
headache 
diarrhoea 
vomiting 
nausea 
unusual hair loss or thinning (alopecia) 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tiredness (fatigue) 
soreness and swelling of the digestive tract lining which runs from the mouth to the anus 
(mucosal inflammation) 
fever (pyrexia) 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation of the lung (bronchitis) 
upper respiratory tract infection 
urinary tract infection 
decreased appetite 
trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
dizziness 
decreased feeling of sensitivity, especially in the skin (hypoaesthesia) 
tingling or numbness of the hands or feet (paraesthesia) 
low blood pressure (hypotension) 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
cough 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis)  
pain in your mouth and throat (oropharyngeal pain) 
nose bleeds (epistaxis) 
constipation 
oral pain 
enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) 
rash 
redness of the skin (erythema) 
muscle spasm 
pain when passing urine (dysuria) 
chest pain 
pain 
generalised weakness (asthenia) 
generally feeling unwell (malaise) 
swelling in the hands and feet (oedema peripheral) 
increase of certain enzymes in the blood 
changes in blood chemistry 
transfusion reaction 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
 
 
 
 
increase in white blood cells (leukocytosis) 
allergic reaction (hypersensitivity) 
rejection of transplanted bone marrow (graft versus host disease) 
high uric acid levels in the blood, which may cause gout (hyperuricaemia) (Blood uric acid 
increased) 
liver damage caused by blocking of the small veins within the liver (veno-occlusive disease) 
lungs do not function as they should, causing breathlessness (respiratory failure) 
swelling and/or fluid in the lungs (pulmonary oedema) 
inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) 
abnormal x-rays of the lungs (lung infiltration) 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage) 
lack of absorption of oxygen in the lung (hypoxia) 
bumpy skin rash (rash macuo-papular) 
disease which causes bones to become less dense, making them weaker, more brittle and likely 
to break (osteoporosis) 
injection site reaction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 
 
 
 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
severe pain in the bones, chest, gut or joints (sickle cell anaemia with crisis) 
sudden life-threatening allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction) 
pain and swelling of the joints, similar to gout (pseudogout) 
a change in how your body regulates fluids within your body and may result in puffiness (fluid 
volume disturbances) 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) 
plum-coloured, raised, painful sores on the limbs and sometimes the face and neck with a fever 
(Sweets syndrome) 
worsening of rheumatoid arthritis 
unusual change in the urine 
bone density decreased 
Inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.  
5.  How to store Grastofil 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and on the pre-filled 
syringe after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the carton in order to protect from light. 
Grastofil can be removed from the refrigerator and left at room temperature (not above 25℃) for a 
single period of up to 15 days that ends within the labelled expiry date. Once Grastofil has been out at 
room temperature it should not be put back into the refrigerator. Any Grastofil syringes that have been 
out of the refrigerator for longer than 15 days should not be used and should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
Do not use Grastofil if you notice it is cloudy, or there is discoloration or there are particles in it. 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Grastofil contains  
 
 
The active substance is filgrastim. Each mL of solution contains 60 million units (MU) 
(equivalent to 600 micrograms [μg]) of filgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 MU 
(300 μg) filgrastim in 0.5 mL solution. 
The other ingredients are glacial acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 80 
and water for injections. See section 2 “What you need to know before you use Grastofil”. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Grastofil looks like and contents of the pack 
Grastofil is a clear colourless solution for injection or infusion. It is supplied in a pre-filled syringe 
with an injection needle marked with 1/40 printed markings from 0.1 mL to 1 mL on the syringe 
barrel. Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 mL of solution. 
Grastofil is available in packs containing 1 and 5 pre-filled syringes.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain                                                                                                                                 
Manufacturer 
Apotex Nederland B.V. 
Archimedesweg 2 
2333 CN Leiden  
Netherlands 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
AT / BE / BG / CY / CZ / DE / DK / EE / ES / FI / FR / HR / HU / IE / IS / IT /  LT / LV / LX / MT / 
NL / NO / PL / PT / RO / SE / SI / SK / UK(NI) 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 93 301 00 64 
EL 
Rafarm AEBE 
Κορίνθου 12, Ν. Ψυχικό, 15451, Αθήνα 
Τηλ: +30/2106776550 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
If required, Grastofil may be diluted in 5% glucose. Dilution to a final concentration less than 0.2 MU 
(2 µg) per mL is not recommended at any time. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used.  
For patients treated with filgrastim diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 µg) per mL, human 
serum albumin (HSA) should be added to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. Example: In a final 
injection volume of 20 mL, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 µg) should be given with 
0.2 mL of 200 mg/mL (20%) human albumin solution added. 
When diluted in 5% glucose, Grastofil is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics including 
PVC, polyolefin (a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene. 
59 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
Grastofil 48 MU/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe 
filgrastim 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Grastofil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Grastofil 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Grastofil 
Possible side effects 
How to store Grastofil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Grastofil is and what it is used for 
Grastofil contains the active substance filgrastim. Grastofil is a white blood cell growth factor 
(granulocyte colony stimulating factor) and belongs to a group of medicines called cytokines. Growth 
factors are proteins that are produced naturally in the body but they can also be made using 
biotechnology for use as a medicine. Grastofil works by encouraging the bone marrow to produce 
more white blood cells.  
A reduction in the number of white blood cells (neutropenia) can occur for several reasons and makes 
your body less able to fight infection.  Filgrastim stimulates the bone marrow to produce new white 
cells quickly.  
Grastofil can be used:  
 
 
 
 
 
to increase the number of white blood cells after treatment with chemotherapy to help prevent 
infections;  
to increase the number of white blood cells after a bone marrow transplant to help prevent 
infections 
to increase the number of white blood cells if you suffer from severe chronic neutropenia to help 
prevent infections;  
in patients with advanced HIV infection which will help reduce the risk of infections;   
before high-dose chemotherapy to make the bone marrow produce more stem cells which can be 
collected and given back to you after your treatment. These can be taken from you or from a 
donor. The stem cells will then go back into the bone marrow and produce blood cells. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Grastofil 
Do not use Grastofil 
 
if you are allergic to filgrastim or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Grastofil: 
Please tell your doctor before starting treatment if you have: 
 
 
osteoporosis (bone disease),  
sickle cell anaemia, as filgrastim can cause sickle cell crisis. 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment with Grastofil, if you:  
 
 
 
 
 
have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the face, lips, 
tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing as these 
could be signs of a severe allergic reaction (hypersensitivity). 
experience puffiness in your face or ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you 
notice you urinate less than usual (glomerulonephritis). 
get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or at the tip of your left 
shoulder (these may be symptoms of an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), or possibly rupture of 
the spleen).  
notice unusual bleeding or bruising (these may be symptoms of a decrease in blood platelets 
(thrombocytopenia), with a reduced ability of your blood to clot). 
have symptoms of inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from 
the heart to the body), this has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors. The 
symptoms can include fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers. Tell your doctor if you experience those symptoms. 
Loss of response to filgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with filgrastim treatment, your 
doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise filgrastim’s activity 
Your doctor may want to monitor you closely, see section 4 of the package leaflet. 
If you are a patient with severe chronic neutropenia, you may be at risk of developing cancer of the 
blood (leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)). You should talk to your doctor about your risks 
of developing cancers of the blood and what testing should be done. If you develop or are likely to 
develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Grastofil, unless instructed by your doctor. 
If you are a stem cell donor, you must be aged between 16 and 60 years. 
Take special care with other medicines that stimulate white blood cells 
Grastofil is one of a group of medicines that stimulate the production of white blood cells. Your 
healthcare professional should always record the exact medicine you are using. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Other medicines and Grastofil 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Grastofil has not been tested in pregnant or breast-feeding women.  
Grastofil is not recommended during preganacy. 
It is important to tell your doctor if you  
 
 
 
are pregnant, or breast-feeding; 
think you may be pregnant, or  
plan to have a baby. 
If you become pregnant during Grastofil treatment, please inform your doctor. 
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Grastofil.  
Driving and using machines 
Grastofil may have a minor influence on your ability to drive and use machines. This medicine may 
cause dizziness. It is advisable to wait and see how you feel after taking Grastofil and before driving 
or operating machinery. 
Grastofil contains sorbitol 
Grastofil contains 50 mg sorbitol in each ml.  
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If you (or your child) have hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare 
genetic disorder, you (or your child) must not receive this medicine. Patients with HFI cannot break 
down fructose, which may cause serious side effects. 
You must tell your doctor before receiving this medicine if you (or your child) have HFI or if your 
child can no longer take sweet foods or drinks because they feel sick, vomit or get unpleasant effects 
such as bloating, stomach cramps or diarrhoea. 
Grastofil contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.  
Grastofil pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex) which may 
cause an allergic reaction. 
3.  How to use Grastofil 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How is Grastofil given and how much should I take? 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grastofil is usually given as a daily injection into the tissue just under the skin (known as a 
subcutaneous injection). It can also be given as a daily slow injection into the vein (known as an 
intravenous infusion). The usual dose varies depending on your illness and weight. Your doctor will 
tell you how much Grastofil you should take. 
Patients having a bone marrow transplant after chemotherapy: 
You will normally receive your first dose of Grastofil at least 24 hours after your chemotherapy and at 
least 24 hours after receiving your bone marrow transplant. 
You, or people caring for you, can be taught how to give subcutaneous injections so that you can 
continue your treatment at home. However, you should not attempt this unless you have been properly 
trained first by your health care provider. 
How long will I have to take Grastofil? 
You will need to take Grastofil until your white blood cell count is normal. Regular blood tests will 
be taken to monitor the number of white blood cells in your body. Your doctor will tell you how long 
you will need to take Grastofil. 
Use in children 
Grastofil is used to treat children who are receiving chemotherapy or who suffer from severe low 
white blood cell count (neutropenia). The dosing in children receiving chemotherapy is the same as for 
adults. 
Instructions for injecting Grastofil 
This section contains information on how to give yourself an injection of Grastofil.  
Important: do not try to give yourself an injection unless you have received training from your doctor 
or nurse.  
Grastofil is injected into the tissue just under the skin. This is known as a subcutaneuous injection. 
Equipment that you need  
To give yourself a subcutaneous injection you will need:  
 
 
a new pre-filled syringe of Grastofil; and  
alcohol wipes or similar.  
What should I do before I give myself a subcutaneous injection of Grastofil?  
1. 
Remove the syringe from the refrigerator. Leave the syringe at room temperature (15ºC to 25 
ºC) for approximately 30 minutes or hold the pre-filled syringe gently in your hand for a few 
minutes. This will make the injection more comfortable. Do not warm Grastofil in any other 
way (for example, do not warm it in a microwave or in hot water). 
2.  Do not shake the pre-filled syringe. 
3.  Do not remove the needle cover until you are ready to inject. 
4.  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
5. 
Find a comfortable, well-lit, clean surface and put all the equipment you need within reach. 
How do I prepare my Grastofil injection?  
Before you inject Grastofil you must do the following:  
1. 
2.  Do not touch the needle or push the plunger.  
To avoid bending the needle, gently pull the cover from the needle without twisting. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  You may notice a small air bubble in the pre-filled syringe. You do not need to remove the air 
4. 
bubble before injecting. Injecting the solution with the air bubble is harmless.  
The Grastofil syringe has a scale on the syringe barrel. Hold the syringe with the needle pointing 
up. Push the plunger up slowly to the number (given in mL) that matches the dose of Grastofil 
which your doctor has prescribed. 
5.  You can now use the pre-filled syringe. 
Where should I give my injection?  
The best places to inject are the top of the thighs and the abdomen. If someone else is injecting you, 
they can also use the back of your arms. 
You may change the injection site if you notice the area is red or sore. 
How do I give my injection?  
1.  Disinfect your skin by using an alcohol wipe and pinch (without squeezing) the skin between 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
your thumb and forefinger.  
Put the needle fully into the skin as shown by your nurse or doctor.  
Pull slightly on the plunger to check that a blood vessel has not been punctured. If you see blood 
in the syringe, pull the needle out and re-insert it in another place.  
Push the plunger with a slow constant pressure, always keeping your skin pinched, until the 
syringe is empty. 
Remove the needle and let go of your skin. Do not put the cover back on used needles, as you 
may accidentally prick yourself. 
If you notice a spot of blood you may gently dab it away with a cotton ball or tissue. Do not rub 
the injection site. If needed, you may cover the injection site with a plaster.  
7.  Only use each syringe for one injection. Do not use any Grastofil that may be left in the syringe. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remember:  if you have any problems, please ask your doctor or nurse for help and advice.  
If you use more Grastofil than you should 
Do not increase the dose your doctor has given you. If you think you have injected more than you 
should, contact your doctoras soon as possible. 
If you forget to use Grastofil 
If you have missed an injection, or injected too little, contact your doctor as soon as possible. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for any missed doses. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment if: 
 
 
 
 
 
you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), skin rash, itchy rash (urticaria), swelling of the 
face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat (angioedema) and shortness of breath (dyspnoea).  
you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) as this can be a sign of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS).  
you experience kidney injury (glomerulonephritis). Kidney injury has been seen in patients who 
received filgrastim. Call your doctor right away if you experience puffiness in your face or 
ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you notice you urinate less than usual. 
you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects:  
o  swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling 
of tiredness. These symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion.  
These could be symptoms of a condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes the 
blood to leak from the small blood vessels into your body and needs urgent medical attention.  
you have a combination of any of the following symptoms: 
o 
fever, or shivering, or feeling very cold, high heart rate, confusion or disorientation, 
shortness of breath, extreme pain or discomfort and clammy or sweaty skin. 
These could be symptoms of a condition called “sepsis” (also called "blood poisoning"), a 
severe infection with whole-body inflammatory response which can be life threatening and 
needs urgent medical attention. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or pain at the tip of your 
shoulder, as there may be a problem with your spleen (enlargement of the spleen (splenomegaly) 
or rupture of the spleen). 
you are being treated for severe chronic neutropenia and you have blood in your urine 
(haematuria). Your doctor may regularly test your urine if you experience this side effect or if 
protein is found in your urine (proteinuria). 
A common side effect of Grastofil use is pain in your muscles or bones (musculoskeletal pain), which 
can be helped by taking standard pain relief medicines (analgesics). In patients undergoing a stem cell 
or bone marrow transplant, Graft versus host disease (GvHD) may occur- this is a reaction of the 
donor cells against the patient receiving the transplant; signs and symptoms include rash on the palms 
of your hands or soles of your feet and ulcer and sores in your mouth, gut, liver, skin, or your eyes, 
lungs, vagina and joints.  
In normal stem cell donors an increase in white blood cells (leukocytosis) and a decrease of platelets 
may be seen this reduces the ability of your blood to clot (thrombocytopenia), these will be monitored 
by your doctor. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decrease of platelets which reduces the ability of blood to clot (thrombocytopenia) 
low red blood cell count (anaemia) 
headache 
diarrhoea 
vomiting 
nausea 
unusual hair loss or thinning (alopecia) 
tiredness (fatigue) 
soreness and swelling of the digestive tract lining which runs from the mouth to the anus 
(mucosal inflammation) 
fever (pyrexia) 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation of the lung (bronchitis) 
upper respiratory tract infection 
urinary tract infection 
decreased appetite 
trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
dizziness 
decreased feeling of sensitivity, especially in the skin (hypoaesthesia) 
tingling or numbness of the hands or feet (paraesthesia) 
low blood pressure (hypotension) 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
cough 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis)  
pain in your mouth and throat (oropharyngeal pain) 
nose bleeds (epistaxis) 
constipation 
oral pain 
enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) 
rash 
redness of the skin (erythema) 
muscle spasm 
pain when passing urine (dysuria) 
chest pain 
pain 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
generalised weakness (asthenia) 
generally feeling unwell (malaise) 
swelling in the hands and feet (oedema peripheral) 
increase of certain enzymes in the blood 
changes in blood chemistry 
transfusion reaction 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
 
 
 
 
increase in white blood cells (leukocytosis) 
allergic reaction (hypersensitivity) 
rejection of transplanted bone marrow (graft versus host disease) 
high uric acid levels in the blood, which may cause gout (hyperuricaemia) (Blood uric acid 
increased) 
liver damage caused by blocking of the small veins within the liver (veno-occlusive disease) 
lungs do not function as they should, causing breathlessness (respiratory failure) 
swelling and/or fluid in the lungs (pulmonary oedema) 
inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) 
abnormal x-rays of the lungs (lung infiltration) 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage) 
lack of absorption of oxygen in the lung (hypoxia) 
bumpy skin rash (rash macuo-papular) 
disease which causes bones to become less dense, making them weaker, more brittle and likely 
to break (osteoporosis) 
injection site reaction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
severe pain in the bones, chest, gut or joints (sickle anaemia with cell crisis) 
sudden life-threatening allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction) 
pain and swelling of the joints, similar to gout (pseudogout) 
a change in how your body regulates fluids within your body and may result in puffiness 
(fluidvolume disturbances) 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) 
plum-coloured, raised, painful sores on the limbs and sometimes the face and neck with a fever 
(Sweets syndrome) 
worsening of rheumatoid arthritis 
unusual change in the urine 
bone density decreased 
Inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.  
5.  How to store Grastofil 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and on the pre-filled 
syringe after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the carton in order to protect from light. 
Grastofil can be removed from the refrigerator and left at room temperature (not above 25℃) for a 
single period of up to 15 days that ends within the labelled expiry date. Once Grastofil has been out at 
room temperature it should not be put back into the refrigerator. Any Grastofil syringes that have been 
out of the refrigerator for longer than 15 days should not be used and should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
Do not use Grastofil if you notice it is cloudy, or there is discoloration or there are particles in it. 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Grastofil contains  
 
 
The active substance is filgrastim. Each mL of solution contains 60 million units (MU) 
(equivalent to 600 micrograms [μg]) of filgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 48 MU (480 
μg) filgrastim in 0.5 mL solution.   
The other ingredients are glacial acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 80 
and water for injections. See section 2 “What you need to know before you use Grastofil”.    
What Grastofil looks like and contents of the pack 
Grastofil is a clear colourless solution for injection or infusion. It is supplied in a pre-filled syringe 
marked with 1/40 printed markings from 0.1 mL to 1 mL on the syringe barrel, with an injection 
needle. Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 mL of solution. 
Grastofil is available in packs containing 1 and 5 pre-filled syringes.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center  
Moll de Barcelona 
s/n, Edifici Est 6ª planta 
08039 Barcelona 
Spain                                                                                                                                 
Manufacturer 
Apotex Nederland B.V. 
Archimedesweg 2 
2333 CN Leiden  
Netherlands 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
AT / BE / BG / CY / CZ / DE / DK / EE / ES / FI / FR / HR / HU / IE / IS / IT /  LT / LV / LX / MT / 
NL / NO / PL / PT / RO / SE / SI / SK / UK(NI) 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tel: +34 93 301 00 64 
EL 
Rafarm AEBE 
Κορίνθου 12, Ν. Ψυχικό, 15451, Αθήνα 
Τηλ: +30/2106776550 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
If required, Grastofil may be diluted in 5% glucose. Dilution to a final concentration less than 0.2 MU 
(2 µg) per mL is not recommended at any time. 
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used.  
For patients treated with filgrastim diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 µg) per mL, human 
serum albumin (HSA) should be added to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. Example: In a final 
injection volume of 20 mL, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 µg) should be given with 
0.2 mL of 200 mg/mL (20%) human albumin solution added. 
When diluted in 5% glucose, Grastofil is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics including 
PVC, polyolefin (a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
