ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grasustek 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim* in 0.6 ml solution for injection. The 
concentration is 10 mg/ml based on protein only**. 
*Produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA technology followed by conjugation with 
polyethylene glycol (PEG). 
** The concentration is 20 mg/ml if the PEG moiety is included. 
The potency of this product should not be compared to the potency of another pegylated or non-
pegylated protein of the same therapeutic class. For more information, see section 5.1. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 mg sorbitol (E 420) (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
Clear, colourless solution for injection. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients 
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia 
and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Pegfilgrastim therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology and/or 
haematology. 
Posology 
One 6 mg dose (a single pre-filled syringe) of pegfilgrastim is recommended for each chemotherapy 
cycle, given at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim in children has not yet been established. Currently available 
data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no dosing recommendations can be made. 
Patients with renal impairment 
No dose change is recommended in patients with renal impairment, including those with end-stage 
renal disease. 
Method of administration 
Grasustek is injected subcutaneously. The injections should be given into the thigh, abdomen or upper 
arm.  
For instructions on handling of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active ingredient or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Limited clinical data suggest a comparable effect on time to recovery from severe neutropenia for 
pegfilgrastim to filgrastim in patients with de novo acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (see section 5.1). 
However, the long-term effects of pegfilgrastim have not been established in AML; therefore, it 
should be used with caution in this patient population. 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G- CSF) can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and 
similar effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukaemia, and in patients with secondary AML; therefore, it should 
not be used in such patients. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast 
transformation of chronic myeloid leukaemia from AML. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim administration in de novo AML patients aged < 55 years with 
cytogenetics t(15;17) have not been established. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients receiving high-dose 
chemotherapy. This medicinal product should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy beyond established dose regimens. 
Pulmonary adverse events 
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial pneumonia, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of pulmonary infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher 
risk (see section 4.8). 
The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever, and dyspnoea in association with radiological 
signs of pulmonary infiltrates, and deterioration in pulmonary function along with increased neutrophil 
count may be preliminary signs of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome(ARDS). In such 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
circumstances, pegfilgrastim should be discontinued at the discretion of the doctor and the appropriate 
treatment given (see section 4.8). 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or discontinuation of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome 
Capillary  leak  syndrome  has  been  reported  after  G-CSF  administration  and  is  characterised  by 
hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration. Patients who develop symptoms of 
capillary  leak  syndrome  should  be  closely  monitored  and  receive  standard  symptomatic  treatment, 
which may include the need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture, including some fatal 
cases, have been reported following administration of pegfilgrastim (see section 4.8). Therefore, 
spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A diagnosis of 
splenic rupture should be considered in patients reporting left upper abdominal pain or shoulder tip 
pain. 
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia 
Treatment with pegfilgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia because full 
dose myelosuppressive chemotherapy is maintained on the prescribed schedule. Regular monitoring of 
platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should be taken when administering 
single or combination chemotherapeutic medicinal products which are known to cause severe 
thrombocytopenia. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients  
In the post-marketing observational study setting, pegfilgrastim in conjunction with chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy has been associated with development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in breast and lung cancer patients (see section 4.8). Monitor breast 
and lung cancer patients for signs and symptoms of MDS/AML.  
Sickle cell anaemia 
Sickle cell crises have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or 
sickle cell disease (see section 4.8). Therefore, doctors should use caution when prescribing 
pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease, should monitor appropriate clinical 
parameters and laboratory status and be attentive to the possible association of this medicinal product 
with splenic enlargement and vaso-occlusive crisis. 
Leucocytosis 
White blood cell (WBC) counts of 100 × 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 1 % of 
patients receiving pegfilgrastim. No adverse events directly attributable to this degree of leucocytosis 
have been reported. Such elevation in white blood cells is transient, typically seen 24 to 48 hours after 
administration and is consistent with the pharmacodynamic effects of this medicinal product. 
Consistent with the clinical effects and the potential for leucocytosis, a WBC count should be 
performed at regular intervals during therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50 × 109/L after the expected 
nadir, this medicinal product should be discontinued immediately. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring during initial or subsequent treatment 
have been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. Pegfilgrastim should be permanently 
discontinued in patients with clinically significant hypersensitivity. Pegfilgrastim should not be 
administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to pegfilgrastim or filgrastim. If a serious 
allergic reaction occurs, appropriate therapy should be administered, with close patient follow-up over 
several days. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, has been reported rarely in 
association with pegfilgrastim treatment. If the patient has developed SJS with the use of 
pegfilgrastim, treatment with pegfilgrastim must not be restarted in this patient at any time. 
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against pegfilgrastim are generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. c-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after discontinuation of G-CSF. See also section 4.8. 
Other warnings 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim for the mobilisation of blood progenitor cells in patients or 
healthy donors has not been adequately evaluated. 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient positive bone imaging findings. This should be considered when interpreting 
bone-imaging results. 
Excipients 
Sorbitol 
The additive effect of concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and 
dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account.  
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, i.e. it is essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Due to the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy‚ 
pegfilgrastim should be administered at least 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
In clinical trials, pegfilgrastim has been safely administered 14 days before chemotherapy. 
Concomitant use of pegfilgrastim with any chemotherapy  has not been evaluated in patients. In 
animal models, concomitant administration of pegfilgrastim and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or other 
antimetabolites has been shown to potentiate myelosuppression.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not been 
specifically investigated in clinical trials. 
The potential for interaction with lithium, which also promotes the release of neutrophils, has not been 
specifically investigated. There is no evidence that such an interaction would be harmful. 
The safety and efficacy of Grasustek have not been evaluated in patients receiving chemotherapy 
associated with delayed myelosuppression e.g., nitrosoureas. 
Specific interaction or metabolism studies have not been performed; however, clinical trials have not 
indicated an interaction of pegfilgrastim with any other medicinal products. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data on the use of pegfilgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Grasustek is not recommended during pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
There is insufficient information on the excretion of pegfilgrastim / metabolites in breast milk. 
Therefore a risk for new-borns/infants cannot be ruled out. A decision must be made whether to 
discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Grasustek therapy taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the mother. 
Fertility 
Pegfilgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at cumulative 
weekly doses approximately 6 to 9 times higher than the recommended human dose (based on body 
surface area) (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Pegfilgrastim has no or a negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were bone pain (very common [≥ 1/10]) and 
musculoskeletal pain (common) [≥ 1/100 to < 1/10]).  Bone pain was generally of mild to moderate 
severity, transient and could be controlled in most patients with standard analgesics. 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions, including skin rash, urticaria, angioedema dyspnoea, erythema, 
flushing, and hypotension occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim (uncommon 
[≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100]). Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis can occur in patients 
receiving pegfilgrastim (uncommon) (see section 4.4). 
Capillary Leak Syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported as 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy following 
administration of G-CSF; see section 4.4 and section “Description of selected adverse reactions” 
below. 
Splenomegaly, generally asymptomatic, is uncommon. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Splenic rupture including some fatal cases is uncommonly reported following administration of 
pegfilgrastim (see section 4.4). 
Uncommon pulmonary adverse reactions including interstitial pneumonia, pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary infiltrates and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported. Uncommonly, cases have resulted in 
respiratory failure or ARDS, which may be fatal (see section 4.4). 
Isolated cases of sickle cell crises have been reported in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell 
disease (uncommon in sickle cell patients) (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The data in the table below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical trials and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
severity. 
MedDRA 
system organ class 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rare 
(≥1/10,000 
to 
< 1/1,000) 
Very rare 
(< 
1/10,000) 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl cysts 
and polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
Disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system 
Disorders 
Vascular 
Disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Headache1 
Nausea1 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Myelodysplastic 
syndrome1 
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia1 
Sickle cell anaemia 
with crisis2; 
Splenomegaly2; 
Splenic rupture2 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions; 
Anaphylaxis 
Elevations in uric 
acid 
Capillary leak 
syndrome1 
Acute Respiratory 
DistressSyndrome2; 
Pulmonary adverse 
reactions 
(interstitial 
pneumonia, 
pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary 
infiltrates and 
pulmonary fibrosis) 
Haemoptysis 
Sweet’s syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis)1, 2; 
Cutaneous 
Vasculitis1,2 
Aortitis 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome 
Thrombocytopenia1; 
Leukocytosis1 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Bone pain 
Musculoskeletal 
pain (myalgia, 
arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, back 
pain, 
musculoskeletal 
pain, neck pain) 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Glomerulonephritis2 
Injection site pain1  
Non-cardiac chest 
pain 
Injection site 
Reactions2 
Elevations in lactate 
dehydrogenase and 
alkaline 
phosphatase1; 
Transient elevations 
in LFTs for ALT or 
AST1 
1 See section “Description of selected adverse reactions” below. 
2 This adverse reaction was identified through post-marketing surveillance of pegfilgrastim but not observed in randomised, 
controlled clinical trials in adults. The frequency category was estimated from a statistical calculation based upon 1,576 
patients receiving pegfilgrastim in nine randomised clinical trials. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Uncommon cases of Sweet's syndrome have been reported, although in some cases underlying 
haematological malignancies may play a role. 
Uncommon events of cutaneous vasculitis have been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. 
The mechanism of vasculitis in patients receiving pegfilgrastim is unknown. 
Injection site reactions, including injection-site erythema (uncommon) as well as injection-site pain 
(common events) have occurred during initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim. 
Common cases of leucocytosis (White Blood Count [WBC] > 100 × 109/l) have been reported (see 
section 4.4). 
Reversible, mild to moderate elevations in uric acid and alkaline phosphatase, with no associated 
clinical effects, were uncommon; reversible, mild to moderate elevations in lactate dehydrogenase, 
with no associated clinical effects, were uncommon in patients receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Nausea and headaches were very commonly observed in patients receiving chemotherapy. 
Uncommon elevations in liver function tests (LFTs) for alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST),, have been observed in patients after receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. These elevations are transient and return to baseline. 
An increased risk of MDS/AML following treatment with pegfilgrastim in conjunction with 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy has been observed in an epidemiological study in breast and lung 
cancer patients (see section 4.4). 
Common cases of thrombocytopenia have been reported. 
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported in the post marketing setting  G-CSF use. These 
have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking multiple 
chemotherapy medicinal products or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Experience in children is limited. A higher frequency of serious adverse reactions in younger children 
aged 0-5 years (92 %) has been observed compared to older children aged 6-11 and 12-21 years 
respectively (80 % and 67 %) and adults. The most common adverse reaction reported was bone pain 
(see sections 5.1 and 5.2).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses of 300 μg/kg have been administered subcutaneously to a limited number of healthy 
volunteers and patients with non-small cell lung cancer without serious adverse reactions. The adverse 
events were similar to those in subjects receiving lower doses of pegfilgrastim. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1.  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunostimulants, colony stimulating factors; ATC Code: L03AA13. 
Grasustek is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a glycoprotein, which regulates the 
production and release of neutrophils from the bone marrow. Pegfilgrastim is a covalent conjugate of 
recombinant human G-CSF (r-metHuG-CSF) with a single 20 kd polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule. 
Pegfilgrastim is a sustained duration form of filgrastim due to decreased renal clearance. Pegfilgrastim 
and filgrastim have been shown to have identical modes of action, causing a marked increase in 
peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases in monocytes and/or 
lymphocytes. Similar to filgrastim, neutrophils produced in response to pegfilgrastim show normal or 
enhanced function as demonstrated by tests of chemotactic and phagocytic function. As with other 
haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro stimulating properties on human endothelial 
cells. G-CSF can promote growth of myeloid cells, including malignant cells, in vitro and similar 
effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
In two randomised, double-blind, pivotal studies in patients with high risk stage II-IV breast cancer 
undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin and docetaxel, use of 
pegfilgrastim, as a single once per cycle dose, reduced the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia similarly to that observed with daily administrations of filgrastim (a median of 
11 daily administrations). In the absence of growth factor support, this regimen has been reported to 
result in a mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia of 5 to7 days, and a 30-40 % incidence of febrile 
neutropenia. In one study (n = 157), which used a 6 mg fixed dose of pegfilgrastim the mean duration 
of grade 4  neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.8 days compared with 1.6  days in the 
filgrastim group (difference 0.23 days, 95 % CI -0.15, 0.63). Over the entire study, the rate of febrile 
neutropenia was 13 % of pegfilgrastim-treated patients compared with 20 % of filgrastim-treated 
patients (difference 7 %, 95 % CI of-19 %, 5 %). In a second study (n = 310), which used a 
weight-adjusted dose (100  μg /kg), the mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group was 1.7 days, compared with 1.8 days in the filgrastim group (difference 0.03 days, 95 % CI 
-0.36, 0.30).  
The overall rate of febrile neutropenia was 9 % of patients treated with pegfilgrastim and 18 % of 
patients treated with filgrastim (difference 9 %, 95 % CI of-16.8 %, -1.1 %). 
In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study in patients with breast cancer the effect of pegfilgrastim on 
the incidence of febrile neutropenia was evaluated following administration of a chemotherapy 
regimen associated with a febrile neutropenia rate of 10-20 % (docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 
4 cycles). Nine hundred and twenty-eight patients were randomised to receive either a single dose of 
pegfilgrastim or placebo approximately 24 hours (day 2) after chemotherapy in each cycle. The 
incidence of febrile neutropenia was lower for patients randomised to receive pegfilgrastim compared 
with placebo (1% versus 17 %, p < 0.001). The incidence of hospitalisations and intravenous 
anti-infective use associated with a clinical diagnosis of febrile neutropenia was lower in the 
pegfilgrastim group compared with placebo (1 % versus 14 %, p < 0.001; and 2 % versus 10 %, p < 
0.001). 
A small (n = 83), phase II, randomised, double-blind study in patients receiving chemotherapy for de 
novo acute myeloid leukaemia compared pegfilgrastim (single dose of 6 mg) with filgrastim, 
administered during induction chemotherapy. Median time to recovery from severe neutropenia was 
estimated as 22 days in both treatment groups. Long-term outcome was not studied (see section 4.4). 
In a phase II (n = 37) multicentre, randomised, open-label study of paediatric sarcoma patients 
receiving 100 μg/kg pegfilgrastim following cycle 1 of vincristine, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide 
(VAdriaC/IE) chemotherapy, a longer duration of severe neutropenia (neutrophils < 0.5 × 109/L) was 
observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (8.9 days) compared to older children aged 6-11 years 
and 12-21 years (6 days and 3.7 days, respectively) and adults. Additionally, a higher incidence of 
febrile neutropenia was observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (75 %) compared to older 
children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (70 % and 33 %, respectively) and adults (see sections 4.8 
and 5.2). 
5.2.  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After a single subcutaneous dose of pegfilgrastim, the peak serum concentration of pegfilgrastim 
occurs at 16 to 120 hours after dosing and serum concentrations of pegfilgrastim are maintained 
during the period of neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The elimination of 
pegfilgrastim is non-linear with respect to dose; serum clearance of pegfilgrastim decreases with 
increasing dose. Pegfilgrastim appears to be mainly eliminated by neutrophil mediated clearance, 
which becomes saturated at higher doses. Consistent with a self-regulating clearance mechanism, the 
serum concentration of pegfilgrastim declines rapidly at the onset of neutrophil recovery (see figure 
1). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  1. Profile  of median  pegfilgrastim  serum concentration  and  absolute  neutrophil  count 
(ANC) in chemotherapy treated patients after a single 6 mg injection 
Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. In an open label, single dose study (n = 31) 
various stages of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease, had no impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim. 
Elderly 
Limited data suggest that the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim in elderly subjects (> 65 years) is 
similar to that in adults. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim were studied in 37 paediatric patients with sarcoma, who 
received 100 μg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of VAdriaC/IE chemotherapy. The youngest 
age group (0-5 years) had a higher mean exposure to pegfilgrastim (AUC) (± Standard Deviation) 
(47.9 ± 22.5 μg·hr/ml) than older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (22.0 ± 13.1 μg·hr/ml and 
29.3 ± 23.2 μg·hr/ml, respectively) (see section 5.1). With the exception of the youngest age group 
(0 5 years), the mean AUC in paediatric subjects appeared similar to that for adult patients with 
high-risk stage II-IV breast cancer and receiving 100 μg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of 
doxorubicin/docetaxel (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
5.3.  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data from conventional studies of repeated dose toxicity revealed the expected 
pharmacological effects including increases in leukocyte count, myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, 
extramedullary haematopoiesis and splenic enlargement. 
There were no adverse effects observed in offspring of pregnant rats given pegfilgrastim 
subcutaneously, but in rabbits pegfilgrastim has been shown to cause embryo/foetal toxicity (embryo 
loss) at cumulative doses approximately 4 times the recommended human dose, which were not seen 
when pregnant rabbits were exposed to the recommended human dose. In rat studies, it was shown that 
pegfilgrastim may cross the placenta. Studies in rats indicated that reproductive performance, fertility, 
oestrous cycling, days between pairing and coitus, and intrauterine survival were unaffected by 
pegfilgrastim given subcutaneously. The relevance of these findings for humans is not known. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1.  List of excipients 
Sodium acetate * 
Sorbitol (E420) 
Polysorbate 20  
Water for injections 
*Sodium acetate is formed by titrating glacial acetic acid with sodium hydroxide.  
6.2. 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, particularly with sodium 
chloride solutions. 
6.3.  Shelf life 
3 years.  
6.4.  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). 
Grasustek may be exposed to room temperature (not above 30 °C) for a maximum single period of up 
to 72 hours. Grasustek left at room temperature for more than 72 hours should be discarded. 
Do not freeze. Accidental exposure to freezing temperatures for a single period of less than 24 hours 
does not adversely affect the stability of Grasustek. 
Keep the container in the outer carton to protect from light.  
6.5.  Nature and contents of container 
Pre-filled syringe (Type I glass), with a (butyl) rubber stopper and a stainless-steel needle with 
automatic needle guard. The needle has flexible, rigid needle shield.  
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 0.6 ml of solution for injection. 
Pack size of one pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard (0.6 ml) and supplied in a dispensing 
pack containing one syringe. 
6.6.  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Before administration, Grasustek solution should be visually inspected for particulate matter. Only a 
solution that is clear and colourless should be injected.  
Excessive shaking may aggregate pegfilgrastim, rendering it biologically inactive.  
Allow the pre-filled syringe for manual administration to come to room temperature for 30 minutes 
before using the syringe. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Juta Pharma GmbH,  
Gutenbergstr. 13,  
24941 Flensburg, 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1375/001  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 20 June 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
14 
 
 
 
 
                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)  
USV Private Limited 
D-115, TTC Industrial Area, Shirvane 
Navi Mumbai - 400706,  
Maharashtra,  
India 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Juta Pharma GmbH  
Gutenbergstr. 13  
24941 Flensburg 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk 
profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) 
milestone being reached. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTERED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grasustek 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 0.6 ml (10 mg/ml) solution for injection. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20, sodium acetate, water for injection. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
1 pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard (0.6 ml). 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Important: Read the package leaflet before handling the pre-filled syringe. 
For subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT     
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Avoid vigorous shaking. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the container in the outer carton to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Juta Pharma GmbH,  
Gutenbergstr. 13,  
24941 Flensburg,  
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1375/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Grasustek 6 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS BLISTER WITH 
SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Grasustek 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Juta Pharma GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  OTHER 
Important: read the package leaflet before handling the pre-filled syringe. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
BLISTERED SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Grasustek 6 mg 
pegfilgrastim 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.6 ml 
6.  OTHER 
Juta Pharma GmbH 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Grasustek 6 mg solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
This  medicine  is  subject  to  additional  monitoring. This  will allow  quick  identification  of  new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read  all  of  this  leaflet  carefully  before  you  start  using  this  medicine  because  it  contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Grasustek is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Grasustek 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Grasustek 
Possible side effects 
How to store Grasustek 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Grasustek is and what it is used for 
Grasustek is for use in adults aged 18 and over. 
Grasustek contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. Pegfilgrastim is a protein produced by 
biotechnology in bacteria called E. coli. It belongs to a group of proteins called cytokines and is very 
similar to a natural protein (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor) produced by your own body. 
Grasustek is used to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low white blood cell count) and the 
occurrence of febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell count with a fever) which can be caused by the 
use of cytotoxic chemotherapy (medicines that destroy rapidly growing cells). White blood cells are 
important as they help your body fight infection. These cells are very sensitive to the effects of 
chemotherapy which can cause the number of these cells in your body to decrease. If white blood cells 
fall to a low level there may not be enough left in the body to fight bacteria and you may have an 
increased risk of infection. 
Your doctor has given you Grasustek to encourage your bone marrow (part of the bone which makes 
blood cells) to produce more white blood cells that help your body fight infection. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Grasustek 
Do not use Grasustek 
• 
if you are allergic to pegfilgrastim, filgrastim, E. coli derived proteins, or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Grasustek: 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
if you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty   
breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), redness and flushing, skin rash and areas of the 
skin that itch. 
if you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing. This can be a sign of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). 
if you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects: 
-  swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of 
tiredness.  
         These could be symptoms of condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood to 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leak from the small blood vessels into your body (see section 4). 
If you get left upper abdominal pain or pain at the tip of your shoulder. This may be a sign of a 
problem with your spleen (splenomegaly). 
If you have recently had a serious lung infection (pneumonia), fluid in the lungs (pulmonary 
oedema), inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) or an abnormal chest x-ray (lung 
infiltration). 
If you are aware of any altered blood cell counts (e.g. increase in white blood cells or anaemia) 
or decreased blood platelet counts, which reduces the ability of your blood to clot 
(thrombocytopenia). Your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. 
If you have sickle cell anaemia. Your doctor may monitor your condition more closely. 
if you are a patient with breast cancer or lung cancer, Grasustek in combination with 
chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may increase your risk of a precancerous blood 
condition called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML). Symptoms may include tiredness, fever, and easy bruising or bleeding.  
if you have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the 
face, lips, tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing. 
These could be signs of a severe allergic reaction. 
if you have symptoms of  inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports 
blood from the heart to the body), this has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy 
donors. The symptoms can include fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased 
inflammatory markers. Tell your doctor if you experience those symptoms. 
Your doctor will check your blood and urine regularly as Grasustek can harm the tiny filters inside 
your kidneys (glomerulonephritis). 
Severe skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been reported with the use of Grasustek. Stop 
using Grasustek and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms described 
in section 4. 
You should talk to your doctor about your risks of developing cancers of the blood. If you develop or 
are likely to develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Grasustek, unless instructed by your 
doctor. 
Loss of response to pegfilgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with pegfilgrastim treatment, 
your doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise pegfilgrastim’s activity. 
Other medicines and Grasustek 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. Grasustek has not been tested in 
pregnant women. It is important to tell your doctor if you: 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
are pregnant or breast-feeding 
think you may be pregnant or 
are planning to have a baby  
If you become pregnant during Grasustek treatment, please inform your doctor. 
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Grasustek. 
Driving and using machines 
Grasustek has no or a negligible effect on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Grasustek contains sorbitol (E420) and sodium 
This medicine contains 30 mg sorbitol in each 6 mg dose, which is equivalent to 50 mg/ml.  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Grasustek 
Always use Grasustek exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. The usual dose is one 6 mg subcutaneous injection (injection under your skin) using 
a pre-filled syringe and it should be given at least 24 hours after your last dose of chemotherapy at the 
end of each chemotherapy cycle. 
Injecting Grasustek yourself 
Your doctor may decide that it would be more convenient for you to inject Grasustek yourself. Your 
doctor or nurse will show you how to inject yourself. Do not try to inject yourself if you have not been 
trained.  
For further instructions on how to inject yourself with Grasustek, please read the section at the end of 
this leaflet. 
Do not shake Grasustek vigorously as this may affect its activity. 
If you use more Grasustek than you should 
If you use more Grasustek than you should contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you forget to inject Grasustek 
If you have forgotten a dose of Grasustek, contact your doctor to discuss when you should inject the 
next dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine may have side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following or combination of the following 
side effects: 
• 
swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, difficulty 
breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of tiredness. These 
symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion. 
These could be symptoms of an uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) condition called 
“Capillary Leak Syndrome”, which causes blood to leak from the small blood vessels into your 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
body and needs urgent medical attention. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
bone pain. Your doctor will tell you what you can take to ease the bone pain.  
nausea and headaches. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
pain at the site of injection.  
general aches and pains in the joints and muscles.  
some changes may occur in your blood, but these will be detected by routine blood tests. Your 
white blood cell count may become high for a short period of time. Your platelet count may 
become low which might result in bruising. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
allergic-type reactions, including redness and flushing, skin rash, and raised areas of the skin 
that itch.  
serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face).  
increased spleen size.  
spleen rupture. Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal. It is important that you contact your 
doctor immediately if you experience pain in the upper left side of the abdomen or left shoulder 
pain since this may relate to a problem with your spleen.  
breathing problems. If you have a cough, fever and difficulty breathing please tell your doctor.  
Sweet’s syndrome (plum-coloured, raised, painful lesions on the limbs and sometimes the face 
and neck with fever) has occurred but other factors may play a role.  
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin).  
damage to the tiny filters inside your kidneys (glomerulonephritis).  
redness at the site of injection. 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis) 
blood disorders (myelodysplastic syndrome [MDS] or acute myeloid leukaemia [AML]). 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000) 
• 
Inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2. 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage).  
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which can appear as reddish target-like or circular patches often 
with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes 
and can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms. Stop using Grasustek if you develop these 
symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention immediately. See also section 2. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Grasustek 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the syringe label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
You may take Grasustek out of the refrigerator and keep it at room temperature (not above 30 °C) for 
no longer than 3 days. Once a syringe has been removed from the refrigerator and has reached room 
temperature (not above 30 °C) it must either be used within 3 days or disposed of.  
Do not freeze. Grasustek may be used if it is accidentally frozen for a single period of less than 
24 hours.  
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy or there are particles in it.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Grasustek contains 
− 
The active substance is pegfilgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 
0.6 ml of solution. 
The  other  ingredients  are  sodium  acetate,  sorbitol  (E420),  polysorbate  20  and  water  for 
injections (see section 2). 
− 
What Grasustek looks like and contents of the pack 
Grasustek is a clear, colourless solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (6 mg/0.6 ml). 
Each pack contains 1 glass pre-filled syringe with an attached stainless-steel needle and needle cap. 
The syringes are provided with an automatic needle safety guard. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Juta Pharma GmbH,  
Gutenbergstr. 13,  
24941Flensburg, 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Juta Pharma GmbH,  
Gutenbergstr. 13,  
24941 Flensburg, 
Germany 
For  any  information  about  this  medicine,  please  contact  the  local  representative  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder:  
Ελλάδα 
RAFARM A.E.B.E 
Κορίνθου 12, Ν. Ψυχικό, Ελλάδα 
τηλ 210 6776550-1 
Hrvatska  
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Av. V. Holjevca 40 , 10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska 
Tel:+385 1 6641 830 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
86, Bulgaria Blvd. 
Sofia 1680, Bulgaria 
Тел: + 359 2 805 72 08 
Ísland  
Alvogen ehf. 
Smáratorgi 3 
201 Kópavogur, Ísland  
Tel: +354 522 2900 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Könyves Kálmán körút 11/C 
1097 Budapest 
Tel.: + 36 1 299 1058 
România 
Labormed Pharma Trading SRL 
44B, Theodor Pallady Blvd. 
3rd district, 032266 
Bucharest, Romania 
Tel: +40 21 304 7597 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Bonifraterska 17 
00-203 Warszawa 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
Österreich 
Vertrieb 
G.L.Pharma GmbH 
Schlossplatz 1, 8502 Lannach, 
Osterreich 
Tel: +43 3136 82577  
Česká republika 
EGIS Praha, spol. s r.o., 
Praha1-Staré Město,Ovocný trh 1096/8, PSČ 11000 
Tel: +420 227 129 111 
Slovenská republika 
EGIS Slovakia spol. s r.o., 
Prievozská 4D, 821 09 Bratislava 
Tel: +421 2 32409422 
Eesti 
Apteegikaubanduse Hulgimüük OÜ               
(Auxilia Pharma) 
Karamelli 6, 11317 Tallinn 
Tel: +372 605 0005 
Italia 
medac Pharma S.r.l. 
Via Viggiano 90, 00178 Rome 
Italien 
Tel: +39 06 51 59 121 
Suomi/Finland 
medac GmbH 
Hirsalantie 11 
02420 Jorvas 
Finland 
Tel: +358 10 420 4000 
Latvija 
SIA Unikmed Baltija 
Ģertrūdes iela 33/35-2, 
 LV-1011, Rīga, Latvija 
Tālr .: +371 64 412-474 
Deutschland 
medac GmbH 
Theaterstr. 6 
22880 Wedel, Deutschland 
Tel: +49 4103 / 8006-777 
Sverige, Danmark, Norge 
medac GmbH 
Malmöhusvägen 1 
211 18 Malmö 
Schweden 
Tel: +46 0340 64 54 70 
Lietuva 
SIA „Unikmed Baltija“ 
Gertrūdos g. 33/35-2,  
LV-1011, Ryga, Latvija 
Tel .: +371 64 412-474 
Slovenija 
Distribucija 
G.L.Pharma GmbH 
Schlossplatz 1, 8502 Lannach, 
Avstrija 
Tel: +43 3136 82577 
België / Belgique / Belgien, España, Ireland, 
Κύπρος, Luxembourg / Luxemburg, Malta, 
Nederland, Portugal, United Kingdom (Northern 
Ireland) 
Juta Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49(0)461995799-0 
France 
Zentiva France 
35 Rue du Val de Marne 
75013 Paris 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} 
Other sources of information 
Detailed  information  on  this  medicine  is  available  on  the  European  Medicines  Agency  web  site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Instructions for use: 
Guide to parts 
Syringe before administration 
Caution: Avoid contact with the plunger and needle during the preparation of the syringe, The safety 
device is normally activated by pressure from the plunger on the syringe. 
Syringe after administration 
(Guard is released and covers the needle) 
29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Important 
Before you use a Grasustek pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard, read this important 
information: 
• 
It is important that you do not try to give yourself the injection unless you have received training 
from your doctor or healthcare provider. 
Grasustek is given as an injection into the tissue just under the skin (subcutaneous use). 
• 
     Do not remove the grey needle cap from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to  
         inject.  
     Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface. Use a new pre-  
         filled syringe and call your doctor or healthcare provider. 
     Do not attempt to activate the pre-filled syringe prior to injection.  
     Do not attempt to remove the clear pre-filled syringe safety guard from the pre-filled  
         syringe.  
     Do not attempt to remove the peelable label on the pre-filled syringe barrel before  
         administering your injection.  
Call your doctor or healthcare provider if you have any questions. 
A. 
Step 1: Prepare 
Remove the pre-filled syringe tray from the package and gather the supplies needed for your 
injection: alcohol wipes, a cotton ball or gauze pad, a plaster and a sharps disposal container 
(not included). 
For a more comfortable injection, leave the pre-filled syringe at room temperature for about 30 minutes 
before injecting. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.  
On a clean, well-lit work surface, place the new pre-filled syringe and the other supplies. 
    Do not try to warm the syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave. 
    Do not leave the pre-filled syringe exposed to direct sunlight. 
    Do not shake the pre-filled syringe. 
Keep pre-filled syringes out of the sight and reach of children.  
B. 
Warning/Precaution: Check to ensure there is no loose fragment or fluid inside the pack. In 
case of doubt DO NOT open this pack and take another pack instead.  
Open the blister by peeling back the top layer all the way off the blister as shown. 
C. 
Warning/Precaution: DO NOT lift the product by the plunger or needle cover. 
Remove the pre-filled syringe from blister as shown. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 
Inspect the medicine content through the viewing window of the pre-filled syringe. 
   Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
•  The medicine is cloudy or there are particles in it. It must be a clear and colourless liquid.  
•  Any part appears cracked or broken.  
•  The grey needle cap is missing or not securely attached.  
•  The expiry date printed on the label has passed the last day of the month shown.  
In all cases, call your doctor or healthcare provider.  
A. 
  Wash your hands thoroughly. Prepare and clean your injection site. 
Step 2: Get ready 
You can use: 
• 
• 
• 
Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe. Let your skin dry. 
Upper part of your thigh 
Belly, except for a 5 cm (2-inch) area right around your belly button.  
Outer area of upper arm (only if someone else is giving you the injection).  
    Do not touch the injection site before injecting.  
       Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard. Avoid injecting into             
       areas with scars or stretch marks.    
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
B. 
  Warning/Precaution: DO NOT twist the needle cover or touch the needle or plunger. 
Pull the needle cover straight off as shown and handle the guard to avoid injuries or bending the 
needle. 
C. 
  Pinch your injection site to create a firm surface. 
               It is important to keep the skin pinched when injecting. 
A. 
INSERT the needle into skin.  
Push the plunger while grasping the finger flanges.  
Push the plunger all the way down as far as it will go to inject all of the solution. 
Step 3: Inject 
       Do not touch the injection site before injecting.  
B. 
The entire dose has to be administered to trigger the guard. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. 
After the injection is complete, one of the below alternatives can be followed: 
-Remove  the  needle  from  the  injection  site and  release  the  plunger  until the  entire  needle  is 
covered by the guard. 
-Release the plunger until the needle is covered and then remove the syringe from the injection 
site 
          Warning/Precaution: If the guard is not activated or only partially activated, discard the syringe 
without replacing the needle cover. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthcare professionals only 
The trade name of the medicine should be clearly recorded in the patient file. 
Turn the plunger to move the label into a position where you can remove the syringe label. 
A. 
Dispose of the used medicine immediately in a Sharps container or as instructed by your 
healthcare provider. 
Step 4: Finish 
Medicines should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.Keep 
the syringe and sharps disposal container out of sight and reach of children. 
    Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
    Do not recycle pre-filled syringes or throw them away via household waste. 
  Examine the injection site. 
B. 
If there is blood, press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site. Do not rub the injection site. 
Apply a plaster if needed.  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
