European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/487789/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Grepid 
International Nonproprietary Name: clopidogrel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001059 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE......................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................................... 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION............................................................................................... 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction............................................................................................................................ 5 
Quality aspects....................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects .............................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical Aspects ................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................................... 13 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation.................................... 15 
2/15 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier  
The applicant Pharmathen S.A. submitted on 31 July 2008 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Grepid, in accordance with the centralised procedure 
falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a 
Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1). 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC  
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  15 July 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)     Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/98/069/001-7 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
  (cid:131) Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets  
  (cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC  
(cid:131) Date of authorisation:  15 July 1998 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131) Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/98/069/001-7 
(cid:131) Bioavailability study number: AA44502 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was  Metoda Lipnik-Štangelj  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 31 July 2008.  
The procedure started on 20 August 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
7 November 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  15-18 December 2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  19 December 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
16 January 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  27 February 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  16-19 March 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
A clarification meeting with the Rapporteur and the EMEA took place on 26 March 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 24 April 2009. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the responses to the List of Outstanding 
Issues on 11 May 2009. 
On  20 May 2009  the  applicant  provided  a  request  to  change  the  name  of  the  product  from 
Clopidogrel Pharmathen (initially proposed name for which the procedure has been started) to 
Grepid. 
During the meeting on 26-29 May 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Grepid on 29 May 2009. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 28 July 2009. 
4/15 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Grepid  75 mg  film-coated  tablet  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  clopidogrel  as  an  active 
substance. The application was submitted under the Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC i.e. generic 
application referring to a reference medicinal product. 
Grepid  contains  different  salt  of  clopidogrel  -  clopidogrel  besilate  in  contrary  to  the  reference 
medicinal product (Plavix), which contains clopidogrel hydrogensulphate as the active substance.   
Clopidogrel is a non-competitive inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) at the platelet receptors. 
The  effect  of  ADP  on  platelets  is  mediated  by  two  G-protein  coupled  P2Y  receptors  (P2Y1  and 
P2Y12) and the cation channel-coupled P2X1 receptor. The adenylate cyclase-coupled ADP receptor 
P2Y12 is the main target of clopidogrel and lead to inhibition of platelet activation, aggregation, and 
Gp  IIb/IIIa  receptor  activation.  Clopidogrel  is  a  thienopyridine  and  only  the  S-enantiomer  is 
pharmacologically active. 
The safety and efficacy profile of clopidogrel has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details 
of  which  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Plavix.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Grepid 75mg film-coated 
tablet  contains  clopidogrel  besilate.  Since  this  application  is  a  generic  application  referring  to  the 
reference medicinal product Plavix, summary of the clinical data of clopidogrel hydrogensulphate is 
available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  efficacy  and 
safety have been conducted with clopidogrel besilate.  
The indication for clopidogrel besilate is different from the reference medicinal product. It is part of 
the indication approved for the reference medicinal product. 
The therapeutic indication of Grepid is: 
Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
•   Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease. 
The therapeutic indication of Plavix is:  
Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
• Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
excipients  used 
Grepid  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  75 mg  of  clopidogrel  (active  substance).  The 
active  substance  is  in  form  of  besilate  salt.  Excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  Grepid  are  well 
known 
cellulose, 
hydroxypropylcellulose  (E463),  mannitol  (E421),  crospovidone  (type  A),  citric  acid,  monohydrate, 
macrogol 6000, stearic acid, talc (present in the tablet core) and Opadry II Pink 32K14834 (coating 
agent)  which  is  composed  of  hypromellose  (E464),  iron  oxide  red  (E172),  lactose  monohydrate, 
triacetin (E1518), titanium dioxide (E171). 
tablets  preparations 
as  microcrystalline 
such 
in 
5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grepid  film-coated  tablets  are  pink,  round  and  biconvex  and  packed  in  polyvinyl  PVC/PE/PVDC-
aluminium foil or PA/ALL/PVC-aluminium foil (Alu-Alu) blisters. 
Active Substance  
is 
active 
substance 
chemically 
(+)-(S)-α-(2-chlorophenyl)-4,5,6,7-
The 
tetrahydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridine-5-yl-acetic acid methyl ester benzene sulfonate or methyl(+)-(S)-α-(2-
chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridine-5(4H)-acetate,  benzene  sulfonic  acid  (Chemical 
names)  or  methyl (2S)-2-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-(9-thia-4-azabicyclo[4.3.0]nona-7,10-dien-4-yl)acetate, 
benzene sulfonic acid (IUPAC Name) and has the following structure: 
designated 
as 
Clopidogrel  besilate  is  an  off-white  crystalline,  non-hygroscopic  powder,  very  soluble  in  methanol, 
acetonitrile, dichloromethane and practically insoluble in water. 
Clopidogrel molecule has one chiral centre. Active substance used in the manufacturing process of the 
drug  product  is  a  D-enantiomer.  No  specific  form  (except  of  amorphous  and  crystalline)  has  been 
found. The commercially utilised process is optimised to produce a crystalline form. 
• 
Manufacture 
Information  about  manufacturing  process  has  been  provided  using  Active  Substance  Master  File 
(ASMF)  procedure.  The  synthesis  consists  of  six  steps.  First  step  involves  cyanation  and 
condensation of chlorobenzaldehyde with cyclic amine. The result of the first stage is cyanocoupled 
compound. In the next stage, the racemic amide is prepared. It continues to the third stage where the 
resolved  (+)  amide  is  isolated.  The  synthesis  continues  through  camphor  sulfonic  acid  salt  of 
clopidogrel to clopidogrel base. In the last step of the synthesis clopidogrel base reacts with benzene 
sulfonic acid (besilation) to give clopidogrel besilate. 
Critical  parameters  and  accompanying  in-process  controls,  to ensure quality of the final compound, 
have been defined.  
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  clopidogrel  besilate  was  provided  by  elemental  analysis 
(confirmation  of  the  determined  elementary  composition),  spectroscopic  methods  as  FT-IR,  NMR 
(1H-NMR and  13C-NMR), mass spectrum, X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and differential scanning 
calorimetry  (DSC).  X-ray  diffraction  studies  and  DSC  confirmed  the  morphology  of  clopidogrel 
besilate and confirm the proposed crystalline form.  
Potential impurities have been well discussed in relation to their origin and potential carry-over into 
the  final  drug  substance,  including  potential  for  the  formation  of  alkyl  besilates  (genotoxic 
impurities). 
• 
Specification 
The drug substance specification includes tests for appearance and solubility, identification (IR and 
HPLC),  besilate  content,  water  content,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals,  related  substances  (HPLC), 
assay  (HPLC),  specific  optical  rotation  and  residual  solvents  (GC).  The  drug  substance  is  also 
routinely tested for particle size. 
6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  detailed  description  for  all  analytical  methods  was  provided.  Full  method  validation  data  was 
provided for the non compendial (in-house) analytical methods: HPLC methods for identification of 
clopidogrel,  assay,  chromatographic  purity  and  related  substances  and  GC  method  for  residual 
solvents. 
The  HPLC  methods  have been validated for specificity, absorptivity factor (i.e. RRF), linearity and 
range,  limit  of  quantitation,  limit  of  detection,  accuracy,  precision  (system  precision,  method 
precision i.e. repeatability, intermediate precision), robustness, solution stability, forced degradation 
and peak purity.  
The GC method has been validated for specificity, linearity, limit of quantitation, limit of detection, 
accuracy,  precision  (method  precision  i.e.  repeatability,  intermediate  precision) and robustness with 
regards to specified solvents. All acceptance criteria were in line with ICH recommended limits 
In general analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the drug substance. 
Data  on  three  consecutive  batches  of  clopidogrel  besilate  manufactured  according  to  the  proposed 
manufacturing process as described in the ASMF was provided by the ASMF Holder. In addition data 
on  three  batches  of  the  drug  substance  used  for  commercial  scale-up  and  stability  studies  has  been 
provided  by  the  applicant.  All  batches  represented  full  scale  production  and  complied  with  the 
requirements in the drug substance specification.  
• 
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  according  to  ICH  guidelines  for  real  time  (25°C/60% RH)  and 
accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75% RH).  Data  for  three  commercial  scale  batches  were  given  with 
12 months  real  time  and  6  months  accelerated  data.  No  trends  were  found  at  long-term  and 
accelerated conditions for tested parameters.  
In  addition  forced  degradation  studies  were  performed.  Results  form  this  study  proved  that 
clopidogrel  besilate  degrades  under  stress conditions (acidic and alkaline conditions, oxidation, UV 
irradiation,  sun  light  and  thermal  treatment)  to  the  known  impurities.  No  unknown  impurities  were 
detected during stability testing. 
The stability studies confirmed the proposed re-test period. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain,  using  different  salt  of  clopidogrel 
(clopidogrel  besilate)  as  active  substance,  a  robust  and  stable  immediate  release  tablet  formulation 
that is comparable in terms of dissolution and stability to the reference medicinal product, and to be 
bioequivalent. 
Similarity with the reference medicinal product was addressed by way of composition comparisons, 
dissolution studies and comparative impurity profiles.  
After  intensive  tests  performed  with  the  reference  product  the  target  characteristics  for  formulation 
were defined as disintegration time, dissolution, loss on drying and impurities. 
Based on results from the pre-formulation studies two issues requiring addressing specifically during 
the  development  program  were  solubility  of  the  active  substance  and  consequently  the  dissolution 
profiles of the finished product in different media and the stability of the active substance since the 
pre-stability  results  indicated  degradation  of  the  active  substance  in  acidic,  alkaline  and  peroxide 
treatment and slight degradation in high temperatures and light presence. 
7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the excipients compatibility study and knowledge of the reference products, different small-
scale  laboratory  trial  formulations  were  prepared  and  tested  for  the  physical  (pharmacotechnical) 
characteristics  against  the  reference  product  in  order  to  find  appropriate  formulae  with  satisfactory 
pharmacotechnical  characteristics,  dissolution profile and stability results (pre-stability studies were 
conducted with regard to impurity profile). The study also included different manufacturing processes 
(dry mixing, wet granulation with water and wet granulation with absolute ethanol). 
Discriminatory nature of the dissolution method due to the ability to distinguish between batches with 
different composition was demonstrated by dissolution testing carried out on different formulations. 
Results  from  these  studies  allowed  developing  the  final  optimised  composition  of  the  finished 
product, in terms of excipients, and choosing the most appropriate manufacturing process. 
Impurity profile comparisons and assay values of test product and reference medicinal product from 
different EU markets showed that Grepid and the reference product have comparable assay values and 
impurity profile. 
Similarity  between  two  products  was  also  shown  by  dissolution  testing.  Comparative  dissolution 
profiles of Grepid 75 mg film-coated tablets and reference product Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets in 
three  different  media:  0,1  M  HCl,  phosphate  buffer  pH 4,5  and  phosphate  buffer  pH  6,8 have been 
conducted. The dissolution profiles of test product and reference product are considered similar in all 
three media. All calculated F2-values are above 50.  
A  bioequivalence  study  was  conducted,  under  fasting  conditions,  in  order  to  prove  in-vivo 
bioequivalence  between  Grepid  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  and  the  reference  product  Plavix  75  mg 
film-coated tablets. 
• 
Adventitious Agents  
Among  excipients  used  in  the  drug  product  only  lactose  monohydrate  present  in  coating  agent 
(Opadry  II  Pink 32K14834)  is  of  animal  origin.  Declarations  from  lactose  suppliers  were  provided 
stating  that  milk  used  for  production  of  lactose  is  sourced  from  healthy  animals  under  the  same 
conditions as milk collected for human consumption. 
Stearic acid used in the formulation is of vegetable origin. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The proposed manufacturing process is dry, direct-compression. This standard manufacturing process 
has  been  sufficiently  characterised  and  includes  weighing,  sieving,  mixing,  compressing  and  film-
coating  as  steps  during  manufacture.  A  flow  diagram and detailed description of the manufacturing 
process have been provided.  
The critical steps and in-process controls have been identified. Mixing, lubrication, compression and 
coating  were  found  to  be  critical  steps.  Mixing  is  considered  essential  to  produce  a  homogenous 
powder/granule,  which  is  critical  for  batch-to-batch  reproducibility.  Lubrication  is  necessary  to 
overcoming  abrasiveness  of  powder  before  compression.  Tabletting  (compression)  is  essential  for 
uniformity  of  content,  uniformity  of  tablet  mass  and  good  disintegration  characteristics.  Coating  is 
essential for the pharmaceutical form of film-coated tablets in order to ensure that the solvent that is 
selected for the application of the coating is suitable and does not affect the uncoated tablets and that 
the  film  coating  is  applied  appropriately  on  uncoated  tablets  and  consequently  the  produced  film-
coated tablets present no defects. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specification  is  a  standard  one  for  tablets  and  contains  tests  with  suitable  limits  for 
appearance,  identification  (HPLC  and  UV),  average  mass  and  uniformity  of  mass,  loss  on  drying, 
disintegration,  hardness,  uniformity  of  dosage  units,  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances,  including 
chiral  purity  and  genotoxic  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  dissolution,  microbial 
8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contamination,  identification  of  colouring  agent  (titanium  dioxide  and  iron  oxide)  and  tightness  of 
blister.  
Full details of all analytical methods have been provided. All non pharmacopoeial methods have been 
satisfactory validated.  
The  HPLC  methods  for  assay,  dissolution  and  related  substances  have  been  suitably  validated  with 
respect  to  stability  of  the  standard  and  sample  solutions,  specificity,  linearity  and  range,  accuracy, 
precision  (system  and  method  precision/repeatability,  intermediate  precision)  and  robustness. 
Relevant chromatograms have been provided. 
The GC method for determination of residual solvents has been validated with respect to stability of 
the  standard  and  sample  solutions,  linearity  and  range,  specificity,  limit  of  quantitation,  limit  of 
detection, accuracy, precision (system and method precision/repeatability, intermediate precision) and 
robustness. 
Batch  analysis  data  was  provided  on  three  pilot  scale  batches  of  the  finished  product.  Results 
demonstrate  compliance  with  the  proposed  specification  and confirm consistency and uniformity of 
the product. It has been shown that tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished 
product specifications. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  under  ICH  conditions  of  25ºC/60%RH  (long  term,  12 months),  30ºC/65%RH 
(intermediate,  12  months)  and  40ºC/75%RH  (accelerated,  6 months)  were carried out on three pilot 
scale  batches  (the  same  as  used  for  process  validation  and  quality  control  of  finished  product). 
Containers used in the stability studies were the same as those proposed for commercialisation. 
Photostability  and  degradation  studies  have  also  been  included in the stability program. The results 
proved a stability indicating properties of the method used for determination of impurities. 
Stability  results  showed  no  increase  of  the  impurities  (known  and  unknown).  The  results  are  well 
within the specifications. Based on the stability data the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as 
defined in the SPC are acceptable. 
In summary the stability data provided support the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
Clopidogrel  is  widely  used  well-known  substance.  Its  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological properties are well characterised and new non clinical studies were not provided. This 
generic  application  contains  a  different  salt  of  the  active  substance.  On  the  basis  of  the  CHMP 
Guidance for users of the centralised procedure for generic application (EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), 
when  different  salts  of  the  active  substance  of  the  reference  medicinal  product  are  used,  additional 
information providing proof that their safety and/or efficacy profile is not different from that of the 
reference medicinal product is needed. A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of 
clopidogrel  hydrogensulphate  and  justifications  that  the  different  clopidogrel  salt  does  not  differ 
significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was provided 
on request of the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non clinical 
studies were not considered necessary. The excipients used in drug formulation are conventional, well 
known and broadly used in other medicinal products.  
9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction  of  the  product  onto  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  increase  in  the 
combined sales volumes for all clopidorel hydrogensulphate products, and would thus not be expected 
to have an adverse effect upon the environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP Guideline 
on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a 
formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary.  
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of one bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
The  bioequivalence  study  AA44502  was  performed  by  a  Clinical  Research  Organisation  (CRO)  in 
Canada (clinical part) and a CRO in Switzerland (analytical part). It was stated that the clinical part of 
the study was carried out in accordance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which are written 
based on the principles and requirements described in the ICH guideline on Good Clinical Practice.  
The CHMP has requested a routine GCP inspection of the clinical study AA44502. The outcome of 
this inspection and the satisfactory responses to its findings are an integral part of this procedure.  
Clinical studies 
Two bioequivalence studies comparing Grepid 75 mg film-coated tablets (clopidogrel besilate) with 
the originator Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets (clopidogrel hydrogensulphate) marketed in Greece by 
Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC. The study was performed in fasting subjects, measuring 
both the parent drug and the major (inactive) metabolite, clopidogrel carboxylic acid. In addition, this 
generic product contains a different salt of clopidogrel (clopidogrel besilate) in comparison with the 
reference  medicinal  product.  Thus,  the  CHMP  raised  a  major  concern,  since  on  the  basis  of  the 
CHMP  Guidance 
application 
(EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), when different salts of the active substance of the reference medicinal 
product are used, additional information providing proof that their safety and/or efficacy profile is not 
different from that of the reference medicinal product is needed. 
centralised  procedure 
for  users  of 
for  generic 
the 
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study code: AA44502 
Single-dose,  Randomised,  2-way  Crossover  Bioavailabiliy  Study  Comparing  Pharmathen  SA 
Clopidogrel  Besilate  75  mg  Tablets  with  Sanofi  Pharma  Bristol  –Myers  Squibb  SNC  (Plavix) 
Clopidogrel Bisulphate 75 mg Tablets in Healthy Adult Volunteers under Fasting Conditions 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  single-dose  relative  bioavailability  of  Pharmathen  SA 
clopidogrel  besilate  75  mg  tablets  and  Sanofi  Pharma  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  SNC  (Plavix)  75  mg 
clopidogrel bisulphate tablets. This was an open-label, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover, 2-
sequence,  comparative  bioavailability  study  performed  on  64  healthy  adult  non-smoking  volunteers 
(41 males and 23 females). The study was performed in fasting subjects, measuring both the parent 
prodrug and the major (inactive) metabolite, clopidogrel carboxylic acid. The protocol and informed 
consent forms (ICFs) were reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board (IRB) convening 
at  the  CRO  in  Canada,  prior  to  study  initiation  on  18/Sep/2007  and  16/Oct/2007.  The  study  was 
conducted between 12/Oct/2007 and 3/Nov/2007. 
10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS  
Clopidogrel/Pharmathen  75  mg  (clopidogrel  besilate),  manufactured  by  Pharmathen  SA  (batch 
No.333037)  
Plavix  75  mg  Clopidogrel  (clopidogrel  bisulphate),  manufactured  by  Sanofi  Winthrop  Ind.,  Sanofi 
Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC (batch No. 7Y082) 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
The  population  studied  in  trial  AA44502  included  male  and  female,  non-smoking  healthy  adult 
subjects, between 18 and 55 years of age of  black and Caucasian race and with a body mass index of 
18.0-28.0 kg/m2. Subjects were divided into two groups for dosing of the two treatments. Sixty two 
(62) subjects completed the study and data of all 62 is included in the statistical analysis. Inclusion 
and  exclusion  criteria  are  acceptable  and  drop  outs  handling  performed  according  to  the  protocol 
requirements.  The  selected  population  is  in  accordance  with  the  NƒG  on  Investigation  of 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Determination of clopidogrel and clopidogrel acid metabolite in human plasma (EDTA) samples was 
performed  by  LC/MS/MS.  Clopidogrel  hydrochloride-d6  and  Clopidogrelat  hydrochloride-d6  were 
used as internal standard. The method was validated at a CRO in Switzerland.  
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The primary investigated pharmacokinetics parameters were AUCt, AUCinf and Cmax. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
The  ANOVA  model  included  group,  sequence,  period  nested  within  group,  formulation  and 
formulation group interaction as fixed affects and subject nested within group sequence as a random 
effect.  The  ANOVA  model included group, sequence, period nested within group, formulation, and 
formulation group interaction as fixed effects, and subject nested within group sequence as a random 
effect. Sequence was tested using subject nested within group sequence as the error term, at a 10% 
level  of  significance.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  ratios  of  drug  formulation  least-squares 
means (LSM) were derived by exponentiation of the confidence intervals obtained for the difference 
between formulation LSM resulting from the analyses on the ln-transformed AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax 
pharmacokinetic  parameters.  The  ratios  of  LSM  and  confidence  intervals  were  expressed  as  a 
proportion relative to the reference formulation. Non-parametric analysis of tmax was performed using 
the methods of Koch and Hauschke.  
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median) 
Treatment 
Test  
Mean CV 
n 
Reference 
Mean CV  
n 
*Ratio 
(90% CI) 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
1.358.98 
135.8 
62 
1.41228 
110.1 
62 
0.96 (0.88-1.05%) 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
1.54862 
131.6 
53 
1.53756 
96.3 
49 
0.99 (0.89-1.11%) 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
0.773251 
154.9 
62 
0.793657 
122.8 
62 
0.97 (0.86-1.10%) 
Tmax 
h 
1.0229 
65.7 
62 
0.9405 
46.5 
62 
T1/2 
h 
4.3251 
62.1 
53 
4.6727 
52.8 
49 
11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31.0 
30.9 
Intra –  
subject 
CV (%) 
AUC0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
AUC0-t  
maximum plasma concentration  
Cmax  
time for maximum concentration  
Tmax  
half-life  
T1/2  
44.1 
*ln-transformed values  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel carboxylic acid (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean 
± SD, tmax median) 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
7564.17 
23.9 
62 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
8027.39 
24.1 
62 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
2734.052 
37.7 
62 
7793.82 
24.5 
62 
0.97 (0.95-0.99%) 
8304.70 
24.4 
62 
0.97 (0.95-0.99%) 
3022.353 
36.9 
62 
0.91 (0.84-0.97%) 
7.4 
7.2 
24.4 
Tmax 
h 
0.8807 
38.6 
62 
0.7985 
37.8 
62 
T1/2 
h 
9.048 
24.1 
62 
9.205 
24.2 
62 
Treatment 
Test 
Mean CV 
n 
Reference 
Mean CV 
n 
*Ratio 
(90% CI) 
Intra-
subject 
CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration  
Tmax  
half-life  
T1/2  
*ln-transformed values  
The following acceptance criterion for the conclusion of bioequivalence was defined in the study 
protocol:  
• 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameters Cmax, AUC0-t and AUCinf should be within 80-
125%. 
The calculated 90% confidence intervals for all defined parameters for both parent prodrug and the 
metabolite lie within the acceptance range of 80-125% defined in the protocol for AA44502 trial for 
acceptance  of  bioequivalence.  No  pre-dose  levels  of  clopidogrel  and  clopidogrel  acid  are  observed 
before period 2 drug administration and no subject reached Cmax at the first sample time, indicating 
that the sampling period is adequate. Tmax is insignificantly different between the test and reference 
products. The extrapolated AUC of clopidogrel acid is below 20% in each individual subject except 
for  one  subject  and  this  single  exception  is  not  likely  to  affect  the  evaluation  of  bioequivalence. 
However,  the  calculated  intra-subject  variabilities  are  higher  for  clopidogrel  in  comparison  with 
clopidogrel  acid  and  several  study  subjects  did  not  exhibit  a  terminal  log-linear  phase  in  their 
concentration  vs  time  profiles  for  clopidogrel  or  had  a  below  limit  of  quantification  (BLQ) 
concentration  for  clopidogrel.  These  results  were  consequently  not  included  in the pharmacokinetic 
and  statistical  analysis.  The  suitability  of  the  proposed  Lower  Limit  of  Quantification  for  the 
determination of clopidogrel was questioned by the CHMP. In response, it was argued that this LLOQ 
allows  a  good  characterisation  of  the  plasma  concentration-time  profile  of  clopidogrel,  since  the 
12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sampling  schedule  covers  sufficient  number  of  elimination  half-lives  post-Cmax  in  the  majority  of 
subjects.  Although  some  subjects  did  not  exhibit  a  terminal  log-linear  phase  in  their  concentration 
versus  time  profiles  for  clopidogrel  and  some  subjects  had  occasionally  BLQ  values  flanked  by 
measurable concentrations, the proposed LLOQ for clopidogrel was deemed adequate to characterise 
the pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel. Since this study has a rich sampling design, the missing samples 
of some subjects were excluded from the analysis and this is considered the least biased method of 
calculating  AUC0-t.  The  missing  time  points  occurred  mainly  near  the  end  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
profile where concentrations are low and of limited contribution to the overall value of the AUC. 
The following safety parameters have been evaluated in study AA44502: adverse events (AEs), vital 
signs, pre-study 12-lead ECG, laboratory parameters, physical examination. No serious adverse events 
(SAEs)  occurred  during  the  study.  One  subject  experienced  an  adverse  event  (headache)  after 
receiving  the  test  and  no  subjects  experienced  any  AEs  after  receiving  the  reference  product.  The 
tolerability of the test product is acceptable and not significantly different from reference product. 
Two subjects were withdrawn from the clinical trial due to personal reasons. The majority of protocol 
deviations were, amongst others, related to the sampling procedures such as timing, sample storage 
and volume of blood taken. The protocol deviations were not considered to have a significant impact 
on efficacy and safety evaluation.  
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Grepid is considered bioequivalent with Plavix. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  as  described  in  version  03.02  dated 
5 September 2008 presented in Module 1.8.1. of the Marketing Authorisation Application, is in place 
and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
Not  applicable  as  the  application  is  based  on  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety 
concerns requiring specific risk minimization activities have been identified. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
One clinical bioequivalence trial AA44502 was provided for Grepid application, analysing the parent 
prodrug clopidogrel as well as the inactive metabolite clopidogrel carboxylic acid. The demonstration 
of  the  unchanged  safety/efficacy  profile  of  clopidogrel  besilate  when  compared  with  Plavix 
13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(clopidogrel  hydrogensulphate)  was  raised  by  the  CHMP  as  a  major  issue  for  this  generic  product. 
Apart  from  this  general  concern,  it  is  particularly  important  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  the  besilate 
moiety,  since  salification  agents,  such  as  benzenelsulfonic  acid,  could  impact  the  antiaggregation 
effects of platelets considering that their chemical structure may be in relation with a pharmaceutical 
activity.  In  response,  the  following  facts  were  addressed:  the  physical-chemical  properties  of 
clopidogrel  besilate  with  respect  to  dissolution  profiles  at  different  pH  values,  the  lack  possible 
interactions  of  the  besilate  moiety  with  the  platelets,  the  behaviour  and  absorption  pattern  of 
clopidogrel besilate in the gastrointestinal tract and the use of besilates in medicinal products and the 
clinical experience with besilate salts present in medicinal products on the market. It was emphasized 
that the use of other medicinal products containing besilate moiety has not shown any safety signals. 
The absorption of benzenesulfonic acid and its non-specific binding was assessed by evaluating the 
bi-directional permeability of benzenesulfonic acid through a Caco-2 monolayer system. The results 
confirmed  that  benzenesulfonic  acid  is  not  absorbed  to  any  meaningful  extent  and  thus,  would  not 
have the capacity to show aggregatory or antiaggregatory effects. Nevertheless, in order to assess the 
potential antiaggregatory activity of benzenesulfonic acid, in vitro ADP-induced platelet aggregation 
studies  were  performed  by  employing  optical  aggregometry  in  plasma  samples  spiked  with 
benzenesulfonic  acid.    It  was  evident  that  benzenesulfonic  acid  had  no  significant  effect  on 
prothrombin time even at the high concentrations and did affect fibrin clot formation. The potential 
for  an  adverse  interaction between platelets and the besilate moiety is thus unlikely and the CHMP 
considered the issue resolved. 
The indication of Grepid is different from that of the reference medicinal product, Plavix (please see 
section 3.1). Thus, the Product Information has been adequately amended to reflect this change and 
this is considered acceptable.  
At  the  time  of  approval  of  the  reference  product  Plavix,  there  was  no  reliable  and  validated 
methodology for the determination of the pharmacokinetics of the parent prodrug clopidogrel, or of 
the  active  metabolite  clopidogrel  thiol.  Thus,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  established  based  on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid,  which  is  the  non-active  metabolite.    In  the 
meantime,  a  reliable  bioanalytical  method  for  determination  of  clopidogrel  in  plasma  and urine has 
been  developed.  Since  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  active  metabolite  is  still  not  well 
established,  the  CHMP  accepted  the  proof  of  bioequivalence  based  on  the  clopidogrel  parent 
compound  data.  Thus,  evaluation  of  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  is 
considered  supportive  and  clopidogrel  pharmacokinetic  data  are  essential  for  the  establishment  of 
bioequivalence. 
Furthermore,  the  recently  published  literature  data  indicate  that  the  bioavailability  of  a  single  oral 
dose  of  clopidogrel  and  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of clopidogrel, especially Cmax and AUCinf, 
might  be  increased  by  several  folds  in  the  fed  condition  compared  to  the  fasted  condition.  The 
currently  presented  clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  fasted  state  and  thus,  the  CHMP  requested a 
clarification  of  this approach and adequate justification why bioequivalence for the generic product 
should be demonstrated only under fasting condition was provided. Bioequivalence studies in fasting 
conditions  are  normally  recommended  as  mentioned  in  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  document  as  this 
situation  would  be  more  sensitive  to  differences  in  pharmacokinetics.  In  addition  the  dissolution 
studies using clopidogrel besilate conducted at three different pH values (1.2, 4.5, 6.8) and mimicking 
the  conditions  of  a  fed  state  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  when  compared  to  the  reference 
product. 
The  bio-analytical  technique  and  methodology  applied  in  the  analysis  of  the  samples  during  the 
bioequivalence  study  AA44502  were  described.  However,  the  CHMP  requested  further  details  on 
validation including stability results of the analyte and metabolite in the biological matrix and stock 
solution,  specificity,  accuracy,  precision,  limit  of  quantification  and  response  function,  since  the 
presented  summary  results  for  clopidogrel  and  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  were  not  sufficient  to 
claim that the method was validated. It was also questioned whether there is a potential for the back-
conversion  of  the  quantitatively  major  metabolite  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  the  parent  drug. 
Considering that the plasma levels of clopidogrel carboxylic acid are considerably higher than those 
14/15 
 
 
 
 
of  the  parent  drug,  a  minimum  back-conversion  of  the  metabolite  would  lead  to  a  huge  over-
estimation  of  clopidogrel  plasma  levels  and  would  bias  the  outcome  of  the  bioequivalence  study. 
Demonstration of the lack of back-conversion of clopidogrel carboxylic acid metabolite to the parent 
drug under all conditions for sample handling and storage was requested by the CHMP. In response, 
details of the bio-analytical methodology and full validation report were provided demonstrating that 
no  methanol,  which  is  needed  for  the  conversion  the  acid  metabolite  to  clopidogrel,  was  used  and 
thus,  no  source  of  methylation  exists  within  the  entire  methodology,  including  all  solution 
preparation, plasma sample processing, handling storage and LC-MS/MS determination. The CHMP 
considered this issue resolved. 
The CHMP has requested a routine GCP inspection of the clinical study AA44502, which revealed no 
major or critical deviation from GCP. Two observations were found to be of major importance during 
the inspection of the bioanalytical part of the trial. The first observation was related to the absence of 
the  validation  report,  which  was  also  requested  by  the  CHMP  during  the  evaluation  of  the  dossier. 
The  second  observation  was  related  to  the  management  and  quality  control  in  sample  preparation. 
Following  the  submission  of  the  requested  report  and  based  on  the  conclusions  from  the  GCP 
inspection  the  data  obtained  from  the  bioequivalence  study  AA44502  are  acceptable  and  the 
conclusions of the study are valid. 
The  bioequivalence  study  and  statistical  evaluation  were  in  accordance  with  accepted  standards  for 
bioequivalence testing, as stated in the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and 
Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish  bioavailability 
included the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximal plasma concentration of 
the  parent  compound  of  clopidogrel.  Bioequivalence  has  been  established  as  the  calculated  90% 
confidence  intervals  for  ln-transformed  AUCt,  AUCinf  and  Cmax  fell  within  the  required  acceptance 
range of 80-125% for the parent drug clopidogrel and for the clopidogrel carboxylic acid metabolite. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical data and the bioequivalence has 
been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus decision that the 
benefit/risk  ratio  of  Grepid  indicated  in  adults  for  the  prevention  of  atherothrombotic  events  in 
patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days),  ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease was favourable 
and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
