22 May 2014 
EMA/441074/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Halaven  
International non-proprietary name: ERIBULIN 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002084/II/0011 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 6 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 21 
2.5.4. PSUR cycle ................................................................................................... 110 
2.6. Risk management plan ...................................................................................... 110 
2.7. Update of the Product information ...................................................................... 113 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance............................................................................ 113 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 115 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 2/116 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
BOR  
best overall response 
BR23    
EORTC breast cancer-specific quality of life questionnaire 
CAP  
capecitabine 
CAPE    
capecitabine 
CBR  
clinical benefit rate 
CI  
confidence interval 
CNS  
central nervous system 
CR  
complete response 
CSR  
clinical study report 
DOR  
duration of response 
E7389    
eribulin 
ECOG    
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
EORTC   
European Organisation for Research on the Treatment of Cancer 
ER  
EU  
estrogen receptor 
European Union 
FDA  
Food and Drug Administration 
FISH  
fluorescence in situ hybridization 
HalB  
halichrondrin B 
HER2    
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
HER2/neu  
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
HR  
IHC  
IRC  
ITT  
i.v.  
hazard ratio 
immunohistochemical 
Independent Radiographic Review Charter 
intent-to-treat 
intravenous(ly) 
IVRS  
Interactive Voice Response System 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 3/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nMFS    
new metastasis-free survival 
ORR  
objective response rate 
OS  
PD  
overall survival 
progressive disease OR pharmacodynamic(s), depending on context of use 
PFS  
progression-free survival 
PP  
PR  
PS  
per protocol 
partial response OR progesterone receptor, depending on context of use 
performance status 
QLQ-C30  
Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 
QoL  
quality of life 
RECIST  
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours 
SAP  
statistical analysis plan 
SCE 
SCS 
SD  
US  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy 
Summary of Clinical Safety 
stable disease OR standard deviation, depending on context of use 
United States 
VAS  
visual analog scale 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 4/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Eisai Europe Ltd. submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 4 April 2013 an application for a variation including an extension of 
indication. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
Halaven 
name: 
ERIBULIN 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
See Annex A 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH applied for an extension of the indication for the treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed after at least one chemotherapeutic regimen for 
advanced disease. Consequently, the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 of the SmPC.  
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Dr Filip Josephson 
Co-Rapporteur:  Dr Jens Ersbøll 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
4 April 2013 
26 April 2013 
19 June 2013 
Page 5/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
circulated on: 
19 July 2013 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
25 July 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
18 October 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
29 November 2013 
Rapporteur’s final assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
2nd Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
13 December 2013 
19 December 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
17 February 2014 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
3rd Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
5 March 2014 
20 March 2014 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
16 April 2014 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
29 April 2014 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
16 May 2014 
22 May 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Halaven (eribulin mesilate) is a non-taxane, microtubule dynamics inhibitor belonging to the 
halichondrin class of antineoplastic agents. It is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed after at least two chemotherapeutic 
regimens for advanced disease, and administered intravenously on days 1 and 8 every 21 days.  
The scope of this type II variation is to extend the indication from the current 3rd line treatment to 2nd 
line treatment of advanced/metastatic breast cancer.  
The proposed indication is based on a subset of the population of the pivotal Study 301, which was a 
1:1 randomised open-label study comparing the efficacy and safety of eribulin and capecitabine 
monotherapy in the first - third line setting. Fifty percent of the eribulin-treated patients in Study 301 
were treated in the 2nd line, which represents the new indication sought. 15% of patients were HER2 
positive; concomitant HER2-targeted therapy was not allowed during study. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.   Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 6/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The studies included in the current application were specifically selected for presentation because they 
provide plausible mechanistic explanations for the clinical finding that eribulin has greater effects on 
overall survival compared to progression-free survival endpoints in metastatic breast cancer. These 
nonclinical pharmacology studies support the concept that eribulin has additional, previously 
unrecognized antitumor mechanisms of action that go beyond its previously established direct 
cytotoxic effects on tumour cells due to its known antimitotic activities. 
In vitro and in vivo pharmacodynamic studies were conducted in order to examine effects of eribulin 
mesilate on: a) tumour vascular function and vascular remodelling, b) migration and invasiveness 
capacity of cancer cells, and c) epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related pathways in both 
cancer cells and their host tissue counterparts within the tumour microenvironment. The results of 
these studies are summarised in the following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 7/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Non-clinical primary pharmacology eribulin studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 8/116 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH propose that these new data point to an interesting new biology associated with eribulin 
mesilate treatment that goes well beyond aspects that might be expected simply on the basis of 
classical antimitotic, antiproliferative effects against cancer cells. The studies point to significant effects 
of eribulin mesilate on tumour cell biology and tumour host interactions that could provide a plausible 
and scientific basis for an increase in overall survival despite continued presence, or even growth, of 
tumours and metastasis. Thus, these findings suggest that eribulin mesilate, in addition to having 
primary anticancer effects associated with classical cytotoxicity, also renders residual tumours less 
aggressive and less likely to metastasize. These results support the concept that after eribulin mesilate 
treatment, residual tumours become less life-threatening and “easier to live with” in contrast to the 
effects of fluoropyrimidines (e.g., capecitabine), and provide a reasonable mechanistic explanation for 
the trend towards increased overall survival in eribulin-mesilate–treated subjects with metastatic 
breast cancer when compared to capecitabine treatment, even in the absence of an increase in 
progression-free survival. 
2.2.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
New  environmental  risk  assessment  has  been  performed  in  support  of  the  new  proposed  indication. 
The Applicant has experimentally established log Kow to 2.25. This is below the threshold of 4.5 and an 
assessment for persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity (PBT) is not required. 
Table 2: Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Eribulin mesilate (HALAVEN 0.44 mg/mL) 
CAS-number (if available):  
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
Result 
2.25 
Study No D06022 
Shake flask 
method 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT (N) 
Value 
0.000066 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , refined (e.g. 
prevalence, literature) 
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Test protocol 
OECD 301B 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Test protocol 
Acute static toxicity study in 
Daphnia magna  
OECD 202 
Unit 
µg/L 
Results 
ThCO2: 2.18 CO2/mg 
Relative degradation 28 
days: 7-8% 
Endpoint  value  Unit 
mg/L 
NOEC 
0.46 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold 
(N) 
(N) 
Remarks 
(modified Sturm) 
Remarks 
24h EC50: 6.9 
mg/L  
48h EC50: 0.79 
mg/L 
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
OECD 209 
NOEC 
56 
mg/L 
2.2.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 9/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An attempt is made to address the pharmacology of eribulin in order to get further understanding on 
the clinical picture. The ideal situation is to generate such data in advance and use these data to define 
the most optimal clinical use of the product. It may however also be possible to use nonclinical data to 
support clinical data in cases like this one, where the clinical picture is unclear and the outcome of 
different endpoints are not fully consistent. For this purpose it is however of importance to generate 
data which may help in translating in vitro and/or animal data into the clinical situation. Such 
translation could include relevant pharmacodynamic biomarkers identified in the animal studies and 
then studied in clinical material. Such data are considered essential given the fact that animal 
xenograft studies are known not to share all aspects of the clinical therapeutic situation. 
The presented data are interesting and indicate a plausible biological mechanism for some part of the 
difference between overall survival and progression-free survival observed in Study 301 which could be 
of clinical importance. However, the interpretation of data is complicated by the fact that in several of 
the situations where eribulin treatment has been compared to other agents, there is a pronounced 
difference in anti-tumour activity with eribulin being clearly superior. This means that the quantitative 
and/or qualitative differences seen on the studied biological markers could be just a consequence of 
the difference in anti-tumour activity.  
In the ERA submitted, the Applicant has experimentally established log Kow to 2.25. This is below the 
threshold of 4.5 and an assessment for persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity (PBT) is not required. 
2.2.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
While the non-clinical data are interesting, they do not allow extrapolation to the clinical situation. 
However, they indicate a plausible biological mechanism for some part of the difference between 
overall survival and progression-free survival observed in Study 301. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
2.3.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
Included in the current submission is an updated Population Pharmacokinetic (PPK) Analysis, based on 
pharmacokinetic (PK) data from previous studies as well as from the new Phase 3 Study 301 and a 
new PK/PD analysis of the relationship between eribulin plasma exposure and different efficacy or 
safety measures, based on data from Study 301 only. The MAH does not suggest any changes to the 
SmPC or other claims based on this analysis. In addition, in response to the CHMP request, the MAH 
performed a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modelling (PBPK) and simulation exercise to 
predict the effect of eribulin on a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 10/116 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.1.  Population pharmacokinetic model 
A PPK analysis was previously conducted based on data from seven Phase 1 studies (E7389-A001-101, 
E7389-A001-102, E7389-E044-103, E7389-J081-105, E7389-E044-108, E7389-E044-109, and E7389-
E044-110) and one Phase 2 study (E7389-G000-211). This analysis was discussed during the original 
MAA for Halaven. The analysis has now been updated to include also data from the new Phase 3 study 
(E7389-G000-301).   
The objectives of the population PK analysis were to describe the PK profile of eribulin in subjects with 
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes and to 
identify covariates that explain between subject variability in eribulin PK.  
Based on the previously conducted PPK analysis, a three-compartment PK model with linear elimination 
from the central compartment for log-transformed eribulin plasma concentration data was the starting 
point for the updated model.  
The association between subject covariates and PK parameters was evaluated in a stepwise fashion:   
- 
Individual Bayes posthoc pharmacokinetic parameter estimates were generated from the base 
model. The difference of individual estimates from the corresponding population value (η) was 
plotted versus the covariates to identify potential relationships.  
-  η-shrinkage was calculated and reported for IIV parameters estimated by the model [20]. A 
parameter with shrinkage greater than 30% was excluded from the covariate analysis.  
-  Covariates identified as being important were first assessed in the basic model by univariate 
addition and ranked in descending order according to the change in objective function value 
(OFV). All significant variables were then tested in a full model, and a subsequent backwards 
deletion was carried out at the 0.1% significance level where the relative influence of each 
covariate on the model was re-evaluated by deleting it from the full model on an individual 
basis.  
Base Model 
The PK of eribulin was best described by a three compartment model with linear elimination from the 
central compartment and parameterized for CL, V1, Q2, V2, Q3 and V3. An allometric model for body 
size effects on all of the parameters was also implemented. The use of an allometric model with body 
weight was found to be superior to using body surface area (BSA) effect on each of the parameters.  
The estimates of PK parameters for the base model were close to those estimated from the previous 
analysis. For clearance (CL) IIV was estimated to be 59.3%, and 38.1% for central volume of 
distribution (V1). Residual variability was described by a proportional error model and the CV% was 
estimated to be 24.1%. The parameter estimates, precision of the estimate and 95% confidence 
interval for the base PK model are presented in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 11/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 12/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Population Pharmacokinetic Parameter Estimates of Eribulin Base PK Model 
Co-variate model 
In the univariate analysis, significant effects were seen for ALB, ALP, BILI and CLCR on CL, and these 
covariates were subsequently simultaneously added to the base PK model. Multivariate analysis with 
backward deletion resulted in a final PK model with significant effects of ALB, ALP and BILI on CL. 
Compared to the base PK model, the addition of the three significant covariates explained IIV on CL by 
7.3 % and residual variability by 0.1 %.  
The final population PK model for eribulin was a three compartment model with linear elimination from 
the central compartment parameterized for CL, V1, Q2, V2, Q3 and V3. IIV was estimated on all 
parameters except V2. A proportional error model was used for estimation of residual variability. The 
parameter estimates, precision of the estimate and 95% confidence interval for the final PK model are 
presented in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 13/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 14/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Final Model Population Pharmacokinetic Parameter Estimates of Eribulin 
Eribulin CL was identified to increase with increasing albumin (ALB) levels and decline with increasing 
alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and bilirubin (BILI). Similar effects of ALB and BILI were observed in the 
previous population PK analysis. IIV in the model parameters was moderate ranging between 36.6% 
for V3 and 52.0% for CL. IIV was well estimated with good precision for most parameters (%RSE 
≤25.7%), however for Q2 the estimate of IIV was less precise (36.0%), but improved from the base 
model. The residual variability in eribulin concentrations was low (CV 24.0%).  
In order to evaluate the predictive performance of the final PK model for eribulin, simulations were 
performed. Using parameters from the final PK model, eribulin concentrations were simulated (n = 
500) following 1.4 mg/m2 dosing on Days 1, 8 and 15 (where applicable) on each 21-days treatment 
cycle. The population median BSA of 1.74 m2 was used to determine the total dose. The mean and 5th 
and 95th percentiles (90% PI) of these simulated concentrations were calculated and plotted with 
observed eribulin concentration data for dosing on Days 1, 8 and 15 (as an example, Day 15 data is 
shown in  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 15/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. More than 90% of the observed eribulin concentrations for dosing on Day 1, 8 and 15 are 
within the 90% prediction intervals. Hence, the MAH suggests the eribulin concentration time course 
has been reasonably well defined by the final PK model with good predictive performance. The final PK 
model was also evaluated using bootstrap method (1000 replicates). The confidence intervals were 
generally narrow and the median values of the distribution of bootstrapped parameter values were also 
consistent with the original parameter estimates, for both PK structural model and covariate 
parameters.  
Figure  1.  Visual  Predictive  Check  of  Observed  and  Model-Predicted  Eribulin  Concentrations  Following 
1.4 mg/m2 Eribulin Mesylate on Day 15 
2.3.2.2.  PK/PD Modelling 
The MAH has performed a new PK/PD analysis of the relationship between eribulin plasma exposure 
and different efficacy or safety measures, based on data from Study 301 only. The MAH does not 
suggest any changes to the SmPC or other claims based on this analysis. 
2.3.2.2.1.  Methods 
The new population PK/PD analysis was based on data from Study 301 alone, which included 9728 
observations from 535 subjects.  
The objectives of the population PK/PD analysis for efficacy were to  
−  Describe the relationship between eribulin exposure and longitudinal tumour size 
measurements in patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated 
with anthracyclines and taxanes  
− 
Identify covariates that affect eribulin exposure and longitudinal tumour size relationship  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 16/116 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Develop a model that relates changes in tumour size to overall survival (OS) in patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with anthracyclines and 
taxanes  
The objectives of the population PK/PD analysis for safety were to   
−  Describe the relationship between neutrophil count (ANC) and eribulin concentrations in 
patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with 
anthracyclines and taxanes  
− 
Investigate influence of patient characteristics on the development of neutropenia  
In addition, exploratory PK/PD graphical analysis was performed to explore possible relationships 
between eribulin exposure and other measures of efficacy and safety.  
2.3.2.2.2.  Results 
Tumour Growth Inhibition  
The tumour-growth inhibition model included tumour growth rate (per week); tumour size reduction 
rate due to eribulin (per exposure per week); a resistance function; observed tumour size at baseline; 
and eribulin exposure (individual eribulin AUC at the time of the assessment, calculated based on dose 
at time of assessment and individual clearance as predicted by the population PK model). The effect of 
the different covariates (demographic, disease-related, previous treatment etc) was investigated one 
by one in a stepwise fashion as described for the PPK analysis above.  
Figure 2 shows change of tumour size from baseline vs eribulin exposure (AUC) at the time of tumour 
measurement for those subjects in whom PK samples were collected.   
Figure 2: Change in Tumour Size from Baseline vs. Eribulin AUC at Time of Assessment 
There appeared to be a slight trend towards increasing effect on tumour size with increasing eribulin 
exposure.  
No significant co-variate could be identified.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 17/116 
  
 
 
 
 
Time-to-event analysis for Overall Survival  
OS data was explored using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses. The exposure parameter used 
was average eribulin AUC during the study and was calculated based on the average individual dose 
during the study and individual PPK predicted clearance. Kaplan-Meier plots for the effect of eribulin 
exposure on OS (assessed in subjects with PK exposure and survival data only) are presented in the 
figure below.  
Figure  3.  Kaplan-Meier  Plots  for  OS  for  Eribulin  Arm  in  Subjects  with  Quartiles  of  Eribulin  Exposure 
(N=163, Eribulin Arm Subjects with PK Samples) 
Cox regression analysis showed that eribulin exposure was a significant predictor of OS, however, 
Kaplan-Meier plots for OS by quartile of eribulin exposure showed no significant relationship.  
Subsequent OS analysis for other possible predictors indicated that the probability of longer survival 
increases with a decrease in tumour size at week 6. Since decrease in tumour size appeared to be 
related to eribulin exposure (see above), the MAH suggests that this indicates an indirect eribulin 
exposure relationship with OS.  
Eribulin/Neutropenia  
The relationship between eribulin concentrations and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) was described 
using a semi-physiological PK/PD model for haematological toxicity. Eribulin concentration at the time 
of ANC assessment was predicted using the final population PK model. The effect of different covariates 
was assessed as described above. Due to the very long run time when using FOCE, the FO estimation 
method was used. The effect of different co-variates was investigated one by one in a stepwise 
fashion. The parameter estimates for the base neutropenia PK/PD model are presented in Table 5.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 18/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Population Parameter Estimates for Neutropenia Base PK/PD Model 
Parameters were estimated with good precision with %RSE less than 4%. Diagnostic plots for the base 
PK/PD model (indicated that the model adequately described the observed neutrophil levels following 
eribulin administration.  
Multivariate analysis with backward deletion resulted in the following significant covariates:   
-  neutropenia medication [G-SCF)] (NEUTM) on baseline absolute neutrophils (BASE) 
-  NEUTM, ALP and bilirubin (BILI) on neutrophil maturation time (MTT) 
-  Weight on the feed-back parameter for ANC (Gamma) 
-  NEUTM and ALP on the eribulin effect on ANC (SLOPE)  
The diagnostic plots for the final model indicated that the PK/PD model adequately described ANC data 
with no systematic bias in the predictions.  
2.3.2.3.  Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modelling (PBPK) 
Eribulin has previously been shown to inhibit CYP3A4 in vitro, but there is no data on the effect of 
eribulin on CYP3A4 substrates in vivo. To explore the potential for a clinical drug-drug interaction 
between eribulin and midazolam, a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model was built 
using a commercially available program. The parameters used to build the model were generated from 
both in vitro and in vivo experiments (bottom-up plus top-down). Some of the parameters were 
predicted by in silico methods. The model was used to simulate the effect of 1.4 mg/m2 eribulin 
mesilate disposition on exposure of co-administered midazolam, a model CYP3A4 substrate. In an 
additional simulation, a supra-therapeutic 3.0 mg/m2 dose of eribulin mesylate was used as a “worst 
case” scenario. Simulations were conducted for 10 groups of 10 patients for a total of 100 patients for 
each eribulin dose (for details, refer to the Response Assessment Report).  
The results of the simulation are presented in the table below.   
Table 6: Summary Statistics for the Model-Predicted AUC Values of Midazolam for Drug-drug Interaction 
Simulations with Eribulin 
Eribulin 
Mesilate 
Dose 
(mg/m2) 
1.4 
3.0 
Midazolam 
Dose 
(mg) 
2.0 
2.0 
AUC Ratio 
Geom. 
mean 
1.0137 
1.0292 
95% CI 
AUC Ratio 
Median 
AUC Ratio 
Max 
AUC Ratio 
Min 
1.0029 - 1.0144 
1.0143 
1.0220 
1.0032 
1.0276 - 1.0308 
1.0304 
1.0469 
1.0068 
AUC Ratio: ratio between the area under the concentration versus time curve (AUC) of midazolam in the absence and presence of 
eribulin. 
AUC = area under the curve, CI = confdence interval, Max = maximum, Min = minimum 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 19/116 
 
 
 
 
 
The geometric mean AUC ratio for midazolam 2 mg PO with and without eribulin mesilate 1.4 mg/m2 
was roughly 1.01. The geometric mean AUC ratio after the supra-therapeutic 3.0 mg/m2 eribulin 
mesilate dose was roughly 1.03. 
Sensitivity analysis for the effect of different CYP3A4 Ki values of eribulin on the predicted AUC ratio 
was performed. The result of this analysis indicates that the interaction risk between midazolam and 
eribulin is negligible (less than 15% increase in midazolam exposure) even at Ki values 10-fold lower 
than the ones determined from the in vitro inhibition studies. 
Thus, this simulation study indicates that eribulin is not a clinically relevant inhibitor of CYP3A4. 
Sensitivity analyses have been performed with simulations using e.g. an increased dose (increased 
exposure) of eribulin, by changing Ki, and by decreasing Ki to reflect a higher liver concentration of 
eribulin (the latter analysis was made by the assessor). With a higher liver concentration, as indicated 
from data on the ratio between blood and liver concentration in the rat, the predicted AUC ratio for 
midazolam with/without eribulin was 1.27, i.e. slightly above the 1.25 limit normally used to exclude a 
significant interaction.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
With the current variation, the MAH has provided an updated PPK model and a PK/PD analysis, but 
proposes no new claims or SmPC changes based on these analyses, which is considered appropriate.  
Inclusion of data from the new phase III study 301 in the PPK model did not add information or change 
previous conclusions on eribulin pharmacokinetics. Pharmacokinetic data from Japanese patients is 
limited, but the PPK analysis indicated no obvious difference in exposure between Japanese and other 
races that could explain the observed increased frequency of neutropenia in Japanese patients. 
The PK/PD analyses indicated a relationship between eribulin exposure and tumour size as well as 
between eribulin exposure and neutrophil count. The identified co-variates for neutropenia were, 
however, not predictive of the risk of developing grade 3/4 neutropenia. Early identification of patients 
at high risk for grade 3/4 neutropenia using the PK/PD model and covariate values is thereby not 
possible. The PK/PD analyses have no major implications for approval of the new indication. 
The recommendations for drug-drug interactions given in the SmPC are updated with this application. 
Eribulin is eliminated primarily via biliary excretion of unchanged compound into faeces, but the 
transporters involved have not yet been identified. The current SmPC contains relatively wide warnings 
that concomitant use of transporter inhibitors is not recommended. The MAH is in the process of 
identifying the transporters involved in eribulin elimination and performing a new in vitro induction 
study in accordance with the recommendations in the new CHMP Guideline on the Investigation of 
Drug Interactions and relevant revisions through an on-going procedure EMEA/H/C/002084/II/0014 
are under evaluation by the CHMP. These changes are important also in view of the expansion of the 
target population. 
Eribulin showed inhibition of CYP3A4 in vitro, but whether it is a clinically relevant inhibitor of CYP3A4 
is not known. The MAH therefore made simulations using a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic 
(PBPK) model, in order to predict the effect of eribulin on the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. 
The PBPK modelling approach is generally agreed, and overall the PBPK model predicts reasonably well 
eribulin pharmacokinetics. Relevant sensitivity analyses were performed. The results of the simulations 
indicated that although the risk for an effect of eribulin on a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate cannot be 
completely excluded, eribulin would be at most considered a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 20/116 
 
 
 
 
The PBPK model prediction is considered sufficient to be used as a basis to update the SmPC 
recommendation, and a clinical interaction study with midazolam will not be considered necessary. In 
the SmPC, a warning of caution at concomitant administration of drugs that are sensitive CYP3A4 
substrates and that have a narrow therapeutic index has been included. 
2.3.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The updated PPK model, with addition of data from Study 301, and a new PK/PD model including data 
from study does not alter the conclusion drawn on eribulin pharmacokinetics as compared with the 
previous PPK model, included in the original MAA. Results of the PK/PD modelling do not have 
implications for the benefit/risk assessment of the currently applied indication. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Main study 
Study 301  
Protocol number: E7389-G000-301 
Study title: “A Phase III Open Label, Randomized Two-Parallel-Arm Multicenter Study of E7389 Versus 
Capecitabine in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer Previously Treated with 
Anthracyclines and Taxanes” 
Methods 
Study 301 was a Phase 3, multicenter, open-label, randomized, two-parallel-group study in patients 
with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The trial was performed at 210 sites across six 
geographic regions (North America, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Latin America, South Africa and 
Asia). Number of subjects, planned = 1100; enrolled = 1102. (Eribulin 554, capecitabine 548.) 
Table 7. Description of Study 301 
Source: SCE, Table 1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 21/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Study participants 
Eligibility criteria 
Breast cancer subjects who had received up to three prior chemotherapy regimens, and no more than 
two prior regimens for advanced and/or metastatic disease. The chemotherapy regimens must have 
included an anthracycline and a taxane, either in the (neo) adjuvant setting or for locally advanced or 
metastatic disease. Subjects enrolled into the study had documented evidence of disease progression 
during or after their most recent anticancer therapy.  
In addition, subjects with known human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2/neu) 
overexpressing tumours could have been previously treated with trastuzumab in study centres where 
this treatment was available, and subjects with known oestrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone 
receptor (PR) positive disease may have been treated with hormonal therapy, but not required per 
protocol. Subjects for whom HER2/neu status, oestrogen receptor (ER), and progesterone receptor 
(PR) status were unknown were also accepted into the study.  
The difference in inclusion criteria compared with the already approved indication is the required 
number of prior chemotherapy regimens for advanced disease: 0 in this study compared with 2 in the 
registration Study 305. 
The full list of inclusion and exclusion criteria is given below. 
Table 8. Inclusion and exclusion criteria of Study 301 
Inclusion Criteria 
Exclusion Criteria 
1. Female subjects with histologically or cytologically 
confirmed carcinoma of the breast. 
2. Subjects with locally advanced or metastatic disease who 
had received up to three prior chemotherapy regimens, and 
no more than two prior regimens for advanced and/or 
metastatic disease.* 
1. Received more than three prior chemotherapy regimens for 
their disease, including adjuvant therapies, or who received 
more than two prior chemotherapy regimens for advanced 
disease (other therapies are allowed e.g., anti-estrogens, 
trastuzumab and radiotherapy) 
2. Received capecitabine as a prior therapy for their disease 
Regimens must have included an anthracycline (e.g., 
doxorubicin, epirubicin) and a taxane (e.g., 
paclitaxel, docetaxel), either in combination or in 
separate regimens 
3. Received chemotherapy, radiation, or biological therapy 
within 2 weeks, or hormonal therapy within 1 week before 
study treatment start, or any investigational drug within 4 
weeks before study treatment start 
Patients must have progressed during or after their 
last anticancer therapy, and this was to be 
documented 
Patients with known HER2/neu over-expressing 
tumours (see Section 11.1.2 of the Clinical Protocol, 
included in Appendix 16.1.1 of this report) could 
have additionally been treated with trastuzumab in 
centres where this treatment was available 
Patients with known oestrogen and/or 
progesterone receptor-expressing tumours could 
have been additionally treated with hormonal 
therapy 
3. Resolution of all chemotherapy or radiation-related 
toxicities to Grade 1 severity or lower, except for stable 
sensory neuropathy > Grade 2 and alopecia 
4. Age ≥ 18 years 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
4. Radiation therapy encompassing > 30% of marrow  
5. Prior treatment with mitomycin C or nitrosourea 
6. Pulmonary lymphangitic involvement that resulted in 
pulmonary dysfunction requiring active treatment, including 
the use of oxygen 
7. Subjects with brain or subdural metastases were not 
eligible, unless they completed local therapy and discontinued 
the use of corticosteroids for this indication for at least 4 
weeks before starting study treatment. Any symptoms 
attributed to brain metastases must have been stable for at 
least 4 weeks before starting study treatment; radiographic 
stability was to be determined by comparing a contrast-
enhanced CT or MRI brain scan performed during screening to 
a prior scan performed at least 4 weeks earlier 
8. Subjects with meningeal carcinomatosis 
9. Subjects who were receiving anticoagulant therapy with 
Page 22/116 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
5. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance 
Status of 0, 1 or 2  
6. Life expectancy of ≥ 3 months 
7. Adequate renal function as evidenced by serum creatinine 
< 1.5 mg/dL or calculated creatinine clearance > 50 
mL/minute (min) per the Cockcroft and Gault formula  
8. Adequate bone marrow function as evidenced by absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 × 109/L, haemoglobin ≥ 10.0 
g/dL (a haemoglobin <10.0 g/dL was acceptable if it was 
corrected by growth factor or transfusion), and platelet count 
≥ 100 × 109/L 
9. Adequate liver function as evidenced by bilirubin ≤ 1.5 
times the upper limits of normal (ULN) and alkaline 
phosphatase, alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate 
transaminase (AST) ≤ 3 × ULN (in the case of liver metastases 
≤ 5 × ULN), or in case of bone metastases, liver specific 
alkaline phosphatase ≤ 3 × ULN 
10. Subjects willing and able to complete the EORTC Quality 
of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) with breast cancer 
module QLQ-BR23 and Pain VAS 
11. Subjects willing and able to comply with the study 
protocol for the duration of the study 
12. Written informed consent prior to any study-specific 
screening procedures with the understanding that the subject 
could withdraw consent at any time without prejudice 
warfarin or related compounds, other than for line patency, 
and could not be changed to heparin-based therapy, were not 
eligible. If a subject was to continue on mini-dose warfarin, 
then the prothrombin time (PT) / international normalized 
ratio (INR) was to be closely monitored 
10. Women who were pregnant or breast-feeding; women of 
childbearing potential with either a positive pregnancy test at 
screening or no pregnancy test; women of childbearing 
potential unless (1) surgically sterile or (2) using adequate 
measures of contraception (considered to be two methods of 
contraception, one of which must have been a barrier 
method, e.g., condom, diaphragm, or cervical cap). 
Perimenopausal women were to be amenorrheic for at least 
12 months to be considered of nonchildbearing potential 
11. Severe/uncontrolled intercurrent illness/infection 
12. Significant cardiovascular impairment (history of 
congestive heart failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) > 
Grade II, unstable angina or myocardial infarction within the 
past six months, or serious cardiac arrhythmia)  
13. Subjects with organ allografts that required 
immunosuppression 
14. Subjects with known positive HIV status 
15. Subjects who had a prior malignancy, other than 
carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or non-melanoma skin cancer, 
unless the prior malignancy was diagnosed and definitively 
treated ≥ 5 years previously with no subsequent evidence of 
recurrence 
16. Subjects with neuropathy > Grade 2 at screening 
17. Subjects with a hypersensitivity to halichondrin B and/or 
halichondrin B chemical derivative 
18. Subjects who participated in a prior eribulin clinical trial, 
or 
19. Subjects with other significant disease 
*: Any single-agent therapy, and any combination of cytotoxic, hormonal, biological targeted agents, and/or humanized 
antibodies, scheduled to be administered as a preplanned treatment, given concomitantly, sequentially, or both, was considered 
one regimen. Planned neoadjuvant chemotherapy (to debulk the tumour prior to surgical intervention) plus postoperative 
adjuvant chemotherapy was also considered one regimen. If, due to toxicity, the dosing of one or more of the components had 
to be reduced, or one or more of the components of the regimen was to be omitted, or one of the components was to be 
replaced with another similar drug, the changed version of the original regimen was not considered a new regimen. However, if 
a new component dissimilar to any of the original components was added to the regimen, the new combination was considered 
a new regimen.Prior hormonal therapy, biological therapy (e.g., trastuzumab, bevacizumab), or immunotherapy was not to be 
counted as one of the prior chemotherapy regimens allowed. However, hormonal therapy was discontinued 1 week before 
administration of study treatment, and biological therapy was discontinued 2 weeks before study treatment administration. If 
the treatment was interrupted for surgery or radiotherapy and then continued with an unchanged schedule and components, 
that treatment was considered as one regimen despite the interruption. 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to receive either the test drug eribulin as an intravenous 
(IV) infusion of 1.4 mg/m2 over 2-5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 every 21 days; or the comparator 
drug capecitabine as an oral administration of 2500 mg/m2/day administered twice daily in two equal 
doses on Days 1 to 14 in each 21-day cycle. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 23/116 
 
 
 
 
Subjects continued on treatment until unacceptable toxicity, progression of disease, or until in the 
opinion of the investigator, discontinuation of therapy was in the best interest of the subject or the 
subject withdrew consent. Subjects who demonstrated clinical benefit were allowed to continue 
treatment for as long as clinical benefit was sustained.  
Objectives 
Primary: To compare the efficacy of eribulin versus capecitabine monotherapy in terms of overall 
survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in subjects with locally advanced or metastatic breast 
cancer.  
Secondary: Quality of life (QoL), objective tumour response rate (ORR), duration of response (DoR), 
1-, 2-, and 3-year survival, tumour-related symptom assessments, safety, investigation of 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) relationships in a population PK study following 
administration of eribulin in approximately 200 subjects. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoints 
Overall Survival 
Overall survival was measured from the date of randomization until date of death from any cause or 
the last date the subject was known to be alive. 
Progression-Free Survival 
Progression-Free Survival was measured from the date of randomization to the date of recorded 
progression of the disease or the death of the subject from any cause, whichever occurred first. 
Tumour response data utilized in the main analysis of PFS was obtained from an independent review of 
the imaging scans. 
Secondary endpoints 
• Quality of Life measured using the EORTC questionnaire (QLQ-C30 BR23) 
• Objective tumour response rate as measured using RECIST 
• Duration of response 
• One-, two-, and three-year survival 
• Tumour related symptom assessments measured by pain intensity, using a VAS, and analgesic 
consumption. 
• Safety parameters (adverse events, laboratory parameters, concomitant medication, and study drug 
exposure) 
• Population PK in the eribulin group 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 24/116 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy assessments 
Baseline tumour assessments, consisting of computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) scans of areas of suspected disease, as well as photographs of skin lesions, were 
performed within 28 days prior to starting study treatment and every second cycle (starting at Cycle 2) 
for the first 12 cycles, then every third cycle (starting at Cycle 15) between Days 15 and 21, or sooner 
if there was evidence of disease progression. Tumour response was to be confirmed by a second 
examination (using CT/MRI scans and/or photography, and bone scans) performed no less than four 
weeks after first observation of response. 
Quality of Life assessments 
Subjects assessment of QoL was evaluated using the EORTC questionnaire (QLQ-C30, plus breast 
module BR23) at Baseline and at 6 weeks, 3 months, and then at 6-month intervals after the start of 
study treatment. Tumour-related symptom assessments, based on the change from Baseline in pain 
intensity, were recorded by the subject at Baseline (within 7 days of Day 1 Cycle 1) and weekly during 
the study using a VAS, and consumption of analgesic medications were recorded at Baseline and 
throughout the study. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status was assessed 
at Baseline, Day 1 of every cycle, and at Study Termination. 
Sample size 
A total of 1100 subjects (550 subjects per group) were planned for enrolment into the study. 
Subjects were randomized to treatment with either E7389 or capecitabine in a ratio of 1:1. 
Randomization was prestratified based on the geographic region and HER-2/neu status. To avoid a 
centre effect, any one centre could enrol a maximum of only 5% of the total study population (i.e., 55 
subjects). 
The sample size calculation was based on a superiority test for comparing overall survival between the 
two groups treated with E7389 or capecitabine. When the total number of events (deaths) observed 
was 905, an overall 0.04 level two-sided log rank test had approximately 90% power to detect a 
difference between the two survival curves if the alternative hypothesis hazard ratio was 0.80 (a 3-
month increase in median survival over the 12-month median survival of capecitabine). To account for 
censoring in the study, a total of 1100 randomized subjects was planned. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were pre-stratified based on geographic region and HER-2/neu status (positive, negative, or 
unknown), and then randomised to one of the two treatment groups within each stratum in a 1:1 ratio 
to either E7389 or capecitabine. 
Blinding (masking) 
This was an open-label study. However, the Eisai study statistical team was blinded to dosing data and 
treatment group assignment until database lock to avoid potential bias. Independent statisticians 
conducted the interim analyses and assisted with queries. 
Statistical methods 
The study was to be declared positive after achievement of any of the following outcomes for OS: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 25/116 
 
 
 
 
1.  First interim analysis after 453 deaths: OS of eribulin was statistically significantly better 
compared to capecitabine (P ≤ 0.002). 
2.  Second interim analysis after 603 deaths: OS of eribulin was statistically significantly better 
compared to capecitabine (P ≤ 0.0081). 
3.  Final analysis after 905 deaths: OS of eribulin was statistically significantly better compared to 
capecitabine (P ≤ 0.0372). 
4.  Final analysis after 905 deaths: OS hazard ratio (eribulin/capecitabine) was < 1 and PFS of 
eribulin was statistically significantly better compared to capecitabine (P ≤ 0.01). 
Decisions were based on two-sided, stratified log-rank tests with HER2/neu status1 and geographic 
region as strata. The overall significance level alpha of 0.05 was adjusted for the two primary 
endpoints: 0.04 was used for testing OS, and 0.01 was used for testing PFS. 
OS was measured from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. Subjects 
who were lost to follow-up or who were alive at the date of data cut-off were censored. To maintain an 
overall level of 0.04, alpha spending for sequential analyses of OS was based on the Lan−DeMets 
implementation of the O’Brien−Fleming spending function. The P value boundaries of 0.002, 0.0081, 
and 0.0372 are examples when the observed number of deaths at the times of interim analyses (453, 
603, and 905 deaths, respectively). 
Hypotheses tested included: 
Ha: S(eribulin) = S(capecitabine) 
Ha: S(eribulin) ≠S(capecitabine) 
where S is the survival distribution of OS. 
PFS was compared between the two treatment groups using a two-sided 0.01 level stratified log-rank 
test. Hazard ratio (eribulin/capecitabine) was provided together with the two-sided 95% CI using 
stratified Cox regression model with treatment as a factor and HER2/neu status and geographic region 
as strata according to IVRS data. Median and 95% CI were provided using Kaplan−Meier estimate and 
Greenwood formula for each treatment group. PFS was plotted using Kaplan−Meier estimate. 6- and 
12-month PFS rates were provided using Kaplan−Meier method together with 95% CI.  
Additional exploratory Cox regression analysis was performed adjusting for the covariates. In addition 
to the censoring rules the Independent Review Charter described the rules for handling certain missing 
data. 
The censoring rules for the primary analysis of PFS were according to FDA guidance in 2007. 
Sensitivity analysis #1: PFS endpoint was analysed according to EMEA guideline on the methodological 
considerations for using PFS as primary endpoint in confirmatory trials for registration. This included 
that progression/death events were counted as events and not censored even in cases where they 
occurred after discontinuation (for other than progressive disease), after start of new anticancer 
treatment, or after two or more missed tumour assessments. 
Sensitivity analysis #2: PFS endpoint was determined and analyzed using the investigator’s disease 
assessments and also considered symptomatic progression as an event. 
1 There were 70 (6.35%) subjects whose HER2/neu status was incorrectly entered into the IVRS database at time of 
randomization as determined by source document verification leading to the final, locked clinical database. Given 
this discordance, according to the SAP, the log-rank test stratified by geographic region and verified HER2/neu 
status in the clinical database was used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 26/116 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Objective Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the number of subjects with best overall response of 
complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the number of subjects in the analysis 
population. The response rate was based on the independent review of disease assessments and 
investigator’s assessments. Subjects with unknown or missing response were treated as non-
responders, i.e., they were included in the denominator when calculating percentages. Response rate 
was compared between the two groups using the Cochran-Mantel- Haenszel test with adjustment of 
stratification factors geographic region and HER2/neu status. If the test was not feasible or unreliable 
due to the large number of strata relative to the number of responders, Fisher’s exact test was used. 
Response rate was summarized by treatment group with the 95% CI using Clopper−Pearson method. 
Tumour response was evaluated according to the modified RECIST guidelines. The response 
assessment categories were CR, PR, Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD), and Not Evaluable 
(NE). The best overall response was the best response achieved during the study. CRs and PRs were to 
be confirmed by a repeat assessment of response (CR or PR) separated by at least 4 weeks (28 days). 
In the case of SD, post-treatment measurement must have met the SD criteria at least once after the 
first drug administration at a minimum interval of 5 weeks (35 days). CR or PR assessed a minimum of 
5 weeks (35 days) after start of treatment with a subsequent PD will be considered SD for the best 
response. However, CR or PR assessed less than 5 weeks (35 days) from start of treatment with a 
subsequent PD was considered PD for the best response. 
Tumour response was independently reviewed by the imaging company, Radpharm, Inc. Best overall 
response for the investigators’ assessments was derived programmatically based on the response 
assessments at each visit.  
Duration of Response (DoR) (days) = Date of progression/ death/ censoring – Date of first documented 
CR or PR +1. 
The primary QoL analysis will focus on the global health status/QoL (questions 29 and 30) at week 6. 
The difference in global health status/QoL scores at week six between the treatment arms will be 
compared using a Wilcoxon Rank-Sum test. 
Results 
Participant flow – subject disposition 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 27/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Subject Disposition and Primary Reason for Discontinuation From Study Treatment: All 
Randomized Subjects 
Note: Percentages are based on the number of subjects randomized in relevant treatment group. 
a: All subjects who signed informed consent. 
b: Date of data cutoff 12 Mar 2012. 
c: Progressive disease assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). 
d: Four subjects discontinued due to an AE, although the AE leading to discontinuation was recorded more than 30 
days after the last dose of study drug. 
e: Subject agreed to survival follow-up assessments. 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 7. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 28/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
Start date 01 Apr 2006. At the date of data cut-off (12 Mar 2012), 10 subjects (5 subjects [0.9%] 
each in the eribulin and capecitabine groups) were still on treatment. The trial was performed at 210 
sites across six geographic regions. 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol amendments 
The original protocol was issued on 17 November 2005. Seven amendments were made to the protocol 
and a final protocol was issued on 03 March 2009.  
The main changes (according to assessor) are shown below: 
Amendment 01, 14 Dec 2005 
• 
PFS was changed from a secondary objective to a primary objective. 
Amendment 02, 02 Mar 2006: 
• 
Trastuzumab was not available at all study centres; therefore, the requirement for previous 
exposure to trastuzumab was modified to allow subjects to participate in the study without 
previous exposure to trastuzumab. 
•  As PFS was made a primary endpoint, independent review of scans were to be performed. 
Amendment 04, 05 Dec 2006: 
• 
Eligibility criteria regarding prior chemotherapy were changed to include a more complete 
representation of the breast cancer population: “Patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
breast cancer who have received one or two prior chemotherapy regimens” was changed to: 
“…who have received up to three prior chemotherapy regimens, and no more than two prior 
regimens for advanced disease.” 
Amendment 06, 06 Mar 2008: 
•  Allowed investigator more discretion for dose reductions of capecitabine on the first instance of 
Grade 2 toxicity, reflecting current medical practices. The following footnote was added to dose 
modification table for capecitabine: “At the investigator’s discretion and if it is in the best 
interest of the patient the dose of capecitabine may be reduced upon the first instance of 
Grade 2 toxicity for the following adverse events: hand-and-foot syndrome, hyperbilirubinemia, 
stomatitis, or diarrhea, nausea or vomiting that is not controlled by appropriate supportive 
medication.” 
•  Protocol violations 
The most common violations were violations of inclusion criterion #2 and exclusion criterion #1 (7 
subjects each) that required subjects to have received up to three prior chemotherapy regimens and 
no more than two prior regimens for advanced and/or metastatic disease. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 29/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Reason for Exclusion from the Per Protocol Population: ITT Population 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 8. Keywords for inclusion (InC) and exclusion criteria (ExC) are given below. For a 
full description please refer to the list on p. 22.  
InC-2 and ExC-1: Maximum 3 prior chemotherapy regimens, max 2 for advanced disease. Inc-9: Adequate liver 
function. ExC-5 Prior mitomycin C or nitrosourea, ExC-6 Pulmonary lymphangitic involvement, ExC-7 brain or 
subdural metastases, ExC-8 meningeal carcinomatosis, ExC-12 cardiovascular impairment. 
Baseline data 
Demographics 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 30/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11. Baseline Demographics: ITT Analysis Set 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 10. 
Additional medians at baseline in the eribulin and capecitabine arms, respectively (ITT set):  
Weight 69.0 and 70.0 kg; age 54.0 and 53.0 years; weight 69.0 and 70.0 kg; height160.0 and 161.0 
cm; BMI 26.7 and 27.0 kg/m2; BSA 1.74 and 1.75 m2. (Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 10). 
Disease Characteristics 
Time since original diagnosis was somewhat higher in the eribulin arm, 36 months vs. 31 months ( 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 31/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12). HER2 positivity was approximately 15% in both study arms. Oestrogen receptor (ER) and 
hormone receptor (HR) positivity were somewhat lower (approximately 4%), and triple negativity 
slightly higher (2.6%) in the eribulin arm compared with the capecitabine arm.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 32/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Disease Characteristics: ITT Analysis Set 
Continued on next page 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 33/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 11. Assessor’s note: The HER2 status” Overall” is based on the clinical database. 
Tumour sites and number of organs involved were overall similar across study arms, although the 
capecitabine group had approximately 5% more patients with liver metastases and 4% less patients 
with only 1 organ involved (Table 13). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 34/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Baseline disease sites, Study 301 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 14.1.5.2 
Prior therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 35/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. History of previous anticancer treatment (ITT population) 
Continued on next page 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 36/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 12. 
Prior anti-HER2 therapy 
Table 15. Prior trastuzumab therapy overall and by number of HER2 positive patients 
Disease setting for trastuzumab 
Eribulin 
Capecitabine 
Total 
therapy 
Neoadjuvant 
Adjuvant 
(n=554) 
1 (0.2%) 
(n=548) 
1 (0.2%) 
(n=1102) 
2 (0.2%) 
12 (2.2%) 
13 (2.4%) 
25 (2.3%) 
Locally advanced/ metastatic 
45 (8.1%) 
35 (6.4%) 
80 (7.3%) 
Sum 
58 (10.5%) 
49 (8.9%) 
107 (9.7%) 
Proportion of HER2 positive 
58/86 (67.4%) 
49/83 (59.0%) 
107/169 (63.3%) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Tables 14.1.5.3, 14.1.5.4.2, 14.1.5.4.3, and 14.1.5.4.4. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 37/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant Medications 
Table 16. Concomitant Medications Used by >10% of Subjects in Either Treatment 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 14. 
Because concomitant medications were reported until 30 days after the last dose of study drug, 
capecitabine is listed as a concomitant medication for 144 subjects. However, these subjects 
experienced disease progression during the study and discontinued study drug before post-progression 
administration capecitabine was started. These appear under concomitant medications due to the 
definition in the protocol but in fact, represent post-progression chemotherapy.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 38/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table 17. Analysis Sets: All Randomized Subjects 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 9. 
Definitions of Analysis Sets: 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population: The Intent-to-Treat Population consists of all subjects who are 
randomized. This will be the primary analysis population for all efficacy data. 
Per Protocol (PP) Population: The Per Protocol population consists of subjects who were randomized 
and received study drug for at least one full cycle and had no major protocol violations. This analysis 
population was used for exploratory analyses for all efficacy endpoints. 
Safety Population: The Safety population consists of all subjects who received at least one dose of 
study treatment.  
Analyses of the primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were performed on the ITT and PP 
populations. Safety analyses were performed only on the Safety population. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint – Overall survival (OS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 39/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18. Overall survival, Study 301 (ITT population) 
CI = confidence interval, HER2 = human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. 
a: Subjects censored before database cut off includes subjects who were lost to follow up or withdrew consent. 
b: Stratified by HER2 status (clinical database) and geographic region. 
c: Hazard ratio was based on a Cox regression model including treatment group as covariate and stratified by HER2 
status (clinical database) and geographical region. 
d: Overall survival rate at 1, 2, and 3 years and the 95% CI were calculated using Kaplan–Meier estimates and the 
Greenwood formula. P value was calculated using the generalized Pearson Chi-square test. 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 15 / SCE, Table 9. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 40/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cape = capecitabine, CI = confidence interval, E7389 = eribulin. 
Source: SCE, Figure 1. / Study 301 CSR, Figure 1. 
Figure 4. Kaplan−Meier Plot of Overall Survival for the Intent-to-treat Population in Study 301 
Adjusted OS (ITT) analysis: 
An additional analysis was performed adjusted for number of prior chemotherapy regimens for locally 
advanced of metastatic disease (0 / ≥ 1) and time to progression after last chemotherapy (≤ 6 months 
/ >6 months). The resulting HR was 0.897 (95% CI: 0.786, 1.024). 
PP population 
The difference between study arms was smaller in the per protocol population, but still numerically 
better for eribulin compared with capecitabine, HR: 0.91 (95% CI: 0.794, 1.045). Difference in median 
OS: 28 days, p= 0.2. Adjusted analysis (as for ITT above), HR: 0.93 (0.809, 1.065). 
Primary endpoint – Progression-free survival (PFS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 41/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19. Progression-free survival, Study 301 (ITT population) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 16.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 42/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Kaplan−Meier Plot of Progression-free Survival: Independent Review 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 2. 
Figure 6. Kaplan−Meier Plot of Progression-free Survival: Investigator Assessment 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 3. 
Secondary endpoint – Objective response rate (ORR) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 43/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20. Best Overall Tumour Response (ITT analysis set) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 17.  
In the PP population the ORR based on Independent review was 11.5% and 12.2% in the eribulin and 
capecitabine arms, respectively (p= 0.8); the clinical benefit rate (CBR) was 27.4% and 28.6% (p= 
0.7), respectively. For investigator assessments the ORRs were 17.1% and 21.1% (p= 0.1), and CBR 
34.2% and 36.3% (p= 0.6) for eribulin and capecitabine arms, respectively. 
Secondary endpoint – Duration of response (DoR) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 44/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21. Duration of Response for Complete Responses and Partial Responses (ITT set) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 18.  
The MAH considers that the difference in IRC vs. investigator review in the median DoR for the 
capecitabine group may have been influenced by informative censoring in this relatively small number 
of subjects. In addition, five subjects in the capecitabine group had particularly long DoR contributing 
to a 3rd quartile of 703 days (95% CI = 483, 1223) compared with the 3rd quartile for the eribulin 
group of 330 days (95% CI = 273, 491) as assessed by IRC. Three of these five subjects were ongoing 
without disease progression at the time of data cut off, one subject had progressive disease assessed 
by IRC on the same date as the investigator, and one subject withdrew consent prior to IRC review. In 
addition, responders are not a randomized group and, therefore, direct comparison of duration cannot 
be made between groups. 
Secondary endpoint – Quality of Life 
The MAH stated that subjects in the eribulin treatment group had a better QoL in parameters linked to 
gastrointestinal effects, while subjects in the capecitabine group had a better QoL in parameters 
related to hair loss. Mean scores for nausea and vomiting at baseline were 10.0 and 10.1, respectively, 
and improved in the eribulin group by a mean of -1.01 and deteriorated in the capecitabine group by a 
mean of +2.79. The change from baseline in mean scores for diarrhoea were -0.10 for subjects in the 
eribulin group (improvement) and +4.46 for subjects in the capecitabine group (deterioration). The 
change from baseline in mean scores for systemic therapy side effects, which includes ‘upset by hair 
loss,’ were +3.71 for subjects in the eribulin group (deterioration) and -1.13 for subjects in the 
capecitabine group (improvement). Symptoms of hand and foot syndrome were not assessed by the 
QoL questionnaire. Mean pain scores decreased (improved) in both treatment groups. 
According to the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) the primary QoL analysis would focus on the global 
health status/QoL) at week 6: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 45/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22. Summary of EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores for Global health status/QoL, by visit 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 14.2.9.1. 
On average without adjustments for attrition or intrasubject variability, global health status / QoL 
showed no meaningful improvement or deterioration for eribulin or for capecitabine. (CSR, p. 111) 
Table 23. Quality of Life Assessment: Eribulin versus Capecitabine (ITT) 
Results for QLQ-C30 symptoms scales and BR23 module based on weighted generalized estimating equations where 
the weights are predicted probabilities for survival at 12 months with controls for age, race, no. of organs, lines of 
chemotherapy, HER2/neu status(ICH), ECOG, no. of hormonal therapies, no. of therapies in neoadjuvant setting 
and visceral disease. An exchangeable correlation matrix was specified.  
Positive values favour eribulin in Functional scales and negative values favour eribulin in Symptom scales. 
Source: Study 301 CSR, table 14.2.9.9. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 46/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint – Tumour-related symptom assessments (VAS pain scores) 
Overall, most subjects reported decreases from Baseline in VAS pain scores during the trial, with 
similar decreases in each treatment group at each study visit. However, at Study Termination, the 
mean decreases from Baseline in VAS pain scores for subjects in the eribulin group was 3.7 (n=431 
subjects) and current mean pain score 16.3, while subjects in the capecitabine group reported no 
overall change from Baseline to Study Termination in VAS pain scores: + 0.4 (n=407) with current 
mean pain score 18.9. The mean pain scores were similar at baseline; 20.9 (n= 532) and 20.6 
(n=531) in the eribulin and capecitabine arms, respectively. The VAS results are not independent of 
the analgesic use. 
Secondary endpoint – Consumption of analgesics during the study 
The overall analgesic use was 53.9% vs. 46.3% for eribulin and capecitabine, respectively, with 
paracetamol use at 27.2% and 20.5%, respectively. In a separate analysis, opioid use rates were 
40.8% vs.35.9%, respectively. 
Secondary endpoint – ECOG performance status 
Most subjects in both treatment groups had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Score (ECOG) 
score of 0 or 1 at baseline and study termination. One subject in the E7389 group and four subjects in 
the capecitabine group had a shift from 0 at baseline to 3 at study termination and one subject in the 
capecitabine group had a shift from 0 at baseline to 4 at study termination. Similar results were 
observed for the PP population. 
Table 24. ECOG Performance Status at Termination Visit (ITT Population) 
Source Study 301 CSR, Table 14.2.10.1. ECOG = Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Ancillary analyses 
OS and PFS - adjusted analyses 
Oestrogen receptor and triple-negative status are well known prognostic factors for outcome in breast 
cancer. An imbalance was observed for these two receptors’ status between the two treatment groups 
in Study 301. Therefore, post-hoc OS and PFS analyses adjusted for these factors were performed: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 47/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25. OS and PFS - adjusted by disease characteristics 
Analysis 
OS 
PFS - Investigator 
Assessment 
PFS - IRC 
Assessment 
Adjusted by ER Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.863 (0.754, 0.988) 
0.951 (0.831, 1.087) 
1.038 (0.893, 1.207) 
P value 
0.0331 
0.4722 
0.6106 
Adjusted by PR Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.875 (0.764, 1.001) 
0.973 (0.850, 1.113) 
1.094 (0.940, 1.272) 
P value 
0.0529 
0.6937 
0.2375 
Adjusted by Triple-negative Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.859 (0.752, 0.981) 
0.950 (0.832, 1.084) 
1.041 (0.898, 1.208) 
P value 
0.0253 
0.4572 
0.5843 
Adjusted by Hormonal Receptor Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.863 (0.754, 0.988) 
0.949 (0.829, 1.086) 
1.042 (0.896, 1.212) 
P value 
0.0330 
0.4599 
0.5798 
Adjusted by ER Status and PR Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.865 (0.754, 0.993) 
0.966 (0.842, 1.110) 
1.080 (0.924, 1.261) 
P value 
0.0393 
0.6338 
0.3216 
Adjusted by ER and Triple-negative Status 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.864 (0.755, 0.990) 
0.950 (0.830, 1.087) 
1.038 (0.893, 1.208) 
P value 
0.0350 
0.4694 
0.6097 
Table 26. OS analyses adjusted for patient, disease and pre-treatment characteristics 
Overall Survival Adjusted by: 
Number of prior chemotherapy regimens for advanced or metastatic disease: 0, 1, or ≥ 2 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
0.875 (0.764, 1.001) 
0.0526 
Time to progression after the last chemotherapy: ≤ 6 months, or > 6 months 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Age group: < 65 years, or ≥ 65 years 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Setting of prior chemotherapy * 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Sites of disease: visceral only, or other 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Number of organs involved: ≤ 2, or > 2 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
0.892 (0.780, 1.020) 
0.0943 
0.877 (0.767, 1.003) 
0.0557 
0.875 (0.766, 1.000) 
0.0512 
0.852 (0.744, 0.975) 
0.0201 
0.859 (0.750, 0.984) 
0.0278 
Page 48/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression while on treatment with a taxane or other microtubule inhibiting agent:       
yes, or no 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
Taxane refractory: yes, or no 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
P value 
0.877 (0.767, 1.003) 
0.0549 
0.877 (0.767, 1.003) 
0.0541 
* Anthracyclines and taxanes both received as (neo)adjuvant therapy, or at least one of them received as 
treatment for metastatic disease.  
Hazard ratio was estimated using Cox regression model stratified by geographic region, HER2 status, and the 
corresponding baseline status. P value is based on stratified log-rank test with the same stratification factors as the 
Cox regression model. CI = confidence interval. 
Post-hoc multi-adjusted OS analysis 
At the request of the CHMP, a post-hoc analysis of OS and PFS was performed, adjusted for HER2/neu 
status (positive/negative/unknown), age (<65 vs. ≥65 years old), visceral disease (yes/no), ECOG 
performance status (0/≥1), ER status (positive/negative/unknown), PgR status 
(positive/negative/unknown), triple-negative status (yes/no), tumour grade (1-2 vs. 3-4 vs. missing), 
number of prior chemotherapy regimens (0-1 vs. ≥2), duration of last prior therapy, time since last 
prior therapy, time since original diagnosis, and geographic region (North America, Western Europe, 
Eastern Europe, Latin America, South Africa, Asia).  The HR (95%CI) for OS-, PFS-(investigator), and 
PFS- (IRC)-adjusted analyses are 0.94 (0.82, 1.07), 1.01 (0.89, 1.16), and 1.11 (0.95, 1.28), 
respectively. 
OS subgroup analyses  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 49/116 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Overall Survival - Hazard Ratios by Receptor Status (ITT Population) Study 301 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 14.2.8.2.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 50/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Subgroup Analyses of Overall Survival: Demographics (ITT Population) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 7.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 51/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9.Subgroup Analyses of Overall Survival: Disease Status (ITT Population) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 8.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 52/116 
 
 
 
 
 
PFS subgroup analyses  
The PFS sub-group analyses of receptor status (Figure 10) showed no relevant differences between 
study arms, except a trend of better outcome for eribulin vs. capecitabine in the triple-negative 
subgroup; and a trend of better outcome in the capecitabine compared with the eribulin arm in the 
HER2-positive subgroup. 
The PFS sub-group analyses of demographics showed a HR of 1.1 in favour of capecitabine in the 
Eastern Europe subgroup, which is the largest geographic region subgroup (n=612 of 1102; 56% of 
ITT) (Figure 11). This is in contrast with the OS subgroup analysis (Figure 7) with a HR of 0.94.  
With regard to disease status, patients with non-visceral disease only (n= 142; 13% of the ITT) had a 
better HR point estimate of 0.83 (almost the only disease characteristic, apart from the receptor 
statuses, with a PFS HR below 1.0). 
It is also noted that the subgroup with 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for advanced disease (sought 
indication) had a PFS HR consistent with the overall results, i.e. HR 1.029 (95% CI: 0.838, 1.263), and 
2 days’ difference in median PFS favouring capecitabine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 53/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Progression Free Survival - Hazard Ratios by Receptor Status (Investigator assessment, ITT 
Population, Study 301) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Figure 14.2.8.2.3. (PFS investigator assessment) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 54/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Subgroup Analyses of Progression-free Survival: Demographics (INV, Study 301) 
Source: Study 301CSR, Figure 14.2.8.1.3. (PFS investigator assessment) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 55/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12. Subgroup Analyses of Progression-free Survival: Disease Status (INV, Study 301) 
Source: Study 301CSR. Figure 14.2.8.3.3 (PFS investigator assessment) 
HER2 subgroup analyses across studies 
Pooled data for the HER2 subgroups of Studies 305 and 301 were provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 56/116 
 
 
 
 
 
HER2 negative subgroups of Studies 305 and 301: 
OS* HR: 0.841 (0.743, 0.952)  
HER2 positive subgroups of Studies 305 and 301: 
OS* HR: 0.815 (0.624, 1.063) 
*: Stratified by geographic region, prior capecitabine use, and Study. 
PFS HR: 1.022 (0.780, 1.339) 
PFS HR: 0.839 (0.741, 0.949) 
OS – PFS discordance 
The discordance between OS and PFS results was identified as a problem with regard to the acceptance 
of the data, since for a cytotoxic substance a difference in OS would normally be expected to be 
accompanied by a difference in PFS. Analyses were presented to address this issue, shown below. 
PFS events 
Table 27. Distribution of PFS events 
ITT population 
Independent review 
Investigator assessment 
Eribulin 
Capecitabine 
Eribulin 
Capecitabine 
(n=554) 
(n=548) 
(n=554) 
(n=548) 
PFS events, n (%) 
385 (69.5) 
360 (65.7) 
470 (84.8) 
468 (85.4) 
Death, n (%) 
Clinical PD, n (%) 
38 (6.9) 
44 (8.0) 
27 (4.9) 
30 (5.5) 
N/A 
N/A 
25 (4.5) 
24 (4.4) 
PD per RECIST, n (%) 
347 (62.6) 
316 (57.7) 
418 (75.5) 
414 (75.5) 
New Lesion, n (%) 
216 (39.0) 
204 (37.2) 
271 (48.9) 
285 (52.0) 
New non-bone lesion, n (%) 
202 (36.5) 
190 (34.7) 
222 (40.1) 
235 (42.9) 
New bone lesion, n (%) 
14 (2.5) 
14 (2.6) 
49 (8.8) 
50 (9.1) 
Progression of target lesions, n (%) 
92 (16.6) 
78 (14.2) 
113 (20.4) 
92 (16.8) 
Progression of non-target lesions, n (%) 
39 (7.0) 
34 (6.2) 
34 (6.1) 
37 (6.8) 
PFS censored, n (%) 
169 (30.5) 
188 (34.3) 
84 (15.2) 
80 (14.6) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table T_ad_OSPFS_4.1.1 and 4.1.2. 
PFS censoring  
PFS censoring reasons  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 57/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patterns of PFS censoring reasons were analysed. No difference was observed across treatment arms 
for investigator-based data. However, for independent review, 4% more subjects in the capecitabine 
group were censored overall (34.4% vs. 30.5%), and 6% more subjects in the capecitabine group had 
informative censoring (defined as “subjects who had PD/clinical PD in investigator data but PD not 
observed per IRC”, 26.3% vs. 20.6%).The increase of censoring in the capecitabine group may have 
resulted in a slight overestimation of PFS according to a simulation study. Further analyses showed 
consistency in the radiological evaluation of PFS between treatment arms (including analyses of PFS 
adjusted by baseline characteristics, PFS sensitivity, tumour assessment frequency, and baseline 
tumour burden, as assessed by the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, by investigator and 
independent review).  
New anti-cancer therapy was the cause for censoring in 104 (18.8%) of eribulin-treated patients and 
112 (20.4%) of capecitabine-treated patients according to IRC /ITT (Table 28).  
PFS censoring patterns were overall similar and did not offer an immediate explanation for the different 
results of the PFS and OS results. 
Table 28. Summary of PFS censoring reasons (IRC, ITT) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table T_ad_OSPFS_2.1.1 
Eastern Europe 
The difference (4% overall) in proportion of patients for whom death was censored (due to new anti-
cancer treatment or missed visits) was driven by data from Eastern EU sites (with 6.6% difference, 
Table T_ad_OSPFS_2.2.1). Also in the analysis of informative censoring, the difference in censored 
deaths is driven by Eastern EU. 
EMA sensitivity analysis 
A sensitivity analysis was pre-planned according to the EMA guideline on PFS, where PD/death events 
were NOT censored when they occurred after start of new anticancer treatment or after two or more 
missed tumour assessments.  With HR 1.1 the results do not offer an explanation to the OS-PFS 
discordance. 
Another requested sensitivity analysis where new anticancer therapy was counted as progression 
indicated no bias by potential differences in the causes for start of new therapy in the PFS analysis. 
PFS censoring times 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 58/116 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH explored PFS censoring times by IRC and INV in order to investigate if differential censoring 
times in the eribulin and capecitabine arms could help explain the discordance in OS and PFS results. 
In the IRC analysis, patients in the capecitabine arm are censored earlier than in the eribulin arm, 
while time to censoring is the same for INV analysis. This can potentially be due to informative 
censoring where capecitabine has 6% more informative censoring than the eribulin arm.  
When only censored patients are analysed, very similar time to censoring are seen for the two arms for 
IRC (87 vs. 86 days) and investigator (117 vs. 110 days) assessments. The observed differential 
pattern of time to censoring along with informative censoring could help explain the PFS results based 
on IRC analysis; however, given that there is no differential pattern observed for investigator 
assessment, this does not help to explain the discordance in OS and PFS results in general. 
New metastasis 
More patients in Study 301 had progression due to enlargement of pre-existing lesions in the eribulin 
group (27% vs. 24%, eribulin vs. capecitabine, respectively) while more subjects had progression due 
to new metastasis in the capecitabine group (49% vs. 52%, eribulin vs. capecitabine, respectively). 
When all new metastases at any time point during the study, regardless of PFS censoring, where 
analysed, 5.2%more of the capecitabine-treated patients (57.7%) compared with eribulin-treated 
patients (52.2%) was observed with a new metastasis during study, according to investigator 
assessments (Table 29).  
The baseline distributions of metastasis sites were overall similar, except for liver metastases which 
occurred in 5% higher frequency in the capecitabine arm ( 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 59/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 12). 
Table 29. Summary of New Metastasis Sites Based on Investigator Assessment for the ITT Population in 
Study 301 
Source: SCE, Table 27 
The use of INV data is motivated by the presence of 20% informative censoring in the corresponding 
IRC data. Similar distributions were seen in IRC data (Study 301 CSR, Table T_ad_OSPFS_4.6.4.2.). 
Additionally, the MAH observed that subjects who had progression due to a new metastasis were at a 
higher risk for death (HR=2.12; 95% CI = 1.84, 2.43; P<0.0001) than were those who had 
progression with no new metastasis.  When time to progression by new metastasis (termed “new 
metastasis-free survival” [nMFS]) was examined as a separate parameter, there was a trend in nMFS 
in favour of eribulin (HR=0.897 with a median difference of 0.6 months; based on investigator review) 
compared with the capecitabine arm, and the HR was similar to that of the OS trend. These results 
could be intuitively expected. However, analyses performed on “new metastasis-free survival” for 
eribulin vs. capecitabine are “biased” with regard to metastasis sites (capecitabine had more CNS, 
lung, and “various parenchymal” metastases; eribulin had more lymph node and chest wall sites. 
These different metastasis sites could be expected to have different prognosis. Furthermore, since the 
difference in new metastasis as PD between arms was relatively small (5.2% more frequent in the 
capecitabine arm according to INV; no difference between arms according to IRC) this difference in 
frequency alone appears unlikely to explain the difference seen in OS. Therefore, these analyses are 
not further explored. Furthermore, the questions of PD as new metastasis or progression of existing 
lesion, as well as site of new lesion, are matters of competing risks, why the interpretation of data is 
complicated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 60/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar analyses were undertaken in study 305, a study with more heavily pretreated patients, 
comparing eribulin with treatment of physicians’ choice (2:1 randomisation). In the ITT population, no 
difference in pattern of progression was observed. In patients assigned to capecitabine prior to 
randomisation, however, new lesions constituted the first event of progression in 42% vs 36%, eribulin 
vs. capecitabine, but numbers of patients were small, 77 vs. 45 . With respect to site of metastases, 
the pattern did not favour the eribulin arm. 
Preclinical support 
In vitro and in vivo pharmacodynamic studies indicated that eribulin may have additional effects on 
tumour vascular function and vascular remodelling, migration and invasiveness capacity of cancer 
cells, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related pathways, that could offer a plausible 
mechanistic rationale for a post-progression effect of eribulin compared with capecitabine (
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 61/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 1).  
Effect of post-study therapy 
The impact of post study-medication chemotherapy was investigated to determine whether this could 
account for the trend towards improved survival observed with eribulin (Table 35). 
70% of the patients randomised to eribulin received post-study anticancer therapy, 40% received 
capecitabine, 30% received other anticancer therapies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 62/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 30. Summary of 1st line post study treatment anticancer therapy (ITT Population) 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table T_ad_OSPFS_8.1.2.2.  
Note: By “1st line” it is meant 1st therapy post-study. 
A number of analyses were conducted to assess the impact of post-study therapy, , including 
capecitabine (or eribulin) therapy, and HER2 therapy (data not shown). 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 31. Summary of Efficacy for trial E7389-G000-301 
Title: A Phase III Open Label, Randomized Two-Parallel-Arm Multicenter Study of E7389 
Versus Capecitabine in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer 
Previously Treated with Anthracyclines and Taxanes 
Study identifier 
E7389-G000-301 
Design 
Phase 3, open-label, randomized, two-parallel group, multicenter study 
comparing E7389 with capecitabine in subjects with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer (MBC).  Subjects were randomized to receive either 
E7389 or capecitabine on a one to one ratio 
Duration of main phase: 
01.04.2006 (FPI) – 12.03.2012 (data cut-off) 
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Treatment groups 
Superiority 
Eribulin 1.23 mg/m2 
(equivalent to 1.4 mg/m2 
eribulin mesilate) 
Capecitabine 
Administered as an IV bolus at 1.23 mg/m2, 
administered intravenously over two to five 
minutes, on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. 
number randomised: 554 
Administered as an oral administration of 2.5 
g/m2/day administered twice daily in two 
equal doses on Days 1 to 14 each 21-day 
cycle. 
number randomised: 548 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 63/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
OS 
OS was measured from the date of 
randomization until the date of death from 
Primary 
endpoint* 
any cause. 
PFS 
PFS was measured from the date of 
randomization to the date of recorded 
progression of the disease or the death of the 
subject from any cause, whichever occurred 
first. 
Secondary 
ORR 
Objective tumour response was defined as 
endpoint 
the number of subject with best overall 
response of complete response (CR) or partial 
response (PR) divided by the number of 
subjects in the analysis population. The 
response rate was based on the independent 
review of disease assessments and 
investigator’s assessments. 
Database lock 
14 Jun 2012 
*Note: There were two primary endpoints. As only one was required to be 
met in order to conclude a positive study, they are not referred to as co-
primary in this assessment report.  
Results and analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis population 
Intent to treat 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
Eribulin 
Capecitabine 
and estimate 
variability 
and 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Number of subjects 
554 
548 
OS 
446 (80.5) 
459 (83.8) 
No of patients with death (%)  
Median survival in days (95% CI) 
484 (462, 536) 
440 (400, 487) 
Median survival in months (95% CI)  15.9 (15.2, 17.6)  14.5 (13.1, 16.0) 
p-value (stratified log-rank)
a 
0.0560 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) using 
stratified Cox proportional hazards 
0.879 (0.770, 1.003) 
a: Stratified on HER2/neu status (clinical database) and geographical region 
Analysis 
description 
Co-Primary analysis 
Descriptive statistics 
PFS - independent review 
385 (69.5) 
360 (65.7) 
and estimate 
variability 
No of patients with PFS events (%) 
Median progression free survival in 
126 (106, 131) 
129 (120, 147) 
days (95% CI) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 64/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 
Median progression free survival in 
4.1 (3.5, 4.3) 
4.2 (3.9, 4.8) 
months (95% CI) 
Effect estimate per 
p-value 
0.3045 
comparison 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) using 
1.079 (0.932, 1.250) 
stratified Cox proportional hazards 
PFS - investigator review 
470 (84.8) 
468 (85.4) 
No of patients with PFS events (%) 
Median progression free survival in 
127 (120, 131) 
126 (113, 136) 
days (95% CI) 
Median progression free survival in 
4.2 (3.9, 4.3) 
4.1 (3.7, 4.5) 
months (95% CI) 
p-value 
0.7361 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) using 
0.977 (0.857, 1.114) 
Analysis 
description 
stratified Cox proportional hazards 
Secondary analysis 
Descriptive statistics 
ORR – independent review* 
61 (11.0) 
63 (11.5) 
and estimate 
variability 
and 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
No of patients with CR + PR (%) 
95% CI (Exact Pearson-Clopper 2-
(8.5, 13.9) 
(8.9, 14.5) 
sided CI) 
p-value 
0.849 
* Note: the ORR result specified in Section 5.1 of the SmPC is based on 
randomised patients and not just the response evaluable population 
Supportive studies 
The two supportive phase-2 studies in this application (Study 221 and Study 224) are supportive with 
regard to safety. They were performed in Japan. 
The MAH states that the pivotal Study 301 is the sole efficacy trial in support of this type II variation. 
However, efficacy was a primary objective of Study 221; a brief summary of efficacy results is 
therefore given below. 
Study 221  
(Protocol number: E7389-J081-221), n= 84 (81 treated) 
“Phase II Clinical Study of E7389 for Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer” 
This was a Phase 2, open-label, single-arm, uncontrolled, multi-centre study in patients with advanced 
or relapsed breast cancer who had received up to three prior therapies for advanced or relapsed breast 
cancer, including an anthracycline and a taxane. Subjects also had to have a life expectancy of 3 
months or longer, have adequate renal, liver, and bone marrow function, and no clinically significant 
therapy-related toxicity at study entry. Eribulin mesilate 1.4 mg/m2 was administered as an i.v. bolus 
over 2 to 5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle. 
Study 224  
(Protocol number: E7389-J081-224), n= 6 (6 treated)  
“A Phase 2 Extension Study of E7389 in Patients with Advanced or Relapsed Breast Cancer” 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 65/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was an extension of Study 221. Safety and efficacy data are included in the results of Study 221. 
Study 221 efficacy results: 
Of the 80 subjects in the Full analysis set (FAS), 17 subjects were assessed as objective response 
cases (PR in all subjects) by Assessment Committee (independent review) and objective response rate 
(ORR), one of the primary endpoints of this study, was 21.3% (95% confidence interval: 12.9 – 
31.8%). In FAS, 47 subjects were assessed as disease control (CR+PR+SD) by the independent review 
and disease control rate was 58.8% (95% confidence interval: 47.2 – 69.6%) and 22 subjects were 
assessed as clinical benefit (CR + PR +SD of at least 6 months) and clinical benefit rate was 27.5% 
(95% confidence interval: 18.1 – 38.6%). For objective response rates by the independent review, the 
mode of the posterior distribution calculated using Jeffreys non-informative prior distribution [Beta 
distribution Be (0.5, 0.5)] by Bayesian approach was 20.9%, the predictive posterior probabilities that 
true objective response rates were lower than 10%, 15% and 20% were 0.1%, 6.4% and 38.0% 
respectively, and 95% equal tail credible interval and 95% highest posterior density credible interval of 
true objective response rates were 13.4 – 31.1% and 13.0 – 30.6% respectively. The median (95% 
confidence interval) of duration of overall response by the independent review was 119.0 days (85.0 – 
148.0 days). The median (95% confidence interval) of progression-free survival by the independent 
review was 112 days (61.0 – 133.0 days), and progression-free survival rates at Month 3, 6, 9 and 12 
were 54.2%, 20.1%, 10.1% and 6.7% respectively. Though number of subjects with event (death) 
was 41 in 80 subjects (51.3%) being small, median (95% confidence interval) of overall survival was 
331.0 days (234.0 days – uncalculable), and 6-month and 12-month survival rates were 72.3% and 
45.4% respectively. Since the analytical results of the primary and secondary endpoints showed no 
large differences between FAS and PPS, the selection of analysis sets appeared to have only slight 
influence on the conclusion concerning the efficacy of eribulin in this study. Subgroup analyses, 
stratifying FAS by age, tissue types, number of prior chemotherapy regimens, with or without 
administration of capecitabine and vinorelbine in prior chemotherapy, number of prior chemotherapy 
regimens for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer, presence or absence of relapse, presence or 
absence of primary lesion or metastatic lesion, presence or absence of drug refractory, HER2/neu 
expression status, and sensitivity to hormones (ER and PgR), were performed, so that no factor 
appeared to clearly influence the evaluation of efficacy in this study. 
It is concluded that the PFS of approximately 3.7 months (112 days) in Study 221 is consistent with 
the PFS of registration Study 305 (3.6 months) and the current pivotal Study 301 (4.1/4.2 months).  
2.4.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The sought indication differs from the already approved indication with regard to the required number 
of prior chemotherapy regimens for advanced disease: one compared with two. This would move the 
indication up to 2nd line therapy for metastatic/advanced disease compared with the present indication 
in the 3rd line setting. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 66/116 
 
 
 
 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Study 301 was an open-label 1:1 randomised phase III trial performed in patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who had received up to 3 prior chemotherapy regimens, and no 
more than two prior regimens for advanced and/or metastatic disease. This includes 1st-2nd line 
metastatic treatment. The chemotherapy regimens must have included an anthracycline and a taxane, 
and there must be documented evidence of disease progression during or after their most recent 
anticancer therapy. Efficacy in patients with active brain or subdural metastases, or with meningeal 
carcinomatosis has not been evaluated. It is noted that the inclusion requirement to end biological 
treatment 2 weeks before start of study treatment is not in line with current clinical practice, according 
to which anti-HER2 therapy should be continued, and would likely not be accepted if the study was 
initiated today. In this study HER2 positive status was 15% and balanced across arms.  
OS and PFS were the two primary endpoints. The overall significance level alpha was 0.05, with 0.04 
used on OS, and 0.01 on PFS.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Baseline characteristics 
In total 280/554 (50.54%) of the patients in the eribulin arm were treated in the 2nd-line for 
metastatic/advanced disease, which represents the new indication sought. Another 116 (20.9%) were 
treated in the 1st line, thus 396/554 (71.5%) of the patients in the eribulin arm were treated in earlier 
stages of the disease than the already approved 3rd line indication.  
Overall, there were no major imbalances in baseline patient, disease, or tumour characteristics.  
Time since original diagnosis was somewhat higher in the eribulin arm (36 months vs. 31 months). 
HER2 positivity was approximately 15% in both study arms. Oestrogen receptor (ER) and hormone 
receptor (HR) positivity were somewhat lower (approximately 4%), and triple negativity slightly higher 
(2.6%) in the eribulin arm compared with the capecitabine arm. The direction of the imbalance for all 
these prognostic factors could in theory favour the capecitabine arm. However, with regard to disease 
sites, the capecitabine group had 5% more liver metastasis, and 4% less patients with only 1 organ 
involved. 
There were no major imbalances in the prior anticancer therapies. While the use of prior anti-HER2 
therapy in the form of trastuzumab was balanced across study arms (approximately 10% in both), 
there was an imbalance in the proportion of HER2-positive patients having received prior trastuzumab; 
67% in the eribulin arm compared to 59% in the capecitabine arm. This could in theory result in a 
better response to post-study trastuzumab in the capecitabine arm compared with the eribulin arm, 
and could thus potentially favour capecitabine in the OS comparison. However, due to the small 
numbers (the difference between arms representing 1.6% of the ITT) it is not likely to have impacted 
the overall study results. 
Thus, the imbalances seen in baseline characteristics were small, and would mostly be expected to 
affect the results in favour of capecitabine, if at all. While, in theory, this could explain why a smaller 
difference than “expected” between arms is seen in PFS, it does not offer an explanation for the 
differential effects seen in OS vs. PFS. Baseline factors would be expected to affect both outcome 
measures.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 67/116 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
None of the primary objectives were met. Overall survival (OS) showed a statistically non-significant 
trend of better outcome for eribulin- compared with capecitabine-treated patients, with a median 
difference of 1.4 months. For progression-free survival (PFS) there was no difference between arms. 
This discordance between OS and PFS results was identified as a main issue for the efficacy 
assessment. However, the OS Kaplan–Meier curves separated at an early time point, and remained 
separated over time, with median OS at 15.9 months vs. 14.5 months in the in the eribulin and 
capecitabine arms, respectively, with overlapping 95% CIs and p= 0.0560. The pre-specified p-value 
to conclude a positive study at this final OS analysis was p<0.0372. I.e. this cannot be considered 
borderline statistical significance. The numerical difference in medians was thus 1.4 months (44 days), 
HR was 0.879 (95% CI: 0.770, 1.003). The 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival rates were also numerically 
higher in the eribulin arm, and statistically significantly higher for 1-year survival rate. 
The PFS analyses according to independent review (IRC) and investigator assessments (INV) 
generated very similar results, with a difference in median PFS of +/- 2-3 days, and HRs 1.079 (95% 
CI: 0.932, 1.250) and 0.977 (95% CI: 0.857, 1.114), respectively. While the differences between IRC 
and INV results are small, the difference in uncertainty, as described by the 95% confidence intervals, 
could be an issue for the B/R balance. Based on the upper 95% confidence limits of the HRs, there is a 
2.5% chance/risk that eribulin is up to 11% poorer than capecitabine with regard to PFS according to 
INV, and up to 25% according to IRC. Overall, there was a 74% concordance between investigator and 
independent review in detecting patients with or without PD, and no bias in progression date was 
detected. As no important bias has been identified in the investigator assessments of PFS overall, 
investigator-based data for PFS is accepted as basis for this discussion. 
There were no statistically significant differences in ORRs and CBRs between arms. Numerically slightly 
higher rates were observed for capecitabine. 
The global QoL scores showed no meaningful changes during study, or differences between eribulin 
and capecitabine. The QoL scores for the separate items are reflective of the ADR profiles, with worse 
scores for eribulin with regard to systemic therapy effects and hair loss, and worse scores for 
capecitabine with regard to gastrointestinal ADRs. The QoL data therefore does not impact the B/R 
balance. 
The use of analgesics was slightly higher in the eribulin arm, which could explain a slightly better VAS 
pain score in this study arm. 
ECOG performance status (PS) scores displayed a similar pattern across arms during study. The vast 
majority of patients remained in PS 0-1 during study, potentially reflecting both effect and tolerability 
of both treatments.  
Subgroup and adjusted analyses 
Sought indication 
The subgroup with 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for advanced disease, which corresponds to the 
sought indication, had a HR consistent with the overall results, i.e. OS HR 0.84 (95% CI: 0.698, 
1.010), and 49 days’ (approximately 1.6 month) median difference in OS favouring eribulin. For PFS 
the results in this subgroup were also consistent with the overall PFS results, i.e. HR 1.029 (95% CI: 
0.838, 1.263), and 2 days’ difference in median PFS favouring capecitabine. 
Demographic subgroups 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 68/116 
 
 
 
 
OS subgroup analyses showed no major differences between demographic subgroups. The geographic 
region subgroup Latin America showed a statistically significant better HR for eribulin vs. capecitabine. 
No other demographic subgroups achieved statistical significance. Western Europe (n= 157, 14% of 
ITT) and Eastern Europe (n= 612; 55% of ITT) had similar HR point estimates, 0.92 and 0.94, 
respectively (both n.s.). The combined geographic region north America/Western Europe/Australia (n= 
244; 22% of ITT) had a HR point estimate of 0.84, with the small group from North America as the 
driver of the more favourable HR.  
The PFS sub-group analyses of demographics showed a nominally significant HR of 1.27 in favour of 
capecitabine in the Eastern Europe subgroup, which is the largest geographic region subgroup 
representing 55.5% of the ITT. This is in contrast with the OS subgroup analysis with a non-significant 
HR of 0.94.  
Comparing Eastern Europe with the rest of the world, it was observed that, irrespective of therapy, 
more TEAE and serious TEAE in general were reported in the rest of the world. This was the case also 
for grade 3 palmoplantar erythrodysaesthesia, capecitabine 23% vs. 8%. Furthermore, and in the rest 
of the world, TEAE led to more discontinuations of capecitabine prior to progression (14% vs. 8%) and 
dose reductions (42% vs. 24%). In this context it should be remembered that the study dose of 
capecitabine was 2500 mg/m2/day, i.e. the licensed dose, a dose considered too high from a 
tolerability perspective by leading breast cancer experts, at least in the West.  
Receptor subgroups and adjusted analyses 
The direction of the imbalance for all prognostic factors except performance status (see Disease 
characteristics) could in theory favour the capecitabine arm. Post-hoc OS analyses adjusted for 
baseline receptor status were performed. When OS was adjusted post-hoc by oestrogen receptor and 
triple-negative receptor status, (each factor alone as well as and in combination), improvements in OS 
for eribulin compared with capecitabine was observed, reaching nominal statistical significance (with 
p< 0.0372 significance limit). Nominally statistically significant results were also reached for the 
composite factor Hormone receptor status. The hazard ratios for PFS also showed a numerical 
improvement after adjustment for the status of these receptors (Table 21). This indicates that the 
relatively small baseline imbalances in ER and triple-negative receptor status may have affected the 
study results to some degree. 
A large number of other disease or pre-treatment characteristics did not appear to explain the 
difference in OS between study arms seen in the primary OS analysis, since HRs remained stable 
around 0.85 – 0.89 when adjusted for these as single variables (Table 22). 
However, multi-adjusted post-hoc analyses adjusted for a large number of baseline factors of potential 
prognostic impact resulted in OS HR 0.94 (95%CI: 0.82, 1.07), PFS (investigator) HR 1.01 (0.89, 
1.16), and PFS (IRC) HR 1.11 (0.95, 1.28), respectively. Thus, PFS HRs were virtually unchanged, 
while OS results deteriorated, indicating that the OS results are less robust than the PFS results. 
In subgroup analysis by receptor status, a larger relative OS treatment effect of eribulin compared with 
capecitabine was seen in the ER negative, hormone receptor (HR) negative and HER2 negative pre-
specified subgroups, compared to their complementary receptor positive subgroups, and most of all in 
the combined triple-negative subgroup of patients: OS HR 0.70 (95% CI: 0.545; 0.91) vs. 0.93 (n.s) 
in the complementary set). The PFS subgroup analyses showed similar trends of a relatively better 
outcome for eribulin vs. capecitabine in the triple-negative subgroup and in the HER2-negative 
subgroup.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 69/116 
 
 
 
 
However, opposite trends were observed in the updated OS subgroup analysis of the registration Study 
305, with better HR point estimates for ER positive, PgR positive and HER2 positive subgroups, 
compared with their negative counterparts, and better OS HR estimates for the non-triple negative 
subgroup compared with the triple-negative; 0.77 (95% CI: 0.63; 0.95) vs. 0.89 (95% CI 0.60; 1.32, 
Figure 6). For PFS, the updated HRs for Study 305, provided in responses to questions, were very 
similar in triple negative vs. the complementary set, 0.79 vs. 0.78.  
The conflicting findings between Study 301 and Study 305 with regard to receptor subgroups weaken 
the observations made in study 301. Furthermore, pooled data (although questionable from a 
methodological point of view) for studies 305 and 301 indicated similar effects for HER2-positive and -
negative patients, with pooled OS HR 0.82 (95% CI: 0.62; 1.06) and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.74; 0.95), 
respectively; and pooled PFS HR 1.02 (95% CI: 0.78, 1.34) and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.74, 0.95), 
respectively. Based on the data from both phase 3 trials in breast cancer, Studies 305 and 301, it is 
concluded that no relevant difference in efficacy has been shown between the HER2 positive and 
negative patient subgroups, or between triple negative vs. non- triple negative subgroups. 
With regard to disease status factors, patients with non-visceral-only disease (n= 142; 13% of the 
ITT) were clearly distinguished from the other sub-groups with a statistically significant OS HR at 0.51 
(95% CI: 0.33, 0.795). Again the reverse finding was seen in Study 305.  
OS - PFS discordance 
Explanations for the discrepancy between OS and PFS results were sought. 
PFS 
The MAH provided analyses of progression of existing lesions or new lesions by IRC and INV. Due to a 
large proportion of informative censoring in the IRC data and as no important bias has been observed, 
the use of INV data are accepted in the analysis of censoring patterns.  
It was also found that the sites of new metastases differed, but this pattern was not replicated in study 
305.  
The MAH has presented pre-clinical data suggesting that eribulin treatment may induce a phenotypic 
change to a more differentiated and less aggressive state, and changes in tumour vasculature making 
the tumours more accessible to post-progression therapy, thereby presenting plausible biological 
mechanisms that could to some degree offer theoretical explanations for these findings.  
The reason for PFS censoring was new anti-cancer therapy in approximately 20% of patients in both 
study arms by IRC /ITT. No bias by potential differences in the causes for start of new therapy in the 
PFS analysis was identified. 
The divergent results in Eastern Europe with regard to OS (HR 0.94) and PFS OS (HR 1.27), the 
contrasting PFS results compared with other geographic subgroups, as well as the more frequent 
censoring of death in the capecitabine arm driven by the Eastern European region was further 
investigated. Data indicated that differential informative censoring and imbalances in triple negative 
status may have contributed to the diverging PFS results seen in Eastern Europe compared with other 
regions. In addition, the large proportion of patients with unknown HER2 positive status could include 
an imbalance of the actual HER2 status, if analysed, of potential impact on PFS. However, baseline 
prognostic factors would also be expected to affect OS. Furthermore, since differential informative 
censoring was observed also for investigator-based PFS, it cannot explain the PFS-OS discordance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 70/116 
 
 
 
 
The MAH explored PFS censoring times by IRC and INV. In the IRC analysis, patients in the 
capecitabine arm are censored earlier than in the eribulin arm, while time to censoring is the same for 
INV analysis. The observed differential pattern of time to censoring along with informative censoring 
could help explain the PFS results based on IRC analysis; however, given that there is no differential 
pattern observed for investigator assessment, this does not help to explain the discordance in OS and 
PFS results in general. 
PFS2 data were not available and the substitute analysis performed by the MAH did not add any new 
information.  
OS 
The analysis of post- study therapy as cause for the difference seen in OS between study arms, 
favouring eribulin, such as the impact of any post- study anti-cancer therapy (yes/no), the impact of 
post- study capecitabine use, and of anti-HER2 use, could not explain the difference in OS.  
The qualitative difference in metastatic sites and their different prognosis post-progression could 
potentially offer an explanation for a smaller part of the PFS-OS discrepancy (see above). 
Supportive studies 
The PFS of approximately 3.7 months (112 days) in Study 221 is consistent with the PFS of 
registration Study 305 (3.6 months) and the current pivotal Study 301 (4.1/4.2 months). 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The study objective was not met, since superiority of eribulin over capecitabine was not demonstrated 
in the studied disease setting, which includes the sought indication 2nd line metastatic therapy. There 
is a trend, however, of numerically better OS in the eribulin arm potentially suggesting that eribulin is 
not inferior to capecitabine in this disease setting. For PFS, no clinically relevant or statistically 
significant differences between arms were seen.  
Based on the investigator assessments of PFS the HR at 0.98 and the narrow 95% confidence interval 
(0.86, 1.11), it is considered that a clinically relevant difference can be excluded.  
The discrepancy between OS and PFS data are problematic since potentially suggesting that factors 
other than the study treatments might be affecting the results. The MAH has provided a large number 
of analyses investigating this issue, however there was no clear explanation of this discrepancy.  
There was a qualitative difference between study arms in the type of new metastasis in those 55% of 
patients (by INV) who had new lesion as progression event, where the prognosis is expected to be 
worse for those metastasis sites more frequently seen for capecitabine. However, at this stage it is not 
known if this difference in metastasis location is a mere chance finding, or if it represents a true 
difference in effect.  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
2.5.1.  Introduction 
•  Safety analysis populations 
The safety assessment is based on a total of 1503 patients treated in seven phase 2-3 trials in 
metastatic/advanced breast cancer (Table 32). This pooled safety population will be referred to as the 
Breast Cancer Population (BCP).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 71/116 
 
 
 
 
Of the studies included in the BCP, studies 305, 201 and 211 were assessed at initial market approval; 
the neuropathy study 209 comparing eribulin and ixabepilone was assessed in FUM 015; while the 
pooled data from studies 221 and 224 are assessed for the first time within the present application, 
together with the pivotal study 301. A description of the studies is given in Table 33 below. 
Table 32. Safety populations 
Safety population 
Phase 
Trial name 
Treatments 
Breast Cancer 
Phase 3 
Study 301 
Eribulin vs. capecitabine. 
Population (BCP). 
Study 305 
Eribulin vs. treatment of 
“EMBRACE” 
physician’s choice (TPC). 
Phase 2 
Study 201 a 
Single-arm eribulin 
Study 209 
Eribulin vs. ixabepilone 
Study 211 
Single-arm eribulin 
Number of 
eribulin-treated 
subjects 
544 
503 
33 
51 
291 
Study 221 
Single-arm eribulin, pooled 
81 
Study 224 b 
Total 
(6) included in 81 
above 
1503 
a: Subjects who received 28-day cycles of eribulin in Study 201 have been excluded from the analysis. 
b: The six subjects who continued to receive eribulin in extension Study 224 after receiving eribulin in Study 221 
are included in the total of 81 treated subjects for Study 221. Data from Study 221 were pooled with the data from 
Study 224, once all enrolled subjects had discontinued treatment in Study 224. 
For complete protocol numbers, please refer to  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 72/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33. Completed Breast Cancer Trials Included in the Safety Analysis of Eribulin 
AE = adverse event; BC = breast cancer; DBL = database lock; ISS = Integrated Safety Summary; i.v.= 
intravenous; MAA = Marketed Authorisation Application; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; PK = 
pharmacokinetic; p.o. = per os (oral); s.c. = subcutaneous; SCS = Summary of Clinical Safety; TPC = Treatment of 
Physician’s Choice; US = United States; y = years. 
a: Study was previously submitted as part of the original MAA for eribulin. 
Source: Modified from SCS, Table 2.(Column for distribution of race not included) 
Safety assessments and definitions 
•  Study 301 safety assessments 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 73/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety assessments included monitoring the incidence and severity of AEs, clinical laboratory test 
results, vital signs measurements, physical examination findings, electrocardiogram (ECG) readings, 
and concomitant medication use. Abnormal ECG (QTc) results, if not otherwise considered part of a 
clinical symptom that was being reported as an AE, were considered an AE if the QTc interval was 
>450 msec and there was an increase of >60 msec from Baseline. Also, any ECG abnormality that the 
investigator considered an AE was reported as such. 
•  Definition of TEAE in Study 301 
“A treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) was defined as an AE that emerged during treatment, having been 
absent at pre-treatment (baseline) or re-emerged during treatment, having been present at pre-
treatment (baseline) but stopped before treatment, or worsened in severity during treatment relative 
to the pre-treatment state, when the AE was continuous. 
Only those AEs that were treatment-emergent were included in summary tables. All AEs, treatment-
emergent or otherwise, were presented in subject data listings. Adverse events were regarded as 
TEAEs if they started on or after the date and time of administration of the first dose of study drug 
until 30 days after last dose or if they were present prior to the administration of the first dose of study 
drug and increased in severity during the study.” 
It is found acceptable to focus on the TEAE as all AE emerging within 30 days after last dose is 
included taking into consideration that the terminal half-life is approximately 40 h.  
•  Adverse Events of Special Interest 
Asthenia and fatigue (combined), arthralgia and myalgia (combined), alopecia, neutropenia, and 
peripheral neuropathy were identified as special adverse events of interest (AEIs).  
These are presented in the overall AE tables by MedDRA SOC and preferred term.  
Two definitions were used to determine the incidence of peripheral neuropathy. The first definition 
(“narrow SMQ analysis”) included the following combined terms contained in the SMQ for neuropathy: 
neuropathy peripheral, peripheral motor neuropathy, polyneuropathy, peripheral sensory neuropathy, 
peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, demyelinating polyneuropathy, and paraesthesia. The second 
definition (“broad SMQ analysis”) included the list of preferred terms contained in the narrow SMQ for 
neuropathy as well as the following additional preferred terms: neuropathy, hyperesthesia, painful 
response to normal stimuli, pallanaesthesia and allodynia. The incidence of peripheral neuropathy 
based on the two SMQ definitions (narrow and broad) is included in the AE tables. 
Patient exposure 
The exposure was overall very consistent across eribulin studies 301 and 305, and the pooled phase 
2/3 BCP. Study 301 had 1 cycle higher median number of cycles and 1 week longer duration of 
exposure than Study 305, compatible with the somewhat earlier disease setting. (The median number 
of prior chemotherapy regimens was 2 in Study 301 compared with 4 in Study 305). Median dose 
intensity, relative dose intensity and cumulative dose were very similar between the two studies, 
however, and only cumulative dose was slightly lower in the BCP (Table 34).  
Similarly, the dose modification patterns were very consistent across the eribulin safety populations, 
with the proportions having any dose modification at around 50% in all three populations, time to first 
dose reduction and dose delay around 15-16 weeks in all three populations, and dose omissions (day 8 
dose) around 10% in all populations (
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 74/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 35). 
These similarities in exposure and dose modification patterns across studies are consistent with overall 
similar efficacy and safety findings. 
Table 34. Extent of Exposure to Eribulin– Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials (Safety Population) 
Max = maximum, Min = minimum; Q = quartile; SD = standard deviation. 
a: Duration of exposure = (Date of Day 1 of last cycle – date of first dose + length of cycle) ÷ 7. 
b: Dose intensity = Total dose received ÷ duration of exposure. 
c: Relative dose intensity = Dose intensity ÷ planned dose intensity. 
Source: SCS, Table 4. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 75/116 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 35. Eribulin Dose Modifications - Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials (Safety Population) 
Parameter 
All Eribulin-treated 
Subjects in Study 301 
(N=544) 
All Eribulin-treated 
Subjects in Study 305 
(N=503) 
All Eribulin-treated 
Subjects in Phase 2/3 
Breast Cancer Trials 
(N=1503) 
Any dose modification, overall a 
293/544 (53.9) 
249/503 (49.5) 
762/1503 (50.7) 
Dose reductions, overall 
181/544 (33.3)  
155/503 (30.8)  
464/1503 (30.9) 
Time to first dose reduction, 
16.14  
15.29  
15.14 
median (weeks) 
Dose delays, overall 
222/544 (40.8)  
170/503 (33.8) 
528/1503 (35.1) 
Time to first dose delay, median 
16.14  
15.14 
15.14 
(weeks) 
Dose omissions, overall b 
61/544 (11.2)  
43/503 (8.5) 
194/1503 (12.9) 
a: Dose modifications include interruptions, delays, omissions, and reductions. 
b: A dose “omission” in Studies 301 and 305 was defined as a missed dose on Study Day 8. 
Source: SCS, Table 5 (abbreviated). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 76/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 36. Extent of Exposure in Eribulin and Capecitabine study arms (Safety Population) 
     Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 30. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 77/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Table 37. Overview of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events that Occurred in Eribulin-treated Subjects – 
Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials, Safety Population 
Source: SCS, Table 12. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 78/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 38. Study 301, Overview of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events for Eribulin and Capecitabine  
    Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 31. 
TEAEs of any grade in Study 301 
Table 39. TEAEs Occurring in 10% or More of Eribulin-treated Subjects by System Organ Class and 
Preferred Term – in pivotal Study 301 and Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
MedDRA SOC 
Preferred term 
Patients with any TEAE  
Blood and Lymphatic 
System Disorders 
Neutropenia  
Leukopenia  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Study 301 
Study 305 
Pooled Phase 2/3 
Breast Cancer 
Trials 
Capecitabine 
(N=546) 
494 (90.5) 
173 (31.7) 
Eribulin 
(N=544) 
512 (94.1) 
345 (63.4) 
Eribulin 
(N=503) 
497 (98.8) 
308 (61.2) 
Eribulin 
(N=1503) 
1464 (97.4) 
994 (66.1) 
87 (15.9) 
57 (10.4) 
295 (54.2) 
171 (31.4) 
260 (51.7) 
117 (23.3) 
857 (57.0) 
441 (29.3) 
Page 79/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 (19.1) 
239 (43.9) 
121 (22.2) 
42 (7.7) 
78 (14.3) 
65 (11.9)  
94 (18.7) 
308 (61.2) 
174 (34.6) 
124 (24.7) 
92 (18.3) 
91 (18.1) 
248 (45.6)  
351 (69.8)  
Anemia  
Gastrointestinal Disorders  
Nausea  
Constipation 
Diarrhoea  
Vomiting  
General Disorders and 
Administration Site 
Conditions  
Asthenia + Fatigue  
Fatigue  
Asthenia  
Pyrexia  
Investigations  
Weight decreased  
Metabolism and Nutrition 
Disorders  
Decreased appetite  
Musculoskeletal and 
Connective Tissue Disorders  
Arthralgia + Myalgia  
Back pain  
Arthralgia  
Pain in extremity  
Nervous System Disorders  
96 (17.6) 
287 (52.6) 
133 (24.4) 
47 (8.6) 
157 (28.8) 
92 (16.8) 
209 (38.3) 
152 (27.8) 
84 (15.4) 
79 (14.5) 
31 (5.7) 
91 (16.7) 
18 (3.3) 
165 (30.3) 
91 (16.7) 
83 (15.3) 
70 (12.9) 
113 (20.8) 
20 (3.7) 
142 (26.0) 
127 (23.3) 
81 (14.8) 
152 (27.8) 
68 (12.5) 
187 (34.4) 
38 (7.0) 
43 (7.9) 
31 (5.7) 
37 (6.8) 
66 (12.1) 
56 (10.3) 
42 (7.7) 
47 (8.6) 
152 (27.8) 
75 (13.7) 
213 (39.2)* 
149 (27.4) 
269 (53.5) 
146 (29.0) 
135 (26.8) 
105 (20.9) 
182 (36.2) 
107 (21.3) 
175 (34.8) 
113 (22.5) 
266 (52.9) 
110 (21.9) 
78 (15.5) 
70 (13.9) 
57 (11.3) 
308 (61.2) 
210 (41.7) 
59 (10.8) 
116 (21.3) 
174 (34.6) 
69 (12.7) 
73 (13.4) 
57 (10.4) 
38 (7.0) 
Peripheral neuropathy, 
based on broad SMQ  
Peripheral neuropathy 
based on narrow SMQ a 
Headache  
Peripheral sensory 
neuropathy  
Respiratory, Thoracic, and 
Mediastinal Disorders  
Dyspnoea  
Cough  
Skin and Subcutaneous 
Tissue Disorders  
Alopecia  
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
MedDRA version 14.1. 
For each row category, a subject with more than one TEAE in that category is counted only once. 
79 (15.7) 
72 (14.3) 
266 (52.9) 
56 (10.3) 
45 (8.3) 
230 (42.3) 
59 (10.8) 
44 (8.1) 
288 (52.7) 
224 (44.5) 
7 (1.4) 
22 (4.0) 
246 (45.1) 
188 (34.6) 
1 (0.2) 
97 (19.3) 
62 (12.3) 
124 (22.7) 
189 (37.6) 
128 (23.5) 
311 (20.7) 
908 (60.4) 
509 (33.9) 
296 (19.7) 
270 (18.0) 
264 (17.6) 
970 (64.5) 
723 (48.1) 
420 (27.9) 
339 (22.6) 
306 (20.4) 
435 (28.9) 
171 (11.4) 
521 (34.7) 
329 (21.9) 
706 (47.0) 
293 (19.5) 
196 (13.0) 
191 (12.7) 
150 (10.0) 
802 (53.4) 
541 (36.0) 
446 (29.7) 
258 (17.2) 
187 (12.4) 
519 (34.5) 
211 (14.0) 
204 (13.6) 
792 (52.7) 
672 (44.7) 
15 (1.0) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 80/116 
 
 
 
 
Note: Number (percentage) of subjects in each SOC represents all subjects with TEAEs in that SOC. Only those 
preferred terms for TEAEs that occurred in ≥10% of subjects in Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials are included in this 
table. Display is in alphabetical order by SOC, then by decreasing order of frequency of preferred terms within each 
SOC for the ‘Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials’ population. 
MedDRA = Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities; SMQ = standard MedDRA query; SOC = system organ class, 
TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event. 
a: Based on narrow SMQ analysis. Terms include neuropathy peripheral, peripheral motor neuropathy, 
polyneuropathy, peripheral sensory neuropathy, peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, and paraesthesia. 
*: 210 (38.6) according to Study 301 CSR,Table 32 
Source: SCS, Table 13 (eribulin). Study 301 CSR, Table 32(capecitabine).  
While not shown in the table above, the incidence of cardiac SOC TEAEs was similar for eribulin (n=34, 
6.3%) and capecitabine (n=31, 5.7%). 
Severe (grade 3-4) TEAEs 
See tables below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 81/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 40. Severe (Grade 3-4) TEAEs Occurring in Approximately 1% or More of Eribulin-treated Subjects 
by SOC and PT – Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
MedDRA version 
14.1. 
For each TEAE, a 
subject who had 
more than one 
episode is counted 
only once using the 
event with the 
highest CTC grade.  
For the preferred 
term ‘febrile 
neutropenia,’ 
severity was 
converted into CTC 
grades as follows: 
mild or moderate = 
Grade 3, severe = 
Grade 4, fatal = 
Grade 5. 
For the preferred 
term ‘alopecia,’ 
severity was 
converted into CTC 
grades as follows: 
mild or moderate = 
Grade 1, severe = 
Grade 2. 
The table is based 
on the grade 3-4 
frequencies in the 
Phase2/3 
population. TEAEs 
with a frequency < 
1% in this 
population but 
higher in Studies 
301 or 305 are not 
shown, e.g. 
diarrhoea. (0.8% in 
Phase 2/3, 1.1% in 
Study301). 
a: Term included for 
completeness even 
though incidence in 
Phase 2/3 breast 
cancer trials was 
<1%. 
Source: SCS, Table 
15. 
Note: MedDRA version 14.1. 
For each TEAE, a subject who had more than one episode is counted only once using the event with the highest CTC 
grade.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 82/116 
 
 
 
 
 
For the preferred term ‘febrile neutropenia,’ severity was converted into CTC grades as follows: mild or moderate = 
Grade 3, severe = Grade 4, fatal = Grade 5. 
For the preferred term ‘alopecia,’ severity was converted into CTC grades as follows: mild or moderate = Grade 1, 
severe = Grade 2. 
The table is based on the grade 3-4 frequencies in the Phase2/3 population. TEAEs with a frequency < 1% in this 
population but higher in Studies 301 or 305 are not shown, e.g. diarrhoea. (0.8% in Phase 2/3, 1.1% in Study301). 
a: Term included for completeness even though incidence in Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials was <1%. 
Source: SCS, Table 15. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 83/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 41. Study 301, TEAEs by Severity: Grade ≥ 3 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 84/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Subjects with two or more adverse events in the same with the same preferred term are counted only once 
for that preferred term. Adverse Event terms were coded using Medical Dictionary for Drug Regulatory Affairs 
(MedDRA) version 14.1. Adverse events were graded using CTCAE version 3.0 per protocol. Treatment-related 
treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) include TEAEs that were considered by the investigator to be possibly 
or probably related to study drug or TEAEs with a missing causality. 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 35. 
TEAEs of special interest 
Table 42. Grade 3-4 Treatment-emergent Adverse Events of Interest, Study 301 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 41. 
Neuropathy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 85/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 43. Treatment-emergent Peripheral Neuropathy in Eribulin-treated Subjects – Phase 2/3 Breast 
Cancer Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 33. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 86/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 44. Onset and Resolution of Treatment-Emergent Peripheral Neuropathy (by narrow SMQ)– Phase 
2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 35. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 87/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 45. Peripheral neuropathy ongoing after last treatment - Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Study 301 
(N=544) 
Study 305 
(N=503) 
Narrow 
SMQ 
116  
(21.3) 
81  
(14.9) 
17  
(21.0)  
4  
(4.9)  
Broad 
SMQ 
149  
(27.4) 
98  
(18.0) 
20  
(20.4) 
4  
(4.1) 
Narrow 
SMQ 
174  
(34.6) 
118  
(23.5) 
28  
(23.7) 
0  
Broad 
SMQ 
210  
(41.7) 
146  
(29.0) 
32  
(21.9) 
0 
Pooled Phase 2/3 
Breast Cancer 
Trials 
(N=1503) 
Narrow 
SMQ 
446  
(29.7) 
307  
(20.4) 
85  
(27.7) 
7  
(2.3) 
Broad 
SMQ 
541  
(36.0) 
370  
(24.6) 
101  
(27.3) 
7  
(1.9) 
16  
(19.8) 
21  
(21.4) 
5  
(4.2) 
5  
(3.4) 
57  
(18.6) 
67  
(18.1) 
44  
(54.3 /  
8.1) 
53 
(54.1 / 
9.7) 
85  
(72.0 / 
 16.9) 
109  
(74.7 / 
21.7) 
158  
(51.46  
/10.51) 
195  
(52.7 / 
13.0) 
TEAEs 
       n (%) 
Ongoing after last treatment 
Resolved within 30 days after last 
dose, n (% of pts w ongoing p.n.) 
Died before peripheral neuropathy 
resolved within  30 days after last 
dose 
Started new anticancer treatment 
before peripheral neuropathy 
resolved within 30 days after last dose 
 
Not resolved within 30 days after 
last dose 
n (% of ongoing p.n. /% of all pts) 
Source: SCS, Table 13 and Table 35 (narrow SMQ), ISS tables p3, Table 2.26.4 (broad SMQ).  
Based on Broad SMQ, 116 patients (7.7%) in the phase 2/3 breast cancer population experienced 
grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy. 74 of these improved to grade 2 or lower, leaving 42 patients (2.8% 
of 1503) with remaining grade 3-4 neuropathy (Table 46). 
Table 46. Improvement of Treatment-Emergent Grade 3-4 Peripheral Neuropathy Based on Broad SMQ – 
Safety Population Phase 2/3 Studies 
Completed Phase 2/3 Eribulin 
Studies 
(N=1503) (%) 
116 (7.7) 
74 (63.8) 
17 (14.7) 
20 (17.2) 
37 (31.9) 
2.1 
Grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy 
Improvement of Grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy a 
   Improved to Grade 2  
   Improved to Grade 1 
   Improved to Grade 0 
Median time to improvement of Grade 3-4 peripheral 
neuropathy, weeks b 
Grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy resolved to Grade 1, 0 or 
baseline grade a 
Median time to resolution to Grade 1, 0, or baseline 
(95%CI), weeks c 
Note: Patient was counted to best improvement. 
SMQ = Standardised MedDRA Query 
a:  Percentage is based on patients with Grade 3/4 peripheral neuropathy (PN). 
b:  Improvement was defined as a decrease by one grade or more. Time to improvement was calculated from start 
of worst PN to start of PN with improvement. Grade 0 means PN stopped. 
c:  If PN was not resolved, time to resolution was censored at the earliest date of death, last dose + 30 days, last 
known alive date, or start of another anticancer therapy.  
8.1 ( 5.9, 11.1) 
57 (49.1) 
Arthralgia/Myalgia 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 88/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 47. Treatment-emergent Arthralgia/Myalgia in Eribulin-treated Subjects – Phase 2/3 Breast 
Cancer Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 37. 
Cardiac Events 
Table 48. Treatment-emergent Cardiac Events in Eribulin-treated Subjects – Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer 
Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 38. 
QT prolongation 
There were no events of torsades de pointes reported for eribulin-treated subjects in the Phase 2/3 
breast cancer trials. However, QT prolongation was reported as a non-serious TEAE in two eribulin-
treated subjects in Study 301. Both had hypokalemia as potential contributing factors. Two 
capecitabine-treated subjects also had QT prolongation. None led to treatment discontinuation. (SCS, p. 
102, Response Q26) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 89/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition there were 5 of the eribulin-treated patients (0.9% of Study 301 safety population) who 
had > 60 ms prolongation of QTc from baseline and in two of these patients, values over 500 ms were 
reported according to QTcB, one of the two also reached 500 ms by QTcF. In one of these 5 cases 
hypokalemia was reported (in combination with infection and brain metastases), in another vomiting 
(potential cause of electrolyte imbalance), in a third no electrolyte imbalance was present. 
Individual case reports were scrutinised and a more detailed tabulation of QT events was considered 
inconspicuous (see below). Thus there are no outstanding concerns from this perspective.    
Table 49. ECG QT prolongation events in Study 301 
Asthenia/Fatigue 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 90/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 50. Adverse Event Profile for Treatment-emergent Asthenia/Fatigue in Eribulin-treated Subjects – 
Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 36. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 91/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 51. Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events Experienced by Two of More Subjects in any 
Treatment Group, Study 301 
Table continued on next page 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 92/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 39. 
Deaths 
BCP  
Overall, 67 eribulin-treated subjects (4.5%) in the Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials had a TEAE 
associated with an outcome of death. That is, these TEAEs were ongoing at the time of the death and 
may not have been the primary cause of death. The only TEAEs associated with an outcome of death in 
more than two subjects were neoplasm malignant (n=10, 0.7%), dyspnoea (9, 0.6%), respiratory 
failure (8, 0.5%), metastases to meninges (3, 0.2%), disease progression (3, 0.2%), and sepsis (3, 
0.2%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 93/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 301 
In Study 301, 26 of the 544 subjects (4.8%) in the eribulin group and 36 of the 546 subjects (6.6%) in 
the capecitabine group died during the treatment period or within 30 days of last dose of study 
treatment.  
Eribulin arm 
Nine deaths in the eribulin group were associated with an AE (1.7%). Fifteen deaths (2.8%) were 
attributed to disease progression. For two subjects (0.4%) the primary cause of death was listed as 
“unknown.” 
In the in the eribulin group, there were 11 TEAEs reported with an outcome of death, 5 (possibly) 
related (R) and 6 not related (N). In two cases the investigator’s final judgement on cause of death 
was another than the reported TEAE (“unknown” and “disease progression”, respectively, shown with 
arrows in the summary below): 
2 Sepsis (1 R, 1 N), 1 Renal failure (R), 2 Respiratory failure (2 N), 1 Dyspnoea (N), 1 Stroke (N), 1 
Toxic hepatitis (R), 1 Multiple organ failure (N), 1 pericardial effusion (R) -> Disease progression,1 
Sudden death (R) -> Unknown. 
Capecitabine arm 
In the capecitabine group, 13 deaths were associated with an AE (2.4%), 22 (4.0%) were due to 
disease progression. For 1 subject (0.2%), the primary cause of death was listed as “unknown.”   
In the in the capecitabine group, there were 14 TEAEs reported with an outcome of death, 4 (possibly) 
related (R) and 10 not related (N). In one case, the investigator’s final judgement on cause of death 
was “unknown”. 
1 Hypercalcaemia (N), 1 Cardiac and respiratory arrest (N), 1 Respiratory failure (N), 1 Pneumonia 
(R), 1 Intracranial hypertension (N), 1 Haemorrhagic shock (N), 1 Cardiogenic shock(R), 1 Respiratory 
distress (N) -> Unknown, 1 Sepsis (R), 1 Pancytopenia (R), 1 Sudden death (N), 1 Cerebellar 
infarction (N), 1 Multiple organ failure (N), 1 Stroke (N). 
TEAES with fatal outcome in Study 301 of particular interest (CSR, Table 14.3.2.1.2.1): 
Toxic hepatitis: 1 in the eribulin arm - 0 in the capecitabine arm. 
• 
• 
•  Cardiac disorders SOC (all terms): 2 (0.4%) in the eribulin arm - 4 (0.7%) in the capecitabine 
Pancytopenia: 0 in the eribulin arm – 1 in the capecitabine arm. 
arm  
• 
“Infections…” SOC (all terms): 2 (0.4) (=2 sepsis) in the eribulin arm - 2 (0.4) (= sepsis; 
pneumonia) in the capecitabine arm 
•  Nervous system disorders SOC (all terms): 1 (0.2) in the eribulin arm - 6 (1.1) in the 
capecitabine arm. 
Treatment-related deaths 
There was no difference between Studies 301 and 305 in the overall incidence of deaths due to TEAEs 
reported as treatment related (n=5 [0.9%] vs. 5 [1.0%] for Studies 301 and 305, respectively). In 
Study 301, the five deaths reported as related to eribulin by the investigator included pericardial 
effusion, sudden death, hepatic toxicity, sepsis, and renal failure. In Study 305, the five deaths 
reported as related to eribulin included dyspnoea, febrile neutropenia, bronchopneumonia, and lung 
infection. 
In the capecitabine group in Study 301, four deaths (0.7%) were considered to be treatment related 
by the investigator, and included pneumonia, cardiogenic shock, sepsis, and pancytopenia in one 
subject each. (SCS p. 77) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 94/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Table 52. Primary reasons for discontinuation from Study 301 
c: Progressive disease assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST). 
d: Four subjects discontinued due to an AE, although the AE leading to discontinuation was recorded more than 30 
days after the last dose of study drug.  
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 7. 
Note: According to footnote of CSR, Table 7 (Table 52), four subjects discontinued due to an AE, although the AE 
leading to discontinuation was recorded more than 30 days after the last dose of study drug. When counting these 4 
cases, the cause for discontinuation from Study 301 was an adverse event in 8.1% of the eribulin-treated patients 
and 10.8% of the capecitabine-treated patients. In the CSR table 40 (
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 95/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 54), however, these patients do not seem to be included, and the resultant frequencies are 7.9% vs. 10.4%, 
congruent with SCS table 26 (
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 96/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 53). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 97/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 53. TEAEs That Led To Discontinuation Of Eribulin in Two or More Subjects by SOC and PT – Phase 
2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 98/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 54. TEAEs in Study 301 Leading to Discontinuation of Study Drug by SOC and PT 
Continued on next page 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 99/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continued on next page 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 100/116 
 
 
 
 
 
     SOC = System Order Class, PT = Preferred Term 
Source: Study 301 CSR, Table 40. 
Laboratory findings 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 101/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematology 
Shifts from CTC toxicity grade 0-1 at Baseline to grade 3-4 during treatment were most frequently 
recorded for Absolute neutrophil count (ANC). In the BCP, 60% of eribulin-treated subjects had a shift 
in ANC value from grade 0-1 at Baseline to Grade 3-4 sometime during treatment, compared to 58% 
of eribulin-treated subjects in Study 301 and 56% in Study 305. Overall, the frequencies of shifts in 
haematology laboratory tests in Study 301 were consistent with the previously known safety profile (or 
slightly improved). As before, haemoglobin and platelets rarely reached toxicity grade 3 or 4 (Table 
55).  
Table 55. Haematology laboratory values 
Percentages are based on the total number of subjects with non-missing lab measurements in each cycle for each 
integrated analysis set.  
CTC grade is based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). 
CTC Grade 0 = Within normal range or abnormal in a direction in which CTC grade is not defined. 
a: Assessed through Cycle 65. b: Assessed through Cycle 23. 
Source: SCS, Table 42. 
Clinical chemistry 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 102/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 56.Shifts in Serum Chemistry Laboratory Values from CTC Grade 0 or 1 at Baseline to Worst 
Overall Grade of 3 or 4 During Treatment – Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 103/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentages are based on the total number of subjects with non-missing lab measurements in each cycle for each 
integrated analysis set.  
CTC grade is based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). 
CTC Grade 0 = Within normal range or abnormal in a direction in which CTC grade is not defined. 
a: Assessed through Cycle 65. 
b: Assessed through Cycle 23. 
Source: SCS, Table 46. 
Liver function tests 
Although not noted as clinically significant, increases from baseline in ALT and AST assessed as CTCAE 
Grade 2 were frequently observed during the early treatment cycles (Cycles 1 and 2). No concurrent 
change from baseline was observed for total bilirubin, LDH, or alkaline phosphatase for subjects in the 
eribulin group. 
Liver toxicity grade ≥ 3was reported as a TEAE 1.1% of eribulin-treated patients in Study 301. While 3 
patients fulfilled the laboratory criteria for Hy’s, none of them fulfilled the clinical criteria of absence of 
other plausible explanation, in these cases in the form of progressing liver metastases or cholestasis.  
In the eribulin arm of Study 301, 104 (21%) of the 502 patients with baseline ALT grade 0 or 1 had 
shifts to grade 2 or 3 post baseline, compared with 51 (10%) of 500 patients in the capecitabine arm. 
On the other hand, more patients in the capecitabine arm (n=119, all of whom had baseline grade 0-1 
bilirubin) had bilirubin elevation to grade 2 (Hy’s law cut-off), compared with 26 patients (also all with 
baseline grade 0-1) in the eribulin arm. 
Grade 3 ALT elevation 
Of the 37 eribulin-treated patients in Study 301 who had ALT elevation grade 3, most hade elevation 
to maximum 5-6 x upper limit of normal (ULN). Three patients had elevation to 7 x ULN, one each to 
8, 10 and 12 x ULN, respectively, and two to 16 x ULN. A majority of these patients had their highest 
ALT elevation in cycles 1 (n=14) and 2 (n=9). Liver metastases were present in 22 of the 37 cases, no 
liver metastases in 13, and for 2 of the patients no clinical data were provided. Of the 13 patients 
without liver metastases, all but one had elevated LFTs reported from baseline. Liver toxicity was 
reported in 5 of the 37 cases; all five had some baseline elevation of LFTs, three had liver metastasis 
and a fourth had a history of cholecystitis. Thus, due to the presence of confounding factors in virtually 
all cases, no firm conclusions can be drawn on the relationship between eribulin and these grade 3 ALT 
elevations. 
The pattern of frequent early ALT increases of little or no clinical consequence returning to normal in 
later cycles is acknowledged. This is sometimes referred to as “tolerance” and in the absence of 
bilirubin elevations is believed to have little or no potential for serious toxicity (The Clinical White Paper 
on DILI). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 104/116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Age 
In the Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials, 209 eribulin-treated subjects were >65 to 75 years of age and 
24 subjects were >75 years of age. In the Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials, there were no notable 
differences in the overall AE profile of eribulin by age group. 
Among eribulin-treated subjects in the Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials, there appeared to be no effect of 
age on any treatment-emergent abnormal hematology or chemistry laboratory values or on the 
incidence of Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities at Baseline and during treatment. (SCS p 124,126). 
Race 
No firm conclusions can be drawn regarding the safety of eribulin by racial category, given the small 
number of black and Asian subjects in the Safety population. 
Japanese subjects enrolled in Study 221/224 had a very high rate of Grade 3-4 neutropenia (Grade 4 
neutropenia occurred in 70.4% of subjects), not consistent with the results for any other trial in this 
submission. The MAH has found no biological basis for the high incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia in 
Study 221/224. The data in non-Japanese Asian patients are between Japanese and Western data, 
although the number of such patients is presently small. 
Interim results of a post-marketing surveillance study in Japanese patients with MBC, based on 836 of 
in total 968 patients, shows an incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia (486 patients [58.1%]) and febrile 
neutropenia (56 patients [6.7%]) comparable to that observed in non-Japanese patients. This suggests 
that the finding in Study 221/224 may not be representative of the clinical reality.   
Baseline Body Surface Area (BSA) 
The overall AE profile of eribulin is presented for the Safety populations by BSA (<1.50, 1.50-<1.70, 
1.70-2.0, >2.0-2.2, >2.2 m2). Among eribulin-treated subjects in the Phase 2/3 breast cancer trials, 
there was no notable pattern in the overall TEAE incidence with increasing BSA. There did appear to be 
higher incidences of hematologic TEAEs in subjects with lower BSA (total, severe and related TEAEs). 
This finding appears to be driven by the fact that 59 of the 81 subjects in the Japanese Studies 
221/224 were included in the lowest BSA category. Japanese subjects enrolled in Study 221/224 had a 
very high rate of Grade 3-4 neutropenia (Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 70.4% of subjects), not 
consistent with the results for any other trial in this submission. When subjects enrolled in Studies 
221/224 were removed from the analysis, there did not appear to be differences in overall AE profile 
across BSA categories. However, no firm conclusions can be drawn, given the small number of subjects 
in some of the categories.  
In conclusion, when the Japanese subjects in Study 221/224 (with the unusually high rate of Grade 3-
4 neutropenia) were removed from the analysis, Baseline Body Surface Area (BSA) did not affect TEAE 
frequencies.  
Liver impairment 
Hepatic impairment increases exposure to eribulin. According to population PK analyses, decreased 
clearance is associated with decreased albumin, increased bilirubin, and increased alkaline 
phosphatase. Compared with subjects with normal hepatic function, exposure to eribulin increased 
1.75-fold and 2.79 fold in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 105/116 
 
 
 
 
Overall, there was an increase in the incidence of severe and serious TEAEs with increasing baseline 
total bilirubin, ALT, and AST levels. There appeared to be a trend towards a higher incidence of total 
TEAEs, severe TEAEs (Grade ≥3), serious TEAEs and deaths due to a TEAE in subjects with a low 
baseline albumin level. In general, the overall AE profile of eribulin in subjects with hepatic impairment 
at Baseline was similar to those without hepatic impairment except that subjects with hepatic 
impairment at Baseline had a slightly higher incidence of deaths (7.4% vs. 4.1%).  
There was an approximately 8% increase in peripheral neuropathy (by narrow and broad SMQ) for 
events of any grade, and around 6% increase in grade 3-4 events, in patients with ALT or AST 
elevation to > 3 x ULN, or Bilirubin elevation to > 1.5 X ULN (Table 57).  
Table 57. Incidence of Treatment-emergent Peripheral Neuropathy in Eribulin-treated Subjects by 
Baseline Level of Liver Function Tests– Phase 2/3 Breast Cancer Trials 
Source: SCS, Table 34. 
Renal Impairment 
Eribulin is minimally excreted via the kidney. Population PK analyses showed that renal impairment 
(CrCl) is not expected to significantly influence eribulin exposure. There were no patients with severe 
renal impairment included in the analysis.  An ongoing study, E7389-A001-106, is being conducted to 
characterize the PK of eribulin in patients with moderate and severe renal dysfunction. 
In the Phase 2/3 trials, renal failure was reported for four eribulin-treated subjects (0.3%) and renal 
failure acute was reported for three subjects (0.2%). 
In general, eribulin-treated subjects with renal impairment had a similar safety profile compared with 
subjects with normal renal function. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Drug-drug interactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 106/116 
 
 
 
 
 
No new data were submitted. However, given that eribulin showed inhibition of CYP3A4 in vitro, a 
PBPK modelling exercise has been performed to predict the effect on CYP3A4 substrates in vivo, which 
is discussed under Clinical Pharmacology above.  
Drug-disease interactions 
Subjects with diabetes are at risk for the development of peripheral neuropathy. Subgroup analysis of 
adverse reactions in eribulin-treated subjects with and without diabetes showed that diabetic subjects 
did not experience a significantly higher incidence of peripheral neuropathy per broad SMQ (39.8% vs. 
34.9% in subjects with and without diabetes, respectively.  
Post marketing experience 
The post-marketing safety is handled in PSURs.  
Gastro-intestinal perforation and disseminated intravascular coagulation have recently been added to 
the RMP as an Important potential risk and an Important identified risk, respectively.  
Pancreatitis and disseminated intravascular coagulation have been added to the SmPC as a rare event 
on the basis of spontaneous reports received, for which a relationship to eribulin therapy could not be 
excluded.   
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Safety populations and Exposure 
The safety assessment is based on in total 1503 patients treated in phase 2-3 trials in 
metastatic/advanced breast cancer. This pooled safety population will be referred to as the Breast 
Cancer Population (BCP). Of the studies included in the BCP, studies 305, 201 and 211 were assessed 
at initial market approval; the neuropathy study 209 comparing eribulin and ixabepilone was assessed 
in FUM 015; the pooled data from studies 221 and 224 are assessed for the first time within the 
present application, together with the pivotal study 301 (number of eribulin-treated = 544). 
The exposure was very similar in the eribulin and capecitabine arms of Study 301. This included e.g. 
mean and median duration of treatment (169 and 125 days, respectively, for eribulin compared with 
173 and 119 days for capecitabine); and a relative dose intensity of 92% and 90%, respectively for 
eribulin and capecitabine. 
Adverse events 
The safety profile of eribulin is improved in the present disease setting, which includes 1st (21%) and 
2nd line (51%) metastatic treatment, compared with the previously known safety profile based on later 
lines of therapy. Since Studies 305 and 301 were performed largely during the same time period, this 
difference in safety profile is not likely to be primarily an effect of improved management of patients 
following an increased experience of the drug, but appears to be chiefly explained by the earlier 
disease setting in Study 301.  
Thus, three treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) of special interest, i.e. asthenia/fatigue, 
peripheral neuropathy and arthralgia/myalgia; were clearly less frequent (7-17% lower) in this disease 
setting compared with the previously known safety profile (BCP), indicating that patients in earlier 
disease settings tolerate eribulin treatment better. However, the incidence of peripheral neuropathy is 
still high, around 21-27% and is considered an important safety problem, particularly since data from 
Study 209 (assessed in FUM 015) were not informative with regard to resolution of neuropathy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 107/116 
 
 
 
 
In study 301, 8%/10% of patients had peripheral neuropathy by narrow/broad SMQ respectively, that 
had not resolved within 30 days of last dose. An additional 4% died or started new anti-cancer therapy 
within 30 days of last dose before neuropathy resolved.  The worst case thus appears to be up to 12% 
or 14% (by narrow SMQ and broad SMQ, respectively) of eribulin-treated patients in this setting 
experiencing peripheral neuropathy not resolving within 30 days after last treatment. Peripheral 
neuropathy is an important identified risk in the RMP. 
In this disease setting the safety profiles of eribulin and capecitabine, as described by frequencies of 
TEAE of any grade, are overall quite comparable (including asthenia /fatigue), with the exception of 
neutropenia/leukopenia, peripheral neuropathy, diarrhoea/vomiting, alopecia and palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia (PPE).  
Severe (grade 3-4) adverse events 
While overall lower frequencies of TEAEs of any grade were seen for eribulin-treated patients in Study 
301 compared with previous studies, the frequencies of grade 3-4 (severe) TEAEs were more 
consistent compared with the previously known safety profile, although also in this regard lower 
frequencies were seen in some SOCs.  
The differences between eribulin and capecitabine with regard to grade ≥ 3 TEAEs were in line with the 
known differences in their respective safety profiles, i.e. higher frequencies were seen for eribulin with 
regard to myelosuppression (46% vs. 5%, % for eribulin vs. capecitabine, respectively) and peripheral 
sensory neuropathy (3.3% vs. 0.5). In addition, hepatotoxicity grade ≥3 was more common with 
eribulin (1.1% vs. 0.4%), as was ALT increased (3.3 vs. 0.5%), while AST was similar (1.5 vs. 1.1%).  
Capecitabine had higher frequencies of grade ≥3 diarrhoea (5.3 vs. 1.1%) and PPE (14.5% vs. 0%), as 
expected. It is noted that the incidence of grade ≥3 asthenia and fatigue were similar across arms, and 
that the difference in grade ≥3 febrile neutropenia was perhaps lower than expected (2.0% vs. 0.9% 
for eribulin vs. capecitabine, respectively), considering the very large differences in neutropenia.  
Based on Broad SMQ, 116 patients (7.7%) in the Phase 2/3 breast cancer population experienced 
grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy. 74 of these improved to grade 2 or lower, leaving 42 patients (2.8% 
of 1503) with remaining grade 3-4 neuropathy. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The Serious adverse event (SAE) profiles are consistent with the overall safety profiles of the two study 
drugs in Study 301, with approximately 3% more haematological SAEs in the eribulin group, but 3-2% 
more gastrointestinal, and nutrition-related (e.g. dehydration) SAEs in the capecitabine arm. It is 
noted that infections, cardiac disorders and asthenia/fatigue SAEs were similar across arms, 
numerically slightly more in the capecitabine arm. Two cases of toxic hepatitis SAEs were observed in 
the eribulin arm.  
In Study 301, 26 of the 544 subjects (4.8%) in the eribulin group and 36 of the 546 subjects (6.6%) in 
the capecitabine group died during the treatment period or within 30 days of last dose of study 
treatment. In the eribulin arm, 9 deaths were associated with a TEAE (1.7 %), 2 had unknown cause 
of death, and 15 were attributed to disease progression. In the capecitabine arm, 13 deaths were 
associated with a TEAE (2.4%), 1 had unknown cause, and 22 were reported as due to disease 
progression. 
Despite the differences in myelosuppressive potential, a TEAE with outcome of death (considered 
treatment-related) due to pancytopenia was observed in the capecitabine arm, and none in the eribulin 
arm; and the number of patients with fatal infections was the same in both arms.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 108/116 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac disorder TEAEs and Nervous system disorders TEAEs with outcome of death were more 
common in the capecitabine arm compared with the eribulin arm of Study 301. 
Overall, there were no apparent qualitative differences in the TEAEs associated with death, apart 
perhaps from a case of toxic hepatitis in the eribulin arm.  
AEs causing discontinuation  
As seen for other entities of AEs, the frequencies of eribulin-treated patients discontinuing due to AEs 
generally as well as due to specific AEs are lower in study 301 compared with the previously known 
safety profile. Similarly, the small differences seen with regard to AEs causing discontinuation between 
the two treatment arms of Study 301 were in line with the safety profiles of eribulin and capecitabine, 
respectively. Four hepatobiliary events lead to discontinuation in the eribulin arm, 2 of which were 
noted as toxicity. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
•  Myelosuppression 
Shifts from CTC toxicity grade 0-1 at Baseline to grade 3-4 during treatment were most frequently 
recorded for Absolute neutrophil count (ANC). In the BCP, 60% of eribulin-treated subjects had a shift 
in ANC value from grade 0-1 at Baseline to Grade 3-4 sometime during treatment, compared to 58% 
of eribulin-treated subjects in Study 301 and 56% in Study 305. Overall, the frequencies of shifts in 
haematology laboratory tests in Study 301 were consistent with the previously known safety profile (or 
slightly improved). As before, haemoglobin and platelets rarely reached toxicity grade 3 or 4. 
• 
Liver function tests 
Out of 502 patients in the eribulin arm with baseline ALT grade 0 or 1, 104 (21%) had ALT shifts to 
grade 2 or 3 post baseline, and 37 (7%) had elevations to grade 3 (5-20 x ULN). A majority of these 
patients had their highest ALT elevation in cycles 1 and 2. Due to the presence of confounding factors 
(liver metastases, baseline elevated LFTs and/or cholestasis) in virtually all cases, no firm conclusions 
can be drawn on the relationship between eribulin and these grade 3 ALT elevations. 
Liver toxicity grade ≥ 3was reported as a TEAE 1.1% of eribulin-treated patients in Study 301. While 3 
patients fulfilled the laboratory criteria for Hy’s, none of them fulfilled the clinical criteria of absence 
of other plausible explanation; in these cases in the form of progressing liver metastases or 
cholestasis.  
The pattern of frequent early ALT increases considered of little or no clinical consequence and returning 
to normal in later cycles is acknowledged. This is sometimes referred to as “tolerance” and in the 
absence of bilirubin elevations is believed to have little or no potential for serious toxicity (The Clinical 
White Paper on DILI). 
In the capecitabine arm, a shift to grade 2-4 ALT occurred in 10% of patients with baseline grade 0-1 
(n= 500), i.e. clearly less frequently compared with the eribulin arm, while on the other hand 
treatment-emergent grade 2 bilirubin elevations were much more frequent (25% of patients with 
baseline grade 0-1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 109/116 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
The safety of eribulin in the pivotal study was not affected by age in an apparent way in the BCP.  
Japanese subjects enrolled in Study 221/224 had a very high rate of Grade 3-4 neutropenia (Grade 4 
neutropenia occurred in 70.4% of subjects), not consistent with the results for any other trial in this 
submission. The addition of these subjects also affected the analysis of TEAEs by body surface area, 
otherwise without differences across groups. No biological basis for the high incidence of Grade 3-4 
neutropenia in Study 221/224 was found. However, interim results of a post-marketing surveillance 
study in Japanese patients shows incidences of Grade 3-4 neutropenia and febrile neutropenia 
comparable to that observed in non-Japanese patients, potentially suggesting that the finding in Study 
221/224 may not be representative of the clinical reality.   
Hepatic impairment increase exposure to eribulin. There was an approximately 8% increase in 
peripheral neuropathy (by narrow and broad SMQ) for grade 1-2 events, and around 6% increase in 
grade 3-4 events, in patients with ALT or AST elevation to > 3 x ULN, or Bilirubin elevation to > 1.5 X 
ULN. 
Diabetes is a risk factor for the development of peripheral neuropathy. However There was no increase 
of neuropathy in diabetic patients compared with non-diabetic patients. 
2.5.3.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
In conclusion, the differences seen between eribulin and capecitabine with regard to TEAEs of toxicity 
grade ≥3 are consistent with the known differences in safety profiles and perhaps smaller than 
expected. It should be kept in mind that the labelled dose of capecitabine was used, which may be 
higher than optimal for some patients (NCCN).  
At end of follow-up, 2.8% of the Phase 2/3 breast cancer population had remaining grade 3-4 
neuropathy. Overall, this is not worse than for other tubulin-acting drugs. This was further assessed in 
Halaven MEA (FUM) 015.2, where the MAH presented data indicating that the peripheral neuropathy 
caused by eribulin may at least not be worse than that of other frequently used tubulin-acting 
chemotherapy agents with regard to overall frequency, grade ≥3 frequency, and add-on effects on pre-
existing neuropathy. Furthermore, the MAH will investigate the frequency of resolution and time to 
resolution in the planned Phase 3 study E7389-A001-303 (ACCRU), including follow-up of neuropathy 
until death. 
2.5.4.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
No updated Risk Management Plan (RMP) has been submitted within this variation procedure. 
The MAH states that “although this submission is for an indication which falls within the meaning of a 
‘new indication’ in Module V, Guideline on Good Pharmacovigilance Practice, there is no significant 
change in the safety profile of Halaven and a revised Risk Management Plan is therefore not included.  
The Summary of Ongoing Safety Concerns from the latest approved version of the RMP (V2.0) is 
shown below ( 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 110/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 58). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 111/116 
 
 
 
 
Table 58. Summary of Ongoing Safety Concerns (RMP V2.0) 
Important identified risks 
1.  Myelosuppression and associated infections 
2.  Peripheral neuropathy 
3.  Nausea/Vomiting 
4.  Depression & Insomnia  
5.  Tachycardia 
Important potential risks 
1.  Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes 
6.  Disseminated intravascular coagulation 
Important missing information 
2.  Male infertility 
3.  Gastrointestinal perforation. 
Hepatic Impairment:  
Eribulin has not been studied in patients with severe impaired hepatic 
function.  
Renal impairment: 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, renal impairment is 
not  expected  to  significantly  influence  eribulin  exposure.  Eribulin  is 
minimally excreted via the kidney. 
A renal impairment study has been initiated since the last RMP update 
at  the  request  of  the  FDA:  E7389-A001-106:  An  Open-label  Phase  I 
study  to  assess  the  Pharmacokinetics  and  Safety  of  HALAVEN  in 
Subjects With Cancer Who Also Have Impaired Renal Function.  It is 
anticipated  that  the  study  will  be  completed  in  March  2014.  Any  new 
findings will be reported and acted on as applicable. 
Cardiovascular 
impairment:  Eribulin  has  not  been  studied  in 
population with significant cardiovascular impairment and patients with 
history of congestive heart failure > NYHA Grade II, unstable angina or 
myocardial  infarction  within  the  past  six  months,  or  serious  cardiac 
arrhythmia were excluded from the studies. 
Elderly: The safety of Eribulin (eribulin) in the elderly age group has 
not  been  established,  although  in  breast  cancer  population  (studies 
201,211 and 305, N=827) 138 patients (16.7%) were ≥ 65 years of age 
and  17  patients  (2.1%)  were  ≥  75  years  of  age.  In  studies  of  1222 
patients treated with eribulin across multiple tumor types, 310 patients 
(25.4%) were ≥ 65 years of age, with 66 patients (5.4%) ≥ 75 years of 
age. The safety profile of eribulin in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) 
was  similar  to  that  of  patients  less  than  65  years  of  age.  No  dose 
adjustments are recommended based on the age for elderly patients. 
Further studies ongoing in indication that will increase safety exposure 
under monitored circumstances. 
Male  patients:  Eribulin  has  not  been  studied  in  male  patients  with 
breast cancer but male patients have participated in Eribulin studies for 
prostate  cancer  and  lung  cancer.    In  clinical  trials  the  adverse  event 
profile  of  eribulin  has  been  broadly  consistent  across  various  tumour 
types,  including  breast,  prostate  and  lung  cancer,  so,  while  it  is  not 
anticipated  that  the  risks  from  eribulin  use  in  off-label  oncology 
indications would differ significantly from those described previously, it 
is  not  possible  to  comment  on  tumour  types  which  have  not  been 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 112/116 
 
 
 
 
 
studied in clinical trials. 
Pediatric and Adolescent Population: There has been no exposure in 
this population during clinical studies. 
Pregnant  women:  There  has  been  no  exposure  in  this  population 
during clinical studies. 
Source: EU RMP version 1.3 with version 2.0 as tracked changes (blue), from RMP procedure RMP018. 
There are no new important risks identified in the present variation. No new pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to those already being performed are considered needed to monitor the safety of 
the product. Thus, no update of the RMP is required at this point. It is expected, however, that future 
RMPs will be updated with relevant frequencies of ADRs as appropriate.  
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1, 4.5, 4.8, and 5.1of the SmPC have been 
updated. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. Changes were also made to the PI to 
bring it in line with the current QRD template.  
No user consultation has been submitted with this variation, which is considered acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were both primary endpoints; none of them 
achieved statistically significant differences between study arms. Median OS was 15.9 vs. 14.5 months 
in the eribulin and capecitabine arms, respectively HR 0.879 (95% CI: 0.770, 1.003). The PFS 
analyses according to independent review (IRC) and investigator assessments (INV) generated very 
similar results. The HRs for PFS were 1.079 (95% CI: 0.932, 1.250) and 0.977 (95% CI: 0.857, 
1.114), respectively. There were no statistically significant differences in objective response rates 
(ORR) between arms. The global QoL scores showed no meaningful changes during study, or 
differences between the eribulin and capecitabine arms. The QoL scores for the separate items were 
reflective of the two agents’ respective ADR profiles. 
The subgroup with 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for advanced disease (sought indication) had a HR 
consistent with the overall results, i.e. OS HR 0.84 (95% CI: 0.698, 1.010), and 49 days’ 
(approximately 1.6 month) median difference in OS favouring eribulin. The PFS results of this 
subgroup were also consistent with the overall PFS results. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The discrepancy between OS and PFS results are problematic since potentially suggesting that factors 
other than the study treatments could be affecting the OS results. The MAH has provided a large 
number of analyses investigating this issue. No factor has been identified that would imply over-
estimation of the treatment effect associated with eribulin (see discussion on clinical efficacy). 
Information on the efficacy of the combination of eribulin and HER2-targeted therapy is currently not 
included in the SmPC, since no such data have been submitted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 113/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The overall safety profile of eribulin was better in the present disease setting, which includes 1st 
(21%) and 2nd line (51%) metastatic treatment, compared with the previously known safety profile 
based on later lines of therapy. However, the incidence of peripheral neuropathy was still high, around 
21-27%and is considered as an identified risk in the RMP. 
Furthermore, in this disease setting the safety profiles of eribulin and capecitabine, as described by 
frequencies of TEAE of any grade, were overall quite comparable (including asthenia /fatigue), with the 
expected exceptions of neutropenia/leukopenia, peripheral neuropathy, and alopecia (more frequent 
for eribulin); and diarrhoea/vomiting and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) (more frequent for 
capecitabine).  
Grade ≥ 3 (“severe”) TEAEs frequencies were also mostly similar across study arms. Higher 
frequencies were seen for eribulin with regard to myelosuppression (46% vs. 5%, % for eribulin vs. 
capecitabine, respectively) and peripheral sensory neuropathy (3.3% vs. 0.5). In addition, 
hepatotoxicity grade ≥3 was more common with eribulin (1.1% vs. 0.4%). Capecitabine had higher 
frequencies of grade ≥3 diarrhoea (5.3 vs. 1.1%) and PPE (14.5% vs. 0%), as expected. It is noted 
that the incidence of grade ≥3 asthenia and fatigue were similar across arms, and that the difference in 
grade ≥3 febrile neutropenia was perhaps lower than expected (2.0% vs. 0.9% for eribulin vs. 
capecitabine, respectively), considering the very large differences in neutropenia. Thus, the differences 
seen between eribulin and capecitabine with regard to TEAEs of toxicity grade ≥3 are consistent with 
the known differences in safety profiles and perhaps smaller than expected. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There remains a clear lack of information concerning long-term persistence and resolution of eribulin-
induced peripheral neuropathy. In Study 301, the worst case scenario appears to include up to 12% or 
14% of eribulin-treated patients in this setting experiencing peripheral neuropathy (by narrow and 
broad SMQ, respectively) that did not resolve within 30 days after last treatment. Based on the phase 
2/3 breast cancer population, 7.7% of patients experienced grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy (by broad 
SMQ), and in 2.8% grade 3-4 neuropathy did not improve. The long-term resolution of peripheral 
neuropathy will be further addressed in a planned phase 3 study (E7389-A001-303, ACCRU) which has 
been included in the version of the RMP being assessed in the context of PSUV0018. 
Information on the safety of the combination of eribulin and HER2-targeted therapy is currently not 
included in the SmPC, since no such data have been submitted.   
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Based on the presented data no statistically significant difference in efficacy has been shown for 
eribulin compared with capecitabine. Given the investigator-based PFS HR at 0.98 with a narrow 95% 
confidence interval (0.86, 1.11), a clinically relevant difference can be excluded.  
The main ADRs affecting large proportions of eribulin-treated patients are neutropenia and neuropathy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 114/116 
 
 
 
 
Neutropenia is not necessarily considered a major clinical problem, however, since routinely 
manageable with G-CSF. Peripheral neuropathy, on the other hand, if advanced is a debilitating 
condition affecting the daily life of patients. With earlier lines of therapy, the importance of persisting 
peripheral neuropathy after discontinuation of eribulin therapy naturally increases. Based on available 
data it appears that less than 3% have persisting grade 3-4 peripheral neuropathy, which is not 
considered unacceptable given the benefits.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Superiority was not demonstrated, and non-inferiority was not planned for. However, a clinically 
relevant difference in OS and PFS can be excluded.  
There is a clear value in having two treatment options with different safety profiles, but similar 
tolerability. Taken together, the B/R for eribulin in the sought indication is positive.  
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
A clinically relevant difference in terms of efficacy, however, between eribulin and capecitabine can be 
excluded based on a PFS HR 0.98 and narrow confidence intervals. Estimations, for the purpose of this 
discussion, based on the upper 95% confidence limits of the HR and the median PFS of the 
capecitabine arm suggests a small risk of eribulin having up to 2 weeks poorer PFS compared with 
capecitabine, based on investigator assessment. PFS differences of around 1-1.5 months are generally 
not considered to be of clinical relevance in the context of approval of oncology products; in line with 
this, the present uncertainty is accepted. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension of Indication to include the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast 
cancer who have progressed after at least one chemotherapeutic regimen for advanced disease.  
As a consequence, sections 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 of the SmPC were updated. The Package Leaflet is updated in 
accordance. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, and Package Leaflet. 
This CHMP recommendation is subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 115/116 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
• 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of  
new information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as 
the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/145938/2014 
Page 116/116 
 
 
 
 
