SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR HARVONI 
(LEDIPASVIR/SOFOSBUVIR)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Harvoni. The RMP details important 
risks of Harvoni, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Harvoni’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Harvoni’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Harvoni should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Harvoni should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Harvoni’s 
RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What is it Used for
Harvoni is authorized for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in adults and in pediatric 
patients aged 3 years and above (see SmPCs for the full indication). It contains sofosbuvir (SOF) 
and ledipasvir (LDV) as active substances and it is given orally.
Further information about the evaluation of Harvoni’s benefits can be found in Harvoni’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/harvoni. 
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks
Important risks of Harvoni, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Harvoni’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of Harvoni, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Harvoni is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Harvoni are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Harvoni. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table Part VI.1.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important Identified Risks
Severe bradycardia and heart block when used with concomitant amiodarone 
HBV reactivation in HBV/HCV coinfected patients
Important Potential Risks
 None
Missing Information
 None
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Table Part VI.2.
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information
Important Identified 
Risk
Severe bradycardia and heart block when used with concomitant amiodarone
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Cases of severe bradycardia and heart block have been observed when Harvoni is used 
in combination with amiodarone with or without other drugs that lower heart rate. 
Cases are potentially life threatening.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Patients also taking beta blockers or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities 
and/or advanced liver disease may be at increased risk for symptomatic bradycardia 
with coadministration of amiodarone.
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.5, and 4.8
PL Section 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Important Identified 
Risk
HBV reactivation in HBV/HCV coinfected patients
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Cases of HBV reactivation have been reported in patients coinfected with HBV/HCV 
during or after treatment with DAAs. HBV reactivation can potentially be life-
threatening, as it could result in hepatitis, an increase in transaminase levels, an 
increase in bilirubin levels, hepatic failure and death.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Due to the small number of cases of HBV reactivation with DAAs, risk factors have 
not been definitively established. However, some of the cases involving HBV 
reactivation with SOF-containing regimens involved patients who were 
immunocompromised (patients coinfected with HIV or patients receiving 
immunosuppressants due to prior transplant). In addition, a case involving severe 
HBV reactivation had risk factors of NASH and Burkitt’s lymphoma.
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section 4.4
PL Section 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Important Potential 
Risk
None 
Missing information
None
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or a specific obligation 
of Harvoni. 
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan
There are no studies required for Harvoni. 
