SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION OF HBVAXPRO PRESENTED BY THE EMEA 
INTRODUCTION 
HBVAXPRO is a monovalent vaccine developed for the active immunisation against Hepatitis B virus 
infection caused by all known subtypes in all age groups considered at risk of exposure to Hepatitis B 
virus. The active substance of HBVAXPRO, Hepatitis B (Recombinant) vaccine, is purified Hepatitis 
B virus surface antigen, recombinant (HBsAg). HBVAXPRO is a vaccine inducing a specific humoral 
and  cellular  immune  response  against  HBsAg,  which  results  in  an  active  immunisation  against 
Hepatitis  B  virus  infection.  The  benefits  with  HBVAXPRO  are  the  protective  efficacy  against 
Hepatitis B in all age groups in absence of thiomersal in the finished product. 
Issues  pertaining  to  the  relatively  low  immunogenicity  of  the  Hepatitis  B  (HepB)  component 
contained in the vaccines containing the recombinant Hepatitis B component from SPMSD 
have been assessed and extensively discussed by the CHMP and its Working Parties (Biotechnology 
Working Party, Vaccines Working Party).  
On  26  May  2005,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  need  to  convene  an  Ad  Hoc  Expert  Group  Meeting  on 
Hepatitis  short  and  long-term  protection  afforded  by  recombinant  Hepatitis  B  vaccines.  The  CHMP 
expressed concerns that there is evidence of unpredictable variability in Hepatitis B antibody response 
following  vaccination  with  Hexavac.  This  variability seems  to  be  related  to  currently  uncontrollable 
variances in the manufacturing process of the recombinant HepB vaccine component. Concerns were 
expressed  on  the  low  immunogenicity  of  the  HepB  component  of  Hexavac  and  the  potential 
consequences  on  long-term  protection  against  Hepatitis  B  infection  and  boostability  post  primary 
course of vaccination with this vaccine. 
the 
Following the suspension of Hexavac due to reduced immunogenicity of the Hep B component in the 
vaccine, the MAH (Sanofi Pasteur MSD) was requested in September 2005 to provide further data and 
clarification  on  long-term  immunological  memory  and  protection  against  Hep  B  viral  infection 
afforded by HBVAXPRO and PROCOMVAX, and the timelines of availability of further data.  
In their January 2006 plenary meeting, the CHMP confirmed their concerns regarding the decreasing 
in  HBVAXPRO  and 
recombinant  Hep  B  component  contained 
immunogenicity  of 
PROCOMVAX. The CHMP debated the current lack of knowledge about the clinical significance of 
the  findings  and  immune  memory  in  general  and  agreed  that  these  issues  needed  to  be  carefully 
explored before deciding on regulatory action. 
The Committee also noted that the last study performed in infants below one year was completed in 
2001.  As  a  consequence  the  data  obtained  so  far  must  be  interpreted  with  caution  since  they  were 
generated  using  the  paediatric  (5µg)  dose  of  Hep  B  vaccine  produced  before  2001.  There  are  some 
indications that the Hep B vaccine currently produced is less immunogenic than the vaccine produced 
in the 1990’s. The reason for decreasing immunogenicity over several years remains still unidentified.  
It was considered that a decision will be taken according to the responses given on quality and clinical 
concerns.  The  clinical  issues  were  discussed  with  the  MAH  at  the  Vaccine  Working  Party  (VWP) 
during its February 2006 meeting, while the quality issues were discussed at the February 2006 BWP 
meeting.  
On  13  February  2006,  the  European  Commission  (EC)  triggered  the  procedure  under  Article  20  of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, after the CHMP expressed concerns on the low immunogenicity of the 
HepB  component  of  HBVAXPRO.  The  CHMP  was  requested  to  give  an  opinion  as  to  whether  the 
marketing  authorisation  for  HBVAXPRO  should  be  maintained,  varied,  suspended  or  withdrawn  in 
the context of an Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 procedure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION  
From  the  quality  point  of  view,  there  are  no  technical,  analytical  or  animal  tools  able  to  predict 
immunogenicity  of  recombinant  hepatitis  B  components  in  man.  Analytical  tools  can  be  used  as 
consistency  criteria,  but  not  as  correlates  for  safety  and  efficacy  (immunogenicity)  of  Hepatitis  B 
batches produced at SPMSD. As there is no in vitro or in vivo system suitable to predict acceptable 
immunogenicity in man, it is important to note at this stage that the C3H mouse model suggested by 
the MAH appears to be able to discriminate between Hepatitis B lots which are acceptable and those 
who  are  not.  Notwithstanding,  the  new  proposed  model  will  have  only  predictive  value  once  it  has 
been  fully  validated  and  has  shown  to  be  able  to  discriminate  batches  of  HBVAXPRO  that  have 
elicited a high vs. a low immune response during clinical trials.  
Although the root cause  for reduced immunogenicity during the past 5 years is still not ascertained, 
evidence was provided that the manufacturing process seems now to be better controlled. The MAH 
developed an upgraded manufacturing process to increase immunogenicity. The interim outcome of a 
clinical  trial  with  the  ‘process  upgraded’  recombinant  Hepatitis  B  batches  confirms  that  the 
immunogenicity of the current HBVAXPRO vaccine is at the historic standard, and provides evidence 
for a consistent trend to higher GMTs with HBVAXPRO manufactured with the process modification. 
The data reviewed by CHMP included data from 7 studies with HBVAXPRO and Procomvax, one of 
which is on-going at present. These trials were carried out in different risk groups and age categories, 
i.e. children born to Hepatitis B positive mothers, infants, healthy young adults and healthy subjects 
between 16-35 years of age.  
In the studies conducted by the MAH to date with HBVAXPRO and Procomvax, seroprotective levels 
have been achieved in the large majority of vaccinees.  There is no evidence that either short or long 
term protection has been impacted.  Although in some of the trials conducted in the past 5 years, the 
GMTs of the hepatitis B vaccines were lower than responses observed in the early 1990’s, the clinical 
data  generated  by  the  sponsor  in  the  trials  described  above,  demonstrate  consistent,  high  anti-HBs 
seroprotective  rates,  which  is  the  established  correlate  of  effectiveness.    In  addition,  a  review  of 
clinical performance as assessed by protection against disease as noted in the V121-018 trial supports 
the conclusion that the hepatitis B vaccines remain effective in decreasing hepatitis B infection and its 
serious sequelae. 
Due to the relatively high risk of infection, the group of infants born to Hepatitis B positive mothers 
represents the population, which would be most vulnerable to a possible insufficient immunogenicity 
of  the  vaccine.  As  there  are  currently  no  reports  on  increased  numbers  of  Hepatitis  B  breakthrough 
cases after HBVAXPRO vaccination, considering that the EU is a low endemic region, no immediate 
safety signal could be identified by the CHMP. 
The most recent immunogenicity data comes from the interim analysis of the V232-054 trial, this is 
the  third  trial  in  the  past  few  years  to  study  the  current  product  (from  the  BTMC  manufacturing 
facility) in young adults using the same dosing schedule (the other two trials are V501-011 and V232-
052).    The  results  from  these  three  trials  with  product  manufactured  in  the  current  facility,  confirm 
solid,  reproducible  performance  based  on  these  recent  historical  data  and  should  also  predict 
performance as expected in other populations as well.  In the past experience, there has never been an 
instance  when  high  performance  in  adolescents  and  young  adults  did  not  correspond  with  high 
performance  in  infants.    Therefore,  the  results  of  this  study  provide  evidence  that  the  currently 
available product is providing the expected level of protective antibodies in all populations for which 
it is indicated.   
In  addition  to  the  immunogenicity  data  generated  in  the  past  5  years  from  clinical  trials  with  the 
HBVAXPRO  and  PROCOMVAX  data,  the  acceptable  performance  of  these  vaccines  are  supported 
from findings of surveillance for hepatitis B cases in the United States and New Zealand and from an 
analysis of the trend in vaccine failures reported to the MAH safety database. 
The  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  conduct  studies  regarding  neonates,  infants,  older  adults,  renal 
dialysis  patients,  dose  ranging  and  a  booster  study  with  the  current  formulation  and  the  process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
upgraded product to further ensure that the vaccine provides a sufficient level of long-term protection 
against Hepatitis B.  
In view of the lack of analytical tools to predict immunogenicity in man, the need for regular testing of 
recombinant  HepB  batches  in  clinical  trials  was  considered,  in  order  to  ensure  consistent  high 
immunogenicity  of  HBVAXPRO  produced  in  particular  according  to  the  new  updated/improved 
process.  The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  MAH  that  in  4  years  time,  in  the  absence  of  ongoing  clinical 
studies  of  immunogenicity  with  the  MAH’s  hepatitis  B  antigen,  the  MAH  will  conduct  a  study  of 
vaccine  immunogenicity  no  less  frequently  than  every  four  years  to  confirm  that  experience  with 
manufactured product remains current and that clinical performance meets expectations.  
The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  MAH  on    revised  product  information  for  all  presentations  of 
HBVAXPRO,  reflecting  advice  and  suggestions  made  during  the  procedure.  Revised  SPCs  and  PLs 
provide  updated  information  in  relation  to  best  use  of  the  product  considering  latest  clinical  data. 
These changes, in principle, address the concerns raised by the CHMP and its Working Parties.  
Pending  the  outcome  of  the  studies,  the  MAH  committed  to  amend  the  SPC  sections  4.2,  4.4,  4.5 
(where relevant) and 5.1 as follows: 
•  The  need  of  the  4th  dose  at  12  months  has  been  reinforced,  when  the  compressed 
administration schedule 0, 1, 2 and 12 months is used 
•  The recommendations for serologic testing, and administration of additional doses if needed, 
in immunocompromised patients, in non-responders of other high risk groups, and in the case 
of presumed exposure to hepatitis B, have been strengthened.  
•  The  concomitant  administration  of  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  is  not  recommended 
• 
since this has not been sufficiently studied for HBVAXPRO. 
In renal dialysis patients in whom insufficient antibody titre is achieved after boosting, the use 
of alternative hepatitis B vaccines should be considered. 
CONCLUSION 
The  CHMP  reviewed  all  the  technical  and  clinical  data  available  for  HBVAXPRO  extensively.  The 
CHMP  also  considered  the  commitments  given  by  the  MAH  in  response  to  CHMP’s  requests  to 
meticulously  control  the  performance  of  HBVAXPRO  from  now  on  in  a  broad  array  of  appropriate 
clinical trials including all age and risk categories. The CHMP concluded that the use of this vaccine 
will  not  pose  an  immediate  risk  to  any  of  the  target  groups  the  vaccine  is  indicated  for.  Potential 
remaining risks will be minimised to an acceptable level by the fundamentally revised SPC.  
Information  will  be  provided  to  health  care  professionals  and  will  ensure  that  the  vaccine  will  be 
correctly  used  in  the  different  age  and  risk  categories.  The  CHMP  endorsed  the  new  product 
information and agreed to finalise the article 20 procedure without any further regulatory action. 
Considering  all  points  raised,  including  time  lines  required  to  fully  explore  all  issues  related  to  low 
HepB immunogenicity following vaccination with HBVAXPRO and further to the assessment of the 
data provided by the MAH, the CHMP concluded that the MA of HBVAXPRO should be varied in 
accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION OF 
HBVAXPRO 
WHEREAS 
The CHMP is of the Opinion that the Product Information of HBVAXPRO, should be varied in order 
to maintain the safe and effective clinical use for the following reasons: 
•  Considering the data on low immunogenicity available today, the CHMP identified the need for 
further  studies  to  ensure  long-term  protection  against  Hepatitis  B  with  the  current  vaccine  in 
future. 
•  The CHMP identified that the decreased immunogeniticy of the HepB component released by the 
MAH  seems  to  be  due  to  variability  in  the  production  process  for  this  component  and  that 
following  extensive  review  of  the  manufacturing  process  the  MAH  has  identified  the  current 
adjuvantation process as a potential root cause for decreased immunogenicity of the HepB vaccine 
component. 
•  The use of this vaccine will not pose an immediate risk to any of the target groups the vaccine is 
indicated  for.  Potential  remaining  risks  will  be  minimised  to  an  acceptable  level  by  the 
fundamentally revised SPC. 
•  The CHMP considered that the benefit/risk balance of HBVAXPRO concerning protection against 
hepatitis B virus infection caused by all known subtypes in all age categories considered at risk of 
exposure to hepatitis B virus remains favourable. 
The  CHMP  has  recommended  the  variation  of  the  Marketing  Authorisations  for  HBVAXPRO  in 
accordance with Article 5(2) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
