ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Each 0.4 ml single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Each 0.8 ml single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Each 0.8 ml single-dose pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab.
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary 
cells.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe
Solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled pen (SensoReady)
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Rheumatoid arthritis
Hefiya in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for:
•
•
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate.
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not 
previously treated with methotrexate.
Hefiya can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate.
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate.
2
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Hefiya in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response 
to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Hefiya can be given as 
monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is 
inappropriate (for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in 
patients aged less than 2 years.
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age 
and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy 
(see section 5.1).
Axial spondyloarthritis
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have 
had an inadequate response to conventional therapy.
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without 
radiographic evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, 
who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs).
Psoriatic arthritis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as 
measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease 
(see section 5.1) and to improve physical function.
Psoriasis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who are candidates for systemic therapy.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for 
topical therapy and phototherapies.
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to 
conventional systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
3
Crohn’s disease
Hefiya is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.
Paediatric Crohn's disease
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and / or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to 
or have contraindications for such therapies.
Ulcerative colitis
Hefiya is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or 
have medical contraindications for such therapies.
Uveitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid-
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate.
Paediatric uveitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, 
or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Hefiya treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Hefiya is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to 
consult with an appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Hefiya (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with Hefiya should be given the Patient Reminder Card.
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Hefiya if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary.
During treatment with Hefiya, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised.
4
Posology
Rheumatoid arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Hefiya.
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or analgesics can be continued 
during treatment with Hefiya. Regarding combination with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
other than methotrexate, see sections 4.4 and 5.1.
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg 
every other week may benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 
80 mg every other week.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period.
Dose interruption
There may be a need for dose interruption, for instance before surgery or if a serious infection occurs.
Available data suggest that re-introduction of adalimumab after discontinuation for 70 days or 
longer resulted in the same magnitudes of clinical response and similar safety profile as before 
dose interruption.
Ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS and psoriatic 
arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period.
Psoriasis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
initial dose.
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of 
continued 40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a 
patient with an inadequate response after the increase in dose (see section 5.1). If adequate response is 
achieved with 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dose may subsequently be reduced to 
40 mg every other week.
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The recommended Hefiya dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 
160 mg initially at Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per 
5
day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later at Day 15 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week (given as two 40 mg injections in one day). Antibiotics may be continued during 
treatment with Hefiya, if necessary. It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic 
wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with Hefiya.
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Hefiya 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re-
introduced (see section 5.1). 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated 
(see section 5.1).
Crohn’s disease
The recommended Hefiya induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg at Week 2. In case there is a need for a 
more rapid response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at Week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one 
day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg at Week 2 
(given as two 40 mg injections in one day), can be used with the awareness that the risk for adverse 
events is higher during induction.
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Hefiya and signs and symptoms of disease recur, 
Hefiya may be re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 
8 weeks since the previous dose.
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Hefiya every week or 80 mg every other week.
Some patients who have not responded by Week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through Week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
Ulcerative colitis
The recommended Hefiya induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis is 160 mg at Week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg 
injections per day for two consecutive days) and 80 mg at Week 2 (given as two 40 mg injections in 
one day). After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via 
subcutaneous injection.
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Hefiya every week or 80 mg every other week.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 2–8 weeks of 
treatment. Hefiya therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this 
time period.
6
Uveitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. There is limited experience 
in the initiation of treatment with adalimumab alone. Treatment with Hefiya can be initiated in 
combination with corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory agents. 
Concomitant corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two weeks 
after initiating treatment with Hefiya.
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a 
yearly basis (see section 5.1).
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required. 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 
2 years of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Hefiya is administered every other week via 
subcutaneous injection. 
Table 1. Hefiya dose for patients with 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
10 kg to < 30 kg
20 mg every other week
≥ 30 kg
40 mg every other week
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this 
time period.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication.
Enthesitis-related arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is 
based on body weight (Table 2). Hefiya is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection.
7
Table 2. Hefiya dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
15 kg to < 30 kg
20 mg every other week
≥ 30 kg
40 mg every other week
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
The recommended Hefiya dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 3). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection.
Table 3. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg every other week starting 
one week after the initial dose
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
If re-treatment with adalimumab is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration 
should be followed.
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a 
mean of 13 months.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg)
There are no clinical studies with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. The posology of 
adalimumab in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation 
(see section 5.2).
The recommended Hefiya dose is 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at 
Week 1 via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week, an increase in dose 
to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered.
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Hefiya if necessary. It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Hefiya.
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period.
8
Should treatment be interrupted, Hefiya may be re-introduced as appropriate.
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data 
in section 5.1)
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication.
Paediatric Crohn's disease
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 4). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 4. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease
Patient 
weight
< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
Induction dose
•
40 mg at Week 0 and 20 mg at Week 2
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with 
the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher 
with use of the higher induction dose, the following dose may 
be used:
•
•
80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2
80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with 
the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher 
with use of the higher induction dose, the following dose may 
be used:
•
160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2
Maintenance 
dose starting at 
Week 4
20 mg every 
other week
40 mg every 
other week
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dose. 
•
•
< 40 kg: 20 mg every week
≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by 
Week 12.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years for this 
indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is based 
on body weight (Table 5). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection.
9
Table 5. Hefiya Dose for Paediatric Patients with Ulcerative Colitis
Patient Weight
Induction Dose
<  40 kg
≥  40  kg
• 80  mg at Week 0 (given as two 
40  mg injections in one day) 
and 40  mg at Week 2 (given as 
one 40  mg injection)
• 160  mg at Week 0 (given as 
four 40  mg injections in one 
day or two 40  mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days) and 80  mg at Week 2 
(given as two 40  mg injections 
in one day)
Maintenance Dose 
Starting at Week 4*
• 40  mg every other week
• 80  mg every other week (given 
as two 40 mg injections in one 
day)
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Hefiya should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose.
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of 
response within this time period.
There is no relevant use of Hefiya in children aged less than 6 years in this indication.
Hefiya may be available in different strengths and/or pharmaceutical forms depending on the 
individual treatment needs.
Paediatric uveitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 6). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant 
treatment with methotrexate.
Table 6. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with uveitis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
< 30 kg
≥ 30 kg
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate
When Hefiya therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for patients 
≥ 30 kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No clinical data are 
available on the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age (see section 5.2).
There is no relevant use of Hefiya in children aged less than 2 years in this indication.
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a 
yearly basis (see section 5.1).
10
Psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in the paediatric population for the indications of ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis.
Method of administration
Hefiya is administered by subcutaneous injection. 
Full instructions for use are provided in the package leaflet.  
Adalimumab is available in other strengths and pharmaceutical forms. 
4.3
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections 
(see section 4.4).
Moderate to severe heart failure (New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III/IV) (see section 4.4).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Infections
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function 
may increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for 
infections, including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Hefiya. Because the 
elimination of adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout 
this period.
Treatment with Hefiya should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
and patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Hefiya 
should be considered prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections).
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Hefiya should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Hefiya should be 
discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or 
antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. Physicians should exercise 
caution when considering the use of Hefiya in patients with a history of recurring infection or with 
underlying conditions which may predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant 
immunosuppressive medicinal products.
Serious infections
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or 
other opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in 
patients receiving adalimumab.
Other serious infections seen in clinical studies include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis 
11
and septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported.
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients 
receiving  adalimumab.  Reports  included  cases  of  pulmonary  and  extra-pulmonary  (i.e. 
disseminated) tuberculosis.
Before initiation of therapy with Hefiya, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection. This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of 
patient history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and 
previous and/or current immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin 
test and chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is 
recommended that the conduct and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients 
who are severely ill or immunocompromised.
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Hefiya therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3).
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully 
considered.
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should 
be consulted.
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
prophylaxis treatment before the initiation of Hefiya, and in accordance with local recommendations.
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of 
Hefiya in patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for 
tuberculosis and in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed.
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in 
patients treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active 
tuberculosis have redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab.
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis 
infection (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or 
after therapy with Hefiya.
Other opportunistic infections
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients 
receiving adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking 
TNF-antagonists and this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in 
fatal outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, 
cough, dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without 
concomitant shock an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Hefiya 
should be promptly discontinued. Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in 
these patients should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of 
patients with invasive fungal infections.
12
Hepatitis B reactivation
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including 
adalimumab, who are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive). Some cases have 
had a fatal outcome. Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with 
Hefiya. For patients who test positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with 
expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B is recommended.
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Hefiya should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following 
termination of therapy. Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral 
therapy in conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. 
In patients who develop HBV reactivation, Hefiya should be stopped and effective anti-viral 
therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated.
Neurological events
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating 
disease, including  Guillain-Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the 
use of Hefiya in patients with pre-existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system 
demyelinating disorders; discontinuation of Hefiya should be considered if any of these disorders 
develop. There is a known association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating 
disorders. Neurologic evaluation should be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate 
uveitis prior to the initiation of Hefiya therapy and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-existing 
or developing central demyelinating disorders.
Allergic reactions
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical studies. Non-serious 
allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical studies. Reports of 
serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab 
administration. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of 
Hefiya should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated.
Immunosuppression
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no 
evidence of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or 
change in enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils.
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders
In the controlled portions of clinical studies of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies 
including lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with 
control patients. However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of leukaemia 
have been reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk 
for lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible 
risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a 
TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded.
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
adalimumab in the post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually 
13
associated with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and 
adolescents treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded.
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated 
with adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is 
usually fatal. Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in young 
adult patients on concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for inflammatory 
bowel disease. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and 
Hefiya should be carefully considered. A risk for the development of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma 
in patients treated with Hefiya cannot be excluded (see section 4.8).
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom 
treatment with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy. Thus additional 
caution should be exercised in considering Hefiya treatment of these patients (see section 4.8).
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy 
or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non- 
melanoma skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Hefiya. Melanoma and Merkel cell 
carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab 
(see section 4.8).
In an exploratory clinical study evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients 
with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly 
in the lung or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control 
patients. All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when 
using any TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy 
due to heavy smoking.
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia 
or colon cancer. All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
carcinoma (for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis), or who had a prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation 
should include colonoscopy and biopsies per local recommendations.
Haematologic reactions
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. 
Adverse events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to 
seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias 
(e.g. persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor) while on Hefiya. Discontinuation of Hefiya therapy 
should be considered in patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities.
Vaccinations
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza 
trivalent virus vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis 
who were treated with adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab.
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Hefiya therapy.
Patients on Hefiya may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration of 
live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 
5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy.
14
Congestive heart failure
In a clinical study with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased 
mortality due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart 
failure have also been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Hefiya should be used with 
caution in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Hefiya is contraindicated in moderate 
to severe heart failure (see section 4.3). Treatment with Hefiya must be discontinued in patients 
who develop new or worsening symptoms of congestive heart failure.
Autoimmune processes
Treatment with Hefiya may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-
term treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient 
develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Hefiya and is 
positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Hefiya should not be 
given (see section 4.8).
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another
TNF-antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of 
the nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar 
toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the 
combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and 
abatacept) or other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions (see 
section 4.5).
Surgery
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The 
long half-life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned. 
A patient who requires surgery while on Hefiya should be closely monitored for infections, and 
appropriate actions should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing 
arthroplasty while receiving adalimumab.
Small bowel obstruction
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic 
stricture that may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not 
worsen or cause strictures.
Elderly
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab-treated subjects over 65 years of age 
(3.7 %) was higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5 %). Some of those had a fatal 
outcome. Particular attention regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the 
elderly.
Paediatric population
See Vaccinations above.
15
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose respectively per 
0.4 ml dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant 
methotrexate. Antibody formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate 
in comparison with use as monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted 
in increased formation of antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see 
section 5.1).
The combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”).
The combination of adalimumab and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least five months after the last Hefiya treatment.
Pregnancy
A large number (approximately 2 100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to 
adalimumab resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1 500 exposed during 
the first trimester, does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn.
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) 
treated with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated 
with adalimumab were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth 
defects. The rate of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect 
was 6/69 (8.7 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8 %) in the untreated 
women with RA (unadjusted OR 1.31, 95 % CI 0.38–4.52) and 16/152 (10.5 %) in the adalimumab-
treated women with CD and 3/32 (9.4 %) in the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 
95 % CI 0.31–4.16). The adjusted OR (accounting for baseline differences) was 1.10 (95% CI 0.45–
2.73) with RA and CD combined. There were no distinct differences between adalimumab-treated 
and untreated women for the secondary endpoints spontaneous abortions, minor birth defects, 
preterm delivery, birth size and serious or opportunistic infections and no stillbirths or malignancies 
were reported. The interpretation of data may be impacted due to methodological limitations of the 
study, including small sample size and non-randomized design.
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available 
(see section 5.3).
Due to its inhibition of TNFα,  adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal 
immune responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly 
needed.
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with 
adalimumab during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. 
16
Administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not 
recommended for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk at 
very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1 % to 
1 % of the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal proteolysis 
and have poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. 
Consequently, Hefiya can be used during breastfeeding.
Fertility
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available.
4.7
Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Hefiya (see section 4.8).
4.8
Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adalimumab was studied in 9 506 patients in pivotal controlled and open label studies for up to 
60 months or more. These studies included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long 
standing disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-
related arthritis) as well as axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa and uveitis patients. The pivotal controlled studies involved 6 089 patients 
receiving adalimumab and 3 801 patients receiving placebo or active comparator during the controlled 
period.
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9 % for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4 % for control-
treated patients.
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain 
or swelling), headache and musculoskeletal pain.
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab 
affect the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defence against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV 
reactivation and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been 
reported with use of adalimumab.
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events 
and reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
Paediatric population
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen 
in adult patients.
17
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical studies and on 
postmarketing experience and are displayed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency in Table 7 
below: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each 
frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The highest frequency seen among the various indications has been included. An asterisk (*) appears 
in the SOC column if further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8.
Table 7. Adverse reactions
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Infections and 
infestations*
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and 
upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and 
pneumonia herpes viral)
Systemic infections (including sepsis, 
candidiasis and influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis 
viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including 
paronychia, cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising 
fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral 
herpes and tooth infections),
reproductive tract infections (including 
vulvovaginal mycotic infection),
urinary tract infections (including 
pyelonephritis),
fungal infections, joint infections
Neurological infections (including viral 
meningitis),
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis 
(including coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis 
and mycobacterium avium complex infection), 
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, diverticulitis1)
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps)*
Common
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma)
benign neoplasm
Uncommon
Lymphoma**,
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, 
lung neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm), 
melanoma**
Rare
Leukaemia1)
18
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Not known
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1)
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine 
carcinoma of the skin)1)
Kaposi`s sarcoma
Blood and the 
lymphatic system 
disorders*
Very common
Leucopaenia (including neutropaenia and 
agranulocytosis),
anaemia
Common
Leucocytosis, 
thrombocytopaenia
Uncommon
Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura
Rare
Pancytopaenia
Immune system 
disorders*
Common
Uncommon
Hypersensitivity,
allergies (including seasonal allergy)
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
Rare
Anaphylaxis1)
Very common
Lipids increased
Common
Hypokalaemia,
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphataemia,
dehydration
Psychiatric disorders
Common
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety,
insomnia
Nervous system 
disorders*
Very common
Headache
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Eye disorders
Common
Paraesthesias (including hypoaesthesia), migraine,
nerve root compression
Cerebrovascular accident1), tremor,
neuropathy
Multiple sclerosis,
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome)1)
Visual impairment, conjunctivitis, blepharitis,
eye swelling
19
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders
Uncommon
Diplopia
Common
Vertigo
Uncommon 
Deafness, 
tinnitus
Cardiac disorders*
Common
Tachycardia
Uncommon
Myocardial infarction1),
arrhythmia,
congestive heart failure
Rare
Cardiac arrest
Vascular disorders
Common
Hypertension,
flushing,
haematoma
Uncommon
Aortic aneurysm,
vascular arterial occlusion,
thrombophlebitis
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders*
Common
Asthma,
dyspnoea,
cough
Uncommon
Pulmonary embolism1),
interstitial lung disease,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
pneumonitis, pleural effusion1)
Rare
Pulmonary fibrosis1)
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Very common
Abdominal pain,
nausea and vomiting
Common
Uncommon
GI haemorrhage,
dyspepsia,
gastroesophageal reflux disease,
sicca syndrome
Pancreatitis,
dysphagia,
face oedema
Rare
Intestinal perforation1)
20
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Hepato-biliary 
disorders*
Very common
Elevated liver enzymes
Uncommon
Rare
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis,
hepatic steatosis,
bilirubin increased
Hepatitis,
reactivation of hepatitis B1),
autoimmune hepatitis1)
Not known
Liver failure1)
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Very common
Rash (including exfoliative rash)
Common
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1),
urticaria,
bruising (including purpura),
dermatitis (including eczema),
onychoclasis,
hyperhidrosis,
alopecia1),
pruritus
Uncommon
Night sweats,
scar
Rare
Erythema multiforme1),
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1),
angioedema1),
cutaneous vasculitis1)
lichenoid skin reaction1)
Musculoskeletal and
connective tissue
disorders
Renal and urinary
disorders
Not known
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1)
Very common
Musculoskeletal pain
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Common
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine
phosphokinase increased)
Rhabdomyolysis,
systemic lupus erythematosus
Lupus-like syndrome1)
Renal impairment,
haematuria
Uncommon
Nocturia
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders
Uncommon
Erectile dysfunction
21
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
General disorders and
administration site
conditions*
Very common
Injection site reaction (including injection site
erythema)
Common
Chest pain,
oedema,
pyrexia1)
Uncommon
Inflammation
Investigations*
Common
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including
activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged),
autoantibody test positive (including double
stranded DNA antibody),
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased
Not known
Common
Weight increased2)
Impaired healing
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications
*
**
1)
2)
further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8
including open label extension studies
including spontaneous reporting data
The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across 
adult indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 
4-6 months. Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with 
mean exposures of approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with 
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be 
associated with the anti-inflammatory effect of adalimumab.
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the 
known safety profile of adalimumab.
Uveitis
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was 
consistent with the known safety profile of adalimumab.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Injection site reactions
In the pivotal controlled studies in adults and children, 12.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab 
developed injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared 
to 7.2 % of patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not 
necessitate discontinuation of the medicinal product.
Infections
In the pivotal controlled studies in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year 
in the adalimumab-treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated 
patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and 
sinusitis. Most patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved.
22
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab-treated patients and 
0.03 per patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients.
In controlled and open label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections 
(including fatal infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of 
tuberculosis (including miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections 
(e.g. disseminated or extrapulmonary  histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred 
within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease.
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years 
during adalimumab studies in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 
192 paediatric patients with an exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab studies in 
paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease. No malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients 
with an exposure of 80.0 patient years during an adalimumab study in paediatric patients with 
chronic plaque psoriasis. No malignancies were observed in 93 paediatric patients with an exposure 
of 65.3 patient years during an adalimumab study in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis. No 
malignancies were observed in 60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during 
an adalimumab study in paediatric patients with uveitis.
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab studies in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration 
in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and 
non-melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5) per 
1 000 patient years among 5 291 adalimumab-treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1 000 
patient years among 3 444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for 
adalimumab and 3.8 months for control-treated patients). The rate (95 % confidence interval) of non-
melanoma skin cancers was 8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1 000 patient years among adalimumab-treated patients 
and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1 000 patient years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell 
carcinomas occurred at rates (95 % confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1 000 patient years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1 000 patient years among control patients. The rate 
(95 % confidence interval) of lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1 000 patient years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1 000 patient years among control patients.
When combining controlled portions of these studies and ongoing and completed open label extension 
studies with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6 427 patients and over 26 439 
patient years of therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-melanoma 
skin cancers is approximately 8.5 per 1 000 patient years. The observed rate of non-melanoma skin 
cancers is approximately 9.6 per 1 000 patient years, and the observed rate of lymphomas is 
approximately 1.3 per 1 000 patient years.
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1 000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 
0.3 per 1 000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4).
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients 
treated with adalimumab (see section 4.4).
23
Autoantibodies
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis 
studies I–V. In these studies, 11.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1 % of placebo and 
active control-treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported positive 
titres at Week 24. Two patients out of 3 441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis studies developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The 
patients improved following discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus nephritis or 
central nervous system symptoms.
Hepato-biliary events
In controlled Phase 3 studies of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic 
arthritis with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 3.7 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6 % of control-treated patients.
In controlled Phase 3 studies of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
who were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations 
≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 6.1 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3 % of control-treated patients. 
Most ALT elevations occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in the Phase 3 study of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
who were 2 to < 4 years.
In controlled Phase 3 studies of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis 
with a control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.9 % of controlled-treated patients.
In the Phase 3 study of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated 
efficacy and safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight 
adjusted induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 
2.6 % (5/192) of patients of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline.
In controlled Phase 3 studies of adalimumab in patients with plaque Psoriasis with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8 % of adalimumab-
treated patients and 1.8 % of control-treated patients.
No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the Phase 3 study of adalimumab in paediatric patients 
with plaque psoriasis.
In controlled studies of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2, followed 
by 40 mg every week starting at Week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control 
period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.3 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 % of control-treated patients.
In controlled studies of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg every 
other week starting at Week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure 
of 166.5 days and 105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT 
elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.4 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4 % of control-treated 
patients.
In the controlled Phase 3 study of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) 
which evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
other week (N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (N=32), 
following body weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and 
Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg 
(maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
(N=30), ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in 1.1 % (1/93) of patients.
24
Across all indications in clinical studies patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most 
cases elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment. However, there have also been 
post- marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver 
failure, such as hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab.
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse 
events were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared 
with adalimumab alone.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9
Overdose
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical studies. The highest dose level evaluated 
has been multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the 
recommended dose.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB04
Hefiya is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
Mechanism of action
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including 
changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, 
and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 0.1–0.2 nM).
Pharmacodynamic effects
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab 
usually experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation.
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with 
adalimumab. In patients with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing 
inflammatory markers in the colon including a significant reduction of expression of TNF-α was seen. 
25
Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab-
treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety
Rheumatoid arthritis
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3 000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies. The 
efficacy and safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-
controlled studies. Some patients were treated for up to 120 months duration.
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥ 18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) 
every week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20,
40 or 80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks.
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were
≥ 18 years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs. Doses 
of 20 or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo on 
alternative weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same duration. 
No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed.
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥ 18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have 
been intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study. The first 
received placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab every 
week for 52 weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with placebo 
injections on alternate weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in an open-
label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other week up to 
10 years.
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-
rheumatic drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy 
was stable for a minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 weeks.
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and 
rate of progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the 
first 104 weeks, 497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of 
adalimumab was administered every other week up to 10 years.
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at Week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in 
RA study V was the percent of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at Week 52. RA studies 
III and V had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as 
detected by X-ray results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. 
ACR response
The percentage of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in 
26
Table 8.
Table 8. ACR responses in placebo-controlled studies 
(percent of patients)
response
RA Study Ia**
RA Study IIa**
RA Study IIIa**
placebo/MTXc
n = 60
adalimumabb/M
TXc
n = 63
placebo
n = 110
adalimumabb
n = 113
placebo/MTXc
n = 200
adalimumabb/M
TXc
n = 207
ACR 20
   6 months
13.3 %
65.1 %
19.1 %
46.0 %
29.5 %
63.3 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
24.0 %
58.9 %
ACR 50
   6 months
6.7 %
52.4 %
8.2 %
22.1 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
ACR 70
   6 months
3.3 %
23.8 %
1.8 %
12.4 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
9.5 %
9.5 %
2.5 %
4.5 %
39.1 %
41.5 %
20.8 %
23.2 %
a
b
c
**
RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks
40 mg adalimumab administered every other week
MTX = methotrexate
p < 0.01, adalimumab versus placebo
In RA studies I–IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and 
swollen joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index 
(HAQ) scores and CRP (mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA 
study III, these improvements were maintained throughout 52 weeks.
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained 
response when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. 
Among those, 86 patients (75.4 %) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2 %) had ACR 50 
responses; and 41 patients (36 %) had ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0 %) had ACR 20 
responses; 56 patients (69.1 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 43 patients (53.1 %) had ACR 70 
responses.
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care 
was statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care 
(p < 0.001).
In RA studies I–IV, adalimumab-treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 
responses compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment.
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination 
therapy with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at Week 52 and responses were sustained at 
Week 104 (see Table 9).
27
Table 9. ACR responses in RA study V 
(percent of patients)
response
ACR 20
MTX
n = 257
adalimumab
n = 274
adalimumab/MT
X
n = 268
p-valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
Week 52
62.6 %
54.4 %
72.8 %
0.013
< 0.001
0.043
Week 104
56.0 %
49.3 %
69.4 %
0.002
< 0.001
0.140
ACR 50
Week 52
45.9 %
41.2 %
61.6 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.317
Week 104
42.8 %
36.9 %
59.0 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.162
ACR 70
Week 52
27.2 %
25.9 %
45.5 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.656
Week 104
28.4 %
28.1 %
46.6 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.864
a
b
c
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed 
for up to 10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
170 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 
patients (90.6 %) had ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 
patients (60.0 %) had ACR 70 responses.
At Week 52, 42.9 % of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy 
achieved clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) compared to 20.6 % of patients receiving methotrexate 
monotherapy and 23.4% of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. 
Adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy was clinically and statistically superior to 
methotrexate (p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (p < 0.001) in achieving a low disease 
state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The response for 
the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447). Of 342 subjects originally randomized to 
adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy who entered the 
open-label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of adalimumab treatment. Among 
those, 109 subjects (63.7 %) were reported to be in remission at 10 years.
Radiographic response
In RA study III, where adalimumab-treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
change in modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space 
narrowing score. Adalimumab/methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic 
progression than patients receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 10).
In the open-label extension of RA Study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage 
28
c
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.002
is maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally 
treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 
patients showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS 
of 0.5 or less. At 10 years, 79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other 
week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural 
damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less.
Table 10. Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA study III
placebo/MTX
a adalimumab/MTX
40 mg every other 
week
placebo/MTX- 
adalimumab/MTX 
(95 % confidence 
p-value
total Sharp score
2.7
0.1
b
interval
2.6 (1.4, 3.8)
)
JSN
erosion score
d score
methotrexate
95 % confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2)
0.9 (0.3, 1.4)
1.6
1.0
0.0
0.1
a
b
adalimumab
c
based on rank analysis
d 
Joint Space Narrowing
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified total Sharp Score (see Table 11).
Table 11. Radiographic mean changes at Week 52 in RA study V
MTX n = 257 
(95 % 
confidence 
interval)
adalimumab 
n = 274 (95 % 
confidence 
interval)
adalimumab/M
TX n=268 (95%
confidence 
interval)
p-valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
3.0 (1.7–4.3)
5.7 (4.2–7.3)
total Sharp
score
erosion score
JSN score
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.
0.8 (0.4–1.2)
0.5 (0–1.0)
3.7 (2.7–4.7)
2.0 (1.2–2.8)
1.7 (1.0–2.4)
1.3 (0.5–2.1)
< 0.001
< 0.001
1.3 (0.5–2.1)
< 0.001
a
0.0020
0.0082
0.0037
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.151
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
c
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression 
(change from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score ≤ 0.5) was significantly higher with 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy (63.8 % and 61.2 % respectively) compared to 
methotrexate monotherapy (37.4 % and 33.5 % respectively, p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy 
(50.7 %, p < 0.002 and 44.5 %, p < 0.001 respectively).
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified 
Total Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate 
monotherapy, adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, 
29
respectively. The corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 
31.3 %, 23.7 % and 36.7 % respectively.
Quality of life and physical function
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled studies, 
which was a pre-specified primary endpoint at Week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability 
index of the HAQ from baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was 
seen at Week 52. Results from the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies support these findings, with statistically significant physical component 
summary (PCS) scores, as well as statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 40 mg 
every other week dose. A statistically significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional 
assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) scores was seen in all three studies in which it was 
assessed (RA studies I, III, IV).
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued 
treatment maintained improvement through Week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. 
Improvement in quality of life was measured up to Week 156 (36 months) and improvement was 
maintained through that time.
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p < 0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at Week 52, which was maintained through 
Week 104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in 
physical function were maintained through 10 years of treatment.
Axial spondyloarthritis
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)
Adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 393 patients in two randomised, 24 week 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (mean baseline 
score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] was 6.3 in 
all groups) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Seventy-nine (20.1 %) 
patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and 37 (9.4 %) 
patients with glucocorticoids. The blinded period was followed by an open-label period during which 
patients received adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 
28 weeks. Subjects (n = 215, 54.7 %) who failed to achieve ASAS 20 at Weeks 12, or 16 or 20 
received early escape open-label adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously and were 
subsequently treated as non-responders in the double-blind statistical analyses.
In the larger AS study I with 315 patients, results showed statistically significant improvement of the 
signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis in patients treated with adalimumab compared to 
placebo. Significant response was first observed at Week 2 and maintained through 24 weeks 
(Table 12).
30
Table 12. Efficacy responses in placebo-controlled AS study – study I 
reduction of signs and symptoms
response
ASASa 20
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
ASAS 50
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
ASAS 70
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
BASDAIb 50
placebo
N=107
adalimumab
N=208
16 %
21 %
19 %
3 %
10 %
11 %
0 %
5 %
8 %
42 %***
58 %***
51 %***
16 %***
38 %***
35 %***
7 %**
23 %***
24 %***
20 %***
Week 2
45 %***
Week 12
42 %***
Week 24
statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01 for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo at Weeks 2, 12 and 24
4 %
16 %
15 %
assessments in ankylosing spondylitis 
Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index
***,**
a
b
Adalimumab-treated patients had significantly greater improvement at Week 12 which was maintained 
through Week 24 in both the SF36 and Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(ASQoL).
Similar trends (not all statistically significant) were seen in the smaller randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled AS study II of 82 adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis.
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in two randomized, double-blind placebo-
controlled studies in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA). Study nr-
axSpA I evaluated patients with active nr-axSpA. Study nr-axSpA II was a treatment withdrawal 
study in active nr-axSpA patients who achieved remission during open-label treatment with 
adalimumab.
Study nr-axSpA I
In study nr-axSpA I, adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 185 patients in a 
randomised, 12 week double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with active nr-axSpA (mean 
baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] 
was 6.4 for patients treated with adalimumab and 6.5 for those on placebo) who have had an 
inadequate response to or intolerance to ≥ 1 NSAIDs, or a contraindication for NSAIDs.
Thirty-three (18 %) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, 
and 146 (79 %) patients with NSAIDs at baseline. The double-blind period was followed by an open-
label period during which patients receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up 
31
to an additional 144 weeks. Week 12 results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs 
and symptoms of active nr-axSpA in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo 
(Table 13).
Table 13. Efficacy response in placebo-controlled study nr-axSpA I
double-blind
response at Week 12
ASASa 40
ASAS 20
ASAS 5/6
ASAS partial remission
BASDAIb 50
ASDASc,d,e
ASDAS inactive disease
hs-CRPd,f,g
SPARCCh MRI sacroiliac jointsd,i
SPARCC MRI spined,j
placebo
N=94
adalimumab
N=91
15 %
31 %
6 %
5 %
15 %
-0.3
4 %
-0.3
-0.6
-0.2
36 %***
52 %**
31 %***
16 %*
35 %**
-1.0***
24 %***
-4.7***
-3.2**
-1.8**
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
***,**,*
assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society
Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index
ankylosing spondylitis disease activity score 
mean change from baseline
n=91 placebo and n=87 adalimumab
high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (mg/L)
n=73 placebo and n=70 adalimumab
Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada
n=84 placebo and adalimumab
n=82 placebo and n=85 adalimumab
statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01, and < 0.05, respectively, for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo.
In the open-label extension, improvement in the signs and symptoms was maintained with adalimumab 
therapy through Week 156.
Inhibition of inflammation
Significant improvement of signs of inflammation as measured by hs-CRP and MRI of both Sacroiliac 
Joints and the Spine was maintained in adalimumab-treated patients through Week 156 and Week 104, 
respectively.
Quality of life and physical function
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the HAQ-S and the SF-36 
questionnaires. Adalimumab showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the HAQ-S 
total score and the SF-36 Physical Component Score (PCS) from baseline to Week 12 compared to 
placebo. Improvement in health-related quality of life and physical function was maintained during 
the open- label extension through Week 156.
Study nr-axSpA II
673 patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline disease activity [BASDAI] was 7.0) who had an 
inadequate response to  2 NSAIDs, or an intolerance to or a contraindication for NSAIDs enrolled 
into the open-label period of Study nr-axSpA II during which they received adalimumab 40 mg eow 
for 28 weeks. These patients also had objective evidence of inflammation in the sacroiliac joints or 
32
spine on MRI or elevated hs-CRP. Patients who achieved sustained remission for at least 12 weeks 
(N=305) (ASDAS < 1.3 at Weeks 16, 20, 24, and 28) during the open-label period were then 
randomized to receive either continued treatment with adalimumab 40 mg eow (N=152) or placebo 
(N=153) for an additional 40 weeks in a double-blind, placebo-controlled period (total study duration 
68 weeks). Subjects who flared during the double-blind period were allowed adalimumab 40 mg eow 
rescue therapy for at least 12 weeks.
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with no flare by Week 68 of the study. 
Flare was defined as ASDAS ≥ 2.1 at two consecutive visits four weeks apart. A greater proportion 
of patients on adalimumab had no disease flare during the double-blind period, when compared with 
those on placebo (70.4% vs. 47.1%, p<0.001) (Figure 1).
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curves summarizing time to flare in study nr-axSpA II
E
R
A
L
F
O
N
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
                                                                            TIME (WEEKS)
                                  Treatment       
 Placebo       
 Adalimumab       ∆ Censored
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk (flared)); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk (flared)).
Among the 68 patients who flared in the group allocated to treatment withdrawal, 65 completed 
12 weeks of rescue therapy with adalimumab, out of which 37 (56.9%) had regained remission 
(ASDAS < 1.3) after 12 weeks of restarting the open-label treatment. 
By Week 68, patients receiving continuous adalimumab treatment showed statistically significant 
greater improvement of the signs and symptoms of active nr-axSpA as compared to patients allocated 
to treatment withdrawal during the double-blind period of the study (Table 14).
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Efficacy response in placebo-controlled period for study nr-axSpA II
double-blind
response at Week 68
ASASa,b 20
ASASa,b 40
ASASa partial remission
ASDASc inactive disease
partial flared
placebo
adalimumab
N=153
47.1 %
45.8 %
26.8 %
33.3 %
64.1 %
N=152
70.4 %***
65.8 %***
42.1 %**
57.2 %***
40.8 %***
a
b
c
d
assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society
baseline is defined as open label baseline when patients have active disease.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score
partial flare is defined as ASDAS ≥ 1.3 but < 2.1 at 2 consecutive visits.
***, ** statistically significant at p < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo.
Psoriatic arthritis
Adalimumab, 40 mg every other week, was studied in patients with moderately to severely active 
psoriatic arthritis in two placebo-controlled studies, PsA studies I and II. PsA study I with 24 week 
duration, treated 313 adult patients who had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drug therapy and of these, approximately 50 % were taking methotrexate. PsA study 
II with 12-week duration, treated 100 patients who had an inadequate response to DMARD therapy. 
Upon completion of both studies, 383 patients enrolled in an open-label extension study, in which 
40 mg adalimumab was administered every other week (eow).
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of adalimumab in patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis-like psoriatic arthropathy due to the small number of patients studied.
Table 15. ACR response in placebo-controlled psoriatic arthritis studies
 (percent of patients)
response
ACR 20
Week 12
Week 24
ACR 50
Week 12
Week 24
ACR 70
Week 12
Week 24
PsA study I
PsA study II
placebo
N=162
adalimumab
N=151
placebo
N=49
adalimumab
N=51
14 %
15 %
4 %
6 %
1 %
1 %
58 %***
57 %***
36 %***
39 %***
20 %***
23 %***
16 % 
N/A
2 % 
N/A
0 % 
N/A
39 %*
N/A
25 %***
N/A
14 % *
N/A
*** p < 0.001 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
*
p < 0.05 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo
not applicable
N/A
34
ACR responses in PsA study I were similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. 
ACR responses were maintained in the open-label extension study for up to 136 weeks.
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis studies. Radiographs of hands, wrists, 
and feet were obtained at baseline and Week 24 during the double-blind period when patients were on 
adalimumab or placebo and at Week 48 when all patients were on open-label adalimumab. A 
modified Total Sharp Score (mTSS), which included distal interphalangeal joints (i.e. not identical to 
the TSS used for rheumatoid arthritis), was used.
Adalimumab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage compared with 
placebo treatment as measured by change from baseline in mTSS (mean ± SD) 0.8 ± 2.5 in the 
placebo group (at Week 24) compared with 0.0 ± 1.9; (p < 0.001) in the adalimumab group (at Week 
48).
In subjects treated with adalimumab with no radiographic progression from baseline to Week 48 
(n=102), 84 % continued to show no radiographic progression through 144 weeks of treatment.
Adalimumab-treated patients demonstrated statistically significant improvement in physical function 
as assessed by HAQ and Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) compared to placebo at Week 24. 
Improved physical function continued during the open label extension up to Week 136.
Psoriasis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis 
(≥ 10 % BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥ 12 or ≥ 10) who were 
candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73 % of patients 
enrolled in Psoriasis Studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy. The safety 
and efficacy of adalimumab were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque 
psoriasis with concomitant hand and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a 
randomised double-blind study (Psoriasis Study III).
Psoriasis Study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1 212 patients within three treatment periods. In period A, 
patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least 
a PASI 75 response (PASI score improvement of at least 75 % relative to baseline), entered period B 
and received open-label 40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained ≥PASI 75 
response at Week 33 and were originally randomised to active therapy in period A, were re-
randomised in period C to receive 40 mg adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 
19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from “moderate” (53 % of subjects included) to 
“severe” (41 %) to “very severe” (6 %).
Psoriasis Study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus 
methotrexate and placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg 
and thereafter dose increases up to Week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 
80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 
16 weeks. There are no data available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. 
Patients receiving MTX who achieved a ≥PASI 50 response at Week 8 and/or 12 did not receive 
further dose increases. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the 
baseline PGA score ranged from “mild” (< 1 %) to “moderate” (48 %) to “severe” (46 %) to “very 
severe” (6 %).
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open- 
label extension study, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks.
In Psoriasis Studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a 
PASI 75 response from baseline at Week 16 (see Tables 16 and 17).
35
Table 16. Ps study I (REVEAL) – efficacy results at 16 weeks
placebo N = 398 
n (%)
adalimumab 40 mg eow
N = 814 n (%)
PASI 75a
PASI 100
PGA: clear / minimal
26 (6.5)
3 (0.8)
17 (4.3)
percent of patients achieving PASI75 response was calculated as centre-
578 (70.9)b
163 (20.0)b
506 (62.2)b
a
adjusted rate
b
p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo
Table 17. Ps study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks
placebo
N = 53 n (%)
MTX N = 110 
n (%)
adalimumab 40 mg eow
N=108 n (%)
PASI 75
PASI 100
PGA: 
10 (18.9)
1 (1.9)
6 (11.3)
39 (35.5)
8 (7.3)
33 (30.0)
86 (79.6) a, b
18 (16.7) c, d
79 (73.1) a, b
clear/minimal
a
b
c
d
p<0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo
p<0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate
p<0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo
p<0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate
In Psoriasis Study I, 28 % of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to 
placebo at Week 33 compared to 5 % continuing on adalimumab, p < 0.001, experienced “loss of 
adequate response” (PASI score after Week 33 and on or before Week 52 that resulted in a < PASI 
50 response relative to baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to Week 
33). Of the patients who lost adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled 
into the open-label extension study, 38 % (25/66) and 55 % (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 
12 and 24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively.
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at Week 16 and Week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy 
for 52 weeks in Psoriasis Study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension study. PASI 
75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7 % and 59.0 %, respectively, 
after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all 
patients who dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, 
were considered non-responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients 
were 69.6 % and 55.7 %, respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 
160 weeks).
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open- 
label extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a 
median time to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of 
these patients experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5 % (218/285) of 
patients who entered the retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 
weeks of retreatment, irrespective of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1 % [123/178] and 
88.8 % [95/107] for patients who relapsed and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, 
respectively). A similar safety profile was observed during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at Week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (Studies I and II) and MTX 
(Study II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In Study I, 
improvements in the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also 
36
significant compared to placebo.
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 %, 26.4 % (92/349) and 37.8 % (132/349) of patients 
achieved PASI 75 response at Week 12 and 24, respectively.
Psoriasis Study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 
72 patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients 
received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week 
after the initial dose) or placebo for 16 weeks. At Week 16, a statistically significantly greater 
proportion of patients who received adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the 
hands and/or feet compared to patients who received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3 %, respectively 
[P = 0.014]).
Psoriasis Study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients 
with moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab 
followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks 
followed by open-label adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments 
included the Modified Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of 
Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 18). 
Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin 
involvement (BSA ≥ 10 % (60 % of patients) and BSA < 10 % and ≥ 5 % (40 % of patients)).
Table 18. Ps study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks
endpoint
Week 16
placebo-controlled
Week 26
placebo-controlled
Week 52
open-label
placebo
N = 108
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 109
placebo
N = 108
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 109
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 80
2.9
2.9
26.0a
29.7a
3.4
6.9
46.6a
48.9a
65.0
61.3
-7.8
-44.2a
-11.5
-56.2a
-72.2
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%)
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥ 2-grade 
improvement (%)
percent change in total 
fingernail NAPSI (%)
a
p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo
Adalimumab-treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at Week 26 compared 
with placebo in the DLQI.
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 
3-month study of systemic antibiotic therapy. The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or 
III disease with at least 3 abscesses or inflammatory nodules.
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods. In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 2, and 40 mg 
every week starting at Week 4 to Week 11. Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the 
study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in period A were re-
randomised in period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 
37
40 mg every other week, or placebo from Week 12 to Week 35). Patients who had been randomised to 
placebo in period A were assigned to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week in period B.
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods. In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 and 
40 mg every week starting at Week 4 to Week 11. 19.3 % of patients had continued baseline oral 
antibiotic therapy during the study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab 
in period A were re-randomised in period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every 
week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from Week 12 to Week 35). Patients who had 
been randomised to placebo in period A were assigned to receive placebo in period B.
Patients participating in Studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension 
study in which adalimumab 40 mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab 
population was 762 days. Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily.
Clinical response
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas 
was assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50 % reduction in 
total abscess and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in 
draining fistula count relative to Baseline). Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a 
Numeric Rating Scale in patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater 
on a 11 point scale.
At Week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo 
achieved HiSCR. At Week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in Study HS-II 
experienced a clinically relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 19). Patients treated 
with adalimumab had significantly reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of 
treatment.
Table 19. Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS studies I and II
HS study I
HS study II
placebo
adalimumab 
40 mg
weekly
placebo
adalimumab 
40 mg
weekly
hidradenitis suppurativa
clinical response (HiSCR)a
N = 154
40 (26.0 %)
N = 153
64 (41.8 %)*
N = 163
45 (27.6 %)
N = 163
96 (58.9 %)***
≥30% reduction in skin
painb
N = 109
27 (24.8 %)
N = 122
34 (27.9 %)
N = 111
23 (20.7 %)
N = 105
48 (45.7 %)***
*
***
a
b
p < 0.05, 
p < 0.001, adalimumab versus placebo
among all randomised patients.
among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating Scale 0–
10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine.
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of 
abscesses and draining fistulas. Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in 
the first 12 weeks of Studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group 
experienced worsening of abscesses (23.0 % vs 11.4 %, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0 % vs 
13.9 %, respectively).
38
Greater improvements at Week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin-
specific health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; 
Studies HS-I and HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medicinal product treatment as measured 
by the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire – medicinal product (TSQM; Studies HS-I and HS-
II),  and  physical  health  as  measured  by  the  physical  component  summary  score  of  the  SF-36 
(Study HS-I).
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at Week 12, the HiSCR 
rate at Week 36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in 
whom dosing frequency was reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn 
(see Table 20).
Table 20. Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at Weeks 24 and 36 
after treatment reassignment from weekly adalimumab at Week 12
placebo 
(treatment 
withdrawal) 
N = 73
adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N = 70
adalimumab 
40 mg weekly
N = 70
Week 24
Week 36
24 (32.9 %)
22 (30.1 %)
36 (51.4 %)
28 (40.0 %)
40 (57.1 %)
39 (55.7 %)
a
patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after
12 weeks of treatment.
b patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no 
improvement were required to discontinue from the studies and were counted as 
non-responders.
Among patients who were at least partial responders at Week 12, and who received continuous weekly 
adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at Week 48 was 68.3 % and at Week 96 was 65.1 %. Longer 
term treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at Week 12 in Studies HS-I and HS-II, 
the HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar 
to that observed before withdrawal (56.0 %).
Crohn’s disease
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1 500 patients with moderately to 
severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥ 220 and ≤ 450) in 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, 
corticosteroids, and/or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80 % of patients continued to 
receive at least one of these medicinal products.
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI < 150) was evaluated in two studies, CD Study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD Study II (GAIN). In CD Study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were 
randomised to one of four treatment groups; placebo at Weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 
and 80 mg at Week 2, 80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2, and 40 mg at Week 0 and 20 mg at 
Week 2. In CD Study II, 325 patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were 
randomised to receive either 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 or placebo at Weeks 
0 and 2. The primary non-responders were excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were 
not further evaluated.
39
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM). In CD study III, 854 
patients received open-label 80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2. At Week 4 patients were 
randomised to 40 mg every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 
56 weeks. Patients in clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥ 70) at Week 4 were stratified and 
analysed separately from those not in clinical response at Week 4. Corticosteroid taper was permitted 
after Week 8.
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 21.
Table 21. Induction of clinical remission and response 
(percent of patients)
CD study I: infliximab-naïve
patients
placebo
N = 74
adalimumab
80/40 mg
N = 75
adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N = 76
CD study II: infliximab-
experienced patients
placebo
N=166
adalimumab
160 / 80 mg
N = 159
Week 4
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-
100)
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo
*
36 %*
49 %**
12 %
24 %
24 %
37 %
7 %
25 %
**
p < 0.001
p < 0.01
21 %*
38 %**
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by Week 
8 and adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group.
In CD study III, at Week 4, 58 % (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in 
the primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at Week 4, 48 % had been previously exposed to 
other TNF-antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 22. 
Clinical remission results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist 
exposure. Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with 
adalimumab compared with placebo at Week 56.
40
Table 22. Maintenance of clinical remission and response
(percent of patients)
placebo
40 mg adalimumab 
every other week
40 mg adalimumab 
every week
Week 26
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-100)
patients in steroid-free remission 
for > = 90 daysa
Week 56
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-100)
patients in steroid-free remission 
for > = 90 daysa
N = 170
17 %
27 %
3 % (2/66)
N = 170
12 %
17 %
5 % (3/66)
N = 172
40 %*
52 %*
19 % (11/58)**
N = 172
36 %*
41 %*
29 % (17/58)*
N = 157
47 %*
52 %*
15 % (11/74)**
N = 157
41 %*
48 %*
20 % (15/74)**
* p < 0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions
**
p < 0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions
of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline
a
Among patients who were not in response at Week 4, 43 % of adalimumab maintenance patients 
responded by Week 12 compared to 30 % of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that 
some patients who have not responded by Week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through Week 12. Therapy continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses 
(see section 4.2).
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed 
through at least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy. 88 and 189 patients, respectively, 
continued to be in clinical remission. Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 233 
patients, respectively.
Quality of life
In CD study I and CD study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific 
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at Week 4 in patients 
randomised to adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at Weeks 
26 and 56 in CD study III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the 
placebo group.
Ulcerative colitis
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 
3) in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies.
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at 
Weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 followed by 80 mg at Week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at 
Week 0 followed by 40 mg at Week 2. After Week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 
40 mg eow. Clinical remission (defined as Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1) was assessed at Week 
8.
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 2 and 40 mg 
41
eow thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for induction of 
remission at Week 8 and for maintenance of remission at Week 52.
Patients induced with 160/80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at Week 
8 in statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18 % vs. 9 % respectively, 
p = 0.031) and study UC-II (17 % vs. 9 % respectively, p = 0.019). In study UC-II, among those 
treated with adalimumab who were in remission at Week 8, 21/41 (51 %) were in remission at 
Week 52.
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in Table 23.
Table 23. Response, remission and mucosal healing in study UC-II 
(percent of patients) 
Week 52
clinical response
clinical remission
mucosal healing
steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 daysa
placebo
N = 246
18 %
9 %
15 %
6 %
(N = 140)
adalimumab 40 mg
eow
N = 248
30 %*
17 %*
25 %*
13 %*
(N = 150)
Week 8 and 52
sustained response
sustained remission
sustained mucosal healing
clinical remission is Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1;
clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30 % plus a decrease in the 
rectal bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥ 1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1;
*
24 %**
8 %*
19 %*
12 %
4 %
11 %
**
a
p < 0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions
p < 0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions
of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline
 Placebo
Of those patients who had a response at Week 8, 47 % were in response, 29 % were in remission, 
41 % had mucosal healing, and 20 % were in steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 days at Week 52.
Approximately 40 % of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. 
The efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve 
patients. Among patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, Week 52 remission was achieved 
by 3 % on placebo and 10 % on adalimumab.
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term
extension study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75 % (301/402) continued to be 
in clinical remission per partial Mayo score.
Hospitalisation rates
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The 
number of all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 
0.26 per patient year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related 
hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient year vs. 0.22 per patient year.
Quality of life
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) score.
42
Uveitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two 
randomised, double-masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or 
adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after 
the initial dose. Concomitant stable doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted.
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral 
prednisone at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of 
prednisone 60 mg/day at study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete 
corticosteroid discontinuation by Week 15.
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment 
(oral prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently underwent 
a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by Week 19.
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ‘time to treatment failure’. Treatment failure was 
defined by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory 
retinal vascular lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best corrected 
visual acuity (BCVA).
Patients who completed studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue 
on study medicinal product beyond Week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical response
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment 
failure in patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (see Table 24). Both 
studies demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus 
placebo (see Figure 2).
Table 24. Time to treatment failure in studies UV I and UV II
analysis
treatment
N
failure
N (%)
median time to
failure (months)
HRa
CI 95 % p Value b
for HRa
time to treatment failure at or after Week 6 in study UV I
primary analysis (ITT)
placebo
adalimumab
107
110
84 (78.5)
60 (54.5)
3.0
5.6
--
0.50
--
0.36, 0.70
--
< 0.001
time to treatment failure at or after Week 2 in study UV II 
primary analysis (ITT)
111
115
8.3
NEc
61 (55.0)
45 (39.1)
placebo
adalimumab
--
0.004
Note: treatment failure at or after Week 6 (study UV I), or at or after Week 2 (study UV II), was 
counted as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of 
dropping out.
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor.
b 2-sided p value from log rank test.
c
NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event.
--
0.39, 0.84
--
0.57
43
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure on or after Week 6 
(study UV I) or Week 2 (study UV II)
urves 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of
Events/Number at Risk).
In Study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were 
observed for each component of treatment failure. In Study UV II, statistically significant differences 
were observed for visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of 
adalimumab.
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of studies UV I and UV II, 
60 subjects were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy, due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary 
analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74 %) reached 78 weeks of 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3 %) were in 
quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC cell grade ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a 
concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2 %) were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA 
was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 88.6 % of the eyes at Week 78. Data 
beyond Week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the number of enrolled subjects 
declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 18 % discontinued due 
44
to adverse events, and 8 % due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment.
Quality of Life
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical 
studies, using the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores 
with statistically significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental 
health, and total score in study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in study UV II. Vision 
related effects were not numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in study UV I and for 
colour vision, peripheral vision and near vision in study UV II. 
Immunogenicity
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment.
Formation of anti-adalimumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy 
of adalimumab. There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies 
and the occurrence of adverse events.
Paediatric population
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA)
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with 
active polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA 
onset types (most frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended 
oligoarthritis).
pJIA I
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
parallel-group study in 171 children (4–17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in 
phase (OL LI) patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX-
treated. Patients who were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from 
MTX at least two weeks prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of 
NSAIDs and or prednisone (≤ 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg/day maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients 
received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg adalimumab every other week for 16 weeks. The 
distribution of patients by age and minimum, median and maximum dose received during the OL LI 
phase is presented in Table 25.
Table 25. Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI 
phase
age group
number of patients at baseline n (%) Minimum, median and maximum 
4 to 7 years
8 to 12 years
13 to 17 years
31 (18.1)
71 (41.5)
69 (40.4)
dose
10, 20 and 25 mg
20, 25 and 40 mg
25, 40 and 40 mg
Patients demonstrating a paediatric ACR 30 response at Week 16 were eligible to be randomised into 
the double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or 
placebo every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were 
defined as a worsening of ≥ 30 % from baseline in ≥ 3 of 6 paediatric ACR core criteria, ≥ 2 active 
joints, and improvement of > 30 % in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease 
flare, patients were eligible to enrol into the open label extension phase.
45
stratum
phase
OL-LI 16 weeks
ped ACR 30 
response (n/N)
Table 26. Ped ACR 30 responses in the JIA study
MTX
without MTX
94.1 % (80/85)
74.4% (64/86)
efficacy outcomes
double blind 32 weeks
adalimumab/M
TX (N =38)
placebo/MTX 
(N = 37)
adalimumab
(N = 30)
placebo
(N = 28)
36.8 % (14/38)
64.9 % (24/37)b
disease flares at 
the end of 32 
weeksa (n/N)
median time to 
disease flare
ped ACR 30/50/70 responses Week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo-treated patients
p = 0.015
p = 0.031
71.4 % (20/28)c
43.3 % (13/30)
>32 weeks
>32 weeks
14 weeks
20 weeks
a
b
c
Amongst those who responded at Week 16 (n = 144), the paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout the 
study. Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age 
group 13 to 17 years were treated 6 years or longer.
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with 
the combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, Hefiya is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as monotherapy 
in patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2).
pJIA II
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children 
(2–< 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg) with moderately to severely active polyarticular 
JIA. The patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
20 mg every other week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During the study, most 
subjects used concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or NSAIDs.
At Week 12 and Week 24, PedACR30 response was 93.5 % and 90.0 %, respectively, using the 
observed data approach. The proportions of subjects with PedACR50/70/90 at Week 12 and Week 24 
were 90.3 %/61.3 %/38.7 % and 83.3 %/73.3 %/36.7 %, respectively. Amongst those who responded 
(paediatric ACR 30) at Week 24 (n = 27 out of 30 patients), the paediatric ACR 30 responses were 
maintained for up to 60 weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this 
time period. Overall, 20 subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer.
Enthesitis-related arthritis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study in 
46 paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were 
randomised to receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-label 
46
(OL) period during which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg 
every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was the 
percent change from Baseline to Week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not 
due to deformity or joints with loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with 
mean percent decrease of -62.6 % (median percent change -88.9 %) in patients in the adalimumab 
group compared to -11.6 % (median percent change -50.0 %) in patients in the placebo group. 
Improvement in number of active joints with arthritis was maintained during the OL period through 
Week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84 %) patients in the adalimumab group who remained in the study. 
Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients demonstrated clinical improvement in 
secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint 
count (SJC), paediatric ACR 50 response, and paediatric ACR 70 response.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 114 
paediatric patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a PGA ≥ 4 
or > 20 % BSA involvement or > 10 % BSA involvement with very thick lesions or PASI ≥ 20 or ≥ 10 
with clinically relevant facial, genital, or hand/foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled 
with topical therapy and heliotherapy or phototherapy.
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg eow (up to 20 mg), or 
methotrexate 0.1–0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At Week 16, more patients randomised to 
adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those randomised to 
0.4 mg/kg eow or MTX.
Table 27. Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks
PASI 75b
PGA: clear/minimalc
MTXa
N = 37
12 (32.4 %)
15 (40.5 %)
adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow N=38
22 (57.9 %)
23 (60.5 %)
a
b
c
MTX = methotrexate
p = 0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX
p = 0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades). 
Patients were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow for an additional 16 weeks and response 
rates observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period: PASI 75 response 
of 78.9 % (15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6 % (10 of 19 subjects).
In the open label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained 
for up to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings.
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa
There are no clinical studies with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. Efficacy of adalimumab 
for the treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and 
exposure-response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, 
pathophysiology, and drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure 
levels. Safety of the recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on 
cross-indication safety profile of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more 
frequent doses (see section 5.2).
47
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical study designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body 
weight (< 40 kg or ≥ 40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, 
with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn’s Disease Activity Index 
(PCDAI) score > 30. Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid 
and/or an immunomodulator) for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been 
intolerant to infliximab.
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 
160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 for subjects ≥ 40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for 
subjects < 40 kg.
At Week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low
Dose or Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 28.
Table 28. Maintenance regimen
patient
weight
< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
low dose
standard 
dose
10 mg eow 20 mg eow
20 mg eow 40 mg eow
Efficacy results
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at Week 26, defined as PCDAI score ≤ 10.
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points 
from Baseline) rates are presented in Table 29. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators are presented in Table 30.
Table 29. Paediatric CD study
PCDAI clinical remission and response
standard dose
40/20 mg eow
N = 93
low dose
20/10 mg eow
N = 95
p value*
Week 26
clinical remission
clinical response
Week 52
clinical remission
clinical response
38.7 %
59.1 %
33.3 %
41.9 %
28.4 %
48.4 %
23.2 %
28.4 %
0.075
0.073
0.100
0.038
*
p-value for standard dose versus low dose comparison.
48
Table 30. Paediatric CD study discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators and fistula remission
standard dose
40/20 mg eow
low dose
20/10 mg eow
p value1
discontinued corticosteroids
N = 33
N = 38
Week 26
Week 52
discontinuation of Immunomodulators2
Week 52
fistula remission3
Week 26
Week 52
1
84.8 %
69.7 %
N = 60
30.0 %
N = 15
46.7 %
40.0 %
65.8 %
60.5 %
N = 57
29.8 %
N = 21
38.1 %
23.8 %
0.066
0.420
0.983
0.608
0.303
p value for standard dose versus low dose comparison.
2
immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after Week 26 
at the investigator's discretion if the subject met the clinical response 
criterion
3 defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive 
post-Baseline visits
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to Week 26 and 52 in Body Mass
Index and height velocity were observed for both treatment groups.
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both 
treatment groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III).
One hundred patients (n = 100) from the Paediatric CD Study continued in an open-label long-term 
extension study. After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0 % (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in 
the study continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0 % (46/50) of patients continued to be in 
clinical response per PCDAI.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, study 
in 93 paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo 
score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who 
had an inadequate response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in 
the study had failed prior anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were 
allowed to taper their corticosteroid therapy after Week 4.
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomized 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at 
Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. Both groups received 0.6 
mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, the 
remaining 16 patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with 
adalimumab at the induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2.
49
At Week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomized equally to receive double-blind 
maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (ew), 
or a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to an 
amendment to the study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS 
were randomized to receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy.
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at 
Week 8), at least 2 points (for patients with PMS of 3 to 4 at Week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients 
with PMS of 5 to 6 at Week 8).
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after Week 12 were randomized to receive a re-induction 
dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and continued to 
receive their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards.
Efficacy results
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at Week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a 
Mayo Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at Week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response 
per PMS at Week 8.
Clinical remission rates per PMS at Week 8 for patients in each of the adalimumab doubleblind
induction groups are presented in Table 31.
Table 31. Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks  
Adalimumaba 
Maximum of 160 mg at Week 
0/Placebo at Week 1  
N=30 
Adalimumab b, c  
Maximum of 160 mg at Week 
0 and Week 1  
N=47 
Clinical remission 
13/30 (43.3%) 
28/47 (59.6%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 
mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and 
Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the 
endpoint  
At Week 52, clinical remission per FMS in Week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as 
a decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in Week 8 responders, mucosal 
healing per FMS (defined as an Mayo endoscopy score ≤ 1) in Week 8 responders, clinical remission 
per FMS in Week 8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS 
in Week 8 responders were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind 
maximum 40 mg eow (0.6 mg/kg) and maximum 40 mg ew (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses 
(Table 32).
50
Table 32. Efficacy results at 52 weeks  
Adalimumaba   
Maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31 
Adalimumabb   
Maximum of 40 mg ew  
N=31 
Clinical remission in Week 
8 PMS responders  
9/31 (29.0%)  
14/31 (45.2%) 
9/21 (42.9%)  
16/31 (51.6%)  
21/31 (67.7%)  
19/31 (61.3%)  
12/31 (38.7%)  
Clinical response in Week 
8 PMS responders  
Mucosal healing in 
Week 8 PMS responders  
Clinical remission in Week 
8 PMS remitters 
Corticosteroid-free 
remission in Week 8 
PMS respondersc  
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week  
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week  
c  In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline  
Note: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomized to receive 
re-induction or maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 
52 endpoints  
10/22 (45.5%)  
5/16 (31.3%)  
4/13 (30.8%)  
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative 
Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and 
clinical remission per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at Week 8 and Week 52 (Table 33).  
Table 33. Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI
Week 8 
Adalimumab a
Maximum of 160 mg at 
Week 0/Placebo at Week 1 
N=30 
10/30 (33.3%)
15/30 (50.0%)
Adalimumab b,c 
Maximum of 160 mg at 
Week 0 and Week 1 
N=47 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
51
 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd
Maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31
14/31 (45.2%) 
Adalimuma e 
Maximum of 40 mg ew 
N=31 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
in Week 8 PMS responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI in 
Week 8 PMS responders 
a  Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
c  Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) 
at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
d  Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e  Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and 
Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the 
endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomized to receive 
reinduction or maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 
endpoints 
Of the adalimumab -treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance period, 
2/6 (33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at Week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver Work 
Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab.  
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in 
Body Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg (0.6 
mg/kg) ew.  
Paediatric uveitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomized, double-masked, controlled 
study of 90 paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated non-infectious 
anterior uveitis who were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment. Patients received 
either placebo or 20 mg adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week 
in combination with their baseline dose of methotrexate.
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with 
development of sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted 
use of concomitant medicinal products, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time.
Clinical response
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (See 
Figure 3, P < 0.0001 from log rank test).The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for 
subjects treated with placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for 
subjects treated with adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment 
52
 
 
 
 
 
failure. Adalimumab significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75% relative to placebo, 
as shown by the hazard ratio (HR = 0.25 [95% CI: 0.12, 0.49]).
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure in the paediatric 
uveitis study
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption and distribution
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab 
was slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The 
average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg 
subcutaneous dose was 64 %. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, 
concentrations were dose proportional. After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 
to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase 
half-life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from several 
rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31–96 % of those in serum.
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 µg/ml 
(without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 µg/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively. 
The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose 
following 20, 40 and 80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week.
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (a maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough 
steady-state (values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 
5.6 ± 5.6 µg/ml (102 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml 
(47.7 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate.
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to < 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg 
53
dosed with adalimumab 24 mg/m2, the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations 
was 6.0 ± 6.1 µg/ml (101 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 
7.9 ± 5.6 µg/ml (71.2 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate.
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (a maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values 
measured at week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab without 
concomitant methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate.
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 µg/ml during 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment.
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (a maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week 
to paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 µg/ml (79 % CV).
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult non-
radiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state concentration at 
Week 68 was 8.0 ± 4.6 µg/ml.
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
80 mg on Week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml 
at Week 2 and Week 4. The mean steady-state trough concentration at Week 12 through Week 36 
were approximately 8 to 10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment.
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). The recommended adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since 
exposure to adalimumab can be affected by body size, adolescents with higher body weight and 
inadequate response may benefit from receiving the recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
40 mg adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 
5.5 µg/ml during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
80 mg adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 
12 µg/ml during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 µg/ml were 
observed in Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every 
other week.
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at Weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg. 
At Week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg eow) or Low Dose 
(20/10 mg eow) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. The mean (± SD) serum 
adalimumab trough concentrations achieved at Week 4 were 15.7±6.6 µg/ml for patients ≥ 40 kg 
(160/80 mg) and 10.6 ± 6.1 µg/ml for patients < 40 kg (80/40 mg).
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (± SD) adalimumab trough 
concentrations at Week 52 were 9.5 ± 5.6 µg/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5 ± 2.2 µg/ml for 
the Low Dose group. The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to 
receive adalimumab treatment eow for 52 weeks. For patients who dose-escalated from eow to weekly 
regimen, the mean (± SD) serum concentrations of adalimumab at Week 52 were 15.3 ± 11.4 μg/ml 
(40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7 ± 3.5 μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly).
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 µg/ml 
during the induction period.  Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 µg/ml were observed 
54
in ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week.
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 
40 mg) every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state 
serum adalimumab concentration was 5.01±3.28 μg/ml at Week 52. For patients who received 0.6 
mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab 
concentration was 15.7±5.60 μg/ml at Week 52.
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
40 mg adalimumab every other week starting at Week 1, resulted in mean steady-state 
concentrations of approximately 8 to 10 µg/ml.
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). No clinical exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. 
The predicted exposures indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an 
initial increase in systemic exposure.
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation 
predicted comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other 
week when compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, 
patients with adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC).
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population
On the basis of clinical study data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response 
relationship was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent 
adalimumab plasma concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 
response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml (95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml).
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients 
with severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, 
respectively. PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab 
concentrations, both with a similar apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/mL (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 
1.9-10.5, respectively).
Elimination
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1 300 RA patients revealed a trend toward 
higher apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight 
differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance. The serum 
levels of free adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be 
lower in patients with measurable AAA.
Hepatic or renal impairment
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity.
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at 0.30 and 100 mg/kg (9–17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of 
harm to the foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment 
55
of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate 
models for an antibody with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of 
neutralising antibodies in rodents.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1
List of excipients
Adipic acid
Citric acid monohydrate
Sodium chloride
Mannitol (E 421)
Polysorbate 80 (E 433)
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E 507)
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) (E 524)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf life
30 months
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the pre-filled syringe/pre-filled pen in the 
outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Hefiya pre-filled syringe/pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 21 days. The pre-filled syringe/pre-filled pen must be protected from light, 
and discarded if not used within the 21-day period.
6.5
Nature and contents of container
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
0.4 ml solution in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a rubber stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and 
a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with an automatic needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap 
(thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger. 
Pack of 2 pre-filled syringes in a blister
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
0.8 ml solution in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a rubber stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and 
a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with an automatic needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap 
(thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger. 
Packs of 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes in a blister
Multipack containing 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes in a blister
56
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
0.8 ml solution in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
29 gauge needle, an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), and a rubber stopper 
(bromobutyl rubber). 
Packs of 1 and 2 pre-filled pens
Multipack containing 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
Full instructions for use are given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for Use". 
7.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
8.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/18/1287/007
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/18/1287/001
EU/1/18/1287/002
EU/1/18/1287/003
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/004
EU/1/18/1287/005
EU/1/18/1287/006
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 July 2018
Date of latest renewal: 15 February 2023
57
10.
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
58
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Each 0.2 ml single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Each 0.4 ml single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Each 0.4 ml single-dose pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
Each 0.8 ml single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg of adalimumab.
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Each 0.8 ml single-dose pre-filled pen contains 80 mg of adalimumab.
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary 
cells.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe
Solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled pen (SensoReady)
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Rheumatoid arthritis
Hefiya in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for:
59
•
•
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate.
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not 
previously treated with methotrexate.
Hefiya can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate.
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Hefiya in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or 
more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Hefiya can be given as monotherapy in 
case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate 
(for the efficacy in monotherapy, see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged 
less than 2 years.
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age 
and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy 
(see section 5.1).
Axial spondyloarthritis
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had 
an inadequate response to conventional therapy.
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, who have had 
an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Psoriatic arthritis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured 
by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to 
improve physical function.
Psoriasis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who are candidates for systemic therapy.
60
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical 
therapy and phototherapies.
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional 
systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
Crohn’s disease
Hefiya is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.
Paediatric Crohn's disease
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and / or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to 
or have contraindications for such therapies.
Ulcerative colitis
Hefiya is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or 
have medical contraindications for such therapies.
Uveitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid-
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate.
Paediatric uveitis
Hefiya is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, 
or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate.
61
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Hefiya treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Hefiya is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to 
consult with an appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Hefiya (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with Hefiya should be given the Patient Reminder Card.
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Hefiya if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary.
During treatment with Hefiya, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised.
Posology
Rheumatoid arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Hefiya.
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or analgesics can be continued 
during treatment with Hefiya. Regarding combination with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
other than methotrexate, see sections 4.4 and 5.1.
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg every 
other week may benefit from an increase in dosage to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Dose interruption
There may be a need for dose interruption, for instance before surgery or if a serious infection occurs.
Available data suggest that re-introduction of adalimumab after discontinuation for 70 days or longer 
resulted in the same magnitudes of clinical response and similar safety profile as before dose 
interruption.
Ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS and psoriatic 
arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period.
Psoriasis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
62
initial dose.
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe and/or pre-filled pen is available for the 
maintenance dose.
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dosage to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of 
continued 40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a 
patient with an inadequate response after the increase in dosage (see section 5.1). If adequate response 
is achieved with 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dosage may subsequently be 
reduced to 40 mg every other week.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The recommended Hefiya dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 
160 mg initially at Day 1 (given as two 80 mg injections or four 40 mg injections in one day or as one 
80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two 
weeks later at Day 15 (given as one 80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections in one day). Two weeks 
later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week (given as one 
80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections in one day). Antibiotics may be continued during treatment 
with Hefiya, if necessary. It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on 
their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with Hefiya.
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Hefiya 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re-
introduced (see section 5.1). 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see 
section 5.1).
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Crohn’s disease
The recommended Hefiya induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg at Week 2. In case there is a need for a more 
rapid response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at Week 0 (given as two 80 mg injections or four 
40 mg injections in one day or as one 80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 80 mg at Week 2 (given as one 80 mg injection or two 40 mg 
injections in one day), can be used with the awareness that the risk for adverse events is higher during 
induction.
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Hefiya and signs and symptoms of disease recur, 
Hefiya may be re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 
8 weeks since the previous dose.
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
63
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Hefiya every week or 80 mg every other week.
Some patients who have not responded by Week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through Week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Ulcerative colitis
The recommended Hefiya induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe ulcerative 
colitis is 160 mg at Week 0 (given as two 80 mg injections or four 40 mg injections in one day or as 
one 80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) and 80 mg at Week 2 
(given as one 80 mg injection or two 40 mg injections in one day). After induction treatment, the 
recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous injection.
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Hefiya every week or 80 mg every other week.
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 2–8 weeks of treatment. 
Hefiya therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this time period.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Uveitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. Hefiya 40 mg solution for 
injection in pre-filled syringe and/or pre-filled pen is available for the maintenance dose. There is 
limited experience in the initiation of treatment with adalimumab alone. Treatment with Hefiya can be 
initiated in combination with corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory 
agents. Concomitant corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two 
weeks after initiating treatment with Hefiya.
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a 
yearly basis (see section 5.1).
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required. 
64
Renal and / or hepatic impairment
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 
2 years of age is based on body weight (table 1). Hefiya is administered every other week via 
subcutaneous injection. 
Table 1. Hefiya dose for patients with 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
10 kg to < 30 kg
20 mg every other week
≥ 30 kg
40 mg every other week
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this 
time period.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is 
based on body weight (table 2). Hefiya is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection.
Table 2. Hefiya dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
15 kg to < 30 kg
20 mg every other week
≥ 30 kg
40 mg every other week
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years.
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in the paediatric population for the indications of ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis.
65
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
The recommended Hefiya dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (table 3). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection.
Table 3. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg every other week starting 
one week after the initial dose
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding 
within this time period.
If re-treatment with adalimumab is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration 
should be followed.
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a 
mean of 13 months.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg)
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. The posology of 
adalimumab in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation 
(see section 5.2).
The recommended Hefiya dose is 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at 
Week 1 via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Hefiya 40 mg every other week, an increase in 
dosage to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered.
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Hefiya if necessary. It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Hefiya.
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period.
Should treatment be interrupted, Hefiya may be re-introduced as appropriate.
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data 
in section 5.1)
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication.
66
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (table 4). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 4. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease
Patient 
weight
< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
Induction dose
•
40 mg at Week 0 and 20 mg at Week 2
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with 
the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher 
with use of the higher induction dose, the following dose may 
be used:
•
•
80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2
80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with 
the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher 
with use of the higher induction dose, the following dose may 
be used:
•
160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2
Maintenance 
dose starting at 
Week 4
20 mg every 
other week
40 mg every 
other week
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dosage. 
•
•
< 40 kg: 20 mg every week
≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by 
Week 12.
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years for this 
indication. 
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is based 
on body weight (Table 5). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection.
67
Table 5. Hefiya Dose for Paediatric Patients with Ulcerative Colitis
Patient Weight
Induction Dose
< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
• 80 mg at Week 0 (given as one 
80 mg injection or two 40 mg 
injections in one day) and
• 40 mg at Week 2 (given as one 
40 mg injection)
• 160 mg at Week 0 (given as 
two 80 mg injections or four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
one 80 mg injection or two 
40 mg injections per day for 
two consecutive days) and
• 80 mg at Week 2 (given as one 
80 mg injection or two 40 mg 
injections in one day)
Maintenance Dose 
Starting at Week 4*
• 40 mg every other week
• 80 mg every other week (given 
as one 80 mg injection or two 
40 mg injections in one day)
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Hefiya should continue their 
prescribed maintenance dose.
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of 
response within this time period.
There is no relevant use of Hefiya in children aged less than 6 years in this indication.
Hefiya may be available in different strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual 
treatment needs.
Paediatric uveitis
The recommended dose of Hefiya for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age 
is based on body weight (table 6). Hefiya is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant 
treatment with methotrexate.
Table 6. Hefiya dose for paediatric patients with uveitis
Patient weight
Dosing regimen
< 30 kg
≥ 30 kg
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate
When Hefiya therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg 
for patients ≥ 30 kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance 
therapy. No clinical data are available on the use of an adalimumab loading dose in 
children < 6 years of age (see section 5.2).
There is no relevant use of Hefiya in children aged less than 2 years in this indication.
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be 
evaluated on a yearly basis (see section 5.1).
68
Hefiya may be available in other strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual treatment 
needs. 
Method of administration
Hefiya is administered by subcutaneous injection. 
Full instructions for use are provided in the package leaflet.  
Adalimumab is available in other strengths and presentations. 
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections 
(see section 4.4).
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III / IV) (see section 4.4).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Infections
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function 
may increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for 
infections, including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Hefiya. Because the 
elimination of adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout 
this period.
Treatment with Hefiya should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
and patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Hefiya 
should be considered prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections).
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Hefiya should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Hefiya should be 
discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or 
antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. Physicians should exercise 
caution when considering the use of Hefiya in patients with a history of recurring infection or with 
underlying conditions which may predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant 
immunosuppressive medications.
Serious infections
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or 
other opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in 
patients receiving adalimumab.
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported.
69
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients 
receiving  adalimumab.  Reports  included  cases  of  pulmonary  and  extra-pulmonary  (i.e. 
disseminated) tuberculosis.
Before initiation of therapy with Hefiya, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection. This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of 
patient history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and 
previous and/or current immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin 
test and chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is 
recommended that the conduct and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients 
who are severely ill or immunocompromised.
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Hefiya therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3).
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully 
considered.
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted.
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
prophylaxis treatment before the initiation of Hefiya, and in accordance with local recommendations.
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of 
Hefiya in patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for 
tuberculosis and in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed.
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in 
patients treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active 
tuberculosis have redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab.
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs / symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis 
infection (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or 
after therapy with Hefiya.
Other opportunistic infections
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients 
receiving adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking 
TNF-antagonists and this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in 
fatal outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, 
cough, dyspnoea, and / or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without 
concomitant shock an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Hefiya 
should be promptly discontinued. Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in 
these patients should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of 
patients with invasive fungal infections.
70
Hepatitis B reactivation
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including 
adalimumab, who are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive). Some cases have 
had a fatal outcome. Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with 
Hefiya. For patients who test positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with 
expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B is recommended.
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Hefiya should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following 
termination of therapy. Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral 
therapy in conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. 
In patients who develop HBV reactivation, Hefiya should be stopped and effective anti-viral 
therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated.
Neurological events
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and / or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating 
disease, including  Guillain-Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering 
the use of Hefiya in patients with pre-existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system 
demyelinating disorders; discontinuation of Hefiya should be considered if any of these disorders 
develop. There is a known association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating 
disorders. Neurologic evaluation should be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate 
uveitis prior to the initiation of Hefiya therapy and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-
existing or developing central demyelinating disorders.
Allergic reactions
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious 
allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of 
serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab 
administration. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of 
Hefiya should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated.
Immunosuppression
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was 
no evidence of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin 
levels, or change in enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte / macrophages, and 
neutrophils.
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control 
patients. However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have 
been reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible 
risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a 
TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded.
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
adalimumab in the post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
71
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually 
associated with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and 
adolescents treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded.
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated 
with adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is 
usually fatal. Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in 
young adult patients on concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for 
inflammatory bowel disease. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-
mercaptopurine and Hefiya should be carefully considered. A risk for the development of 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Hefiya cannot be excluded (see section 4.8).
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom 
treatment with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy. Thus additional 
caution should be exercised in considering Hefiya treatment of these patients (see section 4.8).
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy 
or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non- 
melanoma skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Hefiya. Melanoma and Merkel cell 
carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab 
(see section 4.8).
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients 
with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly 
in the lung or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control 
patients. All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when 
using any TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy 
due to heavy smoking.
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia 
or colon cancer. All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
carcinoma (for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis), or who had a prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation 
should include colonoscopy and biopsies per local recommendations.
Haematologic reactions
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. 
Adverse events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised 
to seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood 
dyscrasias (e.g. persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor) while on Hefiya. Discontinuation of 
Hefiya therapy should be considered in patients with confirmed significant haematologic 
abnormalities.
Vaccinations
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza 
trivalent virus vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis 
who were treated with adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab.
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Hefiya therapy.
Patients on Hefiya may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration of 
72
live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 
5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy.
Congestive heart failure
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased 
mortality due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart 
failure have also been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Hefiya should be used with 
caution in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Hefiya is contraindicated in moderate 
to severe heart failure (see section 4.3). Treatment with Hefiya must be discontinued in patients 
who develop new or worsening symptoms of congestive heart failure.
Autoimmune processes
Treatment with Hefiya may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-
term treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a 
patient develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Hefiya 
and is positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Hefiya should 
not be given (see section 4.8).
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another
TNF-antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of 
the nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar 
toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the 
combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and 
abatacept) or other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions (see 
section 4.5).
Surgery
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The 
long half-life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned. 
A patient who requires surgery while on Hefiya should be closely monitored for infections, and 
appropriate actions should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing 
arthroplasty while receiving adalimumab.
Small bowel obstruction
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic 
stricture that may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not 
worsen or cause strictures.
Elderly
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab-treated subjects over 65 years of age 
(3.7 %) was higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5 %). Some of those had a fatal 
outcome. Particular attention regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the 
elderly.
Paediatric population
See Vaccinations above.
73
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml, per 0.4 ml or per 0.2 
ml dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant 
methotrexate. Antibody formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with 
methotrexate in comparison with use as monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without 
methotrexate resulted in increased formation of antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy 
of adalimumab (see section 5.1).
The combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”).
The combination of adalimumab and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of child bearing potential
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least five months after the last Hefiya treatment.
Pregnancy
A large number (approximately 2100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to 
adalimumab resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1500 exposed during 
the first trimester, does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn.
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) 
treated with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated 
with adalimumab were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth 
defects. The rate of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect 
was 6/69 (8.7 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8 %) in the untreated 
women with RA (unadjusted OR 1.31, 95 % CI 0.38–4.52) and 16/152 (10.5 %) in the adalimumab-
treated women with CD and 3/32 (9.4 %) in the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 
95 % CI 0.31–4.16). The adjusted OR (accounting for baseline differences) was 1.10 (95% CI 0.45–
2.73) with RA and CD combined. There were no distinct differences between adalimumab-treated 
and untreated women for the secondary endpoints spontaneous abortions, minor birth defects, 
preterm delivery, birth size and serious or opportunistic infections and no stillbirths or malignancies 
were reported. The interpretation of data may be impacted due to methodological limitations of the 
study, including small sample size and non-randomized design.
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal 
toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are 
not available (see section 5.3).
Due to its inhibition of TNFα,  adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal 
immune responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly 
needed.
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with 
adalimumab during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. 
74
Administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not 
recommended for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in 
breast milk at very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at 
concentrations of 0.1 % to 1 % of the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G 
proteins undergo intestinal proteolysis and have poor bioavailability. No effects on the 
breastfed newborns / infants are anticipated. Consequently, Hefiya can be used during 
breastfeeding.
Fertility
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Hefiya (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open label trials for up to 
60 months or more. These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long 
standing disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-
related arthritis) as well as axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa and uveitis patients. The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients 
receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving placebo or active comparator during the controlled 
period.
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9 % for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4 % for control-
treated patients.
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain 
or swelling), headache and musculoskeletal pain.
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab 
affect the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defence against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV 
reactivation and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been 
reported with use of adalimumab.
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events 
and reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
Paediatric population
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen 
in adult patients.
75
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience and are displayed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency in table 7 
below: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The highest frequency seen among the various indications has been included. An asterisk (*) 
appears in the SOC column if further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8.
Table 7. Undesirable effects
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Infections and 
infestations*
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and 
upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and 
pneumonia herpes viral)
Systemic infections (including sepsis, 
candidiasis and influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis 
viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including 
paronychia, cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising 
fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral 
herpes and tooth infections),
reproductive tract infections (including 
vulvovaginal mycotic infection),
urinary tract infections (including 
pyelonephritis),
fungal infections, joint infections
Neurological infections (including viral 
meningitis),
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis 
(including coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis 
and mycobacterium avium complex infection), 
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, diverticulitis1)
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps)*
Common
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma)
benign neoplasm
Uncommon
Lymphoma**,
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, 
lung neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm), 
melanoma**
Rare
Leukaemia1)
76
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Not known
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1)
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine 
carcinoma of the skin)1)
Kaposi`s sarcoma
Blood and the 
lymphatic system 
disorders*
Very common
Leucopaenia (including neutropaenia and 
agranulocytosis),
anaemia
Common
Leucocytosis, 
thrombocytopaenia
Uncommon
Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura
Rare
Pancytopaenia
Immune system 
disorders*
Common
Uncommon
Hypersensitivity,
allergies (including seasonal allergy)
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
Rare
Anaphylaxis1)
Very common
Lipids increased
Common
Hypokalaemia,
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphataemia,
dehydration
Psychiatric disorders
Common
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety,
insomnia
Nervous system 
disorders*
Very common
Headache
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Eye disorders
Common
Paraesthesias (including hypoaesthesia), migraine,
nerve root compression
Cerebrovascular accident1), tremor,
neuropathy
Multiple sclerosis,
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome)1)
Visual impairment, conjunctivitis, blepharitis,
eye swelling
77
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders
Uncommon
Diplopia
Common
Vertigo
Uncommon 
Deafness, 
tinnitus
Cardiac disorders*
Common
Tachycardia
Uncommon
Myocardial infarction1),
arrhythmia,
congestive heart failure
Rare
Cardiac arrest
Vascular disorders
Common
Hypertension,
flushing,
haematoma
Uncommon
Aortic aneurysm,
vascular arterial occlusion,
thrombophlebitis
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders*
Common
Asthma,
dyspnoea,
cough
Uncommon
Pulmonary embolism1),
interstitial lung disease,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
pneumonitis, pleural effusion1)
Rare
Pulmonary fibrosis1)
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Very common
Abdominal pain,
nausea and vomiting
Common
Uncommon
GI haemorrhage,
dyspepsia,
gastroesophageal reflux disease,
sicca syndrome
Pancreatitis,
dysphagia,
face oedema
Rare
Intestinal perforation1)
78
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
Hepato-biliary 
disorders*
Very common
Elevated liver enzymes
Uncommon
Rare
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis,
hepatic steatosis,
bilirubin increased
Hepatitis,
reactivation of hepatitis B1),
autoimmune hepatitis1)
Not known
Liver failure1)
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Very common
Rash (including exfoliative rash)
Common
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1),
urticaria,
bruising (including purpura),
dermatitis (including eczema),
onychoclasis,
hyperhidrosis,
alopecia1),
pruritus
Uncommon
Night sweats,
scar
Rare
Erythema multiforme1),
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1),
angioedema1),
cutaneous vasculitis1)
lichenoid skin reaction1)
Musculoskeletal and
connective tissue
disorders
Renal and urinary
disorders
Not known
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1)
Very common
Musculoskeletal pain
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Common
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine
phosphokinase increased)
Rhabdomyolysis,
systemic lupus erythematosus
Lupus-like syndrome1)
Renal impairment,
haematuria
Uncommon
Nocturia
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders
Uncommon
Erectile dysfunction
79
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse Reaction
General disorders and
administration site
conditions*
Very common
Injection site reaction (including injection site
erythema)
Common
Chest pain,
oedema,
pyrexia1)
Uncommon
Inflammation
Investigations*
Common
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including
activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged),
autoantibody test positive (including double
stranded DNA antibody),
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased
Not known
Common
Weight increased2)
Impaired healing
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications
*
**
1)
further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8
including open label extension studies
including spontaneous reporting data
2)
The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across 
adult indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 
months. Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean 
exposures of approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s 
disease and ulcerative colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated 
with the anti-inflammatory effect of adalimumab.
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the 
known safety profile of adalimumab.
Uveitis
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent 
with the known safety profile of adalimumab.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Injection site reactions
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab 
developed injection site reactions (erythema and / or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), 
compared to 7.2 % of patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally 
did not necessitate discontinuation of the medicinal product.
Infections
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in 
the adalimumab-treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated 
patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and 
80
sinusitis. Most patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved.
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab-treated patients and 
0.03 per patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients.
In controlled and open label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections 
(including fatal infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of 
tuberculosis (including miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections 
(e.g. disseminated or extrapulmonary  histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred 
within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent 
disease.
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years 
during adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 
192 paediatric patients with an exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in 
paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease. No malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients 
with an exposure of 80.0 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic 
plaque psoriasis. No malignancies were observed in 93 paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 
patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies 
were observed in 60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during an adalimumab 
trial in paediatric patients with uveitis.
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in 
duration in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, 
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis, malignancies, other than 
lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 
6.8 (4.4, 10.5) per 1,000 patient years among 5,291 adalimumab-treated patients versus a rate of 
6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 patient years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment 
was 4.0 months for adalimumab and 3.8 months for control-treated patients). The rate (95 % 
confidence interval) of non-melanoma skin cancers was 8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient years 
among adalimumab-treated patients and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 patient years among control 
patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell carcinomas occurred at rates (95 % confidence 
interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient years among adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 
4.5) per 1,000 patient years among control patients. The rate (95 % confidence interval) of 
lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient years among adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 
(0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient years among control patients.
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open label extension 
studies with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 26,439 
patient years of therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-melanoma 
skin cancers is approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-melanoma skin 
cancers is approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of lymphomas is 
approximately 1.3 per 1,000 patient years.
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient 
treatment years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are 
approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4).
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients 
treated with adalimumab (see section 4.4).
81
Autoantibodies
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis 
studies I–V. In these trials, 11.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1 % of placebo and 
active control-treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported positive 
titres at Week 24. Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis studies developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The 
patients improved following discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus nephritis or 
central nervous system symptoms.
Hepato-biliary events
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 
3.7 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6 % of control-treated patients.
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
who were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations 
≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 6.1 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3 % of control-treated patients. 
Most ALT elevations occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis who were 2 to < 4 years.
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis 
with a control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.9 % of controlled-treated patients.
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated 
efficacy and safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight 
adjusted induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 
2.6 % (5 / 192) of patients of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline.
In  controlled  Phase  3  trials  of  adalimumab  in  patients  with  plaque  Psoriasis  with  a  control  period 
duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8 % of adalimumab-
treated patients and 1.8 % of control-treated patients.
No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients 
with plaque psoriasis.
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2, followed 
by 40 mg every week starting at Week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control 
period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.3 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 % of control-treated patients.
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting at Week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 
166.5 days and 105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT 
elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.4 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4 % of control-treated 
patients.
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) which
evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week
(N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every Week (N=32), following body
weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg)
at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=30), ALT elevations ≥
3 X ULN occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients.
82
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment. However, there have also been post- 
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, 
such as hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab.
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse 
events were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine / 6-mercaptopurine compared 
with adalimumab alone.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has 
been multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg / kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended 
dose.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB04
Hefiya is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
Mechanism of action
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including 
changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, 
and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 0.1–0.2 nM).
Pharmacodynamic effects
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab 
usually experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation.
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with 
adalimumab. In patients with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing 
inflammatory markers in the colon including a significant reduction of expression of TNF-α was 
seen. Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in 
83
adalimumab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety
Rheumatoid arthritis
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The 
efficacy and safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-
controlled studies. Some patients were treated for up to 120 months duration.
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥ 18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) 
every week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20,
40 or 80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks.
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were
≥ 18 years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs. Doses 
of 20 or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo on 
alternative weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same duration. 
No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed.
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥ 18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have 
been intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study. The first 
received placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab every 
week for 52 weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with placebo 
injections on alternate weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in an open-
label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab / MTX was administered every other week up to 
10 years.
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-
rheumatic drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy 
was stable for a minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine and / or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 weeks.
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week / methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and 
rate of progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the 
first 104 weeks, 497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of 
adalimumab was administered every other week up to 10 years.
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percent of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at Week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percent of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at Week 52. RA studies III and 
V had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by 
X-ray results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. 
ACR response
The percent of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in 
table 8.
84
Table 8. ACR responses in placebo-controlled trials
(percent of patients)
response
RA Study Ia**
RA Study IIa**
RA Study IIIa**
placebo / MTXc
n = 60
adalimumabb / 
MTXc
n = 63
placebo
n = 110
adalimumabb
n = 113
placebo / MTXc
n = 200
adalimumabb / 
MTXc
n = 207
ACR 20
   6 months
13.3 %
65.1 %
19.1 %
46.0 %
29.5 %
63.3 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
24.0 %
58.9 %
ACR 50
   6 months
6.7 %
52.4 %
8.2 %
22.1 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
ACR 70
   6 months
3.3 %
23.8 %
1.8 %
12.4 %
   12 months
NA
NA
NA
NA
9.5 %
9.5 %
2.5 %
4.5 %
39.1 %
41.5 %
20.8 %
23.2 %
a
b
c
**
RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks
40 mg adalimumab administered every other week
MTX = methotrexate
p < 0.01, adalimumab versus placebo
In RA studies I–IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and 
swollen joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index 
(HAQ) scores and CRP (mg / dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA 
study III, these improvements were maintained throughout 52 weeks.
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained 
response when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 
5 years. Among those, 86 patients (75.4 %) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2 %) had ACR 
50 responses; and 41 patients (36 %) had ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued 
on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0 %) had ACR 
20 responses; 56 patients (69.1 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 43 patients (53.1 %) had ACR 70 
responses.
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care 
was statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care 
(p < 0.001).
In RA studies I–IV, adalimumab-treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 
responses compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment.
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, 
combination therapy with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater 
ACR responses than methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at Week 52 and 
responses were sustained at Week 104 (see table 9).
85
Table 9. ACR responses in RA study V 
(percent of patients)
response
ACR 20
MTX
n = 257
adalimumab
n = 274
adalimumab / M
TX
n = 268
p-valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
Week 52
62.6 %
54.4 %
72.8 %
0.013
< 0.001
0.043
Week 104
56.0 %
49.3 %
69.4 %
0.002
< 0.001
0.140
ACR 50
Week 52
45.9 %
41.2 %
61.6 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.317
Week 104
42.8 %
36.9 %
59.0 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.162
ACR 70
Week 52
27.2 %
25.9 %
45.5 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.656
Week 104
28.4 %
28.1 %
46.6 %
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.864
a
b
c
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed 
for up to 10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
170 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 
patients (90.6 %) had ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 
patients (60.0 %) had ACR 70 responses.
At Week 52, 42.9 % of patients who received adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy 
achieved clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) compared to 20.6 % of patients receiving methotrexate 
monotherapy and 23.4% of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. 
Adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy was clinically and statistically superior to 
methotrexate (p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (p < 0.001) in achieving a low disease 
state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The response for 
the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447). 
Of 342 subjects originally randomized to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab / methotrexate 
combination therapy who entered the open-label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years 
of adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 subjects (63.7 %) were reported to be in remission at 
10 years.
Radiographic response
In RA study III, where adalimumab-treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis 
of approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed 
as change in modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint 
space narrowing score. Adalimumab / methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less 
radiographic progression than patients receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see 
86
table 10).
In the open-label extension of RA Study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural 
damage is maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients 
originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. 
Among those, 48 patients showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change from 
baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. At 10 years, 79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed 
no progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less.
Table 10. Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA study III
placebo / MTX
a adalimumab / MTX
40 mg every other 
week
placebo / MTX- 
adalimumab / MTX 
(95 % confidence 
p-value
total Sharp score
2.7
0.1
b
interval
2.6 (1.4, 3.8)
)
c
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.002
JSN
erosion score
d score
methotrexate
95 % confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2)
0.9 (0.3, 1.4)
1.6
1.0
0.0
0.1
a
b
adalimumab
c
based on rank analysis
d 
Joint Space Narrowing
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified total Sharp Score (see table 11).
Table 11. Radiographic mean changes at Week 52 in RA study V
MTX n = 257 
(95 % 
confidence 
interval)
adalimumab 
n = 274 (95 % 
confidence 
interval)
adalimumab / M
TX n=268 (95%
confidence 
interval)
p-valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
3.0 (1.7–4.3)
5.7 (4.2–7.3)
total Sharp
score
erosion score
JSN score
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.
0.8 (0.4–1.2)
0.5 (0–1.0)
3.7 (2.7–4.7)
2.0 (1.2–2.8)
1.7 (1.0–2.4)
1.3 (0.5–2.1)
< 0.001
< 0.001
1.3 (0.5–2.1)
< 0.001
0.0082
0.0037
0.0020
a
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.151
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
c
adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression 
(change from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score ≤ 0.5) was significantly higher with 
adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy (63.8 % and 61.2 % respectively) compared to 
methotrexate monotherapy (37.4 % and 33.5 % respectively, p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy 
87
(50.7 %, p < 0.002 and 44.5 %, p < 0.001 respectively).
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified 
Total Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate 
monotherapy, adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy, 
respectively. The corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 
31.3 %, 23.7 % and 36.7 % respectively.
Quality of life and physical function
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, 
which was a pre-specified primary endpoint at Week 52 in RA study III. All doses / schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability 
index of the HAQ from baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was 
seen at Week 52. Results from the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses / schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies support these findings, with statistically significant physical component 
summary (PCS) scores, as well as statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 40 mg 
every other week dose. A statistically significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional 
assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) scores was seen in all three studies in which it was 
assessed (RA studies I, III, IV).
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued 
treatment maintained improvement through Week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. 
Improvement in quality of life was measured up to Week 156 (36 months) and improvement 
was maintained through that time.
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p < 0.001) for adalimumab / methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at Week 52, which was maintained through 
Week 104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in 
physical function were maintained through 10 years of treatment.
Axial spondyloarthritis
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)
Adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 393 patients in two randomised, 24 week 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (mean baseline 
score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] was 6.3 in 
all groups) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Seventy-nine (20.1 %) 
patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and 37 (9.4 %) 
patients with glucocorticoids. The blinded period was followed by an open-label period during which 
patients received adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 
28 weeks. Subjects (n = 215, 54.7 %) who failed to achieve ASAS 20 at weeks 12, or 16 or 20 
received early escape open-label adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously and were 
subsequently treated as non-responders in the double-blind statistical analyses.
In the larger AS study I with 315 patients, results showed statistically significant improvement of 
the signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis in patients treated with adalimumab compared to 
placebo. Significant response was first observed at Week 2 and maintained through 24 weeks 
(table 12).
88
Table 12. Efficacy responses in placebo-controlled AS study – study I 
reduction of signs and symptoms
response
ASASa 20
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
ASAS 50
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
ASAS 70
Week 2
Week 12
Week 24
BASDAIb 50
placebo
N=107
adalimumab
N=208
16 %
21 %
19 %
3 %
10 %
11 %
0 %
5 %
8 %
42 %***
58 %***
51 %***
16 %***
38 %***
35 %***
7 %**
23 %***
24 %***
20 %***
Week 2
45 %***
Week 12
Week 24
42 %***
statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01 for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo at weeks 2, 12 and 24
4 %
16 %
15 %
***,**
a
b
assessments in ankylosing spondylitis 
Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index
Adalimumab-treated patients had significantly greater improvement at Week 12 which was 
maintained through Week 24 in both the SF36 and Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life 
Questionnaire (ASQoL).
Similar trends (not all statistically significant) were seen in the smaller randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled AS study II of 82 adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis.
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in two randomized, double-blind placebo-
controlled studies in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA). Study nr-
axSpA I evaluated patients with active nr-axSpA. Study nr-axSpA II was a treatment withdrawal 
study in active nr-axSpA patients who achieved remission during open-label treatment with 
adalimumab.
Study nr-axSpA I
In study nr-axSpA I, adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 185 patients in a 
randomised, 12 week double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with active nr-axSpA (mean 
baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] 
was 6.4 for patients treated with adalimumab and 6.5 for those on placebo) who have had an 
inadequate response to or intolerance to ≥ 1 NSAIDs, or a contraindication for NSAIDs.
Thirty-three (18 %) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, 
and 146 (79 %) patients with NSAIDs at baseline. The double-blind period was followed by an open-
label period during which patients receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up 
89
to an additional 144 weeks. Week 12 results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs 
and symptoms of active nr-axSpA in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo 
(table 13).
Table 13. Efficacy response in placebo-controlled study nr-axSpA I
placebo
N=94
adalimumab
N=91
15 %
31 %
6 %
5 %
15 %
-0.3
4 %
-0.3
-0.6
-0.2
36 %***
52 %**
31 %***
16 %*
35 %**
-1.0***
24 %***
-4.7***
-3.2**
-1.8**
double-blind
response at Week 12
ASASa 40
ASAS 20
ASAS 5/6
ASAS partial remission
BASDAIb 50
ASDASc,d,e
ASDAS inactive disease
hs-CRPd,f,g
SPARCCh MRI sacroiliac jointsd,i
SPARCC MRI spined,j
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society
Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index
ankylosing spondylitis disease activity score 
mean change from baseline
n=91 placebo and n=87 adalimumab
high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (mg/L)
n=73 placebo and n=70 adalimumab
Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada
n=84 placebo and adalimumab
n=82 placebo and n=85 adalimumab
***,**,* statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01, and < 0.05, respectively, for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo.
In the open-label extension, improvement in the signs and symptoms was maintained with 
adalimumab therapy through Week 156.
Inhibition of inflammation
Significant improvement of signs of inflammation as measured by hs-CRP and MRI of both 
Sacroiliac Joints and the Spine was maintained in adalimumab-treated patients through Week 
156 and Week 104, respectively.
Quality of life and physical function
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the HAQ-S and the SF-36 
questionnaires. Adalimumab showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the HAQ-S 
total score and the SF-36 Physical Component Score (PCS) from baseline to Week 12 compared to 
placebo. Improvement in health-related quality of life and physical function was maintained during 
the open- label extension through Week 156.
Study nr-axSpA II
673 patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline disease activity [BASDAI] was 7.0) who had an 
inadequate response to  2 NSAIDs, or an intolerance to or a contraindication for NSAIDs enrolled 
into the open-label period of Study nr-axSpA II during which they received adalimumab 40 mg eow 
90
for 28 weeks. These patients also had objective evidence of inflammation in the sacroiliac joints or 
spine on MRI or elevated hs-CRP. Patients who achieved sustained remission for at least 12 weeks 
(N=305) (ASDAS < 1.3 at weeks 16, 20, 24, and 28) during the open-label period were then 
randomized to receive either continued treatment with adalimumab 40 mg eow (N=152) or placebo 
(N=153) for an additional 40 weeks in a double-blind, placebo-controlled period (total study duration 
68 weeks). Subjects who flared during the double-blind period were allowed adalimumab 40 mg eow 
rescue therapy for at least 12 weeks.
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with no flare by Week 68 of the study. 
Flare was defined as ASDAS ≥ 2.1 at two consecutive visits four weeks apart. A greater proportion 
of patients on adalimumab had no disease flare during the double-blind period, when compared with 
those on placebo (70.4% vs. 47.1%, p<0.001) (Figure 1).
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curves summarizing time to flare in study nr-axSpA II
E
R
A
L
F
O
N
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
                                                                            TIME (WEEKS)
                                  Treatment       
 Placebo       
 Adalimumab       ∆ Censored
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk (flared)); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk (flared)).
Among the 68 patients who flared in the group allocated to treatment withdrawal, 65 completed 
12 weeks of rescue therapy with adalimumab, out of which 37 (56.9%) had regained remission 
(ASDAS < 1.3) after 12 weeks of restarting the open-label treatment. 
By Week 68, patients receiving continuous adalimumab treatment showed statistically significant 
greater improvement of the signs and symptoms of active nr-axSpA as compared to patients allocated 
to treatment withdrawal during the double-blind period of the study (table 14).
91
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Efficacy response in placebo-controlled period for study nr-axSpA II
double-blind
response at Week 68
ASASa,b 20
ASASa,b 40
ASASa partial remission
ASDASc inactive disease
partial flared
placebo
adalimumab
N=153
47.1 %
45.8 %
26.8 %
33.3 %
64.1 %
N=152
70.4 %***
65.8 %***
42.1 %**
57.2 %***
40.8 %***
a
b
c
d
assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society
baseline is defined as open label baseline when patients have active disease.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score
partial flare is defined as ASDAS ≥ 1.3 but < 2.1 at 2 consecutive visits.
***, ** statistically significant at p < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo.
Psoriatic arthritis
Adalimumab, 40 mg every other week, was studied in patients with moderately to severely active 
psoriatic arthritis in two placebo-controlled studies, PsA studies I and II. PsA study I with 24 week 
duration, treated 313 adult patients who had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drug therapy and of these, approximately 50 % were taking methotrexate. PsA study 
II with 12-week duration, treated 100 patients who had an inadequate response to DMARD therapy. 
Upon completion of both studies, 383 patients enrolled in an open-label extension study, in which 
40 mg adalimumab was administered every other week (eow).
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of adalimumab in patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis-like psoriatic arthropathy due to the small number of patients studied.
Table 15. ACR response in placebo-controlled psoriatic arthritis studies
 (percent of patients)
response
ACR 20
Week 12
Week 24
ACR 50
Week 12
Week 24
ACR 70
PsA study I
PsA study II
placebo
N=162
adalimumab
N=151
placebo
N=49
adalimumab
N=51
14 %
15 %
4 %
6 %
58 %***
57 %***
36 %***
39 %***
16 % 
N/A
2 % 
N/A
39 %*
N/A
25 %***
N/A
1 %
1 %
Week 12
Week 24
p < 0.001 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
p < 0.05 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo
not applicable
0 % 
N/A
20 %***
23 %***
14 % *
N/A
***
*
N/A
92
ACR responses in PsA study I were similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. 
ACR responses were maintained in the open-label extension study for up to 136 weeks.
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis studies. Radiographs of hands, wrists, 
and feet were obtained at baseline and Week 24 during the double-blind period when patients were on 
adalimumab or placebo and at Week 48 when all patients were on open-label adalimumab. A 
modified Total Sharp Score (mTSS), which included distal interphalangeal joints (i.e. not identical to 
the TSS used for rheumatoid arthritis), was used.
Adalimumab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage compared with 
placebo treatment as measured by change from baseline in mTSS (mean ± SD) 0.8 ± 2.5 in the 
placebo group (at Week 24) compared with 0.0 ± 1.9; (p < 0.001) in the adalimumab group (at Week 
48).
In subjects treated with adalimumab with no radiographic progression from baseline to Week 48 
(n=102), 84 % continued to show no radiographic progression through 144 weeks of treatment.
Adalimumab-treated patients demonstrated statistically significant improvement in physical function 
as assessed by HAQ and Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) compared to placebo at Week 24. 
Improved physical function continued during the open label extension up to Week 136.
Psoriasis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis 
(≥ 10 % BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥ 12 or ≥ 10) who were 
candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73 % of patients 
enrolled in Psoriasis Studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy. The safety 
and efficacy of adalimumab were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic 
plaque psoriasis with concomitant hand and / or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic 
therapy in a randomised double-blind study (Psoriasis Study III).
Psoriasis Study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods. In period A, 
patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at 
least a PASI 75 response (PASI score improvement of at least 75 % relative to baseline), entered 
period B and received open-label 40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained 
≥PASI 75 response at Week 33 and were originally randomised to active therapy in period A, were 
re-randomised in period C to receive 40 mg adalimumab every other week or placebo for an 
additional 19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the 
baseline Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from “moderate” (53 % of subjects 
included) to “severe” (41 %) to “very severe” (6 %).
Psoriasis Study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus 
methotrexate and placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg 
and thereafter dose increases up to Week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 
80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 
16 weeks. There are no data available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. 
Patients receiving MTX who achieved a ≥PASI 50 response at Week 8 and / or 12 did not receive 
further dose increases. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the 
baseline PGA score ranged from “mild” (< 1 %) to “moderate” (48 %) to “severe” (46 %) to “very 
severe” (6 %).
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open- 
label extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks.
In Psoriasis Studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a 
PASI 75 response from baseline at Week 16 (see tables 16 and 17).
93
Table 16. Ps study I (REVEAL) – efficacy results at 16 weeks
placebo N = 398 
n (%)
adalimumab 40 mg eow
N = 814 n (%)
PASI 75a
PASI 100
PGA: clear / minimal
26 (6.5)
3 (0.8)
17 (4.3)
percent of patients achieving PASI75 response was calculated as centre-
578 (70.9)b
163 (20.0)b
506 (62.2)b
a
adjusted rate
b
p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo
Table 17. Ps study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks
placebo
N = 53 n (%)
MTX N = 110 
n (%)
adalimumab 40 mg eow
N=108 n (%)
PASI 75
PASI 100
PGA: 
10 (18.9)
1 (1.9)
6 (11.3)
39 (35.5)
8 (7.3)
33 (30.0)
86 (79.6) a, b
18 (16.7) c, d
79 (73.1) a, b
clear/minimal
a
b
c
d
p<0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo
p<0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate
p<0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo
p<0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate
In Psoriasis Study I, 28 % of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to 
placebo at Week 33 compared to 5 % continuing on adalimumab, p < 0.001, experienced “loss of 
adequate response” (PASI score after Week 33 and on or before Week 52 that resulted in a < PASI 
50 response relative to baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to Week 
33). Of the patients who lost adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled 
into the open-label extension trial, 38 % (25 / 66) and 55 % (36 / 66) regained PASI 75 response 
after 12 and 24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively.
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at Week 16 and Week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy 
for 52 weeks in Psoriasis Study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial. PASI 75 
and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7 % and 59.0 %, respectively, 
after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all 
patients who dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, 
were considered non-responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients 
were 69.6 % and 55.7 %, respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 
160 weeks).
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open- 
label extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with 
a median time to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of 
these patients experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5 % (218 / 285) of 
patients who entered the retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 
weeks of retreatment, irrespective of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1 % [123 / 178] 
and 88.8 % [95 / 107] for patients who relapsed and who did not relapse during the withdrawal 
period, respectively). A similar safety profile was observed during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at Week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (Studies I and II) and 
MTX (Study II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In Study I, 
improvements in the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also 
94
significant compared to placebo.
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 %, 26.4 % (92 / 349) and 37.8 % (132 / 349) of 
patients achieved PASI 75 response at Week 12 and 24, respectively.
Psoriasis Study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 
72 patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients 
received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week 
after the initial dose) or placebo for 16 weeks. At Week 16, a statistically significantly greater 
proportion of patients who received adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the 
hands and/or feet compared to patients who received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3 %, respectively 
[P = 0.014]).
Psoriasis Study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients 
with moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab 
followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks 
followed by open-label adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments 
included the Modified Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of 
Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see table 18). 
Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin 
involvement (BSA ≥ 10 % (60 % of patients) and BSA < 10 % and ≥ 5 % (40 % of patients)).
Table 18. Ps study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks
endpoint
Week 16
placebo-controlled
Week 26
placebo-controlled
Week 52
open-label
placebo
N = 108
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 109
placebo
N = 108
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 109
adalimumab
40 mg eow
N = 80
2.9
2.9
26.0a
29.7a
3.4
6.9
46.6a
48.9a
65.0
61.3
-7.8
-44.2a
-11.5
-56.2a
-72.2
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%)
PGA-F clear / minimal 
and ≥ 2-grade 
improvement (%)
percent change in total 
fingernail NAPSI (%)
a
p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo
Adalimumab-treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at Week 26 compared 
with placebo in the DLQI.
Hidradenitis suppurativa
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 
3-month trial of systemic antibiotic therapy. The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III 
disease with at least 3 abscesses or inflammatory nodules.
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods. In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 2, and 40 mg 
every week starting at Week 4 to Week 11. Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the 
study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in period A were re-
randomised in period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 
95
40 mg every other week, or placebo from Week 12 to Week 35). Patients who had been randomised 
to placebo in period A were assigned to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week in period B.
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods. In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 and 
40 mg every week starting at Week 4 to Week 11. 19.3 % of patients had continued baseline oral 
antibiotic therapy during the study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received 
adalimumab in period A were re-randomised in period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 
40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from Week 12 to Week 35). 
Patients who had been randomised to placebo in period A were assigned to receive placebo in 
period B.
Patients participating in Studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension 
study in which adalimumab 40 mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab 
population was 762 days. Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily.
Clinical response
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas 
was assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50 % reduction in 
total abscess and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in 
draining fistula count relative to Baseline). Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a 
Numeric Rating Scale in patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater 
on a 11 point scale.
At Week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo 
achieved HiSCR. At Week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in Study HS-II 
experienced a clinically relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see table 19). Patients treated with 
adalimumab had significantly reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment.
Table 19. Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS studies I and II
HS study I
HS study II
placebo
adalimumab 
40 mg
weekly
placebo
adalimumab 
40 mg
weekly
hidradenitis suppurativa
clinical response (HiSCR)a
N = 154
40 (26.0 %)
N = 153
64 (41.8 %)*
N = 163
45 (27.6 %)
N = 163
96 (58.9 %)***
≥30% reduction in skin
painb
N = 109
27 (24.8 %)
N = 122
34 (27.9 %)
N = 111
23 (20.7 %)
N = 105
48 (45.7 %)***
p < 0.05, 
p < 0.001, adalimumab versus placebo
*
***
a
b
among all randomised patients.
among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating Scale 0–10; 
0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine.
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of 
abscesses and draining fistulas. Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group 
in the first 12 weeks of Studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group 
experienced worsening of abscesses (23.0 % vs 11.4 %, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0 % 
vs 13.9 %, respectively).
96
Greater improvements at Week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin-
specific health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; 
Studies HS-I and HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire – medication (TSQM; Studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical 
health as measured by the physical component summary score of the SF-36 (Study HS-I).
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at Week 12, the HiSCR 
rate at Week 36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in 
whom dosing frequency was reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn 
(see table 20).
Table 20. Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 
after treatment reassignment from weekly adalimumab at Week 12
placebo 
(treatment 
withdrawal) 
N = 73
adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N = 70
adalimumab 
40 mg weekly
N = 70
Week 24
Week 36
24 (32.9 %)
22 (30.1 %)
36 (51.4 %)
28 (40.0 %)
40 (57.1 %)
39 (55.7 %)
a
patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after
12 weeks of treatment.
b patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no 
improvement were required to discontinue from the studies and were counted as 
non-responders.
Among patients who were at least partial responders at Week 12, and who received continuous weekly 
adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at Week 48 was 68.3 % and at Week 96 was 65.1 %. Longer 
term treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at Week 12 in Studies HS-I 
and HS-II, the HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly 
returned to levels similar to that observed before withdrawal (56.0 %).
Crohn’s disease
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1500 patients with moderately to 
severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥ 220 and ≤ 450) in 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of 
aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and / or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80 % of 
patients continued to receive at least one of these medications.
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI < 150) was evaluated in two studies, CD Study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD Study II (GAIN). In CD Study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were 
randomised to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at Week 
0 and 80 mg at Week 2, 80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2, and 40 mg at Week 0 and 20 mg at 
Week 2. In CD Study II, 325 patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were 
randomised to receive either 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 or placebo at 
Weeks 0 and 2. The primary non-responders were excluded from the studies and therefore these 
patients were not further evaluated.
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM). In CD study III, 854 
97
patients received open-label 80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2. At Week 4 patients were 
randomised to 40 mg every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration 
of 56 weeks. Patients in clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥ 70) at Week 4 were stratified and 
analysed separately from those not in clinical response at Week 4. Corticosteroid taper was 
permitted after Week 8.
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in table 21.
Table 21. Induction of clinical remission and response 
(percent of patients)
CD study I: infliximab-naïve
patients
placebo
N = 74
adalimumab
80 / 40 mg
N = 75
adalimumab 
160 / 80 mg 
N = 76
CD study II: infliximab-
experienced patients
placebo
N=166
adalimumab
160 / 80 mg
N = 159
Week 4
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-
100)
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo
*
**
p < 0.001
p < 0.01
36 %*
49 %**
7 %
25 %
24 %
37 %
12 %
24 %
21 %*
38 %**
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160 / 80 mg and 80 / 40 mg induction regimens by 
Week 8 and adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160 / 80 mg group.
In CD study III, at Week 4, 58 % (499 / 854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed 
in the primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at Week 4, 48 % had been previously exposed 
to other TNF-antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in table 22. 
Clinical remission results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist 
exposure. Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with 
adalimumab compared with placebo at Week 56.
98
Table 22. Maintenance of clinical remission and response
(percent of patients)
Week 26
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-100)
patients in steroid-free remission 
for > = 90 daysa
Week 56
clinical remission
clinical response (CR-100)
patients in steroid-free remission 
for > = 90 daysa
placebo
40 mg adalimumab 
every other week
40 mg adalimumab 
every week
N = 170
17 %
27 %
N = 172
40 %*
52 %*
N = 157
47 %*
52 %*
3 % (2 / 66)
19 % (11 / 58)**
15 % (11 / 74)**
N = 170
12 %
17 %
N = 172
36 %*
41 %*
N = 157
41 %*
48 %*
5 % (3 / 66)
29 % (17 / 58)*
20 % (15 / 74)**
* p < 0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions
**
a
p < 0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions
of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline
Among patients who were not in response at Week 4, 43 % of adalimumab maintenance patients 
responded by Week 12 compared to 30 % of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest 
that some patients who have not responded by Week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through Week 12. Therapy continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more 
responses (see section 4.2).
117 / 276 patients from CD study I and 272 / 777 patients from CD studies II and III were 
followed through at least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy. 88 and 189 patients, 
respectively, continued to be in clinical remission. Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained 
in 102 and 233 patients, respectively.
Quality of life
In CD study I and CD study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific 
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at Week 4 in patients 
randomised to adalimumab 80 / 40 mg and 160 / 80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at 
weeks 26 and 56 in CD study III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the 
placebo group.
Ulcerative colitis
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 
3) in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies.
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at 
weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 followed by 80 mg at Week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at 
Week 0 followed by 40 mg at Week 2. After Week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 
40 mg eow. Clinical remission (defined as Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1) was assessed at Week 
8.
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 2 and 40 mg 
eow thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for induction of 
99
remission at Week 8 and for maintenance of remission at Week 52.
Patients induced with 160 / 80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at Week 
8 in statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18 % vs. 9 % respectively, 
p = 0.031) and study UC-II (17 % vs. 9 % respectively, p = 0.019). In study UC-II, among those 
treated with adalimumab who were in remission at Week 8, 21 / 41 (51 %) were in remission at 
Week 52.
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in table 23.
Table 23. Response, remission and mucosal healing in study UC-II 
(percent of patients) 
Week 52
clinical response
clinical remission
mucosal healing
steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 daysa
placebo
N = 246
18 %
9 %
15 %
6 %
(N = 140)
adalimumab 40 mg
eow
N = 248
30 %*
17 %*
25 %*
13 %*
(N = 150)
Week 8 and 52
sustained response
sustained remission
sustained mucosal healing
clinical remission is Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1;
clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30 % plus a decrease in the 
rectal bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥ 1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1;
*
**
a
p < 0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions
p < 0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions
of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline
24 %**
8 %*
19 %*
12 %
4 %
11 %
 Placebo
Of those patients who had a response at Week 8, 47 % were in response, 29 % were in 
remission, 41 % had mucosal healing, and 20 % were in steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 
days at Week 52.
Approximately 40 % of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. 
The efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve 
patients. Among patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, Week 52 remission was achieved 
by 3 % on placebo and 10 % on adalimumab.
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term
extension study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75 % (301 / 402) continued to be 
in clinical remission per partial Mayo score.
Hospitalisation rates
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The 
number of all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 
0.26 per patient year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related 
hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient year vs. 0.22 per patient year.
Quality of life
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) score.
100
Uveitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two 
randomised, double-masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or 
adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after 
the initial dose. Concomitant stable doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted.
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral 
prednisone at a dose of 10 to 60 mg / day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of 
prednisone 60 mg / day at study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete 
corticosteroid discontinuation by Week 15.
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment 
(oral prednisone 10 to 35 mg / day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently 
underwent a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by Week 19.
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ‘time to treatment failure’. Treatment failure was 
defined by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory 
retinal vascular lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best 
corrected visual acuity (BCVA).
Patients who completed studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue 
on study medication beyond Week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical response
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment 
failure in patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (see table 24). Both 
studies demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus 
placebo (see Figure 2).
Table 24. Time to treatment failure in studies UV I and UV II
analysis
treatment
N
failure
N (%)
median time to
failure (months)
HRa
CI 95 % p Value b
for HRa
time to treatment failure at or after Week 6 in study UV I
primary analysis (ITT)
placebo
adalimumab
107
110
84 (78.5)
60 (54.5)
3.0
5.6
--
0.50
--
0.36, 0.70
--
< 0.001
time to treatment failure at or after Week 2 in study UV II 
primary analysis (ITT)
111
115
placebo
adalimumab
--
0.004
Note: treatment failure at or after Week 6 (study UV I), or at or after Week 2 (study UV II), was 
counted as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of 
dropping out.
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor.
--
0.39, 0.84
61 (55.0)
45 (39.1)
--
0.57
8.3
NEc
b
c
2-sided p value from log rank test.
NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event.
101
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure on or after Week 6 
(study UV I) or Week 2 (study UV II)
urves 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of
Events/Number at Risk).
In Study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were 
observed for each component of treatment failure. In Study UV II, statistically significant differences 
were observed for visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of 
adalimumab.
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of studies UV I and UV II, 
60 subjects were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to  complications secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy, due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary 
analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74 %) reached 78 weeks of 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3 %) were in 
quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC cell grade ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a 
concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2 %) were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA 
was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 88.6 % of the eyes at Week 78. Data 
beyond Week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the number of enrolled subjects 
declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 18 % discontinued due 
102
to adverse events, and 8 % due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment.
Quality of Life
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical 
studies, using the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores 
with statistically significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental 
health, and total score in study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in study UV II. Vision 
related effects were not numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in study UV I and for 
colour vision, peripheral vision and near vision in study UV II. 
Immunogenicity
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment.
Formation of anti-adalimumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy 
of adalimumab. There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies 
and the occurrence of adverse events.
Paediatric population
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA)
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with 
active polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA 
onset types (most frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended 
oligoarthritis).
pJIA I
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
parallel-group study in 171 children (4–17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in 
phase (OL LI) patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX-
treated. Patients who were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from 
MTX at least two weeks prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and or prednisone (≤ 0.2 mg / kg / day or 10 mg / day 
maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg / m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week for 16 weeks. The distribution of patients by age and minimum, median 
and maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in table 25.
Table 25. Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI 
phase
age group
number of patients at baseline n (%) Minimum, median and maximum 
4 to 7 years
8 to 12 years
13 to 17 years
31 (18.1)
71 (41.5)
69 (40.4)
dose
10, 20 and 25 mg
20, 25 and 40 mg
25, 40 and 40 mg
Patients demonstrating a paediatric ACR 30 response at Week 16 were eligible to be randomised 
into the double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg / m2 up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare 
criteria were defined as a worsening of ≥ 30 % from baseline in ≥ 3 of 6 paediatric ACR core 
criteria, ≥ 2 active joints, and improvement of > 30 % in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 
32 weeks or at disease flare, patients were eligible to enrol into the open label extension phase .
103
stratum
phase
OL-LI 16 weeks
ped ACR 30 
response (n/N)
Table 26. Ped ACR 30 responses in the JIA study
MTX
without MTX
94.1 % (80 / 85)
74.4% (64/86)
efficacy outcomes
double blind 32 weeks
adalimumab / 
MTX (N =38)
placebo / MTX 
(N = 37)
adalimumab
(N = 30)
placebo
(N = 28)
36.8 % (14 / 38)
64.9 % (24 / 37)b
disease flares at 
the end of 32 
weeksa (n/N)
median time to 
disease flare
ped ACR 30/50/70 responses Week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo-treated patients
p = 0.015
p = 0.031
43.3 % (13 / 30) 71.4 % (20 / 28)c
>32 weeks
>32 weeks
14 weeks
20 weeks
a
b
c
Amongst those who responded at Week 16 (n = 144), the paediatric ACR 30 / 50 / 70 /90 
responses were maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received 
adalimumab throughout the study. Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 
12 and 8 of the baseline age group 13 to 17 years were treated 6 years or longer.
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with 
the combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, Hefiya is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as 
monotherapy in patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2).
pJIA II
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children 
(2–< 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg) with moderately to severely active polyarticular 
JIA. The patients received 24 mg / m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
20 mg every other week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During the study, most 
subjects used concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or NSAIDs.
At Week 12 and Week 24, PedACR30 response was 93.5 % and 90.0 %, respectively, using the 
observed data approach. The proportions of subjects with PedACR50 / 70 / 90 at Week 12 and Week 
24 were 90.3 % / 61.3 % / 38.7 % and 83.3 % / 73.3 % / 36.7 %, respectively. Amongst those who 
responded (paediatric ACR 30) at Week 24 (n = 27 out of 30 patients), the paediatric ACR 30 
responses were maintained for up to 60 weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab 
throughout this time period. Overall, 20 subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer.
Enthesitis-related arthritis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study in 
46 paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were 
randomised to receive either 24 mg / m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-label 
104
(OL) period during which patients received 24 mg / m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg 
every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was the 
percent change from Baseline to Week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not 
due to deformity or joints with loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with 
mean percent decrease of -62.6 % (median percent change -88.9 %) in patients in the adalimumab 
group compared to -11.6 % (median percent change -50.0 %) in patients in the placebo group. 
Improvement in number of active joints with arthritis was maintained during the OL period through 
Week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84 %) patients in the adalimumab group who remained in the study. 
Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients demonstrated clinical improvement in 
secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint 
count (SJC), paediatric ACR 50 response, and paediatric ACR 70 response.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 114 
paediatric patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) ≥ 4 or > 20 % BSA involvement or > 10 % BSA involvement 
with very thick lesions or Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥ 20 or ≥ 10 with clinically 
relevant facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled with topical 
therapy and heliotherapy or phototherapy.
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg eow (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg / kg eow (up to 20 mg), or 
methotrexate 0.1–0.4 mg / kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At Week 16, more patients randomised to 
adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those randomised to 
0.4 mg / kg eow or MTX .
Table 27. Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks
PASI 75b
PGA: clear/minimalc
MTXa
N = 37
12 (32.4 %)
15 (40.5 %)
adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg eow 
N=38
22 (57.9 %)
23 (60.5 %)
a
b
c
MTX = methotrexate
p = 0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg versus MTX
p = 0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg versus MTX
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades). 
Patients were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg / kg eow for an additional 16 weeks and 
response rates observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period: PASI 75 
response of 78.9 % (15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6 % (10 of 19 subjects).
In the open label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were 
maintained for up to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings.
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. Efficacy of adalimumab 
for the treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and 
exposure-response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, 
pathophysiology, and drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure 
levels. Safety of the recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on 
105
cross-indication safety profile of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more 
frequent doses (see section 5.2).
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on 
body weight (< 40 kg or ≥ 40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 
17 (inclusive) years, with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn’s 
Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) score > 30. Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy 
(including a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator) for CD. Subjects may also have previously 
lost response or been intolerant to infliximab.
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 
160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2 for subjects ≥ 40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for 
subjects < 40 kg.
At Week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low
Dose or Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in table 28.
Table 28. Maintenance regimen
patient
weight
< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
low dose
standard 
dose
10 mg eow 20 mg eow
20 mg eow 40 mg eow
Efficacy results
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at Week 26, defined as PCDAI score ≤ 10.
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points 
from Baseline) rates are presented in table 29. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators are presented in table 30.
Table 29. Paediatric CD study
PCDAI clinical remission and response
standard dose
40 / 20 mg 
eow
N = 93
low dose
20 / 10 mg 
eow
N = 95
p value*
Week 26
clinical remission
clinical response
Week 52
clinical remission
clinical response
38.7 %
59.1 %
33.3 %
41.9 %
28.4 %
48.4 %
23.2 %
28.4 %
0.075
0.073
0.100
0.038
*
p-value for standard dose versus low dose comparison.
106
Table 30. Paediatric CD study
discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission
standard dose
40 / 20 mg eow
low dose
20 / 10 mg eow
p value1
discontinued corticosteroids
N = 33
N = 38
Week 26
Week 52
discontinuation of Immunomodulators2
Week 52
fistula remission3
Week 26
Week 52
1
2
84.8 %
69.7 %
N = 60
30.0 %
N = 15
46.7 %
40.0 %
65.8 %
60.5 %
N = 57
29.8 %
N = 21
38.1 %
23.8 %
0.066
0.420
0.983
0.608
0.303
p value for standard dose versus low dose comparison.
immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after Week 26 
at the investigator's discretion if the subject met the clinical response 
criterion
3 defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive 
post-Baseline visits
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to Week 26 and 52 in Body Mass
Index and height velocity were observed for both treatment groups.
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both 
treatment groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III).
One hundred patients (n = 100) from the Paediatric CD Study continued in an open-label long-term 
extension study. After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0 % (37 / 50) of the 50 patients remaining 
in the study continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0 % (46 / 50) of patients continued to be in 
clinical response per PCDAI.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, trial 
in 93 paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo 
score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who 
had an inadequate response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in 
the study had failed prior anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were 
allowed to taper their corticosteroid therapy after Week 4.
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomized 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) 
at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. Both groups received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, 
the remaining 16 patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with 
adalimumab at the induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2.
At Week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomized equally to receive double-
blind maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
107
week (ew), or a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to 
an amendment to the study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS 
were randomized to receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy.
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at
Week 8), at least 2 points (for patients with PMS of 3 to 4 at Week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients 
with PMS of 5 to 6 at Week 8).
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after Week 12 were randomized to receive a re-
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and 
continued to receive their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards.
Efficacy results
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no
individual subscore > 1) at Week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a 
Mayo Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at Week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response 
per PMS at Week 8.
Clinical remission rates per PMS at Week 8 for patients in each of the adalimumab doubleblind
induction groups are presented in Table 31.
Table 31. Clinical Remission per PMS at 8 Weeks
Adalimumab a 
Maximum of 160 mg at Week 
0 / Placebo at Week 1  
N=30 
Adalimumab b, c  
Maximum of 160 mg at Week 
0 and Week 1  
N=47 
Clinical remission 
13/30 (43.3%) 
28/47 (59.6%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 
160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and 
Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the 
endpoint  
At Week 52, clinical remission per FMS in Week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as 
a decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in Week 8 responders, mucosal 
healing per FMS (defined as an Mayo endoscopy subscore ≤ 1) in Week 8 responders, clinical 
remission per FMS in Week 8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free 
remission per FMS in Week 8 responders were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the 
double-blind maximum 40 mg eow (0.6 mg/kg) and maximum 40 mg ew (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance 
doses (Table 32).
108
Table 32. Efficacy Results at 52 Weeks
Adalimumab a   
Maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31 
Adalimumab b   
Maximum of 40 mg ew  
N=31 
Clinical remission in Week 
8 PMS responders  
9/31 (29.0%)  
14/31 (45.2%) 
9/21 (42.9%)  
16/31 (51.6%)  
21/31 (67.7%)  
12/31 (38.7%)  
19/31 (61.3%)  
Clinical response in Week 
8 PMS responders  
Mucosal healing in 
Week 8 PMS responders  
Clinical remission in Week 
8 PMS remitters 
Corticosteroid-free 
remission in Week 8 
PMS respondersc  
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week  
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week  
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline  
Note: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomized to receive 
re-induction or maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for 
Week 52 endpoints  
10/22 (45.5%)  
5/16 (31.3%)  
4/13 (30.8%)  
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative 
Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and 
clinical remission per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at Week 8 and Week 52 (Table 33).  
Table 33. Exploratory Endpoints Results per PUCAI
Week 8 
Adalimumab a
Maximum of 160 mg at 
Week 0 / Placebo at Week 1 
N=30 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
10/30 (33.3%)
15/30 (50.0%)
Adalimumab b,c 
Maximum of 160 mg 
at 
Week 0 and Week 1 
N=47 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumab d
Maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31
14/31 (45.2%) 
Adalimumab e 
Maximum of 40 mg ew 
N=31 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
in Week 8 PMS responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
in Week 8 PMS responders 
109
 
 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 
160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and 
Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the 
endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomized to receive 
reinduction or maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 
endpoints 
Of the adalimumab -treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance 
period, 2/6 (33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at Week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab.  
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for 
the groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from 
Baseline in Body Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 
40 mg (0.6 mg/kg) ew.  
Paediatric Uveitis
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomized, double-masked, controlled 
study of 90 paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated non-infectious 
anterior uveitis who were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment. Patients received 
either placebo or 20 mg adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week 
in combination with their baseline dose of methotrexate.
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with 
development of sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted 
use of concomitant medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time.
Clinical response
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (See 
Figure 3, P < 0.0001 from log rank test).The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for 
subjects treated with placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for 
subjects treated with adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment 
failure. Adalimumab significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75% relative to placebo, 
as shown by the hazard ratio (HR = 0.25 [95% CI: 0.12, 0.49]).
110
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure in the paediatric 
uveitis study
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption and distribution
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab 
was slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The 
average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg 
subcutaneous dose was 64 %. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg / kg, 
concentrations were dose proportional. After doses of 0.5 mg / kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 
11 to 15 ml / hour, the distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal 
phase half-life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from 
several rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31–96 % of those in serum.
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were 
approximately 5 µg / ml (without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 µg / ml (with concomitant 
methotrexate), respectively. The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly 
proportionally with dose following 20, 40 and 80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and 
every week.
Following the administration of 24 mg / m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough 
steady-state (values measured from Week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 
5.6 ± 5.6 µg / ml (102 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 
10.9 ± 5.2 µg / ml (47.7 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate.
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to < 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg 
dosed with adalimumab 24 mg / m2, the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations 
was  6.0 ± 6.1 µg / ml  (101 % CV)  for  adalimumab  without  concomitant  methotrexate  and 
7.9 ± 5.6 µg / ml (71.2 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate.
111
Following the administration of 24 mg / m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values 
measured at Week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg / ml for adalimumab 
without concomitant methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg / ml with concomitant methotrexate.
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult 
nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state concentration at 
Week 68 was 8.0 ± 4.6 μg/ml.
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 µg / ml 
during adalimumab 40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment.
Following the administration of 0.8 mg / kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week 
to paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 µg / ml (79 % CV).
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
80 mg on Week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg / ml 
at Week 2 and Week 4. The mean steady-state trough concentration at Week 12 through Week 36 
were approximately 8 to 10 μg / ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment.
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). The recommended adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since 
exposure to adalimumab can be affected by body size, adolescents with higher body weight and 
inadequate response may benefit from receiving the recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
40 mg adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 
5.5 µg / ml during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed 
by 80 mg adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of 
approximately 12 µg / ml during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of 
approximately 7 µg / ml were observed in Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose 
of 40 mg adalimumab every other week.
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was
160 / 80 mg or 80 / 40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 
40 kg. At Week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40 / 20 mg eow) or 
Low Dose (20 / 10 mg eow) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. The mean 
(± SD) serum adalimumab trough concentrations achieved at Week 4 were 15.7±6.6 µg/ml for 
patients ≥ 40 kg (160 / 80 mg) and 10.6 ± 6.1 µg / ml for patients < 40 kg (80 / 40 mg).
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (± SD) adalimumab trough 
concentrations at Week 52 were 9.5 ± 5.6 µg / ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5 ± 2.2 µg / ml 
for the Low Dose group. The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued 
to receive adalimumab treatment eow for 52 weeks. For patients who dose-escalated from eow to 
weekly regimen, the mean (± SD) serum concentrations of adalimumab at Week 52 were 
15.3 ± 11.4 μg / ml (40 / 20 mg, weekly) and 6.7 ± 3.5 μg / ml (20 / 10 mg, weekly).
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on Week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 
12 µg / ml during the induction period.  Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 µg / ml 
were observed in ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab 
every other week.
112
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of
40 mg) every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state serum
adalimumab concentration was 5.01±3.28 μg/ml at Week 52. For patients who received 0.6 mg/kg
(maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentration
was 15.7±5.60 μg/ml at Week 52.
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on Week 0 followed by 
40 mg adalimumab every other week starting at Week 1, resulted in mean steady-state 
concentrations of approximately 8 to 10 µg/ml.
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). No clinical exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. 
The predicted exposures indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an 
initial increase in systemic exposure.
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation 
predicted comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other 
week when compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, 
patients with adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC).
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response 
relationship was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent 
adalimumab plasma concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 
response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml (95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml).
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients 
with severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, 
respectively. PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab 
concentrations, both with a similar apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/mL (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 
1.9-10.5, respectively).
Elimination
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward 
higher apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight 
differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance. The serum 
levels of free adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be 
lower in patients with measurable AAA.
Hepatic or renal impairment
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single-dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity.
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity / perinatal developmental study has been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg / kg (9–17 monkeys / group) and has revealed no 
evidence of harm to the foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard 
assessment of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of 
appropriate models for an antibody with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the 
113
development of neutralising antibodies in rodents.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Adipic acid
Mannitol (E 421)
Polysorbate 80 (E 433)
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E 507)
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) (E 524)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the pre-filled syringe / pre-filled pen in 
the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Hefiya pre-filled syringe / pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 42 days. The pre-filled syringe / pre-filled pen must be protected from 
light, and discarded if not used within the 42-day period.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
0.2 ml solution in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a rubber stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and 
a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and 
plastic plunger. 
Multipack containing 2 (2 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes. 
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
0.4 ml solution in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a rubber stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and 
a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with an automatic needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap 
(thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger. 
Packs of 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes in a blister
Multipack containing 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes in a blister
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
0.4 ml solution in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
29 gauge needle, an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), and a rubber stopper 
(bromobutyl rubber). 
114
Packs of 1, 2 and 4 pre-filled pens
Multipack containing 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
0.8 ml solution in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a rubber stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and 
a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with an automatic needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap 
(thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger. 
Packs of 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes in a blister
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
0.8 ml solution in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
29 gauge needle, an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), and a rubber stopper 
(bromobutyl rubber). 
Packs of 1, 2 and 3 pre-filled pens
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
Full instructions for use are given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for Use". 
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/18/1287/019
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
EU/1/18/1287/012
EU/1/18/1287/013
EU/1/18/1287/014
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/015
EU/1/18/1287/016
EU/1/18/1287/017
EU/1/18/1287/018
115
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
EU/1/18/1287/008
EU/1/18/1287/009
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/010
EU/1/18/1287/011
EU/1/18/1287/020
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 July 2018
Date of latest renewal: 15 February 2023
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
116
A.
B.
C.
D.
ANNEX II
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL 
ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) 
RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF 
THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD 
TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE 
MEDICINAL PRODUCT
117
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C. OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
•
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
118
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
•
Additional risk minimisation measures
The Patient Reminder Cards (adult and paediatric) contain the following key elements: 
o infections, including tuberculosis
o cancer
o nervous system problems
o vaccinations
119
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
120
A. LABELLING
121
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
20 mg/0.4 ml
2 pre-filled syringes 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
122
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/007 2 pre-filled syringes
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 20 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
123
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER TEXT 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg injection
adalimumab
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
SANDOZ a Novartis Division
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
SC
20 mg/0.4 ml
124
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SYRINGE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 20 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.4 ml
125
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.2 ml pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
20 mg/0.2 ml
Multipack: 2 (2 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
126
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/019 2 pre-filled syringes (2 packs of 1)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 20 mg/0.2 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
127
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.2 ml pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
20 mg/0.2 ml
1 pre-filled syringe 
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
Open here
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
128
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/019 2 pre-filled syringes (2 packs of 1)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 20 mg/0.2 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
129
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SYRINGE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 20 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.2 ml
130
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 pre-filled syringes 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
131
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/001 1 pre-filled syringe
EU/1/18/1287/002 2 pre-filled syringes
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
132
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
Multipack: 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
133
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/003 6 pre-filled syringes (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
134
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
INNER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
2 pre-filled syringes
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
135
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/003 6 pre-filled syringes (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
136
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER TEXT 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg injection
adalimumab
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
SANDOZ a Novartis Division
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
SC
40 mg/0.8 ml
137
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SYRINGE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 40 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.8 ml
138
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
1 pre-filled pen (SensoReady)
2 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
139
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/004 1 pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/005 2 pre-filled pens
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
140
SN
NN
141
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
Multipack: 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
142
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/006 6 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
143
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
INNER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.8 ml
2 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
144
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/006 6 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
145
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PEN LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 40 mg  injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.8 ml
146
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
1 pre-filled syringe
2 pre-filled syringes
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
147
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/012 1 pre-filled syringe
EU/1/18/1287/013 2 pre-filled syringes
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
148
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
Multipack: 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
149
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/014 6 pre-filled syringes (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
150
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
2 pre-filled syringes 
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
151
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/014 6 pre-filled syringes (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
152
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER TEXT
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg injection
adalimumab
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
SANDOZ a Novartis Division
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
SC
40 mg/0.4 ml
153
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SYRINGE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 40 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.4 ml
154
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.4 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
1 pre-filled pen (SensoReady)
2 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
4 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
155
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/015 1 pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/016 2 pre-filled pens
EU/1/18/1287/017 4 pre-filled pens
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
156
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
157
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.4 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
Multipack: 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
158
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/018 6 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
159
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
INNER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.4 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
40 mg/0.4 ml
2 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
160
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/018 6 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 2)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 40 mg/0.4 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
161
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PEN LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 40 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.4 ml
162
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
80 mg/0.8 ml
1 pre-filled syringe
2 pre-filled syringes
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
163
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/008 1 pre-filled syringe
EU/1/18/1287/009 2 pre-filled syringes
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 80 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
164
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
165
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER TEXT
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 80 mg injection
adalimumab
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
SANDOZ a Novartis Division
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
SC
80 mg/0.8 ml
166
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SYRINGE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 80 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.8 ml
167
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 80 mg adalimumab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: adipic acid, mannitol, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for 
injections. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection
80 mg/0.8 ml
1 pre-filled pen (SensoReady)
2 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
3 pre-filled pens (SensoReady)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use.
For single use only.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
168
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1287/010 1 pre-filled pen
EU/1/18/1287/011 2 pre-filled pens
EU/1/18/1287/020 3 pre-filled pens
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Hefiya 80 mg/0.8 ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
169
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
170
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PEN LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Hefiya 80 mg injection 
adalimumab
SC
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
0.8 ml
171
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
172
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
adalimumab
20 mg/0.4 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child starts using this medicine because it contains 
important information.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before your child begins using Hefiya and during 
treatment with Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you or your child during your 
treatment and for 4 months after your child’s last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as your child’s.
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before your child uses Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis
paediatric plaque psoriasis,
paediatric Crohn’s disease,
paediatric non-infectious uveitis. 
The active substance in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
173
work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis or enthesitis-related arthritis.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is also used to treat severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for 
whom medicines applied to the skin and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or 
are not suitable.
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya  is  used  to  treat  moderate  to  severe  Crohn’s  disease  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  6  to 
17 years. 
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child 
will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of his/her disease.
Paediatric non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with 
inflammation affecting the front of the eye.
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child 
will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of his/her disease.
2.
What you need to know before your child uses Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if your child is allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if your child has a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if your child shows symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, 
wounds, feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if your child has moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if your child 
has had or has a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
174
Allergic reaction
•
If your child has allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infection
•
•
•
If your child has an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
Your child might get infections more easily while he/she is receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk 
may increase if your child’s lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and 
include tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if your 
child shows symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check your child for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will 
include a thorough medical evaluation including your child’s medical history and screening tests 
(for example chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be 
recorded on your child’s Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if 
your child has ever had tuberculosis, or if he/she has been in close contact with someone who 
has had tuberculosis. Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if your child has had 
preventative treatment for tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight 
loss, listlessness, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your 
doctor immediately.
Travel/recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if your child has lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are common.
Tell your doctor if your child has a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that 
increase the risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if your child is a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if he/she has active 
HBV infection or if you think he/she might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should 
test your child for HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this 
virus. In some rare cases, especially if your child is taking other medicines that suppress the 
immune system, reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If your child is about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that your child is 
taking Hefiya. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
175
Demyelinating disease
•
If your child has or develops demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer 
around the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if he/she should receive 
or continue to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if he/she experiences symptoms like 
changes in vision, weakness in arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of the body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before your child receives any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be 
given all the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya. 
If your child receives Hefiya while she is pregnant, her baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose she received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell her baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your child’s 
Hefiya use during herpregnancy so they can decide when her baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if your child has had or has a serious heart condition. If your 
child has mild heart failure and is being treated with Hefiya, the heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If your child develops new or worsening symptoms of heart 
failure (e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor 
immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help stop bleeding. If your child develops a fever that does not go away, or he/she bruises or 
bleeds very easily or looks very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to 
stop treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If your child takes Hefiya, the risk 
of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific 
and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
your child is taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If your child has COPD, or is a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your 
doctor whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
176
Children and adolescents
• Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
• Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis below 
the age of 4 years.
• Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
• Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if your child is taking, has recently taken or might take any 
other medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Your child should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or 
abatacept due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other 
TNF-antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk 
for infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you 
have questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Your child should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue 
its use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If your child is pregnant, thinks she may be pregnant or is planning to have a baby, ask her 
doctor for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If your child  receives Hefiya during her pregnancy, the baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell her baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about her 
Hefiya use during her pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on the ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
177
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
Hefiya is available as a 40 mg pen as well as 20 mg and 40 mg pre-filled syringes for patients to 
administer a full 20 mg or 40 mg dose.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age and body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 2 
years of age weighing 10 kg to 
less than 30 kg
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age and body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
Notes
Not applicable
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg one 
week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, followed 
by 20 mg one week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
178
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age and body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
Paediatric non-infectious uveitis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the dose 
to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
179
and  explain  that  your  child  has  received  more  medication  than  required.  Always  take  the  outer 
carton of medicine with you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give your child an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your child’s next dose as you would have on the originally scheduled day, had 
you not forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your child’s doctor. The symptoms may 
return upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
•
•
•
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
180
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
181
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor;
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
double vision;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut); 
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection;
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
182
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness).
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on 
the safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label/blister/carton after EXP. 
183
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 21 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg of adalimumab 
in 0.4 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol 
(E 421), polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric acid (E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and 
water for injections (see section 2 “Hefiya contains sodium”).
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe for paediatric use is supplied as a 
0.4 ml clear to slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with 
a needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger rod, 
containing 0.4 ml of solution. 
Carton contains 2 pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
184
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel:  +420 225 775 111
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel:  +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: +353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel:  +39 02 96541
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Terapia S.A.
Tel: +40 264 50 15 00
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
185
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for Use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the pre-filled 
syringe before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
Figure A: Hefiya pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
It is important that you:
•
•
•
•
do not open the outer box until you are ready to use the syringe.
do not use the syringe if the seals of the blister are broken, as it may not be safe for you to use. 
never leave the syringe unattended where others might tamper with it. 
if you drop your syringe, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the needle 
cap removed.
do not remove the needle cap until just before you give the injection.
be careful not to touch the needle guard wings before use. Touching them may cause the needle 
guard to be activated too early. Do not remove the finger flange before the injection.
•
•
186
•
•
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used syringe right away after use. Do not re-use a syringe. See “4. Disposing 
of used syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
How should you store Hefiya?
•
•
Store your outer carton of syringes in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature 
(up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed 
from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 
21 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date 
when your pre-filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Keep the syringes in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store the syringes in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze the syringes.
•
•
•
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children. 
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your carton is: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled syringe/s (see Figure A). Each syringe contains 20 mg/0.4 ml of Hefiya. 
Not included in your carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container
Figure B: items not included in the carton
See “4.
Disposing of used syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
187
Before your injection
Figure C: needle guard is not activated – the 
syringe is ready for use
Figure D: needle guard is activated – do not 
use
o In this configuration the needle guard is 
o In this configuration the needle guard 
NOT ACTIVATED. 
is ACTIVATED.
o The syringe is ready for use (see 
o DO NOT USE the syringe (see 
Figure C).
Preparing the syringe
Figure D).
•
•
•
•
•
For a more comfortable injection, take the blister containing the syringe out of the refrigerator 
and leave it unopened on your work surface for about 15 to 30 minutes so that it reaches room 
temperature.
Take the syringe out of the blister.
Look through the viewing window. The solution should be colourless or slightly yellowish as 
well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any particulates and/or discolorations are 
observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist 
for assistance. 
Do not use the syringe if it is broken or the needle guard is activated. Return the syringe and the 
package it came in to the pharmacy.
Look at the expiry date (EXP) on your syringe. Do not use the syringe if the expiry date has 
passed. 
Contact your pharmacist if the syringe fails any of the above mentioned checks. 
1. Choosing your injection site: 
•
•
•
The recommended injection site is the front of your thighs. 
You may also use the lower abdomen, but not the area 5 cm 
around your navel (belly button) (see Figure E). 
Choose a different site each time you give yourself an 
injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, 
scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. If you 
have psoriasis, you should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
Figure E: choose your injection site
188
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
•
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site with an 
alcohol wipe. Leave it to dry before injecting (see Figure F).
Do not touch the cleaned area before injecting.
3. Giving your injection:
Figure F: clean your injection site
•
•
•
•
•
•
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off to remove it from 
the syringe (see Figure G).  
Discard the needle cap. 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle. This is 
normal. 
Gently pinch the skin at the injection site (see Figure H).
Insert the needle into your skin as shown. 
Push the needle all the way in to ensure that the medication 
can be fully administered. 
Figure G: pull the needle cap off
Figure H: insert the needle
189
•
•
•
•
•
•
Hold the syringe as shown (see Figure I).
Slowly press down on the plunger as far as it will go, so that 
the plunger head is completely between the needle guard 
wings.
Keep the plunger pressed fully down while you hold the 
syringe in place for 5 seconds. 
Keep the plunger fully pressed down while you carefully 
lift the needle straight out from the injection site and let go 
of your skin (see Figure J). 
Figure I: hold the syringe
Slowly release the plunger and allow the needle safety guard 
to automatically cover the exposed needle (see Figure K).
There may be a small amount of blood at the injection site. 
You can press a cotton ball or gauze onto the injection site 
and hold it for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. You 
may cover the injection site with a small adhesive bandage, 
if needed. 
Figure J: lift the needle straight out
Figure K: slowly release the plunger
190
4. Disposing of used syringes:
•
•
Dispose of the used syringe in a sharps container (closable, 
puncture-resistant container). For the safety and health of 
you and others, needles and used syringes must never be 
re-used.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or 
household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures 
will help protect the environment. Any unused product or 
waste material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements.
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
191
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
adalimumab
20 mg/0.2 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child starts using this medicine because it contains 
important information.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before your child begins using Hefiya and during 
treatment with Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you or your child during your 
treatment and for 4 months after your child’s last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as your child’s.
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before your child uses Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis
paediatric plaque psoriasis,
paediatric Crohn’s disease,
paediatric non-infectious uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years. Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If 
these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya to treat their polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
192
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join 
the bone.
Hefiya is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate.
If these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya to treat their enthesitis-
related arthritis.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is also used to treat severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for 
whom medicines applied to the skin and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or 
are not suitable.
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya  is  used  to  treat  moderate  to  severe  Crohn’s  disease  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  6  to 
17 years. 
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child 
will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of his / her disease.
Paediatric non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and / or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with 
inflammation affecting the front of the eye.
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child 
will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of his / her disease.
2.
What you need to know before your child uses Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
if your child is allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if your child has a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if your child shows symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, 
wounds, feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
193
•
if your child has moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if your child 
has had or has a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If your child has allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infections
•
•
•
If your child has an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
Your child might get infections more easily while he / she is receiving Hefiya treatment. This 
risk may increase if your child’s lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious 
and include tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other 
unusual infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if your 
child shows symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check your child for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will 
include a thorough medical evaluation including your child’s medical history and screening tests 
(for example chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be 
recorded on your child’s Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor 
if your child has ever had tuberculosis, or if he / she has been in close contact with someone 
who has had tuberculosis. Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if your child has had 
preventative treatment for tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight 
loss, lack of energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your 
doctor immediately.
Travel / recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if your child has lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are very common.
Tell your doctor if your child has a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that 
increase the risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if your child is a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if he / she has active 
HBV infection or if you think he / she might be at risk of getting HBV. Your doctor should test 
your child for HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. 
In some rare cases, especially if your child is taking other medicines that suppress the immune 
system, reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Surgery or dental procedures
194
•
If your child is about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that your child is 
taking Hefiya. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If your child has or develops demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer 
around the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if he / she should receive 
or continue to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if he / she experiences symptoms 
like changes in vision, weakness in arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of the body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before your child receives any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be 
given all the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya. 
If your child receives Hefiya while she is pregnant, her baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose she received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell her baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your child’s 
Hefiya use during herpregnancy so they can decide when her baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if your child has had or has a serious heart condition. If your 
child has mild heart failure and is being treated with Hefiya, the heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If your child develops new or worsening symptoms of heart 
failure (e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor 
immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help stop bleeding. If your child develops a fever that does not go away, or he / she bruises or 
bleeds very easily or looks very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to 
stop treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If your child takes Hefiya, the risk 
of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific 
and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
your child is taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If your child has COPD, or is a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your 
doctor whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate.
195
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
• Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
• Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis below 
the age of 4 years.
• Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
• Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses lower than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if your child is taking, has recently taken or might take any 
other medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Your child should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or 
abatacept due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other 
TNF-antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased 
risk for infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If 
you have questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Your child should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue 
its use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If your child is pregnant, thinks she may be pregnant or is planning to have a baby, ask her 
doctor for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If your child  receives Hefiya during her pregnancy, the baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell her baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about her 
Hefiya use during her pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on the ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
196
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.2 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended doses for Hefiya in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. 
Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Hefiya if your child needs different dose. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age or body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age or body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 40 mg one week later. 
Notes
Not applicable
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, followed 
by 20 mg one week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
Not applicable
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
197
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg, followed 
by 80 mg  two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Paediatric non-infectious uveitis
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week 
or 80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 40 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 20 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and  explain  that  your  child  has  received  more  medication  than  required.  Always  take  the  outer 
carton of medicine with you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give your child an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your child’s next dose as you would have on the originally scheduled day, had 
you not forgotten a dose.
198
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your child’s doctor. The symptoms may 
return upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
•
•
•
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
199
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor (shaking);
200
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut); 
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection;
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
201
•
•
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness).
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on 
the safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label / blister / carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
202
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 42 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg of adalimumab in 
0.2 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, mannitol (E 421), polysorbate 80 ( E 433), hydrochloric 
acid ( E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water for injections.
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 20 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe for paediatric use is supplied as a 
0.2 ml clear to slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with 
finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger rod, containing 0.2 ml 
of solution. 
Multipack carton contains 2 (2 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
203
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
204
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for Use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the single-dose 
pre-filled syringe before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any 
questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled syringe 
Figure A: Hefiya pre-filled syringe
It is important that you:
•
do not use the pre-filled syringe if the seal of the outer carton is broken, as it may not be safe 
to use. 
do not open the inner carton until you are ready to use the Hefiya pre-filled syringe. 
never leave the pre-filled syringe unattended where others might tamper with it. 
if you drop your syringe, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the 
needle cap removed.
do not remove the needle cap until just before you give the injection. 
Inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used syringe right away after use. Do not re-use a syringe. See “4. 
Disposing of used syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
consult your healthcare provider or nurse for advise on appropriate injection site and injection 
technique if you are underweight or if you are injecting a child. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
205
How should you store Hefiya single-dose pre-filled syringe?
•
•
•
Store the Hefiya pre-filled syringe in the original carton to protect from light.
Store your outer carton of pre-filled syringes in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
If needed (for example if you are travelling), you may store the pre-filled syringe at room 
temperature up to 25°C for up to 42 days.
Throw away the pre-filled syringe that has been stored at room temperature after 42 days. 
You should record the date when your pre-filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, 
and the date after which it should be discarded. 
Do not store your pre-filled syringe in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze your pre-filled syringe.
Do not use your pre-filled syringe after the expiration date shown on the outer carton or 
syringe label. If it has expired, return the entire pack to the pharmacy.
•
•
•
•
•
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children. 
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your pre-filled syringe carton is: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled syringe (see Figure A). Each pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg/0.2 ml of 
adalimumab. 
Not included in your Hefiya pre-filled syringe carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container; See “4. Disposing of used syringes” at the end of these 
Instructions for Use. 
Adhesive bandage
Figure B: items not included in the carton
Preparing the pre-filled syringe
•
For a more comfortable injection, take the carton containing the pre-filled syringe out of the 
refrigerator and leave it unopened on your work surface for about 15 to 30 minutes so that it 
reaches room temperature.
Remove the pre-filled syringe out of the carton box and inspect it. The solution should be 
colourless or slightly yellowish as well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any 
particulates and / or discolorations are observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of 
the solution, then contact your pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it is broken. Return the entire product pack to the 
pharmacy.
Look at the expiration date (EXP) on your pre-filled syringe. Do not use your pre-filled 
syringe if the expiration date has passed. 
•
•
•
Contact your pharmacist if the pre-filled syringe fails any of the above mentioned checks. 
206
1. Choosing your injection site:
The injection site is the place on the body where you are 
going to inject the Hefiya pre-filled syringe.
•
•
•
•
The recommended injection site is the front of the 
thighs. You may also use the lower abdomen, but 
not the area 5 cm around your navel (belly button) 
(see Figure C). 
Choose a different site each time you give an 
injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with scars 
or stretch marks. 
If you have psoriasis, you should not inject 
directly into areas with psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
When you are ready to use the pre-filled syringe, 
wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
•
•
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site 
with an alcohol wipe. Let it dry before injecting 
(see Figure D).
Do not touch this area again before giving the 
injection. Allow the skin to dry before injecting. 
Do not fan or blow on the clean area.
Figure C: choose your injection site
Figure D: clean your injection site
207
3. Giving your injection:
•
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off to remove 
it from the syringe (see Figure E).  
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Throw away (discard) the needle cap. 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the 
needle. This is normal. 
Gently pinch the skin at the injection site (see 
Figure F).
Insert the needle into the skin at a 45° degree angle, 
as shown (see Figure F). 
Figure E: pull the needle cap off
Hold the single-dose pre-filled syringe as shown (see 
Figure G).
Slowly press down on the plunger as far as it will 
go.
Keep the plunger pressed fully down while you hold 
the syringe in place for 5 seconds.
Carefully lift the needle straight out from the 
injection site and let go of the skin. There may be a 
small amount of blood at the injection site. You can 
press a cotton ball or gauze onto the injection site 
and hold it for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection 
site. You may cover the injection site with a small 
adhesive bandage, if needed.
Figure F: insert the needle
Figure G: press down the plunger
208
4. Disposing of used pre-filled syringes:
•
Dispose of the used syringe in a sharps container 
(closable, puncture-resistant container). For the 
safety and health of you and others, needles and 
used syringes must never be re-used.
•
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater 
or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. 
These measures will help protect the environment. 
Any unused product or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
Figure H: dispose of the used Pre-
filled syringe
209
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
adalimumab
40 mg/0.8 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis,
ankylosing spondylitis,
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,
psoriatic arthritis,
psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis and
non-infectious uveitis. 
The active substance in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
210
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment.
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis or enthesitis-related arthritis.
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis are inflammatory diseases of the spine.
Hefiya is used in adults to treat these conditions. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given 
other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce 
the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Hefiya is also used to treat severe 
plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom medicines applied to the skin 
and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or are not suitable.
211
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis.
Hefiya is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and improve physical function.
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Hefiya 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults children aged 6 to 17 years. If you 
have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well 
enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye.
•
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
212
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
•
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infection
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
Travel/recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some 
rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
213
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya. 
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
214
•
•
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
215
•
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0 8 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
Hefiya is available as a 40 mg pen as well as 20 mg and 40 mg pre-filled syringes for patients to 
administer a full 20 mg or 40 mg dose.
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age and body weight
Notes
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
Notes
Not applicable
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age and body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
216
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age and body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Psoriasis
Age and body weight
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg given 
every other week starting 
one week after the first dose. 
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
Notes
Not applicable
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg one 
week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, 
followed by 20 mg one 
week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
217
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age and body weight
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
Crohn’s disease
Age and body weight
Adults
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one 
day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 
40 mg injections on the 
same day) two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dose of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week later.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
218
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age and body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Adults
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the dose 
to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day 
or as two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) 
initially, followed by 80 mg (as 
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every other 
week, should continue their 
prescribed dose
219
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age and body weight
Adults
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week. (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day)
First dose is 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every other 
week, should continue their 
prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
220
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
•
•
•
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
221
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
222
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor;
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
double vision;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut); 
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection;
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
223
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness).
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label/blister/carton after EXP. 
224
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 21 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab in 
0.8 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol (E 
421), polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric acid (E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water 
for injections (see section 2 “Hefiya contains sodium”).
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to 
slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with 
a needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger rod, 
containing 0.8 ml of solution. 
Cartons contain 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Multipack cartons contain 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
225
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Terapia S.A.
Tel: +40 264 50 15 00
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
226
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
227
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for Use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the pre-filled 
syringe before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
Figure A: Hefiya pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
It is important that you:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
do not open the outer box until you are ready to use the syringe.
do not use the syringe if the seals of the blister are broken, as it may not be safe for you to use. 
never leave the syringe unattended where others might tamper with it. 
if you drop your syringe, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the needle 
cap removed.
do not remove the needle cap until just before you give the injection.
be careful not to touch the needle guard wings before use. Touching them may cause the needle 
guard to be activated too early. Do not remove the finger flange before the injection.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used syringe right away after use. Do not re-use a syringe. See “4. Disposing 
of used syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
How should you store Hefiya?
•
•
•
•
Store your outer carton of syringes in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature 
(up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed 
from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 
21 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date 
when your pre-filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Keep the syringes in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store the syringes in extreme heat or cold. 
228
•
Do not freeze the syringes.
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children. 
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your carton is: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled syringe/s (see Figure A). Each syringe contains 40 mg/0.8 ml of Hefiya. 
Not included in your carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container
Figure B: items not included in the carton
See “4.
Disposing of used syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
Before your injection
Figure C: needle guard is not activated – the 
syringe is ready for use
Figure D: needle guard is activated – do not 
use
o In this configuration the needle guard is 
o In this configuration the needle guard 
NOT ACTIVATED. 
is ACTIVATED.
o The syringe is ready for use (see 
o DO NOT USE the syringe (see 
Figure C).
Preparing the syringe
Figure D).
•
•
•
•
•
For a more comfortable injection, take the blister containing the syringe out of the refrigerator 
and leave it unopened on your work surface for about 15 to 30 minutes so that it reaches room 
temperature.
Take the syringe out of the blister.
Look through the viewing window. The solution should be colourless or slightly yellowish as 
well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any particulates and/or discolorations are 
observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist 
for assistance. 
Do not use the syringe if it is broken or the needle guard is activated. Return the syringe and the 
package it came in to the pharmacy.
Look at the expiry date (EXP) on your syringe. Do not use the syringe if the expiry date has 
passed. 
229
Contact your pharmacist if the syringe fails any of the above mentioned checks. 
1. Choosing your injection site: 
•
•
•
The recommended injection site is the front of your thighs. 
You may also use the lower abdomen, but not the area 5 cm 
around your navel (belly button) (see Figure E). 
Choose a different site each time you give yourself an 
injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, 
scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. If you 
have psoriasis, you should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
•
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site with an 
alcohol wipe. Leave it to dry before injecting (see Figure F).
Do not touch the cleaned area before injecting.
3. Giving your injection:
•
•
•
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off to remove it from 
the syringe (see Figure G).  
Discard the needle cap. 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle. This is 
normal. 
Figure E: choose your injection site
Figure F: clean your injection site
Figure G: pull the needle cap off
230
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Gently pinch the skin at the injection site (see Figure H).
Insert the needle into your skin as shown. 
Push the needle all the way in to ensure that the medication 
can be fully administered 
Figure H: insert the needle
Hold the syringe as shown (see Figure I).
Slowly press down on the plunger as far as it will go, so that 
the plunger head is completely between the needle guard 
wings.
Keep the plunger pressed fully down while you hold the 
syringe in place for 5 seconds. 
Keep the plunger fully pressed down while you carefully 
lift the needle straight out from the injection site and let go 
of your skin (see Figure J). 
Figure I: hold the syringe
Slowly release the plunger and allow the needle safety guard 
to automatically cover the exposed needle (see Figure K).
There may be a small amount of blood at the injection site. 
You can press a cotton ball or gauze onto the injection site 
and hold it for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. You 
may cover the injection site with a small adhesive bandage, 
if needed. 
Figure J: lift the needle straight out
Figure K: slowly release the plunger
231
4. Disposing of used syringes:
•
•
Dispose of the used syringe in a sharps container (closable, 
puncture-resistant container). For the safety and health of 
you and others, needles and used syringes must never be 
re-used.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or 
household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures 
will help protect the environment. Any unused product or 
waste material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements.
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
232
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
40 mg/0.8 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis,
ankylosing spondylitis,
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,
psoriatic arthritis,
psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis and
non-infectious uveitis.
The active substance in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
233
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is 
inappropriate, Hefiya can be given alone.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis or enthesitis-related arthritis.
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine.
Hefiya is used in adults to treat these conditions. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given 
other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce 
the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Hefiya is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom medicines applied 
to the skin and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or are not suitable.
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis.
Hefiya is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and improve physical function.
234
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Hefiya 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults children aged 6 to 17 years. If you 
have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well 
enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye. 
•
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
235
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infection
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
Travel/recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some 
rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
236
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya.
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
237
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled pen if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
238
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Hefiya is available as a 40 mg pen as well as 20 mg and 40 mg pre-filled syringes for patients to 
administer a full 20 mg or 40 mg dose. 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age and body weight
Notes
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
Notes
Not applicable
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age and body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age and body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
239
Psoriasis
Age and body weight
Adults
Plaque psoriasis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age and body weight
Adults
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg given 
every other week starting 
one week after the first dose. 
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
Not applicable
Not applicable
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg one 
week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, 
followed by 20 mg one 
week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one 
day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 
40 mg injections on the 
same day) two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dose of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week later.
240
Crohn’s disease
Age and body weight
Adults
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age and body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the dose 
to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
241
Ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Adults
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age and body weight
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day 
or as two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for
two consecutive days) initially, 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week. (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day)
First dose is 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two 
weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
242
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dose to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week with 
methotrexate
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
•
•
•
243
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
244
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor;
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
double vision;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
245
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut);
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness). 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
246
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count.  
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label/blister/carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must be used within 21 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab in 
0.8 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, citric acid monohydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol (E 
421) , polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric acid (E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water 
for injections (see section 2 “Hefiya contains sodium)).
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled pen is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to slightly 
opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen  with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
247
29 gauge needle and an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), containing 0.8 ml of 
solution.
Cartons contain 1 and 2 pre-filled pens of Hefiya.
Multipack cartons contain 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
248
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Terapia S.A.
Tel: +40 264 50 15 00
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
249
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the pre-filled pen 
before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled pen 
Figure A: Hefiya pen parts
In Figure A, the pen is shown with the cap removed. Do not remove the cap until you are ready to 
inject.
It is important that you:
•
•
•
•
•
•
do not open the outer box until you are ready to use the pen.
do not use the pen if either the seal on the outer carton or the safety seal on the pen is broken. 
never leave the pen unattended where others might tamper with it.
if you drop your pen, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the cap 
removed.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used pen right away after use. Do not re-use the pen. See “8. Disposing of 
used pens” at the end of this Instructions for Use.
How should you store your pen?
•
•
•
•
•
Store your pen within the carton in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature 
(up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 21 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed 
from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must be used within 21 
days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date 
when your pre-filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should 
be discarded. 
Keep your pen in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store your pen in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze your pen.
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children.
250
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your carton is: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled pen/s (see Figure A). Each pen contains 40 mg/0.8 ml of Hefiya.
Not included in your carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container
Figure B: items not included in the carton
See “8.
Disposing of used pens” at the end of these Instructions for Use. 
Before your injection 
Preparing the pen
•
•
For a more comfortable injection, take your pen out of the refrigerator 15 to 30 minutes before 
injecting Hefiya to allow it to reach room temperature.  
Look through the viewing window. The solution should be colourless or slightly yellowish as 
well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any particulates and/or discolorations are 
observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist 
for assistance. 
Figure C: Safety Checks before injection 
•
•
Look at the expiry date (EXP) on your pen. Do not use your pen if the expiry date has passed. 
Do not use if the safety seal has been broken.
Contact your pharmacist if the pen fails any of the above mentioned checks.
251
1. Choosing your injection site: 
•
•
•
The recommended injection site is the front of your thighs. 
You may also use the lower abdomen, but not the area 5 cm 
around your navel (belly button) (see Figure D). 
Choose a different site each time you give yourself an 
injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, 
scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. If you 
have psoriasis, you should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
•
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site with an 
alcohol wipe. Leave it to dry before injecting (see Figure E).
Do not touch the cleaned area again before injecting. 
Figure D: choose your injection site
3. Removing the cap of the pen:
Figure E: clean your injection site
•
•
•
•
•
Only remove the cap when you are ready to use the pen. 
Twist off the cap in the direction of the arrows (see 
Figure F). 
Once removed, throw away the cap. Do not try to re-attach 
the cap. 
Use your pen within 5 minutes of removing the cap. 
You may see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
This is normal.
Figure F: remove the cap
252
4. Holding the pen:
•
Hold your pen at 90 degrees to the cleaned injection site (see 
Figure G).
Correct         Incorrect
Figure G: hold your pen
Your injection
You must read this before injecting
During the injection you will hear 2 loud clicks: 
o The 1st click indicates that the injection has started. 
o Several seconds later a 2nd click will indicate that the injection is almost finished. 
You must keep holding your pen firmly against your skin until you see a green indicator fill the 
window and stop moving.
5. Starting your injection: 
•
•
•
•
Press your pen firmly against the skin to start the injection 
(see Figure H). 
The 1st click indicates the injection has started. 
Keep holding your pen firmly against your skin.
The green indicator shows the progress of the injection. 
6. Completing your injection:
•
•
•
Listen for the 2nd click. This indicates the injection is almost 
complete. 
Check the green indicator fills the window and has stopped 
moving (see Figure I). 
The pen can now be removed. 
Figure H: start your injection
Figure I: complete your injection
253
After your injection
7. Check the green indicator fills the window (see Figure J):
•
•
This means the medicine has been delivered. Contact your 
doctor if the green indicator is not visible. 
There may be a small amount of blood at the injection site. 
You can press a cotton ball or gauze over the injection site 
and hold it for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. You 
may cover the injection site with a small adhesive bandage, if 
needed. 
8. Disposing of used pens:
•
•
Dispose of the used pens in a sharps container (closable, 
puncture-resistant container). For the safety and health of 
you and others, the pens must never be re-used.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or 
household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures 
will help protect the environment. Any unused product or 
waste material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements.
Figure J: check the green indicator
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
254
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
adalimumab
40 mg/0.4 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis,
ankylosing spondylitis,
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,
psoriatic arthritis,
plaque psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis,
non-infectious uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
255
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment.
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years.  Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If 
these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya 
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join 
the bone. Hefiya is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from 6 years of age. 
Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate.
If these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya.
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine.
Hefiya is used in adults to treat these conditions. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given 
other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce 
the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Hefiya is also used to treat severe 
plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom medicines applied to the skin 
and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or are not suitable.
256
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis.
Hefiya is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and improve physical function.
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.  
Hefiya can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated 
with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, 
you will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your ulcerative colitis.
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and / or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye.
•
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you 
257
will be given Hefiya.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infections
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, lack of energy, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
258
Travel / recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are very common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of getting HBV. Your doctor should test you for 
HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya. 
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
259
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses lower than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
260
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended doses for Hefiya in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. 
Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Hefiya if you need a different dose. 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age or body weight
Notes
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
261
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age or body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age or body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Plaque Psoriasis
Age or body weight
Adults
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg given 
every other week starting 
one week after the first dose. 
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
Notes
Not applicable
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg one 
week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, 
followed by 20 mg one 
week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
262
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age or body weight
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Adults
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one 
day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 40 mg 
injections on the same day) 
two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dosage of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week later.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
263
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Ulcerative colitis
Age or body weight
Adults
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day 
or as two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age orbody weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) 
initially, followed by 80 mg (as 
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every other 
week, should continue their 
prescribed dose
264
Children and adolescents 
from 6 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age or body weight
Adults
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week.
First dose is 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week 
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 40 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 20 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
265
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
•
•
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
266
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
267
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor (shaking);
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut); 
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection;
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
268
•
•
•
•
•
•
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness).
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
269
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label / blister / carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 42 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab in 
0.4 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, mannitol (E 421), polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric 
acid (E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water for injections.
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a 0.4 ml clear to 
slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with 
a needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger rod, 
containing 0.4 ml of solution. 
Cartons contain 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Multipack cartons contain 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
270
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
271
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
272
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for Use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the single-dose 
pre-filled syringe before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any 
questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
Figure A: Hefiya pre-filled syringe with needle guard and finger flange
It is important that you:
•
do not use the pre-filled syringe if the seals of the blister are broken, as it may not be safe for 
you to use. 
do not open the outer box until you are ready to use the pre-filled syringe.
never leave the pre-filled syringe unattended where others might tamper with it. 
if you drop your syringe, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the 
needle cap removed.
do not remove the needle cap until just before you give the injection.
be careful not to touch the needle guard wings before use. Touching them may cause the 
needle guard to be activated too early. 
do not remove the finger flange before the injection.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used syringe right away after use. Do not re-use a pre-filled syringe. See “4. 
Disposing of used pre-filled syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
273
How should you store Hefiya single-dose pre-filled syringe?
•
•
Store your outer carton of pre-filled syringes in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe 
must be used within 42 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when your pre-filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, 
and the date after which it should be discarded. 
Keep your pre-filled syringes in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store the pre-filled syringes in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze the pre-filled syringes.
•
•
•
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children. 
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your pre-filled syringe carton are: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled syringe/s (see Figure A). Each pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg/0.4 ml of 
adalimumab. 
Not included in your HEFIYA pre-filled syringe carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container. See “4. Disposing of used pre-filled syringes” at the end of this 
Instructions for Use. 
Adhesive bandage
Figure B: items not included in the carton
Before your injection
Figure C: needle guard is not activated –                              
the syringe is ready for use
use
Figure D: needle guard is activated – do not 
o
o
In this configuration the needle guard 
is NOT ACTIVATED. 
The syringe is ready for use (see 
Figure C).
o In this configuration the needle guard is 
ACTIVATED.
o DO NOT USE the syringe (see 
Figure D).
274
Preparing the syringe
•
For a more comfortable injection, take the carton containing the pre-filled syringe out of the 
refrigerator and leave it unopened on your work surface for about 15 to 30 minutes to allow 
it to  reach room temperature. 
Take the pre-filled syringe out of the blister.
Look through the viewing window. The solution should be colourless or slightly yellowish as 
well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any particulates and / or discolorations are 
observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your 
pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it is broken or the needle guard is activated. Return the 
pre-filled syringe and the package it came in to the pharmacy.
Look at the expiration date (EXP) on your pre-filled syringe. Do not use your pre-filled 
syringe if the expiration date has passed. 
•
•
•
•
Contact your pharmacist if the syringe fails any of the above mentioned checks. 
1. Choosing your injection site: 
•
The recommended injection site is the front of 
your thighs. You may also use the lower 
abdomen, but not the area 5 cm around your 
navel (belly button) (see Figure E). 
•
•
Choose a different site each time you give 
yourself an injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with 
scars or stretch marks. If you have psoriasis, you 
should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
•
•
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site 
with an alcohol wipe. Let it dry before injecting 
(see Figure F).
Do not touch the cleaned area before injecting.
Figure E: choose your injection site
Figure F: clean your injection site
275
3. Giving your injection:
•
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off to remove 
it from the pre-filled syringe (see Figure G).  
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Discard the needle cap. 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the 
needle. This is normal.
Gently pinch the skin at the injection site (see 
Figure H).
Insert the needle into your skin as shown. 
Push the needle all the way in to ensure that the 
medicine can be fully administered 
Use your syringe within 5 minutes of removing the 
cap. 
Hold the pre-filled syringe as shown (see Figure I).
Slowly press down on the plunger as far as it will 
go, so that the plunger head is completely between 
the needle guard wings.
Keep the plunger pressed fully down while you hold 
the syringe in place for 5 seconds.
Figure G: pull the needle cap off
Figure H: insert the needle
• Keep the plunger fully pressed down while you 
carefully lift the needle straight out from the injection 
site and let go of your skin (see Figure J).
Figure I: hold the syringe
•
•
Slowly release the plunger and allow the needle 
safety guard to automatically cover the exposed 
needle (see Figure K).
There may be a small amount of blood at the 
injection site. You can press a cotton ball or gauze 
onto the injection site and hold it for 10 seconds. Do 
not rub the injection site. You may cover the 
injection site with a small adhesive bandage, if 
needed.
276
Figure J: lift the needle straight out
Figure K: slowly release the plunger
4. Disposing of used syringes:
•
Dispose of the used syringe in a sharps container 
(closable, puncture-resistant container, see 
Figure L). For the safety and health of you and 
others, needles and used syringes must never be 
re-used.
•
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or 
household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. 
These measures will help protect the environment. 
Any unused product or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
Figure L: dispose of your used 
syringe
277
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
40 mg/0.4 ml
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
enthesitis-related arthritis,
ankylosing spondylitis,
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,
psoriatic arthritis,
plaque psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis,
non-infectious uveitis.
The active ingredient in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
278
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is 
inappropriate, Hefiya can be given alone.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints that usually first 
appear in childhood. 
Hefiya is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years.  Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If 
these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join 
the bone. Hefiya is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from 6 years of age. 
Patients may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate.
If these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given Hefiya.
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine.
Hefiya is used in adults to treat these conditions. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given 
other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce 
the signs and symptoms of your disease.
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Hefiya is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom medicines applied 
to the skin and treatment with UV light have either not worked very well or are not suitable.
279
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis.
Hefiya is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and improve physical function.
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.  
Hefiya can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated 
with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, 
you will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your ulcerative colitis.
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and / or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye. 
•
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
280
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you 
will be given Hefiya.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infections
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, lack of energy, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
281
Travel / recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are very common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of getting HBV. Your doctor should test you for 
HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya.
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
282
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled pen if doses lower than 40 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
283
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Hefiya in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. 
Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Hefiya if you need a different dose.  
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age or body weight
Notes
Adults
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
284
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Age or body weight
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children, adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Enthesitis-related arthritis
Age or body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg
Plaque Psoriasis
Age or body weight
Adults
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week
Notes
Not applicable
20 mg every other week
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg given 
every other week starting 
one week after the first dose. 
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17 years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg
Notes
Not applicable
Not applicable
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg one 
week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 20 mg, 
followed by 20 mg one 
week later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
285
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age or body weight
Adults
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Adults
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one 
day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 
80 mg dose (as two 40 mg 
injections on the same day) 
two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dosage of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week later.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
286
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children and adolescent from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Ulcerative colitis
Age or body weight
Adults
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day 
or as two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg (as 
two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (as four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for
two consecutive days) initially, 
followed by 80 mg (as two 
287
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your child’s 
doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age or body weight
Adults
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week. 
First dose is 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week 
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 40mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 20 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate..
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
288
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
•
•
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
289
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
290
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor (shaking);
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut);
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
291
•
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness). 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count.  
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
292
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label / blister / carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must be used within 42 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab in 
0.4 ml of solution.
•
The other ingredients are adipic acid, mannitol (E 421) , polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric acid (E 
507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water for injections.
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 40 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled pen is supplied as a 0.4 ml clear to slightly 
opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
29 gauge needle and an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), containing 0.4 ml of 
solution.
Cartons contain 1, 2 and 4 pre-filled pens of Hefiya.
Multipack cartons contain 6 (3 packs of 2) pre-filled pens of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
293
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
294
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use Hefiya correctly, it is important that you 
follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the Hefiya 
single-dose pre-filled pen before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you 
have any questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled pen 
Figure A: Hefiya pen parts
In Figure A, the pen is shown with the cap removed. Do not remove the cap until you are ready to 
inject.
295
•
•
•
•
•
•
It is important that you:
•
•
•
•
do not use the pen if either the seal on the outer carton or the safety seal on the pen is broken. 
keep your pen in the sealed outer carton until you are ready to use it. 
never leave the pen unattended where others might tamper with it.
do not use your pen, if you dropped it, it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the cap 
removed.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used pen right away after use. Do not re-use the pen. See “8. Disposing of 
used pens” at the end of this Instructions for Use.
How should you store your pen?
•
•
Store your pen carton in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed, for example when you are travelling, Hefiya may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days.  – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must 
be used within 42 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when your pre-filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, 
and the date after which it should be discarded. 
Keep your pen in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store your pen in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze your pen.
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children.
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your carton are: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled pen/s (see Figure A). Each pen contains 40 mg/0.4 ml of adalimumab.
Not included in your pen carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container See “8. Disposing of used pens” at the end of these Instructions for 
Use
Adhesive bandage. 
Figure B: items not included in the carton
296
Before your injection
Preparing the pen
•
For a more comfortable injection, take your pen out 
of the refrigerator 15 to 30 minutes before injecting 
Hefiya to allow it to reach room temperature.  
Look through the viewing window. The solution 
should be colourless or slightly yellowish as well as 
clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any 
particulates and / or discolorations are observed. 
You may see small air bubbles, which is normal. If 
you are concerned with the appearance of the 
solution, then contact your pharmacist for 
assistance. 
•
•
•
Look at the expiration date (EXP) on your pen (see 
Figure C). Do not use your pen if the expiration 
date has passed. 
Do not use if the safety seal has been broken.
Figure C: Safety Checks before 
injection
Contact your pharmacist if the pen fails any of the 
above mentioned checks.
1.
•
•
•
•
Choosing your injection site: 
The recommended injection site is the front of 
your thighs. You may also use the lower 
abdomen, but not the area 5 cm around your 
navel (belly button) (see Figure D). 
Choose a different site each time you give 
yourself an injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with 
scars or stretch marks. 
If you have psoriasis, you should NOT inject 
directly into areas with psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
•
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site 
with an alcohol wipe. Let it dry before injecting 
(see Figure E).
Do not touch the cleaned area again before 
injecting.
Figure D: choose your injection site
Figure E: clean your injection site
297
3. Removing the cap of your pen:
•
•
•
•
•
Only remove the cap when you are ready to use 
the pen. 
Twist off the cap in the direction of the arrows 
(see Figure F). 
Once removed, throw away the cap. Do not try 
to re-attach the cap. 
Use your pen within 5 minutes of removing the 
cap. 
You may see a few drops of liquid come out of 
the needle. This is normal.
Figure F: remove the cap
4. Holding the pen:
•
Hold your pen at 90 degrees to the cleaned injection site (see Figure G).
Correct         Incorrect
Figure G: hold your pen
Your injection
You must read this before injecting
During the injection you will hear 2 loud clicks: 
o The first click indicates that the injection has started. 
o Several seconds later a second click will indicate that the injection is almost finished. 
You must keep holding your pen firmly against your skin until you see a green indicator fill the 
window and stop moving.
5. Starting your injection: 
•
•
•
•
Press your pen firmly against the skin to start the 
injection (see Figure H). 
The first click indicates the injection has started. 
Keep holding your pen firmly against your skin.
The green indicator shows the progress of the 
injection.
Figure H: start your injection
298
6. Completing your injection:
•
•
•
Listen for the second click. This indicates the 
injection is almost complete. 
Check the green indicator fills the window and 
has stopped moving (see Figure I). 
The pen can now be removed.
After your injection
7. Check the green indicator fills the window (see 
Figure J):
•
•
This means the medicine has been delivered. 
Contact your doctor if the green indicator is not 
visible. 
There may be a small amount of blood at the 
injection site. You can press a cotton ball or 
gauze over the injection site and hold it for 
10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. You 
may cover the injection site with a small 
adhesive bandage, if needed.
8. Disposing of used pens:
•
•
Dispose of the used pens in a sharps container 
(closable, puncture-resistant container, see 
Figure K). For the safety and health of you and 
others, the pens must never be re-used.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater 
or household waste. Ask your doctor or 
pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no 
longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. Any unused product or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements.
Figure I: complete your injection
Figure J: check the green indicator
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
Figure K: dispose of your used pen
299
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe
adalimumab
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
-
-
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
plaque psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis,
non-infectious uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
300
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment.
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. 
Hefiya can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated 
with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, 
you will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your ulcerative colitis.
301
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and / or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye.
•
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you 
will be given Hefiya.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infections
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
302
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, lack of energy, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
Travel/recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are very common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of getting HBV. Your doctor should test you for 
HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya. 
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
303
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 80 mg pre-filled syringe if doses other than 80 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
304
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended doses for Hefiya in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. 
Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Hefiya if you need a different dose.
305
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age orbody weight
Notes
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
Adults
Plaque Psoriasis
Age or body weight
Adults
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age or body weight
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injection), followed by 
40 mg given every other 
week starting one week after 
the first dose. 
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day 
or one 80 mg injection per 
day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (one 80 mg injection) 
two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dosage of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week later.
306
Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults weighing 40 kg or more
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Ulcerative colitis
Age or body weight
Adults
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injections), followed by 
40 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day or 
one 80 mg injection per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection ) two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injections), followed by 40 mg 
two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day 
or as one 80 mg injection per 
day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg 
(one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day or 
one 80 mg injection per day for 
two consecutive days) initially, 
307
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age or body weight
Adults
followed by 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection) two weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week. 
First dose is 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection) initially followed by 
40 mg (as one 40 mg injection) 
two weeks later. Thereafter, the 
usual dose is 40 mg every other 
week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injection), followed by 
40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week 
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 40mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 20 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate.
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
308
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
•
•
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
309
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
•
•
•
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
310
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor (shaking);
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut); 
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection;
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
311
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness).
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label / blister / carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
312
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe must be used within 42 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled syringe is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg of adalimumab in 
0.8 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid,  mannitol (E 421), polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric 
acid (E 507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water for injections.
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to 
slightly opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use clear type I glass syringe with a stainless steel 29 gauge needle with 
a needle guard with finger flange, rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer) and plastic plunger rod, 
containing 0.8 ml of solution. 
Cartons contain 1 and 2 pre-filled syringes of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
313
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
314
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
315
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the medicine correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for Use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the single-dose 
pre-filled syringe before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any 
questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled syringe with needle guard and add-on finger flange
Figure A: Hefiya pre-filled syringe with needle guard and finger flange
It is important that you:
•
do not use the pre-filled syringe if the seals of the blister are broken, as it may not be safe for 
you to use
do not open the outer box until you are ready to use the pre-filled syringe.
never leave the pre-filled syringe unattended where others might tamper with it.
if you drop your syringe, do not use it if it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the 
needle cap removed.
do not remove the needle cap until just before you give the injection.
be careful not to touch the needle guard wings before use. Touching them may cause the 
needle guard to be activated too early. 
do not remove the finger flange before the injection.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used syringe right away after use. Do not re-use a pre-filled syringe. See “4. 
Disposing of used pre-filled syringes” at the end of these Instructions for Use.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
316
How should you store Hefiya single-dose pre-filled syringe?
•
•
Store your outer carton of pre-filled syringes in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled syringe 
must be used within 42 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when your pre-filled syringe is first removed from the 
refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded. 
Keep your pre-filled syringes in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store the pre-filled syringes in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze the pre-filled syringes.
•
•
•
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children. 
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your pre-filled syringe carton are: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled syringe/s (see Figure A). Each pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg/0.8 ml of 
adalimumab. 
Not included in your HEFIYA pre-filled syringe carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container. See “4. Disposing of used pre-filled syringes” at the end of this 
Instructions for Use. 
Adhesive bandage
Figure B: items not included in the carton 
Before your injection
Figure C: needle guard is not activated – the single-
dose pre-filled syringe is ready for use
o
In this configuration the needle guard is not 
activated. 
The syringe is ready for use (see Figure C).
o
Figure D: needle guard is activated – do not 
use
o In this configuration the needle guard of 
your pre-filled syringe is activated.
o Do not use the syringe (see Figure D).
317
Preparing the syringe
•
For a more comfortable injection, take the carton containing the pre-filled syringe out of the 
refrigerator and leave it unopened on your work surface for about 15 to 30 minutes to allow 
it to reach room temperature. 
Take the pre-filled syringe out of the blister.
Look through the viewing window. The solution should be colourless or slightly yellowish as 
well as clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any particulates and / or discolorations are 
observed. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your 
pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it is broken or the needle guard is activated. Return the 
pre-filled syringe and the package it came in to the pharmacy.
Look at the expiration date (EXP) on your pre-filled syringe. Do not use your pre-filled  
syringe if the expiration date has passed. 
•
•
•
•
Contact your pharmacist if the syringe fails any of the above mentioned checks. 
1. Choosing your injection site: 
•
The recommended injection site is the front of 
your thighs. You may also use the lower 
abdomen, but not the area 5 cm around your 
navel (belly button) (see Figure E). 
•
•
Choose a different site each time you give 
yourself an injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with 
scars or stretch marks. If you have psoriasis, you 
should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
•
•
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site 
with an alcohol wipe. Let it dry before injecting 
(see Figure F).
Do not touch the cleaned area before injecting.
Figure E: choose your injection site
Figure F: clean your injection site
318
3.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Giving your injection:
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off to remove it 
from the pre-filled syringe (see Figure G).  
Discard the needle cap. 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the 
needle. This is normal.
Gently pinch the skin at the injection site (see 
Figure H).
Insert the needle into your skin as shown. 
Push the needle all the way in to ensure that the 
medicine can be fully administered.
Use your syringe within 5 minutes of removing the 
cap
Hold the pre-filled syringe as shown (see Figure I).
Slowly press down on the plunger as far as it will go, 
so that the plunger head is completely between the 
needle guard wings.
Keep the plunger pressed fully down while you hold 
the syringe in place for 5 seconds.
Figure G: pull the needle cap off
Figure H: insert the needle
Keep the plunger fully pressed down while you 
carefully lift the needle straight out from the 
injection site and let go of your skin (see Figure J).
Figure I: hold the syringe
Figure J: lift the needle straight out
319
•
•
Slowly release the plunger and allow the needle 
safety guard to automatically cover the exposed 
needle (see Figure K).
There may be a small amount of blood at the 
injection site. You can press a cotton ball or gauze 
onto the injection site and hold it for 10 seconds. Do 
not rub the injection site. You may cover the 
injection site with a small adhesive bandage, if 
needed.
4. Disposing of used syringes:
•
Dispose of the used syringe in a sharps container 
(closable, puncture-resistant container, see 
Figure L). For the safety and health of you and 
others, needles and used syringes must never be 
re-used.
•
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or 
household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. 
These measures will help protect the environment. 
Any unused product or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
Figure K: slowly release the plunger
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya
Figure L: dispose of your used 
syringe
320
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen
adalimumab
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Hefiya and during treatment with 
Hefiya. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months 
after your (or your child’s) last injection of Hefiya.
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
1.
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
How to use Hefiya
Possible side effects
How to store Hefiya
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for use 
What Hefiya is and what it is used for
Hefiya contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Hefiya is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:
•
•
•
•
•
•
rheumatoid arthritis,
plaque psoriasis,
hidradenitis suppurativa,
Crohn’s disease,
ulcerative colitis, 
non-infectious uveitis.
The active ingredient in Hefiya, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is another protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Hefiya blocks its 
action and reduces the inflammation in these diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints.
Hefiya is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Hefiya to treat your rheumatoid arthritis.
321
Hefiya can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Hefiya can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function.
Usually, Hefiya is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is 
inappropriate, Hefiya can be given alone.
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells.
Hefiya is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus.
It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner 
thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
• moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.
Hefiya can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated 
with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, 
you will be given Hefiya.
Crohn’s disease in adults and children
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
• moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease.
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of large intestine.
Hefiya is used to treat 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
• moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Hefiya to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease.
322
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. The inflammation 
leads to a decrease of vision and / or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that 
move across the field of vision). Hefiya works by reducing this inflammation.
Hefiya is used to treat 
•
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye. 
children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye.
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you 
will be given Hefiya.
2.
What you need to know before you use Hefiya
Do not use Hefiya
•
•
•
if you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis, sepsis (blood poisoning) or other 
opportunistic infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems (see “Warnings and precautions”).
if you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Hefiya.
Allergic reaction
•
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash, do not inject more Hefiya and contact your doctor immediately, since in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening.
Infections
•
•
•
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example leg ulcer), 
consult your doctor before starting Hefiya. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Hefiya treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be more serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, or other unusual 
infectious organisms and sepsis (blood poisoning). 
In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you 
get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may 
recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
323
Tuberculosis (TB)
•
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with adalimumab, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Hefiya. This will include 
a thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, lack of energy, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately.
Travel/recurrent infection
•
•
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are very common.
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections.
Hepatitis B virus
•
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of getting HBV. Your doctor should test you for 
HBV. Adalimumab can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening.
Age over 65 years
•
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Hefiya. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Hefiya. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems.
Surgery or dental procedures
•
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that you are taking Hefiya. 
Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Hefiya.
Demyelinating disease
•
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Hefiya. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body.
Vaccine
•
Certain vaccines contain living but weakened forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses and 
should not be given during treatment with Hefiya in case they cause infections. Check with your 
doctor before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that, if possible, children be given all 
the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Hefiya.
If you receive Hefiya while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an 
infection for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Hefiya 
use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine.
324
Heart failure
•
It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious heart condition. If you have 
mild heart failure and you are being treated with Hefiya, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure 
(e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale
•
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections 
or help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or 
bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment.
Cancer
•
•
•
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking 
adalimumab or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have 
had the disease for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma and 
leukaemia (cancers that affect blood cells and bone marrow). If you take Hefiya the risk of 
getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare occasions, a specific and 
severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking adalimumab. Some of those 
patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if 
you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Hefiya. 
In addition cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking 
adalimumab. If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after treatment or if existing marks 
or areas of damage change appearance, tell your doctor.
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma, in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another 
TNFα blocker. If you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you.
Autoimmune diseases
•
On rare occasions, treatment with Hefiya could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor, if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur.
Children and adolescents
•
•
•
•
Do not give Hefiya to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric plaque psoriasis or paediatric ulcerative colitis 
below the age of 4 years.
Do not give Hefiya to children with paediatric Crohn’s disease below the age of 6 years.
Do not use the 80 mg pre-filled pen if doses other than 80 mg are recommended.
Other medicines and Hefiya
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Hefiya can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids 
or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
325
You should not take Hefiya with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept 
due to increased risk of serious infection. The combination of adalimumab as well as other TNF-
antagonists and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. If you have 
questions, please ask your doctor.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Hefiya treatment.
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine.
Hefiya should only be used during a pregnancy if needed.
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab.
Hefiya can be used during breast-feeding.
If you receive Hefiya during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Hefiya use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).
Driving and using machines
Hefiya may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Hefiya.
Hefiya contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Hefiya
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Hefiya in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. 
Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Hefiya if you need a different dose.
326
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis
Age or body weight
Notes
How much and how often 
to take?
40 mg every other week as a 
single dose
Adults
Plaque Psoriasis
Age or body weight
Adults
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Age or body weight
Adults
Adolescents from 12 to 
17 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Hefiya. If your 
doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Hefiya can be given alone.
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Hefiya therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
40 mg Hefiya every week or 
80 mg every other week.
Notes
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you. If this 
dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas.
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injection), followed by 
40 mg given every other 
week starting one week after 
the first dose. 
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day 
or one 80 mg injection per 
day for two consecutive 
days), followed by an 
80 mg dose (one 80 mg 
injection) two weeks later. 
After two further weeks, 
continue with a dosage of 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor.
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week later.
327
Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children, adolescents and 
adults weighing 40 kg or more
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Age or body weight
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg
Ulcerative colitis
Age or body weight
Adults
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
Notes
If this dose does not work well 
enough, your child’s doctor 
may increase the dose 
frequency to 20 mg every 
week.
Notes
If this dose does not work 
well enough, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injections), followed by 
40 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day or 
one 80 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection in one day) two 
weeks later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg every other week 
starting two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day 
or one 80 mg injection per 
day for two consecutive 
days), followed by 80 mg 
(one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later.
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Age and body weight
Children and adolescents from 
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose is 160 mg (two 
80 mg injections in one day or 
328
Notes
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 80 mg every 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg
Non-infectious uveitis
Age or body weight
Adults
one 80 mg injection per day for 
two consecutive days) initially, 
followed by 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection in one day) two weeks 
later.
Thereafter the usual dose is 
80 mg every other week. 
First dose is 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection) initially followed by 
40 mg (as one 40 mg injection) 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week.
How much and how often 
to take?
First dose of 80 mg (one 
80 mg injection), followed by 
40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the 
first dose.
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more
40 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg
20 mg every other week 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose
Patients who turn 18 years of 
age while on 40 mg every 
other week, should continue 
their prescribed dose.
Notes
In non-infectious uveitis, 
corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Hefiya. 
Hefiya can also be given 
alone.
You should continue to inject 
Hefiya for as long as your 
doctor has told you.
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 80 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 40mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate..
Your doctor may also 
prescribe a first dose of 40 mg 
which may be administered 
one week prior to the start of 
the usual dose of 20 mg every 
other week. Hefiya is 
recommended for the use in 
combination with 
methotrexate..
Method and route of administration
Hefiya is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection).
Detailed instructions on how to inject Hefiya are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”.
If you use more Hefiya than you should
329
If you accidentally inject Hefiya more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist 
and explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of medicine with 
you, even if it is empty.
If you forget to use Hefiya
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Hefiya as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose.
If you stop using Hefiya
The decision to stop using Hefiya should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Hefiya injection.
Seek medical attention urgently, if you notice any of the following signs of allergic reaction or heart 
failure:
•
•
•
•
severe rash, hives;
swollen face, hands, feet;
trouble breathing, swallowing;
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet.
Tell your doctor as soon as possible, if you notice any of the following:
•
•
•
•
signs and symptoms of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning 
on urination, feeling weak or tired or coughing;
symptoms of nerve problems such as tingling, numbness, double vision or arm or leg weakness;
signs of skin cancer such as a bump or open sore that doesn't heal;
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness.
The following side effects have been observed with adalimumab:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching);
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia);
headache;
abdominal (belly) pain;
nausea and vomiting;
rash;
pain in the muscles.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza);
330
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis);
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles);
ear infections;
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores);
reproductive tract infections;
urinary tract infection;
fungal infections;
joint infections;
benign tumours;
skin cancer;
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy);
dehydration;
mood swings (including depression);
anxiety;
difficulty sleeping;
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness;
migraine;
symptoms of nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain);
vision disturbances;
eye inflammation;
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling;
vertigo (sensation of room spinning);
sensation of heart beating rapidly;
high blood pressure;
flushing;
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood);
cough;
asthma;
shortness of breath;
gastrointestinal bleeding;
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn);
acid reflux disease;
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth);
itching;
itchy rash;
bruising;
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema);
breaking of finger nails and toe nails;
increased sweating;
hair loss;
new onset or worsening of psoriasis;
muscle spasms;
blood in urine;
kidney problems;
chest pain;
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell);
fever;
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising;
impaired healing.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
unusual infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections) that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered;
331
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
neurological infections (including viral meningitis);
eye infections;
bacterial infections;
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine);
cancer, including cancer that affects the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of 
skin cancer);
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis);
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels);
tremor (shaking);
neuropathy (nerve damage);
stroke;
hearing loss, buzzing;
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats;
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling;
heart attack;
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel;
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation);
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung);
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space);
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back;
difficulty in swallowing;
facial oedema (swelling);
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones;
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells);
night sweats;
scar;
abnormal muscle breakdown;
systemic lupus erythematosus (an immune disorder including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, 
joints and other organ systems);
sleep interruptions;
impotence;
inflammations.
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow);
severe allergic reaction with shock;
multiple sclerosis;
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body);
heart stops pumping;
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung);
intestinal perforation (hole in the wall of the gut);
hepatitis (liver inflammation);
reactivation of hepatitis B infection; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system);
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin);
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and blistering 
rash);
facial oedema (swelling) associated with allergic reactions;
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash);
lupus-like syndrome;
332
•
•
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data)
•
•
•
•
•
•
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal);
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer);
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin;
liver failure;
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness). 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small)
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for red blood cells;
increased lipids in the blood;
raised liver enzymes.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
high blood measurements for white blood cells;
low blood measurements for platelets;
increased uric acid in the blood;
abnormal blood measurements for sodium;
low blood measurements for calcium;
low blood measurements for phosphate;
high blood sugar;
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase;
autoantibodies present in the blood;
low blood potassium.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
•
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count.  
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.
5.
How to store Hefiya
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
333
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label / blister / carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage:
When needed (for example when you are travelling), Hefiya may be stored at room temperature (up to 
25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed from the 
refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must be used within 42 days or 
discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. You should record the date when your pre-
filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, and the date after which it should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Hefiya contains
•
The active substance is adalimumab. Each pre-filled pen contains 80 mg of adalimumab in 
0.8 ml of solution.
The other ingredients are adipic acid, mannitol (E 421) , polysorbate 80 (E 433), hydrochloric acid (E 
507), sodium hydroxide (E 524) and water for injections.
What Hefiya looks like and contents of the pack
Hefiya 80 mg solution for injection (injection) in pre-filled pen is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to slightly 
opalescent, colourless or slightly yellowish solution.
Hefiya is supplied in a single-use pre-filled syringe assembled into a triangular-shaped pen with 
transparent window and label. The syringe inside the pen is made of type I glass with a stainless steel 
29 gauge needle and an inner rubber needle cap (thermoplastic elastomer), containing 0.8 ml of 
solution.
Cartons contain 1, 2 and 3 pre-filled pens of Hefiya.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Hefiya is available as a pre-filled syringe and a pre-filled pen .
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
334
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen 
Austria
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH
Biochemiestrasse 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +356 99644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
335
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 50 70 6111
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
336
7.
Instructions for use 
To help avoid possible infections and to ensure that you use the Hefiya correctly, it is important that 
you follow these instructions. 
Be sure that you read, understand, and follow these Instructions for use before injecting Hefiya. Your 
healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Hefiya properly using the Hefiya 
single-dose pre-filled pen before you use it for the first time. Talk to your healthcare provider if you 
have any questions.
Your Hefiya single-use pre-filled pen 
Figure A: Hefiya pen parts
In Figure A, the pen is shown with the cap removed. Do not remove the cap until you are ready to 
inject.
It is important that you:
•
•
•
•
do not use the pen if either the seal on the outer carton or the safety seal on the pen is broken. 
Keep your pen in the sealed outer carton until you are ready to use it.
never leave the pen unattended where others might tamper with it.
do not use your pen, if you dropped it, it looks damaged, or if you dropped it with the cap 
removed.
inject Hefiya 15–30 minutes after taking it out of the refrigerator for a more comfortable 
injection.
throw away the used pen right away after use. Do not re-use the pen. See “8. Disposing of 
used pens” at the end of this Instructions for Use.
How should you store your pen?
•
•
Store your pen carton in a refrigerator, between 2°C to 8°C.
When needed, for example when you are travelling, Hefiya may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 42 days. – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, your pre-filled pen must 
be used within 42 days or discarded, even if it is later returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when your pre-filled pen is first removed from the refrigerator, 
and the date after which it should be discarded.  
Keep your pen in the original carton until ready to use to protect from light. 
Do not store your pen in extreme heat or cold. 
Do not freeze your pen.
•
•
•
•
•
•
Keep Hefiya and all medicines out of the reach of children.
337
What do you need for your injection?
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface.
Included in your carton are: 
•
Hefiya pre-filled pen/s (see Figure A). Each pen contains 80 mg/0.8 ml of adalimumab.
Not included in your pen carton are (see Figure B):
•
•
•
•
Alcohol wipe 
Cotton ball or gauze 
Sharps disposal container See “8. Disposing of used pens” at the end of these Instructions for 
Use
Adhesive bandage.
Figure B: items not included in the carton
Before your injection 
Figure C: safety checks before 
injection
Preparing the pen
•
For a more comfortable injection, take your pen out 
of the refrigerator 15 to 30 minutes before injecting 
Hefiya to allow it to reach room temperature.  
Look through the viewing window. The solution 
should be colourless or slightly yellowish as well as 
clear to slightly opalescent. Do not use if any 
particulates and / or discolorations are observed. 
You may see small air bubbles, which is normal. If 
you are concerned with the appearance of the 
solution, then contact your pharmacist for assistance
Look at the expiration date (EXP) on your pen (see 
Figure C). Do not use your pen if the expiration 
date has passed. 
Do not use if the safety seal has been broken.
•
•
•
Contact your pharmacist if the pen fails any of the 
above mentioned checks.
338
1.
•
•
•
Choosing your injection site: 
The recommended injection site is the front of 
your thighs. You may also use the lower 
abdomen, but not the area 5 cm around your 
navel (belly button) (see Figure D). 
Choose a different site each time you give 
yourself an injection. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with 
scars or stretch marks. If you have psoriasis, you 
should NOT inject directly into areas with 
psoriasis plaques.
2. Cleaning your injection site:
•
Wash your hands well with soap and water. 
•
•
Using a circular motion, clean the injection site 
with an alcohol wipe. Let it to before injecting 
(see Figure E).
Do not touch the cleaned area again before 
injecting.
3. Removing the cap of your pen:
•
Only remove the cap when you are ready to use 
the pen. 
•
•
•
•
Twist off the cap in the direction of the arrows 
(see Figure F). 
Once removed, throw away the cap. Do not try 
to re-attach the cap. 
Use your pen within 5 minutes of removing the 
cap. 
You may see a few drops of liquid come out of 
the needle. This is normal.
Figure D: choose your injection site
Figure E: clean your injection site
Figure F: remove the cap
4. Holding the pen:
•
Hold your pen at 90 degrees to the cleaned injection site (see Figure G).
Correct         Incorrect
Figure G: hold your pen
339
Your injection
You must read this before injecting
During the injection you will hear 2 loud clicks: 
o The first click indicates that the injection has started. 
o Several seconds later a second click will indicate that the injection is almost finished. 
You must keep holding your pen firmly against your skin until you see a green indicator fill the 
window and stop moving.
5. Starting your injection: 
•
Press your pen firmly against the skin to start the 
injection (see Figure H). 
•
•
•
The first click indicates the injection has started. 
Keep holding your pen firmly against your skin.
The green indicator shows the progress of the 
injection.
6. Completing your injection:
•
Listen for the second click. This indicates the 
injection is almost complete. 
•
•
Check the green indicator fills the window and 
has stopped moving (see Figure I). 
The pen can now be removed.
After your injection
7. Check the green indicator fills the window (see 
Figure J):
•
•
This means the medicine has been delivered. 
Contact your doctor if the green indicator is not 
visible. 
There may be a small amount of blood at the 
injection site. You can press a cotton ball or 
gauze over the injection site and hold it for 
10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. You 
may cover the injection site with a small 
adhesive bandage, if needed.
340
Figure H: start your injection
Figure I: complete your injection
Figure J: check the green indicator
8. Disposing of used pens:
•
Dispose of the used pens in a sharps container 
(closable, puncture-resistant container, see 
Figure K). For the safety and health of you and 
others, the pens must never be re-used.
•
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater 
or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. 
These measures will help protect the environment. 
Any unused product or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse who is familiar with 
Hefiya.
Figure K: dispose of your used pen
341
