SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 March 2004. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is associated with gastritis, duodenal and gastric ulcer. In patients with 
ulcer  disease,  it  is  essential  to  determine  the  H.  pylori  status.  These  patients  need  treatment  with 
effective antimicrobial agents to eradicate the infection and thereby diminish the risk of recurrence of 
gastric/duodenal ulcer disease. Effective combination therapy with antimicrobial agents and  antacids 
are  sufficiently  described  elsewhere  in  the  literature.  Before  and  after  such  a  therapy,  diagnostic 
methods are used for the determination of the H. pylori status to confirm the diagnosis and outcome of 
therapy respectively. 
Standard reliable methods are biopsy-histology, culture methods on endoscopically obtained samples. 
Radiological methods are used in cases with known or recurrent ulcer disease and serological methods 
for confirmation of H. pylori status. These methods are generally invasive. 
In recent years, the non-invasive  13C-breath test has gained acceptance as a diagnostic method for H. 
pylori  status.  This  test  has  been  used  for  this  purpose  in  different  modified  methods  worldwide,  as 
described in the published literature.  
The Helicobacter Test INFAI consists of 75 mg 13C-labelled urea (99% 13C-enrichment) and has been 
developed  “for  in  vivo  diagnosis  of  gastroduodenal  Helicobacter  pylori  infection”  in  humans.  It  is 
intended for oral administration. The diagnostic principle is based upon the urease activity of H. pylori 
in the stomach, whereas other urease-producing bacteria are seldomly found in the gastric flora. The 
Helicobacter Test INFAI claims to be a standardised alternative of the similar methods used in various 
studies in the literature.  
Two analytical methods for breath analysis have been approved for the 75mg strength, Isotope Ratio 
Mass  Spectrometry  (IRMS)  and  Non  Dispersive  Infra  Red  Spectrometry  (NDIR),  resulting  in  two 
separate presentations, differing in the elements of the kit for breath collection. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects  
The product has been developed as a kit for the in vivo diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection in 
the  stomach  in  humans.There  are  two  presentations  of  the  75mg  strength  –  in  each  case  the  precise 
composition  of  the  kit  concerning  breath  collection  elements  depends  on  the  subsequent  method  of 
breath analysis: 
• 
1 polystyrol jar (10 ml volume) with polyethylene snap cap containing 75 mg 13C-urea powder 
for producing an oral solution; 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
4-labelled  plastic  or  glass  tubes  for  sampling,  storing  and  transporting  the  breath  samples  for 
IRMS  analysis  (2  for  sampling  time:  0-minute  value;  2  for  sampling  time:  30-minute  value). 
Alternatively, breath collection bags for NDIR analysis.  
1 straw for collection of the breath samples into the corresponding tubes ( IRMS ); 
patient leaflet; 
data sheet for patient documentation; 
page of labels and sticker. 
All components are packed in a hard paper box. 
1/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition 
The  composition  of  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  consists  only  of  the  active  substance,  75  mg  of  13C-
labelled urea, a non-radioactive stable isotope in the form of a crystalline powder, with a  13C-portion 
of ≥ 99%. The product is intended for oral administration after reconstitution with tap water. 13C-urea 
is packed in a colourless polystyrene jar closed with a colourless polyethylene snap cap. 
The clinical trial formula of the medicinal product is identical to the one intended to be marketed. No 
development pharmaceutics have been performed since the finished product contains only the active 
substance itself. Tap water has been shown to be an appropriate solvent for reconstitution of 13C-urea 
solution. 
Method of preparation 
The  batch  size  of  the  finished  product  consists  of  about  1000  g  13C-urea  yielding  approximately 
13.000 sales units of the finished product. 
The only step of the finished product manufacturing is the automatical filling of 75 mg 13C-urea into a 
polystyrene jar with the help of a suitable filling machine or the manual filling on a suitable precision 
balance,  and  subsequently  sealing of the containers  with  a snap  cap. Individual filling ranged:  71.2-
78.8 mg (= 95-105% of the label claim). The manual filling is only practised for small charges (e.g. 
clinical studies) and the weight uniformity is guaranteed by weighing each vial, which is documented 
automatically. Finally, the filled jar is labelled and packed into a hard paper box together with other 
components of the test kit.  
Microbial  contamination  during  filling  is  avoided  by  laminar  airflow  conditions.  Since  using 
standardised procedure, it is acceptable that no validation data have been submitted. 
Control of starting materials 
The synthesis of the active substance, 13C-urea, is performed following a classical manufacturing route 
for urea by introducing ammonia, 13C-enriched carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide, precipitated sulfur 
and  methanol  into  an  one-pot  system.  The  reaction  under  pressure  is  followed  by  some  purification 
steps by means of carbon filtration and passing the product through different types of columns. 
Specifications provided by INFAI GmbH. showed that 13C-urea complies with the Ph.Eur. monograph 
for urea. The following tests were performed:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
identity (1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, melting point, Ph.Eur. test C and D), 
purity (clarity and colour of solution, alkalinity, ammonia, heavy metals, biuret, loss on drying, 
sulphated ash)  
isotope content (13C-NMR, 15N-NMR and MS-), 
microbiology (total bacterial, yeast and moulds, E. coli and Salmonellae). 
The  tests  for  identity,  purity  and  assay  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  Ph.Eur..  Besides,  the 
special NMR and MS tests were adequately validated 
The  immediate  package  material  is  a  colourless  polystyrene  jar  with  a  polyethylene  snap  cap.  The 
quality of the container and the closure complies with the Ph.Eur. Their dimensions are specified and 
their  harmlessness  confirmed.  Other  parts  of  the  test  set  are  four  breath  samples  containers  (10  ml 
glass Vacutainers® or 10  ml plastic Vacuettes® with a rubber stopper for collecting and storing the 
breath samples (two 00-minute-values and two 30-minute-values). It was confirmed that the stability 
of  the  breath  samples  is  guaranteed  over  a  period  of  3  months  and  the  breath  sample  containers  are 
suitable  for  air  transport  conditions.  Furthermore,  a bendable  drinking  straw  is  added  to  transfer  the 
breath into the sample containers, for which a specification was provided. 
Control tests on the finished product 
Active  substance  complied  with  above-mentioned  specifications.  Additional  tests  for  the  finished 
product  appearance,  identity  (Ph.Eur.  test  D  and  1H-NMR),  and  determination  of  weight  and 
uniformity  of  weight,  loss  on  drying,  and  isotopic  content  and  microbial  purity  at  release  were 
performed.  No  further  tests  or  additional  validation  have  been  performed,  since  manufacturing  only 
2/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consists  of  filling  without  thermal  or  mechanical  stress  to  the  material,  and  since  either 
pharmacopoeial methods or control of starting material methods were used. 
A  standard  operating  procedure  on  the  determination  of  weight  and  uniformity  of  weight  was 
submitted. To obtain the net value of the content, the weights of the containers before and after filling 
are compared. 
An adequate product specification of the 13C-urea solution with purified water including the following 
criteria was also provided: colour and clarity, reconstitution time, taste and pH. 
Stability 
Stability  tests  on  the  active  substance  were  performed  by  CIL  (Cambridge  Isotope  Laboratories) 
including  description,  identification,  melting  point,  alkalinity,  clarity  and  colour  of  solution, 
ammonium, heavy metals, biuret, loss on drying, sulphated ash and assay following methods from the 
B.P. 1993. Data analyses of three batches in the intended marketing pack (amber glass, moisture tight 
closure)  at  different  temperature  and  relative  humidity  stored  for  up  to  24  months  showed  only  an 
increase  of  moisture  especially  between  the  18th  and  24th  month.  The  noticeable  increased  loss  on 
drying was however within acceptable limits. 
Three  batches  have  been  stored  in  the  polystyrene  jars  with  polyethylene  snap  caps  at  room 
temperature  (15-25˚C)  over  a  period  of  36  months  and  tested  for  characteristics,  identity,  loss  on 
drying,  biuret,  ammonia,  assay  and  microbiology.  No  additional  determination  of  the  13C-isotope 
content  has  been  performed  since  13C-urea  is  a  stable  isotope.  The  results  confirm  the  proposed 
product shelf life of 3 years when the finished product is stored under “normal conditions” (15-25˚C, 
ambient  humidity)  in  the  packaging  intended  for  marketing,  as  no  alteration  concerning  its  quality 
could be observed. 
Furthermore, although the aqueous solution of 13C-urea has to be ingested directly after preparation, a 
short term stability test on the product solved in 20 ml tap water was performed. No decomposition of 
13C-urea up to two hours was observed, which corresponded to the results from published literature. 
Other information 
The breath sample analysis is an integrated part of the diagnostic kit and therefore also of the dossier. 
The principles of breath test analysis (description and validation) and test performance were given. 
An  increase  in  13CO2  in  breath  is  detected  by  isotope-ratio-mass-spectrometry  (IRMS)  or  non-
dispersive  infra  red  spectrometry  (NDIR)  and  expressed  as  absolute  difference  (∆δ-value  in  0/00) 
between  the  30-minute-  and  00-minute-value  (  the  precise  methodology  is  slightly  different  in  each 
case ). The test indicates the presence of Helicobacter pylori if the increase of 13CO2 exceeds the ∆δ-
value of 4.00/00.  
The analysis of 13CO2 in breath sample is an analysis of the isotopometric ratios rs of 13CO2/12CO2 versus 
that of a reference gas (rr). The δ-value is expressed as:  
δ[0/00] = (rs - rr / rr) x 1000. The multiplication with 1000 is performed because of the small value. The 
change in δ-value after exposure to 13C-urease is then ∆δ = δt - δ0. 
The  methods  for  determining  the  13CO2/12CO2-ratio  have  been  adequately  described  and  validated. 
They both show high specificity, precision, accuracy, linearity and reproducibility of measurements. 
For analysing the collected breath samples, it was agreed that the relevant information concerning the 
breath  analysis  should  be  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SPC),  and  in  the 
Package  Leaflet  of  each  presentation  as  a  tear-off  part.  This  will  enable  qualified  laboratories  to 
perform the analysis of the breath samples, provided that a suitably validated method is used. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
No  pharmacological  or  toxicological  investigations  were  performed  with  the  particular  product,  i.e. 
Helicobacter  Test  INFAI.  However,  in  support  of  this  application,  an  extensive  literature  research 
about urea was made. 
3/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
No suitable animal model for the oral 13C-urea breath test has been described. No preclinical data were 
submitted. All studies were performed in human and a compilation of the diagnostic potential of urea 
(in human) is presented together with a description of (human) adverse effects observed. 
As described in the published literature, the principle of the 13C-urea oral diagnostic for Helicobacter 
pylori infection of the stomach is based on the high urease activity in these bacteria at low pH. Urease 
catalyses  the  formation  of  carbon  dioxide  and  ammonia  from  urea.  After  oral  ingestion,  13C-urea 
reaches the gastric mucosa, then with Helicobacter pylori present it will be metabolised in the stomach 
to  13C-CO2  and  ammonia.  The  13C-CO2  formed  is  rapidly  absorbed  locally,  distributed  within  the 
bloodstream as bicarbonate, and exhaled as 13C-CO2 via the lungs (see section 4, Overview of Part IV 
of  the  dossier).  Absorption  and  distribution  of  13C-CO2  is  faster  than  the  urease  reaction.  Therefore, 
the rate limiting step is the cleavage of urea by the urease of the Helicobacter pylori present. In the 
exhaled air, the ratio 13C-CO2 to 12C-CO2 will increase early after oral administration of 13C-urea. 
No preclinical data is submitted to support the statement that  13C-urea breath test will be affected by 
all compounds known to eradicate Helicobacter pylori. This has been addressed in the SPC. 
A  literature  review  showed  that  the  stable  isotope  13C  labelled  to  urea  does  not  have  any 
pharmacological or toxicological effect. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Urea is rapidly absorbed after oral dosing. Part of the administered urea will be cleaved into carbon 
dioxide and ammonia by the Helicobacter pylori present in the stomach. Thus only a fraction of the 
dose reaches the colon unchanged. The carbon dioxide is then rapidly absorbed locally and distributed. 
The ammonia formed is absorbed but will be completely metabolised by the liver, via aminoacids, to 
form urea. Due to extensive first pass metabolism of ammonia in the liver, combined with the low urea 
dose administered with the oral 13C-urea test kit, toxic blood levels of ammonia are not reached. 
Urea  absorbed  enters  the  physiologic  body  pool.  It  is  distributed  into  extracellular  and  intracellular 
fluids;  concentrations  reached  are  similar  in  lymph,  bile,  CSF  and  blood.  Urea  crosses  the  placenta, 
penetrates the eye, and is expected to be excreted into milk. Highest levels of urea are observed in the 
kidneys. 
Even after  parenteral dosing, some urea is apparently hydrolysed  within the gastro-intestinal tract to 
carbon dioxide and ammonia, presumably by bacterial ureases. Urea is predominantly eliminated via 
renal excretion. 
Toxicology 
Single  dose  toxicity - A compilation  of published  data  in rats  and  mice, showed that adverse effects 
were only observed after oral administration of doses higher than 5,000-mg/kg body weights. 
Repeat  dose  toxicity  -  The  documentation  does  not  contain  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  using  the 
intended  route  of  administration.  Two  4  and  35  week  studies  of  the  toxicity  of  urea  after  repeated 
dermal application were cited. The data indicated a low potential of subacute and chronic toxicity for 
urea. 
Reproductive  toxicity  -  Animal  reproduction  studies  have  not  been  conducted.  However,  the  toxic 
potential of 75 mg urea given orally as a single dose during pregnancy may be considered minimal in 
women. 
Genotoxicity  - Because of its high-volume industrial production, the genotoxic potential of urea has 
been investigated extensively in various test systems. In several in vitro and in vivo studies, it has been 
shown  that  urea  has  a  mutagenic  potential  at  concentrations  far  above  the  physiological 
concentrations.  
In  addition,  3  published  studies  showed  a  7  times  increase  in  the  incidence  of  chromosomal 
abnormalities in bone marrow cells of Swiss albino mice given oral doses of 500 mg urea per day for 5 
days.  Evidence of DNA-damaging activity was obtained with urea in concentrations > 0.36 mol/l in 
the  absence  of  metabolic  activation.  The  mouse  lymphoma  TK+/(-)  -  TK-/-  mutation  assay  test 
indicated statistically significant increase in the mutation frequency from control values of 80 to 90 up 
4/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  256  in  dependence  of  urea  concentration  (0.132-0.662  mol/l).  These  studies  further  indicate  that 
urea at high concentrations has genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity    -  The  carcinogenic  potential  of  urea  was  investigated  as  part  of  a  screen  of 
environmental  and  occupational  chemicals.  Mice  and  rats  were  fed  a  diet  containing  0.45%  urea 
during 12 months. The results indicated that urea was non-carcinogenic. However, the study duration 
was  not  sufficiently  long  to  allow  a  definitive  evaluation  of  its  carcinogenic  potential.  On  the  other 
hand, since the Helicobacter breath test is only intended for single dose use and the administered dose 
is considerably lower than physiological concentration of urea in blood, the carcinogenic risk of this 
medicinal product was regarded as negligible. 
Local  tolerance    -  The  documentation  did  not  contain  data  on  the  effect  of  urea  on  the  skin  of 
experimental animals. 
In  summary,  the  pharmacological  and  toxic  potential  of  urea  (e.g.  genotoxicity)  is  associated  with 
extremely high doses only, in comparison to the dose advised for used in breath testing (75 mg of 13C-
urea).  The  preclinical  documentation  consisted  of  publications  from  the  scientific  literature.  The 
documentation did not contain all formally required studies. The omissions are justified because urea 
is  a  well-known  compound,  which  is  generated  endogenously  via  the  urea  cycle  by  cleavage  of 
arginine  to  ornithine  and  urea.  The  daily  endogenous  urea  production  amounts  25-35  g/day.  The 
physiological concentration of urea in blood ranges between 1.7 and 8.3 mmol/l (100-500 mg/l). It is 
unlikely  that  oral  administration  of  75  mg  urea,  which  is  the  dose  to  be  administered  once,  will 
interfere with the endogenous urea concentration or will cause deleterious effects. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  pharmacology  is  mainly  based  on  published  literature  with  some  cross-references  to 
clinical  trials.  The  core  clinical  documentation  consists  of  four  “non-controlled”  trials,  which  were 
performed with the product applied for (#1 to #4). Furthermore, publications were extensively cited to 
support the clinical experience 
Pharmacodynamics 
The applied product contains the substrate 13C-urea (99% 13C and 1% 12C) for Helicobacter pylori. 13C 
is  a  natural,  stable  and  non-radioactive  isotope,  which  has  no  known  pharmacodynamic  effects.  In 
contrast to the present formulation, the 12C isotope is the prevalent one in nature, approximating 99%. 
The pharmacological properties of 13C-urea are identical to those of the natural urea. Due to the single 
low dose of 75 mg 13C-urea used in breath testing, no pharmacodynamic effects are expected. 
In  case  of  infection  with  Helicobacter  pylori  in  the  stomach,  the  13C-urea  is  metabolised  by  the 
Helicobacter  enzyme  urease,  which  liberates  13CO2.  Since  other  urease-producing  bacteria  are 
seldomly found in the gastric flora, the presence of urease activity in the stomach is indicative of the 
presence of Helicobacter pylori. 
         enzyme urease 
2H2N(13CO)NH2 + 2H2O                                   4NH3 + 213CO2 
The  13CO2  diffuses  into  the  blood  vessels,  is  transported  as  a  bicarbonate  into  the  lung,  and  is  then 
liberated as  13CO2 with the exhaled air. The  13C/12C ratio is measured by IRMS, at 0 and 30 minutes 
after intake.  The change  of this ratio is stated as the absolute  difference (∆δ-value)  between  the  00-
minute-  and  30-minute-value.  The  cut  off  point  for  discriminating  Helicobacter  pylori-negative  and 
positive patients is set to a ∆δ-value of 40/00 (see section 2. Overview of Part II of the dossier).  
In  the  case  of  Helicobacter  pylori-negative  subjects,  the  13C-urea  administered  will  be  absorbed, 
followed  by  incorporation  into  the  endogenous  urea  cycle.  Ammonia,  which  is  generated  by  the 
+.  Unabsorbed  13C-urea will 
bacterial  hydrolysis, is included into the  metabolism in the form  of NH4
eventually reach the colon, where it will be cleaved by bacterial urease. It also leads to an increase of 
the ratio  13C-CO2 to  12C-CO2 in exhaled air, but this will occur later because of the delay caused by 
gastro-intestinal passage to the colon. 
5/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urea can also be metabolised by gut bacteria. The presence of bacteria other than Helicobacter pylori 
in  the  upper  gastrointestinal  tract  is  very  rare.  Two  main  conditions  may  lead  to  the  presence  of 
bacteria in the stomach: acid antisecretion treatment of gastritis A. However, as the use of urea breath 
test  is  contraindicated  under  the  treatment  with  acid  antisecretory  agents  and  the  SPC  recommends 
further diagnostic measures for patients with suspected gastritis, the hazard of producing false positive 
results is avoided. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The total daily intake of  13C-isotope in food is in average 2.7  g. The addition of 75  mg of  13C-urea, 
equivalent to 16 mg pure 13C, is not considered to have any biological consequence.  
Absorption  and  distribution  of  13CO2  are  faster  than  the  urease  reaction.  Therefore  the  rate-limiting 
step in the whole process is the cleavage of urea by Helicobacter pylori. 
In  order  to  maximise  the  contrast  between  Helicobacter  pylori-positive  and  negative  patients,  some 
test parameters should be adhered to. This can be achieved by choosing the optimal dose of 13C-urea, 
test meal, threshold level and time schedule for the actions. 
13C-urea  dose  -  In  the  literature,  a  wide  range  of  13C-urea  doses  has  been  used  (75-350  mg)  in 
Helicobacter  pylori-infected  volunteers.  A  linear  increase  of  ∆δ-value  with  dose  was  observed.  As 
long  as  the  cut-off  range  is  wide  enough  to  discriminate  between  Helicobacter  pylori-positive  and 
negative results, the choice of 75 mg dose is justified. Furthermore, breath tests using 125 and 250 mg 
doses do not indicate any dose-influence on sensitivity or specificity of the test.   
Test meal   - Consumption of a  test  meal before  the  administration of the  13C-urea  will delay gastric 
emptying, resulting in a prolonged exposure of 13C-urea to the Helicobacter pylori urease. The choice 
of  test  meal  is  arbitrary  but  based  on  balanced  consideration  of  properties  such  as  acceptability  to 
patients,  influence  of  13CO2-exhalation,  and  effect  on  the  gut  motility.  With  reference  to  published 
studies, four different test meals (Meritene, PulmoCare, Citric acid and orange juice) were found to be 
suitable  for  13C-urea  breath  test.  With  respect  to  practicability  and  acceptability,  orange  juice  was 
chosen,  as  the  maximum  response  (highest  increase  of  13CO2/12CO2-ratio  after  13C-urea  ingestion  in 
Helicobacter pylori-positive patients) was achieved after 30 minutes.   
Sampling interval  - For the evaluation of 13C-urea breath test, an optimised sampling interval is to be 
used,  to  enable  a  clear  discrimination  between  Helicobacter  pylori  infection  and  non-infection. 
Publications showed that two measurements, a 00-minute-value (baseline) and 30-minute-value, were 
sufficient  to  provide  adequate  sensitivity  and  specificity.  As  a  maximum  response  was  seen  30 
minutes after intake; this time point was established as the sampling time for the second test value.  
Choice of cut-off value of 40/00 - Although the choice was arbitrary, it has been shown to be a balanced 
cut-off  point  with  respect  to  sensitivity  and  specificity.  The  validity  of  this  threshold  value  in 
comparison to the gold standard (biopsy/culture) was assessed. 
Factors influencing the test outcome - As exposure to mouth flora for > 1 minute might influence the 
increase in 13CO2/12CO2-ratio the first 10 minutes, the recommended 13C-urea dose should be ingested 
totally  and  briskly.  This  effect  is  however  negligible  after  15  minutes.  Physical  stress  or  exercise  is 
likely  to  increase  13CO2/12CO2-ratio,  as  fat  and  carbohydrates  have  different  13C-ratio.  These 
differences are negligible compared to the increase of  13CO2 after administration of  13C-urea and lay 
within the physiological deviation below 20/00. Since the test has to be carried out on empty stomach, a 
13C-influence of fat and carbohydrates (with a 13C-content of about 1%) is assumed not to be relevant. 
The patient must have fasted for 6 hours before the test, preferable overnight. 
If these conditions are not fulfilled, the test may lead to wrong results. 
Efficacy 
In total 561 evaluable patients were involved in four open studies sponsored by INFAI (Table 1). Each 
patient served as his/her own control. A threshold of ∆δ-value of 40/00 was used in these trials, i.e. an 
increase  of  ∆δ-value  by  >  40/00  indicated  Helicobacter  pylori  infection.  Key  or  quality  criteria  for 
efficacy  of  this  diagnostic  test,  which  have  to  be  satisfactorily  addressed,  are  accuracy,  linearity, 
reproducibility,  sensitivity  and  specificity  in  particular  in  comparison  to  the  existing  gold  standards 
such as  bioptic/histologic  and culture  methods. Patients  with  unknown  H.  pylori status indicated for 
6/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
routine endoscopy (for abdominal pain and dyspepsia) were included. Patients who had antibacterial 
therapy with antiacids (such as bismuth salts, omeprazole, etc.) in the weeks preceding the study were 
excluded.  The  breath  test  was  performed  after  an  overnight  fast  or  2-4  hours  after  the  endoscopic 
examination or the next morning. The 13C-urea dose was ingested 1 minute after the test meal. 
Table 1: Quality criteria of breath test versus gold standard* 
Clinical Trials 
(CT) 
Number of 
patients 
CT #1 
CT #2 
CT #3 
CT #4b 
104 
70 
194 
193 
Test meal  
PulmoCare 
Orange Juice 
Orange Juice 
Orange Juice 
(200 ml) 
Cut-off point 
Accuracy 
Sensitivity 
Specificity 
Positive 
Predictive Value 
Negative 
Predictive Value 
4‰ 
94% 
92% 
97% 
98% 
88% 
4‰ 
99%a 
98% 
100% 
100% 
4‰ 
98% 
96% 
100% 
100% 
96% 
96% 
4‰ 
97% 
97% 
97% 
87% 
99% 
* Gold standard in  CT #1 & CT #2 
CT #3 & CT #4 
: histology and/or culture 
: histology 
a   = 97.1% in the statistical report 
b   = after exclusion of (8) patients with protocol violations. 
CT#1 was a single centre intraindividual trial. The aim was to validate the breath test in reference to 
the  combination  of  histology  and  culture  (gold  standards).  If  one  of  the  reference  methods  was 
positive,  the  patients  was  defined  H.  pylori  positive;  if  all  results  were  negative,  the  patient  was 
defined  H.  pylori  negative.  Of  the  110  recruited  patients,  104  were  evaluable  (64  females  and  40 
males,  aged  ranging  from  17-92  years).  Not  all  formal  regulations  of  GCP  have  been  fulfilled. 
According to histology and/or culture, 67 patients were H. pylori positive and 37 negative. The breath 
test, in contrast to the gold standard, led to false negative findings in 5 patients, all having ∆δ-value 
clearly below 40/00. The sensitivity for the breath test was 92% and the specificity 97%. 
CT#2 was a single centre intraindividual trial. The aim and reference to the gold standards was similar 
to CT#1. All 70 patients recruited were evaluable, 33 females and 37 males (aged ranging from 18-85 
years). The histology and/or culture indicated 47 H. pylori positive and 23 H. pylori negative patients. 
The breath test, in contrast to the gold standard, lead to false negative finding in 1 patient having ∆δ-
value  clearly  below  40/00.  In  this  single  case,  the  presence  of  an  urease-negative  bacterium  was 
suggested, which could be the causative agent of the gastritis. The sensitivity for the breath test was 
98%  and  the  specificity  100%.  The  findings  also  suggested  that  neither  the  breath  test  nor  other 
methods provide reliable results in case of a low colonisation level.  
CT#3  was  an  epidemiological  multi-centre  trial.  The  reference  diagnostic  methods  used  were 
histological colouring of the sample. The primary purpose of this study was to demonstrate a possible 
connection between dyspepsia and H. pylori infection of the stomach in patients aged 18-40 years. The 
secondary  purpose  was  to  validate  the  breath  test  in  reference  to  the  gold  standard  (i.e.  biopsy 
followed  by  histology).  Four  hundred  thirteen  patients  were  evaluable  epidemiologically,  of  which 
194 patients for the breath test assessment with unknown H. pylori status indicated for endoscopy due 
to (dyspeptic) complaints in upper abdomen or reflux complaints. 
7/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  epidemiological  subgroup,  44-47%  of  the  patients  with  dyspepsia  were  reported  to  have  H. 
pylori infection, but due to the non-controlled nature of the study a conclusion could not be drawn. 
According to histology, 47% (92/194) of patients were H. pylori positive and 53% (102/194) negative. 
The breath test, in contrast to the gold standard, lead to false negative findings in 4 patients having ∆δ-
value clearly below 40/00. The sensitivity for the breath test was 96% and the specificity 100%. 
CT#4  was  a  multi-centre  trial  concerning  the  diagnostic  potential  of  the  13C-urea  breath  test  after 
eradication  therapy.  The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  quality  criteria  of  the  13C-urea 
breath test in reference to the gold standard (i.e. biopsy followed by histology). Patients indicated for 
endoscopic  control  4-8  weeks  after  completion  of  an  accepted  H.  pylori  eradication  treatment  were 
included. Of the 195 enrolled patients (average age 53 ± 15 years), 193 were evaluable for histology 
and breath test. 
According  to  histology,  81%  (156/193)  of  patients  were  H.  pylori  negative,  whereas  the  breath  test 
indicated 79% (153/193) of H. pylori negative patients. After therapy, the breath test, in contrast to the 
gold  standard,  lead  to  false  negative  findings  in  1  patient  having  ∆δ-value  clearly  below  40/00,  and 
gave  5  positive  findings  having  ∆δ-value  clearly  above  40/00.  The  sensitivity  for  the  breath  test  was 
97% and the specificity 97%. 
In comparison to the quality criteria of the total population, no significant difference is obvious for H. 
pylori  associated  disease  (gastritis,  duodenal  and  gastric  ulcer).  In  patients  with  B-gastritis,  no 
negative findings have been reported; in patients with other disease than gastritis or ulcer, no positive 
findings  have  been  reported.  The  breath  test  indiscriminately  covers  a  wide  range  of  H.  pylori 
associated gastric and duodenal disease. The 13C-urea breath test is a reliable non-invasive method for 
diagnosis  of  ongoing  H.  pylori  infection  in  particular  in  patients  with  duodenal  ulcer.  Patients  with 
gastric ulcer, however, should be checked repeatedly, both by means of endoscopy and biopsy, until 
the ulcer is completely healed in order to exclude the possibility of a carcinoma. 
In addition to these above trials, there are supportive studies. Clinical studies cited from the literature 
show the increasingly wider range of application of the 13C-urea breath test. Three eradication studies 
of  other  companies,  where  the  13C-urea  breath  test  was  used  for  H.  pylori  detection  were  also 
presented.  The  results  indicated  that  13C-urea  breath  test  is  a  diagnostic  tool  useful  in  eradication 
therapy. Two scientific studies were reported (#1 and 2) using 40/00 as cut off point. It was shown that 
in  reference  to  the  gold  standard,  false  negative  and  positive  results  obtained  by  using  the  13C-urea 
breath test were not in the borderline of the cut off point (40/00).  
These scientific and other cited studies can be considered to be supportive of findings in the pivotal 
clinical  trials,  although  the  documentation  was  not  of  optimal  quality  and  methods  used  were  not 
completely standardised according to the applicant criteria in most studies, thus these findings will not 
be further discussed. 
There are insufficient data on the diagnostic liability of the Helicobacter Test INFAI to recommend its 
use in patients younger than 18 years of age. 
In  patients  with  significant  gastric  resection,  false  negative  results  are  possible,  mainly  due  to  fast 
gastric emptying. Such patients may require more than one sample being taken and one perhaps before 
the  mentioned  30-minute  breath  sample.  The  sensitivity,  specificity  and  usefulness  of  the  13C-urea 
breath test with the proposed low substrate amount and a single 30 minute post baseline breath sample 
in this specific population with gastrectomy were not addressed in the present application. There are 
insufficient  data  on  the  diagnostic  liability  of  the  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  to  recommend  its  use  in 
patients with gastrectomy. 
It is not expected that the test procedure may be harmful during pregnancy or lactation. However, it is 
recommended to take notice of the product information of eradication therapy products for their use 
during pregnancy and lactation. 
Since the test is non-invasive and since the substrate including the stable isotope 13C does not have any 
pharmacological or toxicological effect. It may be repeated in the same individual. 
Safety 
None of the studies performed in more than 9000 patients with the urea breath test, either sponsored 
by INFAI or cited from literature, reported side effects due to 13C-urea.  
8/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  summary  -  13C-urea  breath  test  is  a  non-invasive  method  to  detect  gastroduodenal  H.  pylori 
infection. The 4 clinical trials show a high efficacy of the breath test with the specified parameters of 
test meal, dosage and cut off-point, independent of use after or before therapy of H. pylori infection. 
The  average  sensitivity  and  specificity  for  the  breath  test,  compared  to  bioptic  diagnostics  of  an 
infection with H. pylori, obtained from INFAI sponsored studies was > 95%. 
The  achieved  standardisation  of  the  breath  test  makes  this  method  suitable  for  general  clinical  use 
especially in patients with known gastritis or gastroduodenal ulcer disease. 
The  breath  test  reflects  the  actual  H.  pylori  status  and  can  be  used  as  a  control  after  an  eradication 
therapy.  However,  for  the  differential  diagnosis  before  H.  pylori  eradication  therapy,  invasive 
endoscopic examination and histologic analysis of biopsy specimens are essential in order to examine 
the presence of any other complicating conditions (e.g. ulcer, autoimmune gastritis and malignancies). 
The  suppression/eradication of  H. pylori  may lead to false  negative or  positive  results, therefore  the 
test should be used after at least 4 weeks without systemic antibacterial therapy and 4 weeks after the 
last dose of acid antisecretory agents. 
5. 
Conclusions 
Helicobacter Test INFAI consists of 75 mg 13C-labelled urea (99% 13C-enrichment). 
Satisfactory  quality  of  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  has  been  demonstrated,  allowing  a  3-year  shelf  life 
when stored at room temperature, (15 - 25oC). 
In view of the fact that urea is physiologically abundantly present and only a small additional amount 
is  to  be  administered  once,  it  is  considered  that  any  additional  risk  is  negligible  for  this  urea  breath 
test.    None  of  the  clinical  studies  performed  with  the  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  reported  side  effects 
due to 13C-urea. 
Helicobacter Test INFAI is a diagnostic means to detect Helicobacter pylori infection in the stomach 
with  a  high  specificity  and  sensitivity.  However,  differential  diagnosis  with  invasive  endoscopic 
methods  might  be  indicated  in  order  to  examine  the  presence  of  any  other  complicating  conditions, 
e.g. ulcer, autoimmune gastritis and malignancies. 
6. 
Extension of the indication in adolescents (aged 12-17 years) 
Introduction 
The prevalence of H.pylori infection in young patients is much lower than in adults. In addition, unlike 
in adults, the infection rarely bears life-threatening risks like gastritis-associated peptic ulcer disease 
of the stomach and duodenum or gastric carcinoma and gastric lymphoma (MALT). The patients are 
therefore  rarely  referred  to  upper  gastrointestinal  endoscopy  for  a  confirmation  of  H.pylori,  e.g.  in 
search of a possible cause of functional dyspepsia or for diagnosis of chronic active type-B-gastritis. A 
non-invasive  test  for  H.pylori  is  therefore  considered  desirable  in  adolescents.  However,  neither  the 
13C-urea breath test nor the serologic tests or the antigen stool test have been validated for this so far. 
The MAH submitted a Type II variation for an extension of the indication to include adolescents aged 
12-17 years. The supporting clinical documentation consisted of one multicentre comparative study in 
children and adolescents aged 2 -17 years (335 included in the study, 273 included in the analysis), 
and a clinical expert statement. 
Although  the  clinical  study  was  performed  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  from  2  –  17  years,  for 
children aged 2 - 11 years, the dose of labelled urea was decreased to 45 mg due to lower body mass 
and  to  avoid  unnecessary  cost  for  labelled  urea.  The  scope  of  the  variation  was  thus  limited  to  the 
extension of the therapeutic indication to include adolescents aged 12 – 17 years. 
9/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
The clinical trial has been performed in accordance with the requirements of Good Clinical Practice. 
The  breath  test  performance  was  calculated  against  the  gold  standard,  which  is  a  combination  of 
histological diagnosis, cultures in different media and a urease test. A true positive was defined as a 
positive culture, or a positive histology and apositive rapid urease test. A true negative was defined as 
a  negative  culture  and  negative  histology,  or  a  negative  culture  and  negative  rapid  urease  test,  or  a 
culture not evaluable and negative histology and negative rapid urease test. 
The sensitivity was 96.8 and 97.7 % and specificity was 98.3 and 96.0 % in children and adolescents, 
respectively.  Based  on  the  data  there  were  no  major  objections  preventing  an  extension  of  the 
indication to the age category 12 to 17 years.  
The main discussion during the assessment of this application centred on the claimed indication and 
the posology and method of administration. Regarding the indication, it was considered that the new 
indication should adequately reflect the target population. In view of the fact that gastric colonisation 
and  infection  with  Helicobacter  pylori  occur  both  in  children  and  adults,  but  that  children  and 
adolescents are considerably less susceptible to peptic ulcers and other pathological sequelae, the risk 
to benefit ratio of diagnostic tests and therapeutic regimens for H. pylori in children and adolescents 
are  likely  to  be  different  from  those  in  adults.  Given  the  relatively  low  prevalence  of  H.  pylori 
infection  in  EU  countries  it  is  important  to  recognise  that  indiscriminate  testing  in  children  and 
adolescents is not recommended, and indeed may threaten the optimal care of these groups of patients. 
Therefore,  any  diagnostic  test  should  be  employed  judiciously  and  be  reserved  for  children  and 
adolescents who are most likely to derive measurable benefit, such as those likely to have peptic ulcer 
disease. 
Regarding the method of administration, a pilot study showed that the use of citric acid in water as an 
alternative test meal does not affect the diagnostic value of the test procedure. The lag time for a retest 
after  termination  of  antisecretory  therapy  was  reduced  from  4  weeks  to  2  weeks  based  on  data 
showing  that  all  infected  patients  had  positive  results  2  weeks  after  completion  of  Lansoprazole 
therapy, but not at 7 or less days. 
There is insufficient data on the diagnostic liability of Helicobacter Test INFAI to recommend its use 
in patients with gastrectomy and in patients younger than 12 years of age. The relevant warning has 
been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Clinical safety 
The database comprises 335 patients, which was considered adequate. No adverse drug reactions were 
reported and the 13C-urea breath test was well tolerated by all patients. 
Conclusion 
The CPMP considered by consensus that the benefit/ risk profile of Helicobacter Test INFAI for use in 
patients from 12 to 17 years of age was favourable and issued a positive opinion on the extension of 
the therapeutic indication to include this population. The European Commission issued a decision to 
vary the Marketing Authorisation on 23 April 2002. 
7. 
Line Extension for a new 45 mg strength in children aged 3-11 years 
Introduction 
This  application  concerns  additional  45  mg  strength,  to  be  used  in  children  aged  3-11  years.  In 
October 2001 a positive opinion was adopted for a type II variation concerning the use of Helicobacter 
Test  INFAI,  powder  for  oral  solution  (75  mg)  in  adolescents  aged  12-17  years.  The  same  clinical 
study, performed in 335 children and adolescents, has been submitted to substantiate the efficacy and 
safety  of  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  for  both  the  type  II  variation  and  the  present  line  extension.  The 
10/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
previous assessment of the type II variation has covered the data provided on the use of Helicobacter 
Test Infai (75 mg), in adolescents aged 12-17 years. The present assessment will focus on the use of 
Helicobacter Test INFAI (45 mg), in children aged 2-11 years. 
The current gold standard for the confirmation of an infection by H. pylori consists of the histological 
diagnosis of biopsies in combination with cultures in different media. A more rapid test is based on the 
urease activity of H. pylori in the biopsy. An important disadvantage of the gold standard method is its 
invasiveness.  Therefore,  non-invasive  diagnostic  modalities,  such  as  serology  and  urea  breath  tests, 
have  been  developed.  A  number  of  serological  assays  are  currently  available.  However,  these  have 
generally  been  standardised  in  adults.  Studies  in  children  have  shown  insufficient  sensitivity  in  the 
diagnosis of H. pylori infection in children. The  13C-urea breath test is a non-invasive diagnostic test 
that  is  based  on  the  detection  of  the  metabolism  of  urea  by  the  urease  of  H.  pylori.  An  important 
disadvantage of the non-invasive methods is that it does not allow for the detection of lesions, such as 
ulcers or neoplasms. Moreover, no antimicrobial susceptibility of H. pylori is available.  
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The composition of this line-extension product intended for paediatric use is almost identical to that 
already authorised for adults. The main difference is in the reduced strength of the product, 45 mg in 
this case. 
As for the adult presentation, it is presented in the form of a multicomponent kit. The active part of the 
product  consists  only  of  the  active  substance,  45  mg  of  13C-labelled  urea,  a  non-radioactive  stable 
isotope  in  the  form  of  a  crystalline  powder,  with  an  isotopic  purity  (13C)  of  ≥  99%.  The  product  is 
intended for oral administration after reconstitution with tap water. The 13C-urea powder is packed in a 
colourless  polystyrene  jar  closed  with  a  colourless  polyethylene  snap  cap.  Other  elements  in  the  kit 
facilitate administration of the dose and collection of breath samples, e.g. bendable straws and glass or 
plastic containers for breath collection. 
Active substance 
Information on the manufacture and control of the active substance has been presented in two EDMFs, 
evaluated to ensure consistency with regard to specifications. 
The synthesis of the active substance, 13C-urea, is performed following a classical manufacturing route 
for urea by introducing ammonia, 13C-enriched carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide, precipitated sulfur 
and  methanol  into  an  one-pot  system.  Some  purification  steps  by  means  of  carbon  filtration  and 
column chromatography follow the reaction under pressure. Proof of structure has been confirmed by 
a variety of spectroscopic studies. 
Active Substance Specification 
Specifications show that 13C-urea complies with the Ph. Eur. monograph for urea, with the addition of 
the following relevant tests: 
• 
• 
identity (1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, melting point, Ph. Eur. test C and D), 
purity (clarity and colour of solution, alkalinity, ammonia, heavy metals, biuret, loss on drying, 
sulphated ash)  
isotope content (13C-NMR, 15N-NMR and MS-), 
impurities (sulfur, alcohol insoluble, chloride and methylcarbamide), 
microbiology (total bacterial, yeast and moulds, E. coli and Salmonellae). 
• 
• 
• 
The  tests  for  identity,  purity  and  assay  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  Ph.  Eur.  and  the  special 
NMR and MS tests were adequately validated. 
11/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the active substance 
Since  in  this  case  the  active  substance  is  used  as  the  ‘finished  product’  itself,  without  being 
compounded  into  a  formulation,  investigations  into  stability  have  focussed  on  the  stability  of  the 
finished product. 
Other ingredients 
The plastic container for the active substance is composed of materials that comply with the relevant 
PhEur mongraphs. 
There  are  no  other  ingredients  per  se  in  the  finished  product,  apart  from  other  ‘components’  of  the 
total  presentation  or  kit,  i.e.  straws  and  plastic  or  glass  containers  for  collection  of  breath  samples. 
These comply wth EU food regulations and are CE-certified where relevant.  
Product development and finished product 
The  development  and  manufacture  of  the  product  are  very  simple.  The  active  substance  itself  is  a 
crytalline  powder,  soluble  and  suitable  to  be  dissolved  in  domestic  tap  water  for  direct  oral 
administration  by  the  patient.  Manufacture  is  basically  the  automatic  filling  of  45mg  of  the  active 
substance into the plastic containers under controlled air-pressure necessary for powdered substances. 
Microbial contamination during filling is avoided by laminar air flow conditions. Since the process is 
so  simple  and  standard,  minimal  validation  data  have  been  submitted,  and  this  is  regarded  as 
acceptable in this specific case. 
The  batch  size  of  the  finished  product  consists  of  about  1000  g  13C-urea  yielding  approximately 
22,000 units of the finished product. 
The  finished  product  is  tested  for  appearance,  identity  (Ph.Eur.  test  for  urea  and  1H-NMR),  and 
determination  of  weight  and  uniformity  of  weight,  loss  on  drying,  isotopic  content  and  microbial 
purity  at  release.  The  content  of  active  substance  at  release  is  controlled  to  within  95-105%  of  the 
nominal amount. 
Stability of the Product 
Three  batches  have  been  stored  in  the  polystyrene  jars  with  polyethylene  snap  caps  at  room 
temperature (15-25˚C) over a period of 36 months and tested for characteristics, identity (NMR), loss 
on  drying,  biuret, ammonia, assay  and  microbiology. No additional determination  of the  13C-isotope 
content  was  considered  necessary,  since  13C-urea  is  a  stable  isotope  and  unlikely  to  change.  The 
results confirm the shelflife and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Furthermore, although the aqueous solution of 13C-urea has to be ingested directly after preparation, a 
short-term stability test on  13C-urea dissolved in tap water was performed. No decomposition of  13C-
urea up to two hours was observed, which corresponded to the results from published literature, and is 
satisfactory to allow oral administration under the conditions of the breath test. 
Other information 
For information on the principles of breath test analysis see the discussion in the report on the adult 
presentation, 75mg strength. Note that at the present moment, only IRMS is authorised as an approved 
method for breath analysis with the paediatric 45mg kit.  
An  increase  in  13CO2  in  breath  occurs  in  the  presence  of  gastroduodenal  Helicobacter  pylori  and  is 
detected by isotope-ratio-mass-spectrometry (IRMS) and expressed as absolute difference (∆δ-value in 
0/00)  between  the  30-minute-  and  00-minute-value.  The  test  indicates  the  presence  of  Helicobacter 
pylori if the increase of 13CO2 exceeds the ∆δ-value of 4.00/00.  
The  analysis  of  13CO2  in  breath  sample  is  an  analysis  of  the  isotopometric  ratios  rs  of  13CO2/12CO2 
versus that of a reference gas (rr). The δ-value is expressed as:  
12/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
δ[0/00] = (rs - rr / rr) x 1000.  The multiplication with 1000 is performed because of the small value. The 
change in δ-value after exposure to 13C-urease is then ∆δ = δt - δ0. 
The  method  for  determining  the  13CO2/12CO2-ratio  was  adequately  described  and  validated.  The 
standardised  mass  spectrometry  analysis  in  this  case  showed  good  precision,  accuracy,  linearity  and 
reproducibility of measurements, and these data are included in the SPC. 
As for the adult 75mg presentation, it was agreed that the relevant information concerning the analysis 
of  breath  samples  and  testing  specifications  should  be  included  in  the  SPC,  and  also  in  the  package 
leaflet.  The  objective  is  to  enable  any  objectively  qualified  laboratory  to  perform  an  analysis  of  the 
breath sample. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
This  is  a  pharmaceutically  simple  finished  product  that  requires  minimal  process  validation.  Urea  is 
again a simple molecule with no known chemical stability problems. Additionally in this case there is 
the  presence  of  the  isotope  13C  but  this  is  well  known  to  be  a  stable  isotope.  The  pharmaceutical 
variables  were  solved  for  the  previously  authorised  adult  version  of  this  product  (75mg)  and  this 
paediatric form presents no further problems. 
The purity of the active substance and the control of the manufacturing processes for the active and the 
finished product indicate reliable reproducibility, and in turn indicate a reliable product performance 
in the clinic. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
No  preclinical  studies  have  been  performed  and  the  applicant  has  submitted  no  preclinical  data.  In 
addition,  an  extensive  literature  research  on  this  issue  has  not  been  carried  out  and  no  preclinical 
expert report was submitted for evaluation. This is nonetheless acceptable for the following reasons: 
(cid:190)  The  product  is  a  line  extension  of  the  existing  MA  for  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI.  The  active 
ingredient is thus well known and already authorised in the EU. 
(cid:190)  The line extension under evaluation contains only a very small fraction of the amount of urea 
physiologically present in the body, and hence no safety risk is expected. When compared with 
the  already  marketed  75  mg  product,  the  only  change  proposed  by  the  applicant  is  the  lower 
level of 13C-labelled urea, i.e. 45 mg instead of 75 mg. It is well known that only extremely high 
doses of urea can lead to toxic effects. Regarding the pure, non-radioactive stable isotope  13C, 
no  safety  risk  is  expected,  as  its  levels  are  also  low.  Moreover,  13C  is  a  widely  used  isotope 
without known toxic effects.  
Clinical aspects 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  single  phase  III  clinical  trial  (Study  UR98/2/001)  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  2-17  years.  Given 
that  this  application  concerns  the  use  of  Helicobacter  Test  INFAI  in  children  aged  3-11  years,  the 
discussion will focus on this subpopulation. 
Clinical efficacy  
Main study UR98/2/001 
Description of the study 
This  was  an  open,  prospective  multicentre  study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Helicobacter 
Test INFAI. Children aged 2-11 years received a single oral dose of 45 mg 13C-urea per test. An upper 
gastrointestinal  endoscopy  including  a  test  for  H.  pylori  infection,  based  on  medical  need,  was 
required  to  participate  in  the  trial.  No  previous  H.  pylori  eradication  therapy  was  allowed,  nor  the 
13/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consumption of antibiotics (for  other indications), antisecretory drugs, bismuth salts, or sucralfate in 
the two weeks prior to enrolment. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The primary objective of the study was to validate the 13C-urea breath test in children and adolescents. 
The ratio 13CO2/12CO2 in exhaled air was measured at baseline and 30 minutes after administration of 
the appropriate dose of 13C-urea. The test was considered positive when the difference between these 
two ratios exceeded 4o/oo (i.e the cut-off value).  
The 13C-urea breath test was carried out using 100 ml orange juice without sugar as a pre-administered 
test meal to inhibit gastric emptying. 
The  diagnostic  properties  of  the  13C-urea  breath  test  were  compared  with  a  gold  standard,  namely  a 
combination of diagnostic procedures based on biopsies. A true positive was defined when at least one 
of the following criteria were met: i) positive culture, ii) positive histology and positive rapid urease 
test. A true negative was definined when at least one of the following criteria were  met: i) negative 
culture  and  negative  histology,  ii)  negative  culture  and  negative  rapid  urease  test,  iii)  culture  not 
evaluable and negative histology and negative rapid urease test. 
A  secondary  objective  of  the  study  was  the  calculation  of  a  receiver-operating-characteristic  (ROC) 
curve of the 13C-urea breath test. 
Statistical analysis 
One-sided 90% confidence intervals for sensitivity and specificity as well as positive and negative 
predictive values were calculated. 
RESULTSStudy populations/accountability of patients 
A total of 335 children and adolescents were enrolled in 12 study centres in Europe (see table below). 
A  total  of  204  children  in  the  age  category  3-11  years  were  enrolled.  All  children  with  data  for  the 
gold  standard  as  well  as  for  the  13C-urea  breath  test  were  included  in  the  analysis  for  the  primary 
endpoint (n=180).  
Enrolled and analysed for safety  
Analysed for efficacy (test and reference available) 
Children 
(<3 years) 
17 
12 
Children 
(3-11 years)
204 
168 
Adolescents 
(12-17 years) 
114 
93 
Total 
335 
273 
All age groups were adequately represented, with more than 10 patients per year for all ages from 3 to 
11 years. The number of evaluable children per centre ranged between n=2 (centre No. 2) and n=54 
(centre  No.  8)  patients.  The  number  of  patients  from  centre  no.  8  amounts  to  30%  of  the  total 
evaluable population. In order to assess whether this overrepresentation of study centre no. 8 may have 
biased  the  results,  one-sided  90  %  confidence  intervals  of  sensitivity,  specificity,  positive  predictive 
value  and  negative  predictive  value  for  centre  no.  8  vs.  the  pooled  data  of  the  other  centres  were 
calculated. Sensitivity was above 86.6 % in centre no. 8 vs. above 91.8 % in the other centres. Thus, 
bias is not likely due to the overrepresentation of patients from centre No. 8. 
The reasons for endoscopy were available in more than 95% of all children analysed for efficacy. The 
most frequent reason was abdominal pain (68%). Other frequent reasons were signs of malabsorption, 
failure to thrive and vomiting.  
Efficacy results   
Data to compare the results of the breath test with the gold standard were available for 180 children 
aged 3-11 years. The results in Table 2 show that H. pylori infection was found in 63/180 evaluable 
children (35%) according to the gold standard method. The youngest patients with H. pylori infection 
14/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  3  years  old.  The  results  of  the  13C-urea  breath  test  and  the  gold  standard  agreed  in  176/180 
(97.8%) of the children. 
Table 3. Comparison between 13C-urea breath test and gold standard in children (3-11 years) 
13C-urea breath test 
Gold standard 
Negative 
2 
115 
117 
Positive 
61 
2 
63 
Total 
63 
117 
180 
Positive 
Negative 
Total 
The results of specificity and sensitivity and the positive and negative predictive values are shown 
below: 
Table 4. Diagnostic properties of the 13C-urea breath test in children (3-11 years) 
Sensitivity 
Specificity 
Positive predictive value 
Negative predictive value 
96.8% 
98.3% 
96.8% 
98.3% 
(61/63) 
(115/117) 
(61/63) 
(115/117) 
90%-CI (one-sided) 
≥91.8% 
≥95.5% 
≥91.8% 
≥95.5% 
Two false-positive test results were observed in children aged 3-11 years (false-positive fraction: 
2/117 = 1.7%), both concerninig 3 year olds. This result appears to confirm recently published results 
on the diagnostic performance of the 13C-urea breath test in children indicating that the risk of false-
positive test results increases with decreasing age.  
In  order  to  better  understand  the  clinical  utility  of  the  13C-urea  breath  test  in  children,  the  CPMP 
requested  specific  13C-urea  breath  test  results  on  those  children  who  had  peptic  ulcers  or  other 
pathological  conditions  at  endoscopy.  Peptic  ulcer  disease  was  diagnosed  in  7  children,  of  whom  5 
were H. pylori positive, and 2 were H. pylori negative. The results are shown in the table below: 
H. pylori and peptic ulcer disease in children (3-11 years) 
H. pylori (13C-urea breath test) 
Peptic ulcer disease 
Positive  Negative 
5 
2 
7 
58 
103 
161 
Total 
63 
105 
168 
Positive 
Negative 
Total 
Thus,  the  prevalence  of  peptic  ulcer  disease  in  the  trial  population  was  4.2%  (7/168),  and  the 
diagnostic  test  performance  parameters  were:  Sensitivity  71.4%  (5/7),  specificity  64.0%  (103/161), 
Positive predictive value 7.9% (5/63) and negative predictive value 98.1% (103/105). The low positive 
predictive value is due to the very small numbers of children with peptic ulcer disease. 
One of the secondary objectives of the study was the calculation of a receiver-operating-characteristic 
(ROC) curve of the 13C-urea breath test. A ROC-curve allows to judge the diagnostic performance of 
the 13C-urea breath test, including its performance at different cut-off values. 
15/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
ROC Helicobacter Test INFAI
children from 3-11 years
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
TPF
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100
%
FPF
Although the applicant has not provided justification for the 40/00 cut-off point value, the sensitivity/ 
specificity per cut-off point could be calculated from the data provided. Despite the small differences 
in performance, the table below shows that the > 4.0 0/00 cut-off point has the best test performance:  
True Positive  True negative 
Cut-off value  
> 3.5 0/00                   97%                  97%  
> 4. 0 0/00                   97%                  98% 
> 4.5 0/00                   95%                  99% 
> 5.0 0/00                   95%                  98%  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The results of the study show that, as for adults, the INFAI breath test has a very high sensitivity and 
specificity with respect to the current diagnostic gold standard. This is reflected in section 5.1 of the 
SPC. 
However,  there  are  no  risks  known  to  be  associated  with  the  breath  test  itself.  The  test  should  be 
reserved for children who are likely to derive a benefit, such as those in which endoscopy cannot be 
performed or does not lead to decisive results or an eradication therapy is to be evaluated. 
In  order  to  establish  an  indication  for  a  diagnostic  test  it  is  necessary  to  assess  the  diagnostic 
performance as well as the ability of the agent to provide useful clinical information. The assessment 
of  clinical  usefulness  includes  the  evaluation  of  the  impact  of  the  use  on  diagnostic  thinking, 
therapeutic  decisions  and  clinical  outcome,  as  laid  out  in  the  CPMP  “Points  to  consider  on  the 
evaluation of diagnostic agents” (November 2001). In the assessment of the clinical usefulness of the 
urea breath test the epidemiology of H. pylori infection in children should be carefully considered. The 
prevalence of gastric colonisation and infection with H. pylori in European children is low, and peptic 
ulcers  and  other  pathological  sequelae  associated  with  H.  pylori  in  adults  are  rare  in  children. 
Moreover,  the  strength  of  association  between  H.  pylori  and  peptic  ulcer  disease  in  children  is  less 
clear than in adults and criteria for the use of eradication treatment in H. pylori infected children have 
yet  to  be  clearly  established.  As  a  result,  the  risk  to  benefit  ratio  of  diagnostic  tests  and  therapeutic 
regimens for H. pylori in children are different from those in adults. Indeed, indiscriminate testing in 
16/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
children is not recommended, and may threaten the optimal care of this group of patients by exposing 
them to the risks associated with an unwarranted over prescription of subsequent antibiotic treatment. 
In the absence of unambiguous criteria for the use of eradication  therapy, diagnostic tests should be 
employed judiciously and be reserved for children who are most likely to derive measurable benefit. 
Recent international consensus documents on the approach to H. pylori infection in children state that 
the  goal  of  diagnostic  interventions  should  be  to  determine  the  cause  of  presenting  gastrointestinal 
symptoms, rather than the presence of H. pylori infection. Thus, testing for H. pylori is recommended 
only if there is a high probability that the symptoms are due to peptic ulcer disease. If a peptic ulcer is 
identified during investigation by endoscopy (or upper gastrointestinal barium studies), it is reasonable 
to test for H. pylori. It should be stressed that upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with multiple biopsies 
remains  the  optimal  approach  to  the  investigation  of  the  pediatric  patient  with  chronic  upper 
abdominal  symptoms  or  suspected  peptic  ulcer  disease.  Hence,  13C-urea  breath  tests  should  not 
constitute an alternative to upper endoscopy for primary diagnosis of H. pylori infection in children. 
In the light of the above, the test has been indicated for those children who are likely to derive a 
benefit, such as those in which invasive tests cannot be performed or when these tests do not lead to 
decisive results, or to confirm successful eradication of H. pylori following therapy, since breath tests 
are more appropriate than repeat endoscopy in this setting. This is reflected in section 4.1 of the SPC. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
All children enrolled in the study were eligible for the safety analysis. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
According  to  the  protocol  all  unexpected  adverse  events  occurring  during  the  study  had  to  be 
documented.  No  adverse  events  were  reported  and  the  13C-urea  breath  test  was  well  tolerated  by  all 
patients. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
None reported 
Discussion on clinical safety 
No adverse events were reported in the trial and none are expected. The safety profile of this 45 mg 
line  extension  is  analogous  to  the  excellent  safety  profile  exhibited  in  the  adult  and  adolescent 
populations. Hence, there are no safety concerns with regard to this product. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  important  quality  characteristics  of  13C-urea  are  well  defined  and  controlled,  and  the  product  is 
manufactured and controlled in a way that is characteristic of a powder for solution. The specifications 
and  batch  analytical  results  indicate  a  consistent  product,  and  this  in  turn  is  predictive  of  a  uniform 
clinical performance of the product from batch to batch. There are no unresolved quality issues that 
have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
Efficacy 
The  13C-urea breath test is a sensitive and specific diagnostic test to evaluate the presence or absence 
of  H.  pylori  in  children  aged  3-11  years.  Clinical  usefulness  however  is  only  clear  for  limited 
situations. 
17/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety  
No adverse events were reported and the 13C-urea breath test was well tolerated by all patients. 
Conclusion & Recommendation 
The  diagnostic  performance  in  children  is  comparable  to  that  observed  in  adults  and  adolescents. 
There are no safety concerns related to the product. However, differences in epidemiology in children, 
as well as the strength of association between H. pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease in children 
provide for a different benefit/risk assessment in children compared to adults. This is reflected in the 
restrictions applied to the indication adopted by CPMP. 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensusby consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Helicobacter Test INFAI for children aged 3-11 
in  the  diagnosis  of  gastroduodenal  Helicobacter  pylori  infection  for  the  evaluation  of  eradication 
regimens,  or  when  invasive  tests  cannot  be  performed,  or  when  there  are  discordant  results  arising 
from  invasive  tests  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
18/18 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
