Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary of risk management plan for Hemangiol®  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for HEMANGIOL®. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  HEMANGIOL®,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  HEMANGIOL®  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
HEMANGIOL®  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how HEMANGIOL® should 
be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  HEMANGIOL®  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
HEMANGIOL® RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
HEMANGIOL®  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  proliferating  infantile  haemangioma 
requiring  systemic  therapy,  i.e.  Life-  or  function-threatening  haemangioma,  Ulcerated 
haemangioma with pain and/or lack of response to simple wound care measures, haemangioma 
with a risk of permanent scars or disfigurement. It is to be initiated in infants aged 5 weeks to 
5 months (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains Propranolol hydrochloride as the active 
substance, and it is given by oral route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  HEMANGIOL®  benefits  can  be  found  in 
HEMANGIOL®  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, 
webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Hemangiol 
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  HEMANGIOL®,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about HEMANGIOL® risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
  
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  HEMANGIOL®,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In  addition  to  these measures, information about  adverse reactions is  collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
Important information that may affect the safe use of HEMANGIOL® is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  HEMANGIOL®  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of HEMANGIOL®. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Hypoglycemia and related seizure 
Bronchospasm and bronchial hyperreactivity reaction 
Potential risk of administration error 
Long-term effects (including on growth) 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Hypoglycemia including related seizure 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Non-selective  betablockers,  such  as  propranolol  may  block  catecholamine-
induced  glycogenolysis,  gluconeogenesis  and  lipolysis  predisposing  to 
hypoglycemia. 
Propranolol  prevents  the  response  of  endogenous  catecholamines  to  correct 
hypoglycaemia.  It  masks  the  adrenergic  warning  signs  of  hypoglycaemia, 
 
 
 
 
particularly  tachycardia,  shakiness,  anxiety  and  hunger.  It  can  aggravate 
hypoglycaemia in children, especially in case of fasting, vomiting or overdose.  
These hypoglycaemic episodes associated with the taking of propranolol may 
present exceptionally in the form of seizures. In case of serious hypoglycemia 
and/or  hypoglycemic  seizures,  there  is  a  risk  of  neurological  sequelae. 
However,  in  nearly  all  cases,  hypoglycemia  that  is  severe  enough  to  cause 
seizures or unconsciousness can be reversed without obvious harm to the brain. 
Cases  of  death  or  permanent  neurological  damage  occurring  with  a  single 
episode  have  usually 
involved  prolonged,  untreated  unconsciousness, 
interference with breathing, severe concurrent disease, or some other type of 
vulnerability. Nevertheless, brain damage or death has occasionally  resulted 
from severe hypoglycemia. Severe or prolonged hypoglycemia may result in 
long-term neurologic damage. 
Characterisation of the risk: 
Hypoglycemia was reported in 2 patients out of 480 treated with V0400SB oral 
formulation in the clinical studies, involving thus <0.5% of patients, no SAE 
was reported.  
In CUP, hypoglycemia  was observed in 9 out of 1,661 patients, including 2 
serious cases of hypoglycemic seizures. 
At normal doses, Hemangiol can aggravate hypoglycemia and /or mask some 
warning signs related to hypoglycaemia, particularly if the child is fasting or 
vomiting. The same can occur if overdosing Hemangiol.  
The infant is susceptible to hypoglycemia: 
-  When glucose demands are increased (cold, stress, infections, 
increased work of breathing)  
-  During fasting period (poor oral food intake, concomitant infection, 
- 
teething, preparation for surgery) 
In case of previous or concomitant treatment with corticosteroids 
because of adrenal suppression that may result in loss of the 
counterregulatory cortisol response and increases the risk of 
hypoglycemia.  
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs : 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8. 
PL sections 2, 3, 4 
Additional RMMs: 
Educational material to care giver 
 
 
 
 
 
Bronchospasm and bronchial hyperactivity reactions 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Bronchial  hyperreactivity  is  a  direct  effect  of  non-beta  selective 
propranolol,  resulting  in  a  bronchospasm  due  to  pulmonary  beta  2-
blockade.  
Propranolol,  by  its  bronchoconstrictive  properties,  may  aggravate  the 
respiratory  condition  of  the  patient,  in  a  context  of  viral  bronchiolitis. 
Bronchiolitis  is  a  potentially  life-threatening  respiratory  condition  that 
affects young babies.  
Characterisation of the risk: 
In  the  clinical  studies,  bronchospasm,  bronchiolitis  and  bronchitis  were 
respectively reported in 2.9%, 7.9% and 13.1% of 480 patients treated with 
V0400SB  oral  formulation.  Two  cases  were  serious:  one  patient  was 
hospitalized for obstructive bronchitis positive to RSV and rhinovirus, the 
other experienced bronchospasm related to bronchitis one month after the 
discontinuation of V0400. 
In the CUP, out of the 1,661 patients, 47 cases of respiratory disorders were 
reported, including 19 serious cases, including one circulatory shock and 
respiratory  arrest.  Most  of  these  cases  of  respiratory  disorders  occurred 
during  wintertime  (29/47)  and  were  of  infectious  origin,  mostly  several 
months after treatment introduction.  
Risk groups or risk factors included prematurity, cardiopathy, congenital 
defects of the airways, history of asthma and bronchoconstriction, history 
of eczema, history of familial atopy, history of parental smoking, pets at 
home, and nursery attendance (Breast-feeding is considered protective). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4,4.8. 
PL sections 2, 3, 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational material to care giver 
Potential risk of administration error 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
The  potential  risks  of  administration  error  to  be  considered  are  those 
linked  to  an  error  in  the  administered  dose  per  intake  that  needs  to  be 
adjusted  during  the  treatment  course:  firstly  during  treatment  titration, 
then  with  the  evolution  of  patient’s  weight  and  those  linked  to  an 
accidental double administration by 2 different persons. 
 
 
 
 
Wrong medication: The treatment is to be administered to the infant with 
an oral syringe graduated in mg, specifically dedicated to Hemangiol® 
packaged  together  with  the  bottle  containing  the  propranolol  solution. 
The risk of error in case of concomitant administration of several drugs 
in infants with different syringes is very low since the device provided is 
marked under the trade name “HEMANGIOL” of the drug product. 
Wrong  dose:  The  physician  will  prescribe  a  dose  in  mg/kg/day  in  2 
separate  doses.  For  example,  a  patient  who  weighs  6  kg  with  a 
prescription of 3 mg/kg/day will be prescribed 18 mg/day in 2 separate 
doses of 9 mg.   
However, in 2 situations, there is a risk for potential medication errors by 
parents or caregivers: 
• At the beginning of treatment, when the starting dose must be up titrated 
to the therapeutic dose during the first three weeks. 
• During the treatment period, when the dose must be regularly readjusted 
by the physician according to the changes in the child’s weight. 
There is a risk of under or overdose, if the syringe is not well used and/or 
posology not understood. 
Wrong  route  of  administration:  There  is  no  possibility  to  administer 
Hemangiol®  by  another  route  than  the  oral  route  with  the  device 
provided.  
Wrong patient: In the same family or in day care centre, several children 
can be treated with a medication administered using a syringe. However, 
the device is marked with the trade name of the drug product, limiting this 
type of error. 
Characterisation of the risk: 
In the clinical studies, no case of administration error was reported. 
In the CUP, 12 cases of administration error were reported: 
-  1  serious  case  of  patients  who  experienced  hypoglycemic 
seizure/bradycardia  and  hypoglycemia  in  the  other  case,  while 
propranolol was not discontinued during a fasting period.  
-  1  serious  case  of  a  drug  dispensing  error;  the  pharmacist  delivered 
Risperdal®  (risperidone)  instead  of  propranolol  PFD.  The  patient 
recovered with important neurological sequelae.  
-  2 cases of errors due to the use of the syringe without occurrence of 
adverse reaction (one case of administration with a syringe of another 
product and one case with confusion between mg and mL when using 
the syringe). 
-  2 cases of drug dose omissions,  
-  1 case of an accidental double administration (by 2 different persons) 
without adverse reaction;  
-  1 case concerned a patient who received 1mg/kg/day, 3 times daily and 
experienced cold extremities. 
Risk factors and risk groups  All patients are at risk of drug administration error. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine RMMs: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.9 
PL sections 2, 3, 4 
Additional RMMs: 
Educational material to care giver  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of HEMANGIOL®. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
None 
 
 
