EMA/216551/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004854 
Hepcludex (bulevirtide) 
An overview of Hepcludex and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Hepcludex and what is it used for? 
Hepcludex is an antiviral medicine used to treat chronic (long-term) hepatitis delta virus (HDV) 
infection in adults with compensated liver disease (when the liver is damaged but is still able to work), 
when the presence of viral RNA (genetic material) has been confirmed by blood tests. 
HDV is an 'incomplete' virus, because it cannot replicate in cells without the help of another virus, the 
hepatitis B virus. Because of this, patients infected with the virus always also have hepatitis B. 
HDV infection is rare, and Hepcludex was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 19 June 2015. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on the EMA 
website   
Hepcludex contains the active substance bulevirtide.  
How is Hepcludex used? 
Hepcludex can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started only by a doctor 
experienced in the management of patients with HDV infection. 
The medicine is available as an injection to be given under the skin. It can be given on its own, or in 
combination with a ‘nucleoside/nucleotide analogue’ medicine for the treatment of the underlying 
hepatitis B infection. Treatment should continue for as long as the patient benefits from it. 
For more information about using Hepcludex, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Hepcludex work? 
The active substance in Hepcludex, bulevirtide, works by attaching to and blocking a receptor (target) 
through which the hepatitis delta and hepatitis B viruses enter liver cells. By blocking the entry of the 
virus into the cells, Hepcludex limits the ability of HDV to replicate, preventing the spread of the virus 
in the liver and thereby reducing inflammation. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Hepcludex have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies showed that Hepcludex was effective at clearing all or 99% of the HDV genetic 
material (RNA) from the blood. 
In the first study, 55 out of 90 patients treated with Hepcludex plus tenofovir (a medicine for 
hepatitis B) had substantial reductions in HDV replication after 6 months, compared with 1 out of 28 
patients given tenofovir alone. Patients treated with Hepcludex also showed a reduction in the blood 
levels of the liver enzyme ALT, indicating an improvement of liver disease.  
Similar results were seen in the second study where 8 out of 15 patients given Hepcludex plus 
peginterferon alfa (another medicine for hepatitis B) for 48 weeks no longer had detectable levels of 
HDV RNA 6 months after their treatment. Of the 15 patients treated with Hepcludex alone, one no 
longer had detectable levels of HDV RNA. Of the 15 patients treated with peginterferon alfa alone, no 
patient achieved this result. 
In a larger, confirmatory study in 150 patients, 45% (22 out of 49) of patients given a low dose of 
Hepcludex and 48% (24 out of 50) of patients given a higher dose of Hepcludex had almost all of their 
HDV RNA cleared after 48 weeks, compared with 2% (1 out of 51) of untreated patients. 
What are the risks associated with Hepcludex? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Hepcludex, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Hepcludex (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
raised levels of bile salts in the blood, headache, itching and reactions at the site of injection.  
The most common serious side effect is a flare-up of liver inflammation after stopping Hepcludex. 
Why is Hepcludex authorised in the EU? 
Available data have shown a beneficial effect of Hepcludex on viral replication and liver inflammation in 
patients with HDV infection. As for its safety, the side effects seen with Hepcludex were considered 
acceptable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Hepcludex’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Hepcludex was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the medicine. The company has since provided comprehensive information confirming the 
findings from earlier studies. As a result, the conditional authorisation has been switched to a standard 
one. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hepcludex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Hepcludex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Hepcludex are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Hepcludex are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Hepcludex (bulevirtide)  
EMA/216551/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Hepcludex 
Hepcludex received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 July 2020. 
The conditional marketing authorisation was switched to a standard marketing authorisation on 
18.07.2023. 
Further information on Hepcludex can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/hepcludex.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Hepcludex (bulevirtide)  
EMA/216551/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
