ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
HEPCLUDEX 2 mg powder for solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains bulevirtide acetate equivalent to 2 mg bulevirtide. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
The powder is white to off-white. 
After reconstitution, solution with a pH of approximately 9.0 and osmolality of approximately 
300 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Hepcludex is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis delta virus (HDV) infection in plasma (or 
serum) HDV-RNA positive adult patients with compensated liver disease. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated only by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with HDV 
infection.  
Posology 
Bulevirtide  should  be  administered  at  2 mg  once  daily  (every  24 hours  ±  4 hours)  by  subcutaneous 
injection as monotherapy or in co-administration with a nucleoside/nucleotide analogue for treatment 
of underlying hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. 
Concerning co-administration with  nucleoside-nucleotide analogues for treatment of HBV infection, 
refer to section 4.4. 
Duration of treatment 
The optimal treatment duration is unknown. Treatment should be continued as long as associated with 
clinical benefit. 
Consideration to discontinue the treatment should be given in case of sustained (6 months) HBsAg 
seroconversion or loss of virological and biochemical response.  
Missed doses 
If an injection has been omitted and less than 4 hours have elapsed since the scheduled time, the 
injection must be performed as soon as possible. The time of the next injection will not be calculated 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the time of the "rescue" injection, but according to the injection schedule previously established. 
It is, therefore, necessary to return to the usual pattern of administration, at the appointed time, the 
following day. 
If an injection has been missed and more than 4 hours have elapsed since the scheduled time, the 
missed dose should not be administered. 
The next injection will take place according to the usual schedule (injection of the prescribed dose 
without doubling), at the appointed time the next day. 
If the injection has been made by mistake more than 4 hours after the scheduled time, the next 
administration must take place in the usual way (i.e. in accordance with the original schedule). 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No data is available in patients > 65 years. 
Renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted with bulevirtide in patients with renal impairment.  
Renal function should be carefully monitored. Elevation of bile salts may occur during treatment. Due 
to renal excretion of bile salts, elevation of bile salts may be greater in patients with renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh-Turcotte class 
A). The safety and efficacy of bulevirtide in patients with decompensated cirrhosis have not been 
established (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  bulevirtide  in  patients  younger  than  18 years  of  age  have  not  been 
established. No data is available. 
Method of administration  
For subcutaneous use only. Bulevirtide may be injected into sites such as the upper thigh, or abdomen. 
Appropriate training should be given to the patients self-administering the product to minimise the risk 
of the injection site reactions.  
The “Step-by-step injection guide”, provided in the carton, must be followed carefully by the patient.  
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
HDV and HBV genotype 
HDV genotype 1 was predominant in the clinical trials population. It is not known whether HDV or 
HBV genotype affects the clinical efficacy of bulevirtide.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decompensated liver disease 
The pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of bulevirtide in patients with decompensated cirrhosis has 
not been established. The use in patients with decompensated liver disease is not recommended. 
Co-infection with HBV 
The underlying HBV infection should be simultaneously managed according to current treatment 
guidelines. In the clinical study of bulevirtide MYR202, only patients with signs of active hepatitis 
despite nucleoside/nucleotide analogue treatment were included; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was co-
administered with bulevirtide. Close monitoring of HBV-DNA levels is recommended. 
Hepatitis exacerbations after treatment cessation 
Discontinuation of treatment with bulevirtide can lead to reactivation of HDV and HBV infections and 
exacerbation of hepatitis. In case of treatment discontinuation, careful monitoring of liver function 
tests including transaminase levels, as well as HBV DNA and HDV RNA viral load should be 
performed. 
Co-infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
No data are available from HIV or HCV co-infected patients.  
Excipients 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
"sodium-free". 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
In vitro, it has been shown, that certain medicinal products can inhibit bulevirtide target sodium-
taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP). The co-administration of such medicinal products 
(e.g. sulfasalazin, irbesartan, ezetimibe, ritonavir, and ciclosporin A) is not recommended. 
As a precautionary measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted when NTCP substrates (e.g. 
estrone-3-sulfate, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and thyroid 
hormones) are co-administered with bulevirtide. When possible, co-administration of these substrates 
should be avoided. 
In vitro an inhibition of OATP1B1/3 transporters by bulevirtide was observed, albeit only at a 
concentration ≥ 0.5 µM, which is only reached in vivo after administration of high bulevirtide doses 
(10 mg subcutaneous). The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. As a precautionary 
measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted when OATP1B1/3 substrates (e.g. atorvastatin, 
bosentan, docetaxel, fexofenadine, glecaprevir, glyburide (glibenclamide), grazoprevir, nateglinide, 
paclitaxel, paritaprevir, pitavastatin, pravastatin, repaglinide, rosuvastatin, simeprevir, simvastatin, 
olmesartan, telmisartan, valsartan, voxilaprevir) are co-administered. When possible, co-
administration of these substrates should be avoided. 
In a clinical study in healthy subjects, co-administration of tenofovir and bulevirtide revealed no 
impact on tenofovir pharmacokinetics. 
No CYP inhibition by bulevirtide was observed in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations. However, 
in a clinical study, an approximately 40% increase in geometric mean of partial AUC2-4h values of 
co-administered midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) was observed in combination of high dose 
bulevirtide (10 mg) and tenofovir (245 mg), whereas no significant influence on midazolam AUC2-4h 
was detected for tenofovir alone. As a precautionary measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for co-administered narrow-therapeutic-index drugs which are sensitive CYP3A4 substrates (e.g. 
cyclosporine, carbamazepine, simvastatin, sirolimus, and tacrolimus).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of bulevirtide in pregnant women.  
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity. 
As a precautious measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of bulevirtide during pregnancy and in 
women of child-bearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It  is  unknown  whether  bulevirtide  is  excreted  in  human  milk.  Therefore,  a  decision  must  be  made 
whether  to  discontinue  breast-feeding  or  to  discontinue  /  abstain  from  treatment  with  bulevirtide, 
taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of bulevirtide on fertility are available. In animal studies, no effects of 
bulevirtide on male or female mating and fertility were noted. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
The product has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be informed 
that dizziness has been reported during treatment with bulevirtide. (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are) increase in bile salts (very common), headache 
(very common), (pruritus (very common) and injection site reactions (very common). 
Increases in bile salts were usually asymptomatic and reversible upon treatment discontinuation.  
The most frequently reported serious adverse reaction is an exacerbation of hepatitis after 
discontinuation of bulevirtide, possibly related to virologic rebound after discontinuation of treatment 
(see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions are based on pooled data from clinical studies and post-marketing 
experience. 
Adverse reactions are listed below by system organ class and frequency. Frequencies are defined as 
follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to, < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100). 
Frequency 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Immune system disorders  
Uncommon 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
Eosinophilia 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactiona 
Headache 
Dizziness 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Total bile salts increased 
Nausea 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
a  Adverse reaction identified through post-marketing surveillance 
b 
Arthralgia 
Pruritus 
Injection site reactionsb 
Fatigue 
Influenza like illness 
Includes injection site erythema, injection site reaction, injection site pain, injection site induration, injection site 
swelling, injection site rash, injection site haematoma, injection site pruritus and injection site dermatitis 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Total Bile Salts Increased  
Asymptomatic bile salt elevations, associated with the mechanism of action of bulevirtide, were very 
commonly observed in clinical studies of bulevirtide; the bile salt elevations resolved upon 
discontinuation of bulevirtide treatment. 
Due to renal excretion of bile salts, elevation of bile salts may be greater in patients with renal 
impairment. 
There are no data available on the long-term impact (> 48 weeks) of this bile salt increase induced by 
bulevirtide. 
Injection Site Reactions 
Bulevirtide is intended for subcutaneous injection which is associated with risks for injection site 
reactions including swelling, redness, irritation, itchiness, infection, haematoma, rash, induration and 
local pain. These local reactions are more likely to appear if the injection is accidentally misplaced or 
the solution is accidentally misdirected to the soft tissue. 
Eosinophilia  
Increases in eosinophil counts were commonly observed in patients receiving bulevirtide treatment; 
there were no associated clinical sequelae, hepatic adverse reactions, or significant liver-related 
laboratory abnormalities. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There are no data on human overdose with bulevirtide. If overdose occurs, the patient must be 
monitored for evidence of toxicity and given standard supportive treatment as necessary. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, other antivirals. ATC code: J05AX28 
Mechanism of action 
Bulevirtide blocks the entry of HBV and HDV into hepatocytes by binding to and inactivating NTCP, 
a bile salt liver transporter serving as essential HBV/HDV entry receptor. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The clinical efficacy and safety of bulevirtide was investigated in one Phase 3 study and two Phase 2 
studies. Patients with chronic HDV infection and active hepatitis were included. The population of 
these three  studies was mainly Caucasian, HDV genotype 1 was predominant. 
MYR301 study 
In Study 301, 100 of 150 patients with chronic HDV infection were randomised to receive immediate 
treatment with once daily bulevirtide 2 mg (N=49) or to have treatment delayed for 48 weeks (N=51). 
Randomisation was stratified by the presence or absence of compensated cirrhosis. 
Of the 49 patients in the immediate treatment group, mean age was 44 years; 61% were male, 84% 
were White, and 16% were Asian. Of the 51 patients in the delayed treatment group, mean age was 41 
years; 51% were male, 78% were White and 22% were Asian. All 100 patients had infection with 
HDV genotype 1.  
Baseline characteristics were balanced among the immediate and delayed treatment groups. Of the 
patients who received 2 mg bulevirtide at baseline, mean plasma HDV RNA was 5.1 log10 IU/mL, 
mean ALT was 108 U/L, 47% of patients had a history of cirrhosis, and 53% were interferon 
experienced. During the study (through Week 48), 63% of these patients, received concomitant 
therapy according to the standard care for their underlying HBV infection: the most common 
concomitant medications were tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-containing or tenofovir alafenamide-
containing products (49%) and entecavir (14%). 
The table below presents the virologic and biochemical outcomes for immediate treatment with 
bulevirtide 2 mg once daily and delayed treatment at Week 48. 
Bulevirtide 2 mg 
(Immediate Treatment) 
(N=49) 
Week 48a 
Delayed Treatment 
(N=51) 
Undetectableb HDV RNA or decrease in 
HDV RNA by ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL and ALT 
normalisationc  
Undetectableb HDV RNA or decrease in 
HDV RNA by ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL  
ALT normalisationc  
a.  For the first endpoint, for missing values, the last observation carrying forward (LOCF) was used if COVID-19 related; 
51% e 
45%d 
71%e 
12% 
4% 
2% 
otherwise, missing = failure; for the second and third endpoints, missing = failure.  
b.  < lower limit of quantification LLOQ (target not detected) 
c.  Defined as an ALT value within the normal range: Russian sites, ≤ 31 U/L for females and ≤ 41 U/L for males; all other 
sites, ≤ 34 U/L for females and ≤ 49 U/L for males.  
d.  p-value < 0.0001. 
e.  Not multiplicity controlled. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MYR202 study 
In Study MYR202, 56 of 118 patients with chronic HDV infection and ongoing viral replication who 
were interferon experienced, had a contraindication to interferon, or were cirrhotic, were randomised 
to receive bulevirtide 2 mg + TDF (N=28) or TDF alone (N=28) for 24 weeks. At Week 24, 21% of 
patients in the bulevirtide 2 mg + TDF group achieved a combined response, 54% achieved 
undetectable HDV RNA (defined as < limit of detection [LOD], where LOD was 14 IU/mL) or 
decrease by ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL, and 43% achieved ALT normalisation. At Week 24, no patients in the 
TDF group achieved a combined response, 4% achieved undetectable HDV RNA or decrease in HDV 
RNA by ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL, and 7% achieved ALT normalisation (normal ALT was defined as ≤ 31 U/L 
for females and ≤ 41 U/L for males). 
MYR203 study 
In Study MYR203, a total of 15 patients were treated with bulevirtide 2 mg daily for 48 weeks. In this 
limited dataset, the efficacy and safety profiles were not substantially different than for patients treated 
for 24 weeks. Two patients developed virological breakthrough, possibly related to medication non-
adherence.  
Immunogenicity 
Bulevirtide has the potential to induce antidrug antibodies (ADA), as detected in clinical studies using 
an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In Studies MYR203 and MYR301, a total of 64 
patients who were treated with buleviritide 2 mg monotherapy for 48 weeks were eligible for 
assessment of ADA prevalence; 18 of these patients (28.1%) were positive for ADA prevalence, of 
which 3 patients (4.7%) were positive for ADA at baseline.  
There is no evidence that the pharmacokinetics, safety, or effectiveness of bulevirtide were altered in 
these patients. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
bulevirtide in one or more subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of chronic hepatitis D 
infection (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic properties of bulevirtide were characterised after intravenous and subcutaneous 
administration. The exposure of bulevirtide increased disproportionally while the apparent clearance 
and apparent volume of distribution decreased with higher doses.  
Distribution 
The estimated volume of distribution is smaller than total body water. In vitro plasma protein binding 
is high with > 99% of bulevirtide bound to plasma proteins.  
Biotransformation 
No biotransformation study was performed for bulevirtide. Bulevirtide is a linear peptide consisting of 
L-amino acids, and it is expected to be degraded to smaller peptides and individual amino acids. No 
active metabolites are expected. 
Based  on  the  results  of  in vitro  interaction  studies,  bulevirtide  did  not  inhibit  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4.  
No in vitro induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4 by bulevirtide was observed.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the in vitro studies, no clinically relevant interaction is expected for most common efflux 
transporters (MDR1, BCRP, BSEP, MATE1 and MATE2K) and uptake transporters (OATP2B1, 
OAT1, OAT3, OCT1 and OCT2). A specific in vitro interaction was identified with the organic anion 
transporting polypeptides, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 with IC50 values of 0.5 and 8.7 µM, respectively.  
Elimination 
No bulevirtide excretion into urine was detected in healthy volunteers. Elimination via target (NTCP) 
binding is assumed to be the main route. Both distribution and elimination after multiple dosing were 
reduced compared to values estimated after the first dose. Accumulation ratios for 2 mg dose for Cmax 
and AUC were approximately 2-fold. Steady state is assumed to be achieved within the first weeks of 
administration. After reaching peak concentrations, plasma levels declined with t1/2 of 4-7 hours. 
Other special populations 
Renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted with bulevirtide in patients with renal impairment.  
Hepatic impairment 
No studies have been conducted with bulevirtide in patients with moderate and severe hepatic 
impairment. 
Elderly 
No data is available in patients older than 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
No data is available in patients younger than 18 years of age.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity, and toxicity to reproduction and development. 
No genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies were conducted due to the nature and mechanism of 
action of the product. 
A pre and post-natal development study (PPND) has been completed in rats and did not show any 
bulevirtide-related toxicity. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium carbonate anhydrous 
Sodium hydrogen carbonate 
Mannitol 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, except those mentioned in 
section 6.6.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
After reconstitution, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 2 hours at room 
temperature (up to 25°C). From a microbiological point of view, it is recommended that the product 
should be used immediately.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C -8°C). In order to protect from light, keep the vials in the outer carton.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Colourless glass vial with bromobutyl or chlorobutyl rubber stopper, sealed with a flip off cap 
(aluminium with plastic disc). 
Pack-size of 30 vials. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each vial is intended for single use only and the excess of unused product must be properly disposed 
of. Sterile water for injections, syringes, needle tips and alcohol wipes should be provided to the 
patient.  
Instructions for use 
The bulevirtide vial should be taken from the refrigerator shortly before the injection and the blue flip-
off cap has to be removed. A single-use syringe should be taken and a needle tip attached to the 
syringe head in order to extract 1 ml of sterile water for injection into the syringe. The syringe needle 
with the syringe containing the sterile water for injection should then be inserted into the bulevirtide 
vial through the rubber stopper. The sterile water for injection inside the syringe will then be injected 
into the bulevirtide vial and the bulevirtide vial has to be carefully swayed until a clear solution is 
obtained. The complete content of the bulevirtide vial has to be extracted back into the same syringe 
with the same needle tip.  
The needle tip has then to be detached from the syringe. To this syringe, a needle tip for subcutaneous 
injection has to be attached and any remaining air bubbles have to be removed from the syringe prior 
to injection. The content of the bulevirtide vial will then be administered subcutaneously.  
Disposal of medicinal product and auxiliary components 
All used components/ waste should be handled according to the current regulation. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1446/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 31 July 2020 
Date of latest renewal: 21 June 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
IDA Business and Technology Park 
Carrigtohill 
Co. Cork 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted  medical  prescription  (see  Annex I:  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics, section 4. 2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
1. 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) 
shall submit PSURs every 6 months. 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The  marketing  authorisation  holder  (MAH)  shall  submit  the  first  PSUR  for  this  product  within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
2. 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
1. 
2.  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
HEPCLUDEX 2 mg powder for solution for injection 
bulevirtide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 2 mg bulevirtide (as acetate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium carbonate anhydrous, sodium hydrogen carbonate, mannitol, hydrochloric acid, 
and sodium hydroxide. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for solution for injection 
30 single-use vials  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use after reconstitution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. In order to protect from light, keep the vials in the outer carton. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1446/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
HEPCLUDEX  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
HEPCLUDEX 2 mg powder for injection 
bulevirtide 
Subcutaneous use after reconstitution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
Store in a refrigerator  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Hepcludex 2 mg powder for solution for injection 
bulevirtide 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may  
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Hepcludex is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Hepcludex 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to take Hepcludex 
Possible side effects 
How to store Hepcludex 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Step-by-step injection guide  
1.  What Hepcludex is and what it is used for 
What Hepcludex is 
Hepcludex contains the active substance bulevirtide, which is an antiviral medicine. 
What Hepcludex is used for 
Hepcludex is used to treat long-term (chronic) hepatitis delta virus (HDV) infection in adults with 
compensated liver disease (when the liver is still working well enough). Infection with hepatitis delta 
virus causes inflammation of the liver. 
How Hepcludex works 
HDV uses a particular protein in liver cells to enter the cells. Bulevirtide, the active substance in this 
medicine blocks the protein and so prevents the HDV from getting into liver cells. This reduces the 
spread of HDV in the liver and reduces inflammation.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Hepcludex 
Do not take Hepcludex: 
1. 
if you are allergic to bulevirtide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you are not sure, speak to your doctor before taking this medicine. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Do not stop your treatment with Hepcludex unless your doctor advises you to do so. Stopping the 
treatment can reactivate the infection and worsen your disease. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Hepcludex:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
if your liver is not working well enough – it is not known how well Hepcludex works in these 
circumstances; if your liver is not functioning well, taking Hepcludex is not recommended. 
if you have had kidney disease or if tests have shown problems with your kidneys. Before and 
during treatment, your doctor may order blood tests to check how well your kidneys are 
working; 
if you have HIV infection or hepatitis C - it is not known how well Hepcludex works in these 
circumstances; your doctor may order blood tests to check the status of your HIV or hepatitis C 
infection 
Children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age should not be treated with Hepcludex. 
Other medicines and Hepcludex 
Please tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other medicines. 
Some medicines can increase side effects of Hepcludex and you should not take them at the same 
time. This is why you should tell your doctor if you are taking any of these medicines:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
ciclosporin, a medicine that supresses the immune system; 
ezetimibe, used for treating high blood cholesterol; 
irbesartan, used for treating high blood pressure and heart disease; 
ritonavir, used to treat HIV infection; 
sulfasalazine, (used for treating rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease. 
Some medicines can increase or decrease the effects of Hepcludex when taken together. In some 
cases, you may need to have certain tests or your doctor may change the dose or monitor you 
regularly: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4.  medicines for hepatitis C and HIV treatment (e.g. darunavir, glecaprevir, grazoprevir, indinavir, 
cancer treatments (e.g. dasatinib, docetaxel, ibrutinib, paclitaxel); 
antihistamine medicines used for allergies (e.g. ebastine, fexofenadine); 
immune system medicines (e.g. everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus); 
maraviroc, paritaprevir, saquinavir, simeprevir, tipranavir, voxilaprevir); 
5.  medicines for diabetes (e.g. glibenclamide, nateglinide, repaglinide); 
6.  medicines for erectile dysfunction (e.g., avanafil, sildenafil, vardenafil); 
7.  medicines for treating high blood pressure and heart disease (e.g. olmesartan, telmisartan, 
valsartan); 
statin, medicines used for high blood cholesterol (e.g. atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, 
pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin); 
thyroid hormones used to treat thyroid problems; 
alfentanil, an opioid medicine used to treat severe pain; 
bosentan, used for pulmonary arterial hypertension; 
buspirone, an anxiety medicine; 
budesonide, used for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; 
conivaptan and tolvaptan, used to treat hyponatraemia (low sodium levels); 
darifenacin, used to treat urinary incontinence; 
dronedarone, heart medicine for cardiac arrhythmias; 
eletriptan, used for migraine headaches; 
eplerenone, used for high blood pressure; 
estrone-3-sulfate a menopausal hormone medicine; 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
felodipine and nisoldipine (heart medicines); 
lomitapide, used for high blood cholesterol; 
lurasidone and quetiapine, antipsychotic medicines for psychiatric disorders; 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23.  midazolam and triazolam, medicines to treat insomnia (inability to sleep) and for anaesthesia (to 
avoid pain during surgery); 
naloxegol, used to treat dependence on opioid medicines for severe pain;  
ticagrelor, anticoagulant to prevent blood clotting. 
24. 
25. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your  doctor  for  advice  before  taking  this  medicine.  You  should  not  use  this  medicine  unless 
specifically told to by your doctor. 
If  you  are  a  woman  of  childbearing  potential,  you  should  not  take  this  medicine  without  using  an 
effective method of contraception.  
Talk to your doctor to decide whether you should breastfeed while taking Hepcludex.  
It  is  not  known  whether  Hepcludex  can  pass  into  breast  milk.  Therefore,  a  decision  must  be  made 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue Hepcludex. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness and tiredness are side effects which may impair your ability to drive and use machines. If 
you have any concerns consult your doctor. 
Hepcludex contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially "sodium-
free". 
3. 
How to take Hepcludex 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose is 2 mg once daily by subcutaneous injection (just under the skin). Your 
doctor will say how long you need to take the medicine for. 
Your  doctor  and  nurse  will  show  you  how  to  prepare  and  inject  Hepcludex.  This  package  leaflet 
contains a step-by-step injection guide to help you inject the medicine (see section 7). 
If you take more Hepcludex than you should 
The usual dose is 2 mg (1 vial) per day. If you think you may have taken more than you should, tell 
your doctor immediately.  
If you forget to take Hepcludex 
If less than 4 hours have passed since your missed dose of Hepcludex, take the missing dose as soon as 
possible and take your next scheduled dose at the usual time.  
If more than 4 hours have passed since your missed dose of Hepcludex, do not take the missed dose. 
Take the next dose the following day at the usual time. Do not take a double dose to make up for the 
missed dose. Tell your doctor if you have missed a dose of Hepcludex.  
If you stop taking Hepcludex 
If you do not want to take Hepcludex anymore, talk to your doctor before stopping the treatment. 
Stopping the treatment can reactivate the infection and worsen your disease. Tell your doctor 
immediately about any changes in symptoms after stopping treatment. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of Hepcludex, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor if any of the side effects occur, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this 
leaflet.  
The following side effect is very common (this may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
itching 
reactions at the injection site that may include swelling, redness, irritation, bruising, itchiness, 
rash, hardening, infection or local pain 
The following side effects are common (these may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dizziness  
nausea 
tiredness 
flu-like illness 
joint pain 
allergic reactions, including anaphylactic reaction (sudden life-threatening allergic reaction). 
The following side effects are uncommon (these may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Symptoms of allergic reactions can include: 
• 
shortness of breath or wheezing 
• 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat (angioedema) 
• 
skin rashes 
• 
changes to blood pressure or heart rate. 
Symptoms of anaphylactic reaction are like those of allergic reaction, but more severe and require 
immediate medical care. 
Blood tests may also show: 
• 
• 
an increase in the level of bile acids in the blood (very common) 
an increase in white blood cells (eosinophils) (common).  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help to provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Hepcludex 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C -8°C). In order to protect from light, keep the vials in the outer carton. 
The reconstituted solution should be used immediately. However, if this is not possible it can be stored 
for up to 2 hours at a temperature of up to 25°C. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines or used needles via wastewater or household waste. Ask your 
pharmacist how to safely dispose medicines and used needles.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Hepcludex contains 
The active substance is bulevirtide 2 mg. Each vial contains bulevirtide acetate equivalent to 2 mg 
bulevirtide. 
The other ingredients are: sodium carbonate anhydrous, sodium hydrogen carbonate, mannitol, 
hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide. 
What Hepcludex looks like and contents of the pack 
Bulevirtide is a powder for solution for injection and comes as a white to off-white powder. 
Each carton contains 30 single doses.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
IDA Business and Technology Park 
Carrigtohill 
Co. Cork 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
Lietuva 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
България 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Тел.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Česká republika 
Gilead Sciences s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 (0) 910 871 986 
Danmark 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
Magyarország 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Malta 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Gilead Sciences GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0) 89 899890-0 
Eesti 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Ελλάδα 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 (0) 210 8930 100 
España 
Gilead Sciences, S.L. 
Tel: + 34 (0) 91 378 98 30 
France 
Gilead Sciences 
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 46 09 41 00 
Hrvatska 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Ireland 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 214 825 999 
Ísland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Sími: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Italia 
Gilead Sciences S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 439201 
Κύπρος 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 (0) 210 8930 100 
Latvija 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Nederland 
Gilead Sciences Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0) 20 718 36 98 
Norge 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Österreich 
Gilead Sciences GesmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0) 1 260 830 
Polska 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0) 22 262 8702 
Portugal 
Gilead Sciences, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 (0) 21 7928790 
România 
Gilead Sciences (GSR) S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 31 631 18 00 
Slovenija 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Slovenská republika 
Gilead Sciences Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 (0) 232 121 210 
Suomi/Finland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Puh/Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Sverige 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 44 (0) 8000 113 700 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Step-by-step injection guide  
Before using Hepcludex, you must first read sections 1 – 6 of this package leaflet. 
Before you begin treatment with this medicine at home, your doctor or nurse will show you how to 
prepare and inject Hepcludex. This guide shows how to inject the medicine yourself. Speak with your 
doctor or nurse if you are unclear about anything or you have questions or need more information or 
help. Take your time to carefully prepare and inject Hepcludex.  
Injection sites 
Abdomen 
Upper thighs 
In order to reduce injection site reactions, you may 
change the site of bulevirtide injection regularly. 
Do not inject bulevirtide into the following areas: 
knee, groin, the lower or inner buttocks, directly 
over a blood vessel, around the navel (belly 
button), on scar tissue, a bruise, a mole, a surgical 
scar, tattoo or burn site, or where there is an 
injection site reaction. 
1A 
Storage 
1B 
Preparing doses 
1C 
Wash hands 
1D 
Clean vial 
Bulevirtide vials must 
be stored in the original 
packaging in the 
refrigerator (2–8 °C) in 
order to protect 
bulevirtide from light. 
The following 
instructions are for 
dissolving a single 
dose. 
Wash your hands well 
using soap and warm 
water and dry them 
with a clean towel. 
Once your hands are 
clean, do not touch 
anything else other 
than the medicine, 
supplies and the area 
around the injection 
site. 
Wipe the vial top with 
a new alcohol pad and 
let the top air-dry. 
If you touch the rubber 
top after cleaning it, 
clean it again with a 
new alcohol pad. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2A 
Draw up sterile water 
Pick up the syringe. Put the longer needle on.  
Important! Be sure the capped needle is tight 
by pushing it down slightly while twisting it 
clockwise. 
Pull off the plastic cap. 
Open the sterile water for injection. Insert the 
needle in the vial and gently turn the water 
vial upside down. Make sure the tip of the 
needle is always below the surface of the 
water to help keep air bubbles from entering 
the syringe. 
Slowly pull the plunger back to get 1.0 ml of 
sterile water into the syringe. Carefully 
remove the needle and syringe from the vial. 
2B 
Inject sterile 
water into the 
powder 
2C 
Gently mix bulevirtide 
Gently tap the 
bulevirtide vial to 
loosen the powder. 
Insert the needle 
with sterile water 
into the bulevirtide 
vial at an angle. 
Inject the sterile 
water slowly, so it 
can drip down the 
side of the vial into 
the bulevirtide 
powder. 
Gently tap the bulevirtide vial 
with your fingertip for 10 sec to 
start dissolving the powder. 
Then gently roll the bulevirtide 
vial between your hands to 
ensure thorough mixing. Make 
sure no bulevirtide powder is 
stuck to the vial wall. 
Important! Do not shake the 
bulevirtide vial. Shaking will 
make the medicine foam and it 
will take much longer to 
dissolve. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
2D 
Inspect bulevirtide 
2E 
Bulevirtide ready for injection 
2F 
Clean vial 
Once the powder starts 
to dissolve, just set it 
aside and it completely 
will dissolve. 
After tapping, it could 
take up to 3 min to 
dissolve.  
When mixed completely, the bulevirtide solution 
should be clear. 
Important! Completely dissolved bulevirtide 
should be clear and without foam. 
If the bulevirtide solution appears foamy or 
yellowish, allow more time for it to dissolve. 
Clean the bulevirtide 
vial top again, using a 
new alcohol pad. 
Allow it to air dry. 
If you see bubbles, gently tap the vial until they 
disappear. 
If you see any particles in the bulevirtide solution 
once it is (completely) dissolved, do not use that 
vial. Contact your doctor or pharmacist that 
provided it. 
Reconstituted bulevirtide must be used 
immediately. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3A 
Insert needle into vial   Draw up bulevirtide 
3B 
Pick up the syringe. 
Insert the needle into 
the vial of liquid 
bulevirtide. 
Gently turn the vial 
upside down. Make 
sure the tip of  
the needle is always 
below the surface of 
the bulevirtide 
solution to help keep 
air bubbles from 
entering the syringe. 
Slowly pull the 
plunger to get  
1.0 ml of bulevirtide. 
3D Change and 
discard the needle 
Remove the longer 
needle from the syringe 
and dispose of it 
properly so that nobody 
can be injured. 
Important! Do not put 
the plastic cap back on 
the needle. 
3C 
Finishing 
preparation 
Gently tap or flick the 
syringe and push/pull 
the plunger to remove 
extra air and bubbles. 
To be sure you end 
up with 1.0 ml of 
bulevirtide in the 
syringe, you may need  
to pull the plunger past 
the 1.0 ml mark. 
Carefully remove the 
needle and syringe 
from the vial. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3E 
Attach needle for 
injection 
3F 
Choose the injection 
site 
3G 
Prepare injection site 
3H 
Inject bulevirtide 
Pinch and hold a fold 
of skin around the 
injection site. 
Place the shorter needle 
on the syringe.  
Important! Be sure the 
capped needle is tight 
by pushing it down 
slightly while twisting it 
clockwise. 
Pull off the plastic cap. 
Choose a site different 
from the one you used 
for your last injection. 
Clean the injection site 
with a new alcohol 
pad. Start in the centre, 
apply pressure and 
clean in a circular 
motion, working 
outward.  
Important! Allow site 
to air-dry.  
Pierce the skin at a 45-
degree angle. The 
needle should be 
inserted most of the way 
in. 
Slowly push the plunger 
all the way to inject 
bulevirtide. 
Remove the needle 
from skin. 
Remove the needle 
from the syringe and 
dispose of both properly 
so that nobody can be 
injured (see 3D). 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
