Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of risk management plan for HEPLISAV B (Hepatitis B Vaccine 
(Recombinant), Adjuvanted) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for HEPLISAV B. The RMP details 
important risks of HEPLISAV B, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about HEPLISAV B risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
HEPLISAV B summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how HEPLISAV B should 
be used.  
This summary of the RMP for HEPLISAV B should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
HEPLISAV B RMP. 
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
HEPLISAV B is authorised for prevention of infection caused by all known subtypes of 
hepatitis B virus in adults 18 years of age and older. It contains hepatitis B surface antigen 
(adjuvanted with 3000 mcg CpG 1018 adjuvant), as the active substance, and it is given by 
solution for injection by IM route in 2 doses of 0.5 mL each: an initial dose  followed by a 
second dose 1 month later.  
Further information about the evaluation of HEPLISAV B benefits can be found in the 
HEPLISAV B EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage 
www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/Heplisav-b.  
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
Important risks of HEPLISAV B, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about HEPLISAV B's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of HEPLISAV B is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of HEPLISAV B are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of HEPLISAV B. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table VI.1: 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important Identified Risks 
None 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
Exacerbation of potentially immune-mediated disorders 
(including inflammatory disorders) in individuals with a 
history of immune-mediated disorder 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Safety in immunocompromised patients including persons 
living with HIV 
Concomitant administration with other vaccines 
II.B Summary of important risks
Table VI.2  
Summary of important risks 
Potential Risk: Exacerbation of potentially immune-mediated disorders (including 
inflammatory disorders) in individuals with a history of immune-mediated disorder 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
There is no clinical evidence that stimulating TLR9 causes 
exacerbation of autoimmune disease. The idea that an adjuvant 
stimulating the immune system causes exacerbations of autoimmune 
disease remains theoretical. 
Because there are no clinical data suggesting an association with 
exacerbations of autoimmune disease, there are no identifiable risk 
factors or risk groups. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
No risk minimisation measures 
None planned 
Missing Information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.6 of the SmPC 
Section 2 of the PL 
HBV-27: Pregnancy Registry  
Missing Information: Safety in immunocompromised patients including persons living 
with HIV 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC 
Section 2 of the PL 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study of Vaccination in Persons Living With HIV 
Study of Vaccine in Patients Undergoing 
Treatment With Immunosuppressive Medications  
Missing Information: Concomitant administration with other vaccines 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.5 of the SmPC 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None planned 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of HEPLISAV B. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Not applicable. 
