EMA/27931/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005063 
Heplisav B (hepatitis B vaccine (recombinant, 
adjuvanted)) 
An overview of Heplisav B and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Heplisav B and what is it used for? 
Heplisav B is a vaccine for preventing hepatitis B virus infection in adults. It is also likely to prevent 
infection with the hepatitis D virus as this virus is only present in people with hepatitis B infection.  
Heplisav B is used in accordance with official recommendations. It contains a protein from the 
hepatitis B virus. 
How is Heplisav B used? 
Heplisav B is given as two injections into the muscle of the upper arm 1 month apart. 
For more information about using Heplisav B, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Heplisav B work? 
Heplisav B is a vaccine. Vaccines work by preparing the immune system (the body’s natural defences) 
to defend the body against a specific disease.  
Heplisav B contains a protein found on the hepatitis B virus. When a person is given the vaccine, the 
immune system recognises the protein in the vaccine as foreign and makes antibodies against it. If the 
person then comes into contact with virus, these antibodies, together with other components of the 
immune system, will be able to fight off the virus more effectively and so help protect the person 
against the infection. The vaccine also contains an adjuvant to stimulate a better response. 
What benefits of Heplisav B have been shown in studies? 
Results from three main studies involving over 13,000 participants showed that Heplisav B was more 
effective than Engerix B (another hepatitis B vaccine) at stimulating an immune response against the 
virus. Taken together the studies found that around 96% of people given Heplisav B developed enough 
antibodies to kill off the virus and protect against the disease compared with 80% of those given 
Engerix B.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
People given Heplisav B also had higher levels of antibodies and sufficient levels developed earlier with 
Heplisav B than with Engerix B. 
What are the risks associated with Heplisav B? 
The most common side effects with Heplisav B (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are pain at 
the injection site, headache, feeling generally unwell, tiredness, muscle pain and fever. 
People who have a severe allergic reaction after the first dose should not have a second dose. The 
vaccine should also not be given to people allergic to yeast.  
For the full list of restrictions and side effects, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Heplisav B authorised in the EU? 
Studies have shown that Heplisav B provides protection against hepatis B infection in 96% of people 
given the vaccine. Side effects occurred slightly less frequently with this vaccine than with the 
comparator vaccine (Engerix B) and they are considered manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore concluded that Heplisav B’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Heplisav B? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Heplisav B have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Heplisav B are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Heplisav B are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Heplisav B 
Heplisav B received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 February 2021. 
Further information on Heplisav B can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/heplisav-b  
This overview was last updated in 02-2021. 
Heplisav B (hepatitis B vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted))  
EMA/27931/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
