London, 19 January 2010   
Doc. Ref No.: EMA/842364/2009   
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
HERCEPTIN 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
trastuzumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/278/II/0047 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 74 18 86 13 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1. 
Introduction 
Trastuzumab  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of  HER2  over-expressing  metastatic  breast  cancer, 
either  as  monotherapy  if  therapy  with  anthracycline  and  taxanes  has  failed  or  is  contraindicated,  or  in 
combination with  paclitaxel  inpatients  who  have  not  received  prior  chemotherapy  for  metastatic  disease 
and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable or in combination with docetaxel in patients who have not 
received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease.  
Trastuzumab  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  HER2  positive  early  breast  cancer 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) 
The MAH has submitted data from the ToGA trial (study BO18255) trial to support an extension of the 
indication for the use of Herceptin in combination with capecitabine or intravenous 5-fluorouracil and a 
platinum agent for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive advanced adenocarcinoma of the stomach 
or  gastro-esophageal  junction  who  have  not  received  prior  anti-cancer  treatment  for  their  metastatic 
disease.  
Aside from changes to section 4.1 consequential changes in section 4.2 (choice of posology), section 4.8 
(results  from  the  ToGA  study),  section  5.1  (results  from  the  ToGA  study),  section  5.2  (results  from  the 
ToGA study) as well as editorial and formatting changes to update the SPC to the current QRD template 
are requested. 
1.2   Clinical aspects 
Gastric cancer (GC) remains one of the most common malignancies in the world with an estimated one 
million  new  cases  in  2007.  GC  is  the  second  leading  cause  of  cancer-related  death  in  men  and  fourth 
among women, with more than 800,000 deaths worldwide in 2007. Incidence of GC varies widely across 
geographic regions. The highest rates are in Eastern Asia (Japan, Korea and China), Eastern Europe and 
certain  countries  in  Central  and  South  America.  Rates  are  lower  in  the  United  States,  Northern  and 
Western Europe and Australia/New Zealand. The incidence in women is about 50% lower than in men and 
generally follows a similar geographic pattern. 
Studies of HER2-positivity rates in GC using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH, 
using  fluorescence  [FISH]  or  chromogenic  labels  [CISH])  have  shown  a  broad  variation  of  HER2-
positivity ranging from 6.8% to 34.0% for IHC and 7.1% to 42.6% for FISH. Good concordance of HER2-
positivity  has  been  reported  between  the  results  obtained  by  IHC  and  FISH  (86.9%),  and  also  between 
surgically resected samples and biopsies (88.5%). At the time the ToGA trial was set up, an estimate of 
18% HER2-positivity was taken as an average of the available data for gastric cancer. While some studies 
have failed to find a direct correlation between HER2-positivity and prognosis, several studies have shown 
HER2 overexpression to be associated with poorer prognosis and survival. 
A validation study has been conducted to define HER2 scoring in GC, as recommended by a consensus 
panel. The screening programme for the phase III pivotal study of Herceptin in GC, the ToGA trial, is the 
largest study of HER2-positivity in AGC to date. Three thousand six hundred and sixty seven evaluable 
samples  were  assessed.  Eight  hundred  and  ten  were  defined  as  HER2-positive  (IHC3+  and/or  FISH+), 
giving an overall HER2-positivity rate of 22.1%, which is comparable to breast cancer. HER2-positivity 
rates  were  similar  between  Europe  and  Asia,  but  varied  between  countries  due  to  different  histology.  A 
higher  HER2-positivity  rate  was  seen  in  cancer  of  the  GEJ  than  in  stomach  cancer  (n=2759,  33.2%  vs 
20.9%).  In  the  screened  population  for  ToGA  histological  subtypes  were  evaluable  for  3619  cases 
(including HER2-positive and HER2-negative). Based on this data set the occurrence of intestinal tumour 
type  (according  to  the  Lauren  classification)  was  higher  than  the    diffuse  type  (52.1%  vs  30.3%). 
Additionally, intestinal-type gastric cancers show a significantly higher HER2 positivity rate than diffuse 
or mixed type tumours (intestinal: 32.2%, diffuse: 6.1%, mixed: 20.4%).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  biological  effect  of  Herceptin  has  been  demonstrated  in  pre-clinical  studies  using  HER2  positive 
gastric cancer lines of Western, Japanese and Korean origin. A small amount of published clinical data is 
already  available,  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Herceptin  in  combination  with  various 
chemotherapy regimens in patients with HER2-positive GC, with beneficial effects reported in French and 
Japanese patients with HER2 overexpressing AGC.  
Currently, the only potentially curative treatment for gastric cancer is surgery. Unfortunately, in Europe, 
the USA and developing countries, GC is often diagnosed at a stage beyond resectability and the overall 5-
year  survival  does  not  exceed  25%.  Regardless  of  their  geographic  region,  patients  with  unresectable 
disease  due  to  locally  advanced  growth  or  metastatic  spread  have  a  poor  prognosis  with  overall  5-year 
survival in the range of 5%-15%.  For these patients, and patients with recurrent disease after surgery, the 
main therapeutic option is chemotherapy. 
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) remains the backbone of chemotherapy in AGC, having the highest activity of any 
single agent, with a 20% response rate and 5 to 7 months median survival in phase III randomised trials. 
Poly-chemotherapy using 5-FU in 2- or 3-drug combinations (including doxorubicin, mitomycin, cisplatin, 
methotrexate,  leucovirin,  epirubicin  or  etoposide)  has  generally  produced  higher  response  rates  and 
disease-free  survival  times  (DFS)  compared  to  5-FU  alone  but  no  significant  overall  survival  (OS) 
advantage in randomised trials. The combination of 5-FU plus cisplatin (FC) is the most commonly used 
in  routine  clinical  practice  in  the  majority  of  countries  for  first-line  treatment  of  AGC  due  to  its 
accessibility and consistent efficacy results, with response rates of 20%-51% and median OS times of 7.2 
to 8.6 months.   
During the last 10 years, several new cytotoxic drugs have been shown in phase III trials to be active in 
gastric cancer, including docetaxel, irinotecan, oxaliplatin and capecitabine. Although there is currently no 
global  gold-standard  chemotherapy  treatment  for  AGC,  infusional  5-FU  in  combination  with  cisplatin 
therapy  is  widely  accepted  worldwide  for  AGC,  including  GEJ  adenocarcinoma.  The  National 
Comprehensive  Cancer  Network  (NCCN)  guidelines  (in  the  USA)  for  AGC  propose  several  possible 
chemotherapy  combinations:  oxaliplatin  with  a  fluoropyrimidine  (5-FU  or  capecitabine),  FC  plus 
docetaxel, FC plus epirubicin, irinotecan in combination with cisplatin or fluoropyrimidine, or paclitaxel-
based regimens. 
Data submitted 
The  data  submitted  within  the  application  dossier  support  the  use  of  Herceptin  to  treat  patients  with 
HER2-positive  AGC.  The  application  centres  on  the  results  of  a  planned  interim  efficacy  analysis  from 
one  pivotal  study,  the  ToGA  trial  (study  BO18255).  ToGA  is  an  open-label,  randomised,  multicentre, 
phase III study evaluating the efficacy and safety of Herceptin in combination with a fluoropyrimidine and 
cisplatin  versus  chemotherapy  alone  as  first-line  therapy  in  patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic  HER2 
positive  adenocarcinoma  of  the  stomach  or  gastro-oesophageal  junction.  Summarised  pharmacokinetic 
(PK) results from the ToGA trial were included within the dossier and were presented side-by-side with 
PK  parameters  that  were  common  to  two  studies  using  the  same  dosing  regimen  performed  in  female 
patients with MBC. 
To  support  the  use  of  platinum  agents  other  than  cisplatin  within  the  Herceptin  containing  combination 
regimen  for  AGC  from  ToGA,  data  from  published  studies  evaluating  use  of  Herceptin  in  combination 
with  chemotherapy  regimens  containing  oxaliplatin  or  carboplatin  to  treat  HER2-positive  breast  cancer 
patients  were  submitted.  Finally,  data  demonstrating  non-inferior  efficacy  and  reduced  toxicity  when 
cisplatin is substituted with oxaliplatin in chemotherapy treatment regimens for AGC are also included in 
the dossier. 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
The  MAH  submitted  written  EMEA  communication,  dated  4  June  2008,  confirming  applicability  to 
Herceptin of the EMEA Decision (dated 21 April 2008) regarding a paediatric investigational plan class 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
waiver  for  products  intended  to  treat  breast  and  gastric  cancer,  in  accordance  with  Regulation  (EC)  No 
1901/2006 as amended. 
1. 2. 1. Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab has been evaluated previously in patients with metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC) and in the adjuvant setting in early breast cancer (EBC) after completed chemotherapy. Posology 
in metastatic breast cancer is a loading dose of 4 mg/kg followed by weekly infusion at a dose of 2 mg/kg. 
Initially pharmacokinetic analysis using a one-compartmental model gave a half-life estimate of 6-8 days 
which was included in the initial SPC. A reassessment using a two-compartmental model gave a half-life 
estimate of 28.5 days. Posology in the adjuvant setting is a 8 mg/kg loading dose and a 6 mg/kg dose that 
is administered every 3 weeks. The reason for the different posology in the adjuvant setting appeared to be 
convenience for the patient and the revised data on pharmacokinetic parameters, in particular the longer 
half-life. 
The  ToGA  trial  (study  BO18255)  contained  pharmacokinetic  data  from  patients  with  HER2-positive 
advanced  gastric  cancer  (AGC)  in  combination  with  chemotherapy.  The  posology  is  the  same  as  in  the 
EBC  setting  (Q3W  regimen,  6  mg/kg  IV).  Pharmacokinetic  data  from  two  studies  (BO15935  and 
WO16229)  using  the  same  posology  in  the  metastatic  breast  cancer  setting  have  been  submitted  for 
comparison. 
In addition, data from study JP19959 on the PK of capecitabine and cisplatin in the presence and absence 
of trastuzumab were submitted.  
Serum concentrations of trastuzumab were determined by a validated enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA). The stationary phase of this assay was a recombinant version of the extra-cellular domain 
(ECD) of the p185HER2 receptor. The limit of quantification for trastuzumab was 156 ng/mL.  
In total, 294 AGC patients received treatment with trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy 
(cisplatin plus 5-FU/capecitabine). The first dose of trastuzumab (8 mg/kg) was followed at three-weekly 
intervals by up to 5 doses of 6 mg/kg trastuzumab administered iv over a 90-minute period. Treatment was 
continued as a three-weekly regimen until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or the patient wished 
to leave the study. Blood samples for PK assessments were collected at Cycle 1 (pre-dose, end of infusion, 
Day 8, Day 15), Cycle 2 (pre-dose), Cycle 4 (pre-dose, end of infusion) and Cycle 6 (pre-dose). 
In total, 1780 identified serum concentrations from 272 AGC patients at the time of database closure were 
measured: 1524 concentrations in 272 patients were above the limit of quantification (LOQ = 156 ng/mL) 
and 254 concentrations in 250 patients were below the LOQ (BLQ).  
Pharmacokinetic parameters were derived by population PK methods. A Bayesian feedback  population 
pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on trastuzumab PK data from BO18255 study. The NONMEM 
PK dataset on which the population PK analysis was performed was composed of 1419 serum 
concentrations collected from 266 gastric cancer patients.  
Individual trastuzumab concentration-time data and individual PK parameters were predicted based on 
posterior Bayesian estimates obtained from the reference population PK model developed on previous 
phase III data and fitted to the BO18255 data by fixing the population parameter values (i.e. fixed and 
random effect parameters) to their values obtained in the reference PK model. The reference model was a 
two-compartment disposition pharmacokinetic model with first-order elimination with the structural 
parameters drug clearance CL, central volume of distribution V1, the inter-compartmental clearance Q, 
and the peripheral volume of distribution V2. A comparison of the profile of the observed trough 
concentrations vs. nominal times in gastric cancer patients with the profile in metastatic breast cancer 
patients that received the same 3 weekly regimen (i.e. WO16229 and BO15935) is presented in Figure 1. 
The plot shows lower trastuzumab levels in gastric cancer patients compared to metastatic breast cancer 
patients.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the PK analysis was to perform a Bayesian analysis to investigate whether trastuzumab 
pharmacokinetics characterized in gastric cancer patients in study BO18255 was comparable with the 
trastuzumab pharmacokinetics established mainly in metastatic breast cancer patients in the previous five 
phase I-III studies.  
The final PK model includes the effect of cancer type on clearance (expressed as a change of HER2 shed 
antigen), the effect of gender on volume of central compartment, and the effect on ethnicity on volume of 
peripheral compartment. The inclusion of the 3 covariates in the final PK model has corrected the bias 
observed when fitting the reference PK model to the gastric cancer patients data. 
For the typical patient with gastric cancer, eg, a male patient weighting 68 kg, overexpressing HER2, the 
trastuzumab clearance (CL) is 0.378 L/day, the volume of the central compartment (V1) is 3.91 L and the 
volume of the peripheral compartment (V2) is 2.68 L. The between-subject variability in clearance is 
equal to 38.6% and in central volume of distribution is 21.4%. A higher between-patient variability is 
estimated for the peripheral volume of distribution, 72.6%. 
The interpretation of cancer type effect on clearance was complicated by the fact that in the BO18255 
study the levels of HER2 shed antigen were not recorded. It was not possible to conclude that the cancer 
type effect on clearance was due to a true difference in the two cancer populations or due to a difference of 
HER2 level or a combination of the two. As a difference in HER2 level between the 2 types of cancer was 
considered as a reasonable hypothesis, the gastric cancer effect was expressed in term of HER2 Shed 
antigen level. The clearance in BO18255 patients is increased by 56.8 % compared to breast cancer 
patients; this translates into a median level of HER2 shed antigen of 1480 
ng/mL in BO18255 compared to 17.9 ng/mL in the metastatic breast cancer population. This value is large 
but has been observed in some patients with breast cancer. 
 
 
Individual  predicted  steady-state  exposure  (AUC),  as  well  as  expected  Cmax  and  Cmin  trastuzumab 
concentrations were calculated for all treated patients using the individual posthoc parameter estimates on 
CL, V1, and V2 and using the nominal dosage schedule administered as an i.v. infusion. It is noticed that 
the impact of gender and ethnicity on the PK in AGC patients was low. Thus, neither gender nor race can 
explain the PK differences observed between AGC and MBC/EBC patients. 
Influence on PK of capecitabine and cisplatin (study JP19959)  
The exposures of capecitabine (Xeloda®)and cisplatin when given in combination in the presence (XP+H; 
N=14) and absence of trastuzumab (XP; N=8) are shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5, respectively. There 
were no clinically relevant changes in exposure to capecitabine or cisplatin; AUC, Cmax, tmax, mean 
clearance values (CL) and mean half-lives (t1/2) were similar without and with trastuzumab. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacokinetics 
Sparse sampling was applied for determination of trastuzumab serum concentrations after a loading dose 
of 8 mg/kg (on day 1) followed by 6 mg/kg i.v. infusion every 3 weeks in patients with advanced gastric 
cancer. Resulting median trastuzumab trough concentrations from cycle 1 to 5 were about half the size of 
the  corresponding  values  in  MBC  patients  using  the  same  posology.  In  both  populations  trough  levels 
increased  continuously  from  cycle  1  up  to  cycle  5  (week  15)  indicating  that  steady  state  is  not  reached 
until that time point. This is consistent with a half life of 26 days. Corresponding levels in cycle 1 and the 
time course of trough levels in EBC patients using the same posology (preliminary data from the HERA 
study) prove that in early breast cancer patients trastuzumab levels are at least as high as in MBC patients.. 
The MAH has performed a population PK analysis of blood samples collected over the first 6 cycles of 
treatment.  A population PK two-compartment model assuming first-order elimination derived from 
modelling of PK data from MBC patients was used to describe the trastuzumab serum concentration-time 
profiles in patients with gastric cancer. The goodness-of-fit plots of the Bayesian feedback showed a 
systematic over-prediction of trastuzumab concentrations which indicated that the reference PK model 
could not adequately describe the data from study BO18255. 
The influence of the covariates cancer type, gender, ethnicity and race, that were not represented in the 
metastatic breast cancer population, were therefore investigated. They were found statistically significant 
and were included in the final model. The influence of gender and race were rather small. The covariate 
“cancer type” allowed to estimate higher CL values in AGC patients: 
Estimation of trastuzumab clearance in gastric cancer patients by the final model (0.378 L/day) was ~57% 
higher than that in metastatic breast cancer patients (0.241 L/day), leading to markedly (about 50%) lower 
predicted values of AUC, Cmax and Cmin at steady state in gastric cancer (1030 mg*day/L, 128 and 23 
mg/L) compared to metastatic breast cancer patients (1793 mg*day/L , 189 and 47.3 mg/L) using the same 
posology. Mean observed steady state values after 13 cycles in early breast cancer patients using the same 
posology were even higher (2255 mg*day/L, 216 and 63.2 mg/L, respectively; preliminary data from the 
BO16348/HERA study) than those predicted for MBC patients 
This means that steady state exposure (based on AUCss and Cmin) of trastuzumab is 54 to 64 %  (43 to 
51% ) lower in AGC compared to EBC (MBC) patients using the same posology.  
 The covariate “cancer type” is assumed to represent differences in shed HER2 receptor levels between the 
cancer types.  The MAH postulates that the increased clearance of trastuzumab in AGC (about 57% 
according to their PK model) is due to higher levels of circulating extra-cellular domain of the HER2 
receptor (shed antigen), and indeed, women with MBC and higher baseline shed antigen were more likely 
to have lower serum trough concentrations. However, there are no data to support this interpretation. An 
increased binding/distribution of trastuzumab to cellular HER2 receptors cannot be ruled out.  
It is well-known from other receptor-binding monoclonal antibodies that receptor-mediated clearance 
plays a role in the elimination of the drug. This leads to a nonlinear portion of the total clearance occurring 
 
 
 
 
 
outside the central compartment which is in contrast to the assumption of first-order elimination from the 
central compartment. The role of the nonlinear CL is thought to be more prominent at low concentrations 
and at high receptor concentrations (tumour load). 
Therefore, the difference in total CL found between AGC and MBC patients might also plausibly be 
explained by differences in receptor density between the two subpopulations. Therefore, it would be of 
interest whether a model allowing for a nonlinear (saturable) portion of the total clearance (with Vmax 
dependent on the total receptor concentration) could satisfactorily describe the differences found between 
AGC and MBC data. 
Since in the BO18255 study the levels of HER2 shed antigen were not recorded, it was not possible to 
conclude that the cancer type effect on clearance was due to a true difference in the two cancer 
populations or due to a difference of HER2 level or a combination of the two. Under the assumption that 
HER2 shed antigen level is fully responsible for the difference in plasma concentrations found, a median 
level of HER2 shed antigen of 1480 ng/mL in BO18255 compared to 17.9 ng/mL in the metastatic breast 
cancer population was estimated. 
An elimination half-life of 14.5 days was estimated. This in contrast to the observed continuous increase 
in Ctrough levels up to week 15, indicating that steady state has not been reached until that time point. 
Therefore, a prediction for the time to reach steady state cannot be made on the basis of these data. There 
is no supportive evidence for the assumption that half-life in AGC patients is shorter than the equilibrium 
half life obtained from population PK analysis in metastatic breast cancer patients (26.3 days).  
Further, it would be of interest to more fully comprehend possible interactions of all concomitant 
medications and the possible impact of hydration volume on trastuzumab levels in individual patient 
groups. 
The main question is whether the depletion of free serum trastuzumab in AGC patients (possibly due to 
binding to high levels of shed HER2 or altered hydration volumes) would reflect a decrease in 
pharmacodynamically active drug and could mean a possible underexposure of trastuzumab in these 
patients. If this was true, the levels of shed HER2 could be a prerequisite for an appropriate calculation of 
dose in different cancer patients.  
In addition, data were presented from a second study investigating the possible influence of trastuzumab 
on  the  PK  of  the  concomitant  chemotherapeutics  capecitabine  and  cisplatin.  The  results  show  that  the 
exposure of capecitabine and cisplatin were similar in the presence and in the absence of trastuzumab. 
Sufficient  explanation  for  the  observed  differences  in  PK  of  trastuzumab  in  gastric  cancer  compared  to 
breast cancer has not been provided. The hypothesis that shed HER2 leads to higher trastuzumab clearance 
could not be substantiated by data. In addition the statements as regards the time to steady state that are 
proposed are inconclusive and not supported by the supplied data. Proposed changes to the SmPC on PK 
in  breast  cancer  are  not  endorsed  and  are  not  substantiated  by  data.  Although  trastuzumab  has 
demonstrated efficacy in the gastric cancer setting there is remaining concern that the chosen dose is not 
optimal  in  gastric  cancer  patients.  The  MAH    therefore  committed  to  submit  a  plan  with  actions  and 
timelines  to  further  investigate  the  PK  issues.  This  may  include  consideration  of  further  exploration  of 
dose.   
1. 2. 2. Clinical efficacy 
•  Main study ToGA trial (BO18255)   
The  ToGA  trial  (BO18255)  is  a  randomised,  open-label  multicentre  phase  III  study  of  trastuzumab  in 
combination  with  a  fluoropyrimidine  and  cisplatin  versus  chemotherapy  alone  as  first-line  therapy  in 
patients with HER2 positive advanced gastric cancer. 
The trial was conducted in 24 countries (excluding the USA). A total of 594 patients were randomized in a 
1:1 ratio to each of the two treatment arms between September 2005 and December 2008.  
Patients  were  stratified  prior  to  randomization  for  a  number  of  prognostic  and  other  factors  that  could 
affect  outcome:  Eastern  Cooperative  Oncology  Group  (ECOG)  performance  status  (0-1  vs  2), 
chemotherapy regimen (5-FU + cisplatin vs capecitabine + cisplatin), locally advanced versus metastatic 
 
 
 
 
disease,  stomach  versus    gastro-esophageal  junction,  and  measurable  versus  non-measurable  evaluable 
disease. 
Main Inclusion criteria 
1. Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastro-esophageal junction with inoperable 
locally advanced or recurrent and/or metastatic disease, not amenable to curative therapy. 
2. Measurable disease, according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), assessed 
using imaging techniques (CT or MRI), or non-measurable evaluable disease. 
3. HER2-positive tumour (primary tumour or metastasis) as assessed by the central laboratory. (Both IHC 
and FISH were performed on all tumour samples in the central laboratory).  
4. ECOG Performance Status 0, 1 or 2  
5. Life expectancy of at least 3 months. 
6. Male or female. Age ≥ 18 years 
Patients  in  both  arms  followed  the  same  schedule  of  visits  and  underwent  the  same  safety  and  efficacy 
assessments (every three weeks until disease progression and every six weeks thereafter until death), thus 
helping to reduce the potential for bias for both efficacy endpoints and adverse event reporting. 
An  interim  analysis  was  recommended  by  the  IDMC  following  the  results  of  the  first  interim  analysis. 
While  it  can  not  be  excluded  that  this  recommendation  was  influenced  by  the  results  of  the  1st  interim 
analysis (and thus the type I errror might no longer be preserved exactly), the impact on the type I error 
can be considered quite small as mentioned in Lan KKG DeMets DL: Changing the frequency of interim 
analysis in sequential monitoring. Biometrics, 45, 1017- 1020 (1989). 
Treatment 
All  patients  were  scheduled  to  receive  six  cycles  of  chemotherapy  comprising  a  fluoropyrimidine 
(capecitabine,  1000  mg/m2  given  orally  twice  daily  for  14  days  every  3  weeks,  or  5-fluorouracil,  800 
mg/m2/day  administered  as  a  continuous  IV  infusion  over  5  days,  given  every  3  weeks)  and  cisplatin, 
administered  at  a  dose  of    80  mg/m2  every  3  weeks  as  a  2  hour  IV  infusion.    The  choice  of 
fluoropyrimidine was decided by the investigator on an individual patient basis. 
Patients  randomized  to  receive  trastuzumab  were  administered  a  loading  dose  of  8  mg/kg  (on  day  1) 
followed by 6 mg/kg every 3 weeks by IV infusion. The first infusion was given over 90 minutes, with 
subsequent infusions given over 30 minutes if the first infusion was well tolerated. Trastuzumab treatment 
continued until disease progression (unless withdrawn earlier due to unmanageable toxicity). 
There  were  no  dose  adjustments  of  trastuzumab  foreseen  for  toxicity.  If  a  patient  could  not  tolerate 
trastuzumab infusions, trastuzumab treatment was stopped completely. All patients enrolled in the study 
must have had a baseline LVEF ≥ 50%. In the case of cardiac toxicity a detailed algorithm was used to 
define discontinuation/continuation/stopping rules for trastuzumab.  
Primary objectives 
To  compare  the  overall  survival  (OS)  for  patients  treated  with  trastuzumab  combined  with  5-FU  or 
capecitabine plus cisplatin, versus 5-FU or capecitabine plus cisplatin. 
Secondary objectives 
To  evaluate  progression-free  survival  (PFS),  time  to  progression  (TTP),  overall  response  rate  (complete 
response [CR] + partial response [PR]), clinical benefit rate (CR + PR + stable disease [SD]), and duration 
of response in the two treatment arms.  
• To evaluate the safety profile in the two treatment arms. 
• To summarize the quality of life in the two treatment arms. 
• To evaluate pain intensity, analgesic consumption, and weight gain/loss in the two treatment arms. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• To investigate the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab in gastric cancer and to compare with historic data in 
patients with metastatic and adjuvant breast cancer.  
Primary endpoint 
The  primary  efficacy parameter  was  overall  survival  (OS).  It  was  defined  as  the  time  from  the  date  of 
randomization  to  the  date  of  the  death  (from  any  cause).  Patients  who  had  not  been  reported  as  having 
died at the time of the analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. 
Secondary endpoint 
Secondary efficacy variables were progression-free survival [the time between the day of randomization 
and the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or date of death, whichever occurred first], time to 
progression  (the  time  between  randomization  and  the  first  occurrence  of  progressive  disease),  overall 
response  rate  (the  occurrence  of  a  confirmed  CR  or  PR  as  determined  by  the  RECIST  criteria  from 
confirmed radiographic evaluations of target and non-target lesions), clinical benefit rate (SD for 6 weeks 
or longer, CR plus PR as determined by the RECIST criteria), and duration of response (the time from the 
date the CR or PR was first recorded to the date on which PD is first noted).  
The  study  also  evaluated  the  safety  profile,  quality  of  life,  and  pain,  analgesic  consumption  and  weight 
gain/loss in the two treatment arms, and investigated the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab in patients with 
gastric cancer. 
Sample size 
Initially  sample  size  was  calculated  assuming  a  median  overall  survival  of  7  months  for  patients  in  the 
fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin  treatment  arm  and  10  months  in  the  trastuzumab  plus  fluoropyrimidine 
/cisplatin  arm.  In  order  to  detect  this  difference  with  80%  by  means  of  a  two-sided  log-rank  test  248 
events  where  needed  (α  =  0.05).    One  interim  efficacy  and  safety  analysis  was  foreseen  in  the  original 
protocol  (performed  after  50%  of  events).  During  the  course  of  the  trial  it  became  obvious  (from  other 
clinical  trials  as  well  as  from  the  overall  survival  rate  of  the  recent  trial)  that  the  assumption  about  the 
median survival duration especially for the comparator group was to liberal. Following the advice of the 
IDMC the sample size was increased to allow for the observation of 460 events. This was done to achieve 
80%  power  to  detect  a  difference  of  overall  survival  anticipating  a  median  overall  survival  in  the 
fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin treatment arm of 10 months compared to 13 months in the the trastuzumab plus 
fluoropyrimidine /cisplatin arm (log-rank test, α = 0.05) 
Patients  were  centrally  randomised  1:1  (Trastuzumab:  Placebo)  by  means  of  an  IVRS  Approximately 
three-quarters of all patients were male (75% in the FP arm and 77% in the FP+H arm). The majority of 
patients  were  oriental  (54%  in  the  FP  arm  and  51%  in  the  FP+H  arm)  or  Caucasian  (36%  and  39%, 
respectively). The median age of patients was 59 years in the FP arm and 61 years in the FP+H arm.  
Patients  were  stratified  at  randomization  on  the  basis  of  ECOG  performance  status,  locally  advanced 
versus metastatic disease, stomach versus GEJ, measurable versus nonmeasurable evaluable disease, and 
the chemotherapy regimen (capecitabine or 5-FU,decided by the investigator)  
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis was based on the full analysis set. For the primary analysis, an unstratified log-rank 
test was used to assess whether there is a difference in overall survival (OS) between both treatment 
groups. Further analyses (e.g. COX-regression) accounting for the stratification factors and pre-specified 
covariables support the primary analysis. In addition, various subgroup analyses were performed to assess 
the consistency of the study results. 
In general survival methods were used to analyse time to event data; categorical data were compared 
between treatment groups by means of χ2-tests. Treatment effects are described by appropriate point 
estimates including their 95% confidence intervals. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To account for interim analyses an α-spending function of the O’Brien-Fleming type was applied. 
Following the 1st interim analysis (after 50% of planned events) the IDMC recommended an additional 
interim analysis when 75% of the planned events had been observed. 
Efficacy analysis populations 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS, intent to treat population) included all patients who were randomized and 
received study medication at least once. 
The Per Protocol Set included all patients of the FAS, but patients who fulfilled any of the following 
criteria were excluded: 
1.  Prior chemotherapy for advanced/metastatic disease as listed in the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the 
protocol  
2.  No study medication received. 
3.  Incorrect medication received given randomization. 
4.  Patients who failed to meet the tumour assessment criteria specified in the inclusion/exclusion criteria. 
5.  Absence of documentation of overexpression/amplification of HER2. 
6.  Baseline LVEF < 50%. 
7.  ECOG PS > 2 
The Safety Analysis Population included all patients who were randomized and received study 
medication at least once. Groups were defined by the actual received medication rather than 
randomization arm. 
RESULTS 
The trial was started in September 2005. A total of 594 patients enrolled and at the time of the analysis, a 
total of 349 randomized patients had died (63% in FP and 57% in FP+H).  
The  primary  patient  population  analyzed  was  the  full  analysis  set  (FAS).  Other  patient  populations 
analyzed were the per protocol set (PPS) and the safety population (SAP).  
The FAS population comprised all patients who were randomized in the study and received study 
medication at least once. Of 594 patients enrolled to the trial, a total of 10 patients were excluded from the 
FAS (10 patients did not receive any study medication) Thus, the FAS population comprised 584 patients; 
the number of patients in the FP and FP+H arms were 290 and 294, respectively 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Baseline characteristics for the used stratification factors are shown in the following table. 
 
 
The following table shows the summary of stratification factors (FAS)  
 
The following table shows the summary of baseline disease characteristics (FAS) 
 
HER2 status at baseline (FAS population) 
Following the HER2 testing, patients were classified in different HER2 subgroups. Overall, the proportion 
of patients with low HER2 overexpression (IHC 0/FISH+ and IHC 1+/FISH+) was small (22% [131/584]) 
as  compared  to  patients  with  high  HER2  overexpression  (IHC  2+/FISH+  and  IHC  3+  including  IHC 
3+/FISH  negative  or  FISH  no  result;  76%  [446/584]).  Seven  patients  (1%)  were  classified  as  IHC  no 
result/FISH+. 
Prior treatment 
Overall, 7% of patients (4% in FP, 9% in FP+H) across the two treatment groups had a previous adjuvant 
chemotherapy, 2% had previous radiotherapy and 40% had surgery (mainly driven by gastrectomy 23%  
132/584)  for  gastric  cancer.  All  other  surgical  procedures  included  a  variety  of  interventions  without 
curative intent. 
Previous  treatments for gastric cancer (FAS) 
Patients prematurely discontinuing study treatment 
Of  those  patients  starting  study  treatment,  more  patients  from  the  FP  arm  (146/290  pts  [50%])  had  not 
completed six cycles of therapy at the clinical cut-off compared to the FP+H arm (108/294 pts [37%]) 
Summary of patient disposition 
 
 
 
  
 
More  patients  in  the  FP+H  arm  received  6  cycles  of  chemotherapy  compared  to  the  FP  arm  (59.5%  vs 
49.3% for capecitabine/5-FU and 56.5% vs 48.3% for cisplatin). No major differences in adverse events 
leading  to  treatment  discontinuation  of  at  least  one  study  drug  were  demonstrated  between  the  two 
treatment arms (50 AEs in FP, 53 AEs in FP+H).The number of patients who discontinued treatment due 
to  AEs  (any  grade)  was  similar  between  the  two  treatment  arms  (48  pts  [17%]  in  FP,  48  pts  [16%]  in 
FP+H).The most common AEs that led to treatment discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (2% in 
FP, 4% in FP+H), such as diarrhoea, and dysphagia; renal and urinary disorders (1% in FP, 3% in FP+H) 
such  as  renal  impairment;  blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders  (3%  in  FP,  1%  in  FP+H),  such  as 
thrombocytopenia and febrile neutropenia.  
A total of 253 patients (43%) received at least one subsequent treatment for gastric cancer  (45%) in FP 
and (42%)  in FP+H. 
Efficacy Results 
The  second  interim  efficacy  analysis  was  performed  after  349  events  (patient  deaths),  corresponding  to 
75.9%  of  the  planned  460  events,  had  been  reported  in  the  study  across  the  two  treatment  arms.  The 
results were reviewed by the IDMC, who recommended that the study be terminated.  
At  the  time  of  the  clinical  cut-off  (January  7,  2009),  a  total  of  349  patients  had  died.  There  were  more 
deaths in the FP arm (63% [182/290]) compared to the FP+H arm (57% [167/294]). There were 315 out of 
349 deaths due to progressive disease (gastric cancer), 58% [167/290] in the FP arm and 50% [148/294] in 
the  FP+H  arm.  Overall,  34  patients  died  due  to  causes  not  related  to  or  not    reported  as  disease 
progression. Thirty-one patients died due to adverse events (14 pts in FP, 17 pts in FP+H) Three patients 
died due to an unknown reason.  
The median duration of follow-up was 17.1 months in the FC arm and 18.6 months in the FP+H arm. 
Treatment with trastuzumab in combination with FP chemotherapy resulted in a significant improvement 
in overall survival compared to treatment with FP alone. At the time of analysis, 182 patients (62.8%) in 
the FP arm and 167 patients (56.8%) in the FP+H arm had died. In addition to fewer deaths, the median 
overall survival time in the FP+H arm was extended to 13.8 months compared to 11.1 months in the FP 
arm. This corresponds to a statistically significant reduction in the risk of death by 26% for patients treated 
with trastuzumab plus FP (hazard ratio = 0.74; 95% CI [0.60-0.91], p = 0.0046). The difference in overall 
survival between the two treatment groups (ie, separation of the curves in the Kaplan-Meier plot) is seen 
early on and appears to be maintained over time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure: Kaplan Meier Plot of Overall Survival (FAS) 
Secondary efficacy parameters 
At the time of the analysis (clinical cut-off January 7, 2009), a total of 461 patients had progressed (419 
patients) or died (42 patients) Of those  patients, 81% had progressed in the FP arm  and 77% in the FP+H 
arm and 42 patients died (22 pts in FP, 20 pts in FP+H). A summary of the secondary efficacy assessments 
(FAS) is presented below: 
 
In summary, significant benefit from the addition of trastuzumab to FP therapy was seen for the secondary 
endpoints of progression-free  survival (median 6.7 months for the FP+H arm vs 5.5 months for the FP 
arm; p= 0.0002 and hazard ratio 0.71 [0.59, 0.85]);  overall response rate (47.3% vs 34.5%, difference in 
 
 
response rate: p= 0.0017 and odds ratio 1.70 [1.22, 2.38]);  time to progression (median 7.1 months vs 
5.6 months, p= 0,0003 and 0.70 [0.58, 0.85]), duration of response (median 6.9 months vs 4.8 months, 
p<0.0001  and  hazard  ratio  0.54  [0.40,  0.73])  and  clinical  benefit  rate  (78.9%  vs  69.3%,  p=0.0081  and 
odds  ratio  1.66 [1.14, 2.41]) 
Progression free survival 
At the time of the analysis (clinical cut-off January 7, 2009), a total of 461 patients (81% [235/290] in FP, 
77% [226/294] in FP+H) had progressed (213 pts in FP, 206 pts in FP+H) or died (22 pts in FP, 20 pts in 
FP+H) 
In  the  unstratified  analysis,  the  addition  of  trastuzumab  to  the  FP  regimen  significantly  prolonged  the 
median PFS when compared to the FP regimen alone. The median PFS was 5.5 months with FP and 6.7 
months  with  FP+H.  The  risk  of  having  a  PFS  event  (progression  or  death,  whichever  occurred  first) 
significantly decreased by 29% (HR 0.71; 95% CI [0.59-0.85]; p = 0.0002) in the FP+H arm 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for the duration of PFS  (FAS) are shown below 
The  results  of  the  stratified  (extent  of  disease/primary  site/measurability/ECOG  PS/chemotherapy 
regimen) analysis of PFS were similar to the non-stratified analysis, as seen in the following table 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity analysis of PFS 
The robustness of the PFS analysis was confirmed by performing a sensitivity analysis of PFS during first-
line therapy. This was defined as the time between randomization and the first date of progressive disease 
or  death,  whichever  occurred  first,  and  only  including  patients  that  obtained  no  further  anti-cancer 
treatment since stopping study medication. The unstratified analysis showed that the risk of a PFS event 
during  first-line  therapy  was  reduced  by  32%  for  the  FP+H  arm  (HR  0.68;  95%  CI  [0.56-0.83];  p  < 
0.0001). 
Time to Disease Progression 
At the time of the clinical cut-off, a total of 423 patients had a disease progression (74% [215/290] in FP, 
71% [208/294] in FP+H). The median time to disease progression was 5.6 months for the FP arm and 7.1 
months for the FP+H arm . With the addition of trastuzumab to the FP regimen, the risk was significantly 
reduced by 30% (HR 0.70; 95% CI [0.58-0.85]; p = 0.0003). 
The Kaplan Meier curve of time to progression is presented below: 
The  results  of  the  stratified  analysis  (hazard  ratio:  0.69,  p=0.0003)  of  time  to  disease  progression  were 
similar to the non-stratified analysis ( hazard ratio: 0.70, p=0.0003) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The robustness of the time to disease progression analysis was confirmed by analyzing the time to disease 
progression during first-line therapy. The analysis showed that the risk of an event during first-line therapy 
was reduced by 32% for the FP+H arm (HR 0.68; 95% CI [0.55-0.83]; p = 0.0001) 
Overall tumour response rate 
When ananlysing the FAS, the incidence of patients with an objective response (CR/PR) was higher in the 
trastuzumab arm (47.3% [139/294]) compared to the control arm (34.5% [100/290])    
The difference in response rate was 12.8% (95% CI [4.7; 20.9]; p = 0.0017). The complete response rate 
was more than doubled in the FP+H arm (5.4%) compared to the FP arm (2.4%) (p = 0.0599, Chi-squared 
test). There were more patients with a partial response in the FP+H arm (41.8%) compared to the FP arm 
(32.1%) (p = 0.0145, Chi-squared test). A higher incidence of patients in the FP arm had stable disease 
(34.8%) and progressive disease (18.3%) compared to the FP+H arm (31.6% and 11.9%, respectively).  
Summary of overall tumour response rate  
• Stratified Analysis of Overall Tumor Response Rate 
The results based on the stratified analysis (stratified by Extent of Disease (LA vs Metastatic) and Primary 
Site  (Stomach  vs  GE  Junction)  and  Measurability  (Measurable  vs  Non-meas.)  and  ECOG  Performance 
Status  (0-1  vs  2)  and  Chemo.  Regimen  (Cap/Cisp  vs  5-FU/Cisp)  were  similar  to  those  based  on  the 
unstratified analysis.  
• Exploratory analysis of Overall Tumor Response Rate in patients with measurable disease 
The results based on this subpopulation of patients(FP arm: 257 of 290 patients and FP+H arm: : 269 of 
294 patients) with measurable disease were similar to those based on the intent-to-treat population.  
In  summary,    the  observed  treatment  effect  is  highly  significant  in  all  three  analyses  performed  (FAS 
unstratified  (p=0.0017),  FAS  stratified  (p=0.0048)  and  exploratory  analysis  in  patients  with  measurable 
disease at baseline(p= 0.0017)) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of response 
The  duration  of  response  was  assessed  in  patients  who  had  a  best  overall  response  of  CR  or  PR.  The 
median duration of response was significantly longer in the FP+H arm (6.9 months) than in the FP arm 
(4.8 months). The Hazard Ratio was 0.54 (95% CI [0.40; 0.73]; p < 0.0001).  
The Kaplan-Meier plots of duration of response (see graph below) showed a separation of the curves for 
the FP and FP+H groups from 3 months to 16 months Responses were maintained at a higher rate in the 
FP+H arm than in the FP arm during that time period.  
Clinical benefit rate 
Patients who had stable disease for at least 6 weeks or a response assessment of CR or PR were deemed to 
have clinical benefit. Patients treated with trastuzumab plus FP exhibited a significantly (p = 0.0081, Chi-
Squared test) higher incidence of clinical benefit (78.9% [232/294]) compared to the patients treated with 
FP alone (69.3% [201/290]) 
Summary of quality of life in the two treatment arms and evaluation of pain intensity, 
analgesic consumption, and weight gain/loss in the two treatment arms 
Quality of life was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and gastric module ST022 questionnaire  
Utility assessment was performed using the EQ-5D self-report questionnaire, which consists of two pages 
comprising the EQ-5D descriptive system and the EQ  visual analogue scale (VAS). It provides a single 
descriptive profile and a single index value for health status. 
Assessment of pain intensity was performed using the VAS at baseline on day 1 prior to first dose of study 
drug, and then 3-weekly at each visit (on day 1 of each cycle prior to 
dosing) until disease progression.  
The actual scores and change from baseline scores in both EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-STO22 
indicated improved quality of life in both arms over time, especially at the end of chemotherapy.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal symptom scores were slightly better in the FP arm during chemotherapy compared to the 
FP+H  arm  which  correlates  with  the  slight  increased  frequency  of  gastrointestinal  AEs  observed  in  the 
FP+H arm. The FP+H arm scored less for hair loss compared to the FP arm.  
Pain scores and use of analgesics were similar in both arms. 
Subgroup and Exploratory analysis 
Results of subgroup analyses suggest that benefit is substantially increased for those patients with tumours 
characterized  as  IHC  3+/FISH  positive.  The  subgroup  analyses,  whilst    understandably  limited  in  their 
power to detect significant differences between the two study arms, have created some doubt regarding the 
benefit of add-on Herceptin treatment  in particular subgroups; for instance those with locally advanced 
disease, non-measurable disease, IHC 1+ tumour staining and ECOG 2 performance scores. Insignificant 
differences seen in OS and PFS between contralateral subgroups and in some cases better median survival 
times  for  the  dual  therapy  subgroups,  save  the  small  patient  numbers  and  events,  remain  largely 
unexplained. 
Figure: Subgroup analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Multiple Cox regression for overall survival 
Similarly, in the multiple Cox regression analysis for PFS, when adjusting for all covariates, a significant 
p-value for the IHC 3+/FISH+ category indicated that this group had a better PFS compared to the IHC 
0/FISH+ (p = 0.0008), IHC 1+/FISH+ (p = 0.0008) and IHC 2+/FISH+ (p = 0.0002) categories.  
Definition of two HER2 subgroups: 
Based  on  the  observation  that  limited  treatment  effect  could  be  identified  in  the  low  HER2-expressing 
subgroup,  the  MAH  proposed  to  re-define  HER2-positive  patients,  and  therefore  the  target  population. 
Two new subgroups were defined based on IHC scoring  (if not otherwise indicated all patients were FISH 
positive): 
• 
Group 1 (“low HER2 expressing group”): 
 IHC 0/FISH+ and IHC 1+/FISH+ 
(70 patients in FP, 61 patients in FP+H) 
•  
Group 2 (“high HER2 expressing group”): 
 IHC 2+/FISH+ and  
IHC 3+ including IHC 3+/FISH negative or IHC 3+/FISH no result  
(218 patients in FP, 228 patients in FP+H) 
The low HER2 expressing group comprised 70 patients in the FP arm and 61 patients in the FP+H arm. 
The high HER2 expressing group comprised 218 patients in the FP arm and 228 patients in the FP+H arm. 
Two  patients  in  the  FP  arm  and  five  patients  in  the  FP+H  arm  had  no  IHC  score  recorded  and  were 
therefore not included in either of these subgroups. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hazard Ratios and 95% Confidence Intervals for Overall Survival by HER2 Status-IHC 0, 
IHC 1+ versus IHC 3+, IHC 2+/FISH+ (FAS) 
Using the protocol-defined inclusion criteria of HER2-positivity, i.e. a positive test result  by either IHC 
(IHC 3+) or FISH, 22% of AGC patients screened were eligible for inclusion into this study. However, 
using a definition of high HER2 expressing tumours based on the post-hoc analysis (ie, IHC 2+/FISH+ or 
IHC  3+  including  IHC  3+/FISH  negative  and  IHC  3+/FISH  no  result),  the  HER2  positivity  rate  in 
advanced gastric cancer was found to be 16%.  
In this subgroup of patients with high HER2 expressing tumours, a median overall survival of 16.0 months 
was observed in the FP+H arm compared with 11.8 months in the FP arm (HR 0.65 [95% CI 0.51-0.83]). 
In contrast, in patients whose tumours would be classified as HER2-negative using this revised definition, 
ie,  patients  with  low  HER2-expressing  tumours  (IHC  0/FISH+  and  IHC  1+/FISH+),  limited  treatment 
benefit was observed (median survival times of 8.7 and 10 months in the FP and FP+H arms, respectively, 
HR 1.07 [95% CI 0.70; 1.62]). 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
Therapy for gastric cancer has evolved recently and combination of either docetaxel, cisplatinum and 5-
FU or epirubicin, cisplatinum and 5-FU are commonly used, however it is debatable if there exists a clear 
therapeutic standard. At the time the ToGa trial was started the baseline therapy was an accepted standard. 
The addition of docetaxel to cisplatinum/5-FU lead to an increase of mean survival from 8.6 months to 9.2 
months  (p=0.02,  J  Clin  Oncol.  2006;24:4991-4997).  There  are  no  data  comparing  5-FU/cisplatinum 
therapy to the combination of epirubicin, cisplatinum and 5-FU. Therefore the combination of trastuzumab 
with 5-FU/cisplatinum is considered appropriate. 
The  MAH  has  provided  the  results  from  an  interim  analysis  of  one  pivotal  study  (ToGA)  for  the 
evaluation  of  safety  and  efficacy  of  trastuzumab  in  combination  with  capecitabine  or  intravenous  5-
fluorouracil and cisplatin for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive advanced adenocarcinoma of 
the  stomach  or  gastro-esophageal  junction  who  have  not  received  prior  anti-cancer  treatment  for  their 
metastatic disease. The study had a randomised, open design. 
The conduct of these studies is acceptable and no deviations from GCP are apparent.  
The  ToGA  trial  has  demonstrated  a  survival  benefit  for  patients  with  gastric  cancer  treated  with 
trastuzumab  in  combination  with  5-FU/capecitabine  and  cisplatin.  The  observed  survival  benefit  is 
considered  clinically  relevant.  Consistent  effects  were  observed  in  the  secondary  endpoints.  A  further 
refinement  of  the  criteria  for  HER2  positivity  leads  to  definition  of  a  patient  population  with  increased 
survival benefit.  
Pertinent  baseline  data  show  an  even  distribution  between  the  two  treatment  arms  (FP  vs  FP  +  H)  and 
define a clinically relevant population. Of note, most patients had metastatic disease  (97% both arms) , 
the  primary  site  was  gastric  cancer  (83%;  80%),  disease  was  mostly  measurable  (89%;  92%)  ECOG 
performance  was  mostly  very  good  (91%,  90%)  and  notably,  capecitabine  was  the  preferred 
fluoropyrimidine  (FP)  treatment  in  the  study  (88%,  87%).  The  proportion  of  patients  with  low  HER2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overexpression  (IHC  0/FISH+  and  IHC  1+/FISH+)  was  small  (22%  [131/584])  as  compared  to  patients 
with high HER2 overexpression (IHC 2+/FISH+ and IHC 3+ including IHC 3+/FISH negative or FISH no 
result; 76% [446/584]). Seven patients (1%) were classified as IHC no result/FISH+. 
The  primary  endpoint  OS  is  acceptable.  Hazard  ratio  was  0.74  (95%  CI  0.60-0.91,  p  =  0.0046), 
corresponding to a median OS prolongation by 2.7 months (13.8 months in the FP+H group, 11.1 months 
in  the  FP  group).  This  difference  is  considered  clinically  meaningful.  Analyses  of  secondary  endpoints 
(PFS, TTP, ORR) gave consistent results. 
The MAH has also analysed the data on the basis of FISH and IHC results and proposes a classification 
that  allows  for  a  better  definition  of  patients  likely  to  benefit  from  therapyMain  determinant  of  this 
classification  for  HER2  positivity  is  ICH;  therefore  patients  with  FISH+  but  IHC  0  or  1+    tumours  are 
excluded from therapy. This new classification is supported for the gastric cancer population. 
This study demonstrates that addition of Herceptin to 5-FU or capecitabine, and cisplatin dual therapy for 
patients  with  AGC  provides  additional  benefit  of  increased  survival  time  over  that  seen  with  the  dual 
therapy  alone.  The  3-weekly  dosing  regimens  used  for  the  fluoropyrimidine  (capecitabine  or  5-FU)  and 
cisplatin treatments are commonly used clinical regimens for this indication, and have been shown to be 
effective  as  first-line  therapy  of  advanced  gastric  cancer    (Kang  Y;  JCO,  2006).  Six  cycles  of 
chemotherapy are in line with generally accepted routine clinical practice for the treatment of AGC in the 
first  line  metastatic  setting  The  survival  data  are  well  supported  by  the  positive  results  of  the  ‘time  to 
event’ and ‘response rate’ analyses. 
Even though some systematic reviews and meta analyses report best results of chemotherapy with three-
drug regimens containing FU, an anthracycline and cisplatin (Wagner, A. et al, JCO 2006), both treatment 
arms  in  ToGA  were  offered  the  same  regimens  and  therefore  no  bias  with  regard  to  treatment  effect  of 
trastuzumab is introduced. At the time of initiation of the ToGA trial standard therapy consisted of double 
therapy,  it  was  therefore  an  acceptable  choice  for  standard  therapy.  Therapy  has  evolved  over  time  and 
triple  therapy  (either  epirubicin,  cisplatin,  5-FU  or  docetaxel,  cisplatin,  5-FU)  is  considered  current 
standard of care by many physicians in Europe. However, the combination of epirubicin, cisplatin and 5-
FU  has  not  been  subject  of  a  licensing  procedure  and  there  is  no  formal  demonstration  that  triplets  are 
superior to doublet therapy with cisplatin and 5-FU. The addition of docetaxel to cisplatinum/5-FU lead to 
an increase of mean survival from 8.6 months to 9.2 months (p=0.02, J Clin Oncol. 2006;24:4991-4997). 
Therefore, the estimation of benefit for these patients in comparison with the standard of care for first-line 
medical treatment of AGC is difficult.  
The  MAH  initially  proposed  a  therapeutic  indication  in  which  Herceptin  is  used  in  combination  with 
fluoropyrimidine and ‘a platinum agent’. However, it is unclear that sufficient evidence exists to support 
extrapolation of data from ToGA to combinations of Herceptin, fluoropyrimidine and either oxaliplatin or 
carboplatin. Currently there are neither robust safety data for combinations of oxaliplatin and Herceptin, 
nor efficacy data for carboplatin in gastric cancer. Use of platinum agents in a number of indications has 
demonstrated distinct safety profiles for each agent and likely differences in efficacy. Further, these agents 
are not used interchangeably within treatment combinations and algorithms in standard oncology practice.  
Given  the  above,  the  CHMP  agreed  to  limit  the  indication  of  Herceptin  in  combination  with  the  agents 
evaluated in ToGA. 
Based  on  the  data  submitted,  there  is  insufficient  evidence  of  efficacy  in  patients  with  locally  advanced 
disease and therefore this group was excluded from the therapeutic indication. Also, insufficient evidence 
of  efficacy  were  presented  for  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  non-measurable  disease,  and  this  has  been 
reflected in the SPC (see sSPC section 5.1). 
Similarly, there remmain uncertainties about the efficacy in patients with ECOG performance status >=2 
(see SPC section 5.1).  
The efficacy of Herceptin has been established in patients whose tumours are characterised by IHC3+ or 
IHC2+ confirmed by FISH+ staining and this is reflected in the therapeutic indication.  
 
 
 
 
Patients who are FISH positive but only insufficiently express the HER 2 protein (IHC 0/FISH+ or IHC 
1+/FISH+)  should not be treated with Trastuzumab. This is also supported from a  biological perspective 
as  the  HER2  protein  is  the  direct  target  for  trastuzumab.    In  this  subgroup  of  patients,  clinically 
meaningful benefit can be observed.  Together with the recommended scoring system (separated for breast 
cancer and gastric cancer) the Her 2 positivity algorithm must be reflected in Section 5.1 of the SmPC. 
1. 2. 3.  Clinical Safety 
This submission includes the clinical safety data from 584 patients with AGC from the ToGA trial who 
were included in the second interim analysis (clinical cut off date January 7, 2009), 294 of whom received 
trastuzumab in addition to fluoropyrimidine and cisplatin. 
Adverse events 
At  the  time  of  clinical  cut-off,  almost  all  patients  in  both  treatment  arms  had  experienced  at  least  one 
adverse event. The incidence of serious adverse events was slightly higher in the FP+H arm than in the FP 
arm (32% vs 28%). A similar proportion of adverse events leading to death were seen in each arm (5% in 
the FP arm and 6% in the FP+H arm). Slightly fewer patients were withdrawn from the FP+H arm than 
the FP arm as a result of adverse events (11% vs 15%). 
Overview of Adverse Events 
The most common AEs recorded during the study (occurring with an incidence of ≥ 5%) are summarized 
by SOC below. The most  common AEs in both treatment arms were nausea, vomiting, neutropenia and 
anorexia. Adverse events which occurred with a higher frequency in the FP+H arm than the FP arm (≥ 5% 
difference) 
thrombocytopenia,  fatigue,  pyrexia,  mucosal 
included  diarrhea,  stomatitis,  anemia, 
inflammation, chills, dysgeusia, weight decrease and nasopharyngitis. 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the incidence of Grade ≥ 3 AEs was similar in the two treatment groups (68% in each arm). 
Grade 3 or 4 AEs that occurred in ≥ 1% of patients in either treatment group are summarized below.  
There was an increased incidence of Grade ≥ 3 AEs in the FP+H arm compared to the FP arm in body 
systems such as gastrointestinal disorders (21% in FP, 26% in FP+H) with Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea reported 
by 9% of patients in the FP+H arm compared with 4% of patients in the FP arm. Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders were seen in 11% in FP, 14% in FP+H and general disorders and administration site conditions 
were reported for 9% in FPand 13% in FP+H. 
 
 
 
Neutropenia, commonly associated with fluoropyrimidine plus platinum therapy, was the most common 
Grade ≥ 3 event in both treatment arms (29% in FP, 35% in FP+H).  
 
Summary of Grade  >  3 AEs occurring with an incidence of at least 1% by trial treatment (SAP) 
Definition of Serious Adverse Events 
A serious adverse event (SAE) is any experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side 
effect or precaution. It is any AE that at any dose fulfills at least one of the following criteria: 
– is fatal;  
– is life-threatening 
 
 
 
 
– required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; 
– results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; 
– is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; 
– is medically significant or requires intervention to prevent one or other of the outcomes listed above 
Summary of SAEs with an incidence rate of at least 1% in at least one treatment arm (SAP) 
There were 95 patients (32%) with a total of 174 SAEs  in the FP + H arm and 81 patients (28%) with a 
total of 122 SAEs in the FP arm .  
Fifty-two percent (63/122) of SAEs in the FP arm and 55% (96/174) of SAEs in the FP+H arm were 
considered by the investigator to be related to treatment   
Relationship of Adverse Events to Treatment 
Investigators classified adverse events as either unrelated to treatment or related to treatment.  Treatment 
included trastuzumab as well as FP.  
Sixty-three percent and 65% of AEs were considered related to the treatment in the FP arm and the FP+H 
arm, respectively. The majority of these AEs were classified as gastrointestinal disorders (67%  in FP, 
70% in (FP+H), blood and lymphatic system disorders (86% in FP, 86% in FP+H), general disorders and 
administration site conditions (58% in FP, 67% in FP+H), metabolism and nutrition disorders (71% in FP, 
72% in FP+H), skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (84% in FP, 78% in FP+H) and nervous system 
disorders (62% in FP, 63% in FP+H). 
Overall, fewer patients in the FP+H arm (32 patients, 11%) were withdrawn from the study as a result of 
an AE than  in the FP arm (43 patients, 15%).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose modifications or treatment interruptions of at least one component of study treatment were also 
recorded by a similar proportion of patients in each group (82% of patients in the FP arm and 84% of 
patients in the FP+H arm).  
The most common reasons for dose modification or interruption in the two study arms were: neutropenia 
(54% in FP, 50% in FP+H), thrombocytopenia (8% in FP, 11% in FP+H), nausea (13% in each arm), 
vomiting (11% in each arm), renal impairment (13% in FP, 14% in FP+H) and weight decrease (3% in FP, 
13% in FP+H). 
Summary of Adverse events leading to discontinuation of at least one trial treatment 
 
 
 
Infusion reactions 
Seventeen patients (6%) experienced at least one typical infusion-related AE of CTC Grade ≥ 3 on the day 
of or the day after a trastuzumab infusion. The reported events were gastrointestinal disorders (nausea or 
vomiting, 11 patients), general disorders  and administration site conditions (asthenia, fatigue or chills, 9 
patients) and immune system disorders (hypersensitivity, 1 patient). None of them was fatal. The 
proportion of patients experiencing typical infusion-related AEs starting on the day of or the day after 
trastuzumab infusion after each infusion was summarized by treatment cycle .  
The proportion of patients experiencing these events generally decreased with each infusion: 41% of 
patients in the FP+H arm reported a typical infusion-related event on the day of or the day after the first 
infusion, while only 2% of patients reported such an AE after the eighth infusion. 
Cardiac safety 
Cardiotoxicity is a known risk of treatment with trastuzumab. The current SmPC states that all candidates 
for  treatment  should  undergo  baseline  cardiac  assessment  including  history  and  physical  examination, 
ECG,  echocardiogram  and/or  MUGA  scan,  and  a  careful  risk-benefit  assessment  conducted  prior  to 
starting treatment with trastuzumab. It is also recommended that cardiac function be monitored regularly 
(e.g.  every three  months) during  treatment,  and  patients  who  develop  asymptomatic  cardiac  dysfunction 
may benefit from more frequent monitoring (e.g. every 6-8 weeks). Discontinuation of treatment should 
be considered in patients who develop cardiac failure or who have a continued decrease in LVEF. 
In order to monitor cardiac safety in the ToGA trial, LVEF measurements were performed using MUGA 
or  echocardiography,  and  the  same  technique  used  throughout  the  study  for  each  individual  patient.  All 
patients were required to have a baseline LVEF of ≥ 50%. LVEF was monitored every 12 weeks during 
the study. Additional LVEF measurements were performed at the investigator’s discretion in the case of 
concerns that an AE may be related to cardiac dysfunction.  
Trastuzumab  was  discontinued  in  all  patients  for  whom  a  drop  of  LVEF  to  a  value  below  40%  was 
documented  and  confirmed  with  a  repeat  assessment  within  3  weeks  of  the  first  assessment,  and  in  any 
patient who developed clinical symptoms and signs suggesting congestive heart failure, with the diagnosis 
confirmed by chest X-ray, and a drop in LVEF by MUGA or echocardiography.  
 
 
 
Cardiac adverse events 
Overall, 33% (193/584) of patients were recorded to have a previous or concurrent cardiovascular disease 
with a slightly higher incidence in the FP+H arm (30% [88/290] in  
FP,  36%  [105/294]  in  FP+H;).  The  most  frequently  observed  cardiovascular  diseases  were  vascular 
disorders (27% in FP, 30% in FP+H), amongst which hypertension was the dominant component (26% in 
FP, 29% in FP+H), and cardiac disorders (8% in FP, 11% in FP+H). 
Eight  percent  of  patients  in  the  FP  arm  and  11%  patients  in  the  FP+H  arm  reported  aprevious 
cardiovascular  disease  which  was  no  longer  active  at  the  start  of  study.  These  consisted  of  cardiac 
disorders (4% in FP, 6% in FP+H), including myocardial infarction (2% in FP+H and none on FP), and 
vascular disorders (4% in FP, 5% in FP+H) with 4% and 5% of patients in the FP arm and the FP+H arm, 
respectively,having hypertension.  
Active cardiovascular diseases (as allowed per protocol) at baseline was recorded by 25% of patients in 
the  FP  arm  and  28%  of  patients  in  the  FP+H  arm.    The  most  common  condition  was  hypertension, 
reported by 22% and 24% of patients in the FP and FP+H arms, respectively. Active cardiac disorders (as 
allowed per protocol) were recorded by 5% of patients in each treatment arm.  
Six percent of patients in both treatment groups experienced cardiac adverse events.  Four patients (1%) in 
the FP+H arm recorded a Grade ≥ 3 cardiac event, compared with nine patients (3%) in the FP arm. Two 
patients in each group died as a result of cardiac events: cardiac arrest and cardio-respiratory arrest in the 
FP arm and, in the FP+H arm, cardiac failure plus unstable angina, and acute myocardial infarction.  
Summary of grade > 3 cardiac adverse events 
Neither of the two patients in the FP+H group who had received prior anthracycline therapy experienced 
cardiac disorders during the study.  
Assessment of LVEF change 
At screening, the median LVEF value was 64% in the FP arm and 65% in the FP+H arm.  
Significant  decreases  in  LVEF  (ie,  a  decrease  of  ≥  10%  resulting  in  a  LVEF  value  of  <  50%)  were 
recorded on at least one occasion during the study by 11 patients (4.6%) in the FP+H arm compared to 2 
patients (1.1%) in the FP arm (table below).  
A further 39 patients (16.5%) in the FP+H arm experienced decreases in LVEF of ≥ 10% from screening 
(with LVEF ≥ 50%), compared to 22 patients (11.8%) in the FP arm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LVEF  measurements  are  summarized  showing  median  and  range  for  baseline  values,  and  frequency  of 
absolute drop in LVEF of ≥ 10%, and drops to a value < 50%.  
Summary of LVEF Change from Screening Over Time 
Deaths 
At the time of clinical cut-off, 182 patients (63%) in the FP arm and 167 patients (57%) in the FP+H arm 
had  died  (see  table).Disease  progression  of  the  underlying  gastric  cancer  accounted  for  the  majority  of 
these deaths: 167 deaths in the FP arm and 148 deaths in the trastuzumab arm.  
Summary of causes of deaths 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, 34 patients died due to causes not reported as or not related to disease progression. Fourteen (14)  
patients in the FP arm and 17 patients in the FP+H arm died as a result of an adverse event. The cause of 
death was “not known” in a further three patients.  
A total of ten deaths (10/17 or  59% )  in the FP+H arm were considered to be due to treatment-related 
AEs (2 cases of “death”, 2 cases of pneumonia, one case of cardiac failure plus unstable angina, and one 
case  each  of  acute  myocardial  infarction,  gastric  hemorrhage,  depressed  level  of  consciousness, 
thrombocytopenia and renal failure), compared to three deaths  (3/14  or 21%) in the FP arm (“death”, 
septic shock and pancytopenia).  
Narratives, summary table and a listing of deaths resulting from adverse events are presented in the study 
report. 32 outcomes of death are listed for 31 patients. (with one patient having two adverse events that led 
to death and considered by the investigator to be both related to study medication). 
Summary of treatment related adverse events leading to death. 
Most of the fatal treatment related AEs were due to 
• infections and infestations: 1 patient with septic shock in the FP arm and  2 patients with pneumonia in 
the FP+H arm   
• cardiac disorders:  2 patients with 3 Aes in the FP+H arm (cardiac failure and unstable angina , acute 
myocardial infarction) 
• gastrointestinal disorders: 1 patient in the FP+H arm (gastric hemorrhage ). 
• general disorders and administration site conditions: 1 patient in the FP arm and 2 patients in the FP+H 
arm (death). 
• nervous system disorders: 1 patient in the FP+H arm (depressed level of consciousness) 
• blood/lymphatic system disorders: 1 patient with pancytopenia in the FP arm and 1 patient with 
thrombocytopenia in the FP+H arm   
• renal and urinary disorders: 1 patient with renal failure in the FP+H arm 
However, considering the full analysis set (FAS) there was no difference between treatment arms in the 
incidence of death within 60 days of first administration of study drug (6.9% in FP, 5.1% in FP+H) as well 
as during treatment or within 6 months (37.2% in FP, 35.4% in FP+H 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HER2 Subgroup Safety Analysis 
A similar incidence of Grade ≥ 3 AEs was observed in both subgroups: 67% [47/70] in FP, 69% [42/61] in 
FP+H in the low HER2 expressing group and 69% [150/218] in FP, 68% [154/228] in FP+H for the high 
HER2  expressing  group.  Blood  and  lymphatic  disorders  were  the  most  common  Grade  ≥  3  events, 
occurring  at  a  similar  frequency  between  treatment  arms  in  both  the  low  and  high  HER2  expressing 
subgroups.  
In the high HER2 expressing group, 10 patients experienced 10 Grade ≥ 3 cardiac AEs (7 pts [3%] in FP, 
3 pts [1%] in FP+H)  In the FP arm, 7 events were Grade ≥ 3  In the FP+H arm, there were 3 Grade ≥ 3 
events.  In the low HER2 expressing group, two patients in the FP arm experienced a Grade ≥ 3 cardiac 
event and one patient in the FP+H arm experienced two events. 
Serious adverse events were reported by a total of 38 patients in the low HER2 expressing group (24% 
[17/70] in FP, 34% [21/61] in FP+H).  A total of 227 SAEs in 133 patients with high expressing HER2 
tumours  were  reported  across  the  two  treatment  arms.  A  similar  number  of  patients  experiencing  SAEs 
was observed in the two arms (29% [64/218] in FP, 30% [69/228] in FP+H)  
At the time of the clinical cut-off (January 7, 2009), 88 patients in the low HER2 expressing group had 
died. Six of these deaths were due to adverse events (2 pts in FP, 4 pts in FP+H). In the high expressing 
HER2 group, a total of 256 patients had died, 23 patients in this group died due to adverse events (12 pts 
in FP, 11 pts in FP+H).  
The incidence of Grade ≥ 3 laboratory abnormalities during the study was similar between treatment arms 
in both the low HER2 and high HER2 expressing group. 
Laboratory findings 
During  the  study  the  majority  of  patients  in  either  study  arm  did  not  exhibit  a  shift  from  their  baseline 
laboratory test parameter values or exhibited a shift of 2 grades or less between baseline and their worst 
test value. 
The most common Grade ≥ 3 hematologic toxicity was low neutrophils and low hemoglobin which had a 
slightly  higher  incidence  in  the  FP+H  arm  compared  to  the  FP  arm  (35%  vs  29%  and  22%  vs  18%, 
respectively).  These  Grade  3/4  shifts  are  correlated  with  reported  Grade  ≥  3  AEs  of    neutropenia  and 
anemia. 
Blood  chemistry  parameters  with  Grade  ≥  3  during  the  treatment  period  show  a  potential  influence  of 
trastuzumab (FP+H vs FP) on lower potassium (10% vs 6%) , lower sodium (16% vs 14%), lower calcium 
(5% vs 2%) and albumin levels (3% vs <1%). The incidence of other Grade ≥ 3 abnormalities for other 
laboratory parameters was low and not markedly different between the two treatment arms.  
Pharmacovigilance/Risk Management Plan 
The  applicant  has  provided  an  updated  Risk  Management  Plan  with  the  application  for  an  extension  of 
indication.  Version  5.0  of  the  RMP  is  presented  in  a  structure  completely  different  from  the  previous 
version. 
A  number  of  changes  and  corrections  are  requested  for  the  updated  RMP  taking  into  account  the 
information from the new indication. 
Risk Management Plan 
•  Safety Specification 
An updated RMP, Version 5.0 with data lock point 18.04.2009 has been provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Safety Specification 
No changes of non-clinical data to version 4.0 
Limitation of the Human Safety Database 
Exposure for early and metastatic breast cancer has reached approximately 645,505 patient years in the 
post-marketing setting and in clinical trials. 
Exposure data are presented with regard to indication, treatment duration and dosing schedule. In USA in 
2009 distribution was 80% adjuvant and 20% for metastatic breast cancer. Outside USA it is assumed that 
62% of patients will be treated for early breast cancer and 38% for metastatic breast cancer, except Japan, 
where the split is 70%:30%. 
The Applicant assumed that safety data from patients treated for early and metastatic breast cancer could 
be extrapolated to the intended population in gastric cancer. 
Gastric cancer  
In study BO18255 (ToGA) 584 patients had been treated, whereof 294 patients received trastuzumab, 
additionally to treatment with Fluoropyrimidine and cisplatin. 77% of patients were male and 23% were 
female. There is a difference in gender distribution with regard to exposure data up to now. The Applicant 
does not anticipate any specific difference in the safety profile with regard to the gender distribution. 
The accuracy of HER2 testing in human gastric tumours including GE junction is crucial to select the right 
patient for HER2 target therapy with Herceptin. The quality of HER2 testing results can be affected by 
several factors, such as the fixative reagent used or the duration of fixation. If validated assays are not 
used, the accuracy can be affected as well. 
Adverse events/adverse reactions 
No new safety concern had been identified. 
Identified risks 
Cardiotoxicity 
Early breast cancer 
The incidence of grade III and IV congestive heart failure was 0-0.49% among patients not treated with 
trastuzumab. The incidence of LVEF decrease of more than 10% in patients receiving trastuzumab ranged 
from 2.2 to 17%. 
Metastatic breast cancer 
The incidence of congestive heart failure was 3.9-5% in patients not receiving trastuzumab, depending on 
the administered treatment regimen. The incidence was 1% in patients treated with paclitaxel only. LVEF 
decreases of more than 10% occurred in 19% of patients receiving trastuzumab. 
Gastric cancer 
1.1% of patients not receiving trastuzumab experienced a drop of LVEF from baseline of at least 10% to 
an absolute LVEF value below 50% compared to 4.6% of patients receiving trastuzumab. As risk factors 
for occurrence of cardiotoxicity the age above 50 years, prior anti-hypertensive medication used or low 
LVEF prior to or following paclitaxel administration had been reported, as well as previous anthracycline 
therapy.  
Infusion-related reactions 
The Applicant performed a search of the safety database. 
Out of 5035 identified events of infusion related reactions 129 events had a fatal outcome. 
No data on infusion related reactions in BO18255 had been presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematotoxicity 
In all clinical trials in the indication breast cancer, an increased incidence of haematotoxicity in patients 
treated with trastuzumab, compared with those not receiving trastuzumab, has been observed, although no 
underlying mechanism for haematotoxicity has been identified yet. 
Oligohydramnios 
Up to the cut off date of 08.08.2008 11 cases of oligohydramnios, out of about 150 pregnancies, had been 
identified, whereof 2 infants died, one due to complications of premature birth and the other one because 
of pulmonary hypoplasia. 
As requested by FDA, the Applicant started a pregnancy registry for patients becoming pregnant during 
treatment or within 6 months after end of therapy with trastuzumab.  
Interactions with other medicinal products, food and other substances 
No formal drug interaction studies had been performed.´ 
Epidemiology of the indication 
Breast cancer 
In Europe, breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women (429,000 new breast cancers 
in 2006 or 28.9% of total cancers in Europe. It has been estimated tha t approximately 25-30% of 
diagnosed breast cancers are HER2-positive. 
In Europe, breast cancer was the third leading cause of death (131,900 new deaths) in 2006. 5-year 
survival of patients with early breast cancer is greater 85%, compared to about 25% of patients with 
metastatic disease. 
HER2 overexpression of breast cancer is associated with poorer prognosis. 
48% of patients with HER2+ breast cancer are 55 years old or older and the majority (80%) are white. 
Gastric cancer 
In Europe gastric cancer is the fifth most common cancer with about 150,000 new cases per year. HER2 is 
overexpressed in approximately 20% of all gastric cancer. 
Mortality rates are 18.1 per 100,000 in men and 8.3 per 100,000 in women in Europe. Gastric cancer 
accounts for approximately 6-7% of cancer deaths. 5-year survival does not exceed 25%. 
Incidences of gastric cancer increases with age, with a peak between 50-70 years. 
High risk areas include Japan, China, Eastern Europe and some countries in Central and South America. 
Risk factors are smoking, lower socioeconomic status, Helicobacter pylori infection, and diet factors such 
as salty food as well as obesity.  
Relevant comorbidities in the target population 
Data form eight US cancer care centers suggest that hypertension is the most common comorbidity in 
breast cancer patients (34.5%) 
For gastric cancer data from Netherlands suggest that cardiovascular diseases (19-21%) and hypertension 
(15-19%) are the most common comorbidities. 
Epidemiology in unexposed target population 
Cardiotoxicity 
General breast cancer patients 
Data from Netherlands suggests, that patients treated with cardiotoxic chemotherapy had rates of 
69.3/1000 patient years (PY) for any cardiovascular hospitalisation, 3.6/1000PY for heart failure and 
21.5/1000 PY for other cardiovascular disease. Patients treated with non-cardiotoxic chemotherapy had 
nearly similar hospitalisation rates, 98.3/1000 PY for any cardiovascular hospitalisation, 8.3/1000 PY for 
cerebrovascular disease and 29.5/1000 PY for other cardiovascular disease. 
Early breast cancer HER+ 
Data form 3 trials in US, Canada and Europe showed incidences of grade III/IV congestive heart failure of 
0-0.49% among patients not treated with trastuzumab. The incidence of LVEF decrease of more than 105 
ranged from 2.2% to 17% with mortality ranging form 0.06-0.15% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Data from 3 trials in US, Canada and Europe showed incidences of congestive heart failure of 3.9-5%, 
depending on chemotherapeutic regimen and was 1% in patients only receiving paclitaxel. Drop of LVEF 
more than 10% occurred at an incidence of 19%. Mortality rate was 0.43%. 
Gastric cancer 
One clinical trial reported a 1.1% incidence of decreased LVEF among patients with advanced HER2+ 
gastric cancer. 
Haematological toxicity 
Early breast cancer 
The incidence of neurtropenia in 2 trials in US, Canada and Europe ranged from 0.7% (grade 4-5) to 4.5% 
(grades 2-5). 
Metastatic breast cancer, HER+ 
The incidence of neutropenia was 26%. 
Cancer patients in general with febrile neutropenia have a risk for mortality ranging form 2.6% up to 
21.4%, depending on comorbidities. 
Gastric cancer 
One clinical trial showed incidence of r neutropenia ranging from 59-80%, depending on 
chemotherapeutic regimen. Mortality rates in general range from 2.6% to 21.4%, depending on 
comorbidities. 
2.  Pharmacovigilance Plan 
Summary of safety concerns and planned pharmacovigilance actions 
Safety Concern 
Important Identified Risks 
1.  Cardiotoxicity 
Planned Action(s) 
Study  BO20652  is  currently  ongoing.  First  and 
second  interim  analyses  have  been  submitted  with 
the corresponding PSURs with a September 25 DLP.
Ongoing use of guided questionnaire in an effort to 
better  characterise  cardiotoxicity  associated  with 
Herceptin use. 
Treatment  algorithm  describing  actions  to  be  taken 
in the event of onset of decreased ejection fractions. 
Routine pharmacovigilance practices. 
Routine pharmacovigilance practices. 
Routine pharmacovigilance practices. 
Infusion Related Reactions 
2. 
3.  Haematotoxicity 
4.  Oligohydramnios 
Pharmacovigilance action plan for cardiotoxicity 
Safety Concern 
Action(s) Proposed 
Objective of Proposed 
Action(s) 
Cardiotoxicity 
Cardiac AE specific safety study BO20652 (OHERA) 
Primary objective: 
• To observe the incidence of symptomatic congestive heart failure 
(CHF)  (NYHA  class  II,  III  and  IV)  and  cardiac  death  in  patients 
treated with Herceptin® in routine clinical practice setting. 
Secondary objectives: 
• To explore potential risk factors for symptomatic congestive heart 
failure. 
•  To  observe  the  time  to  onset  and  the  time  to  recovery  of 
symptomatic congestive heart failure. 
•  To  observe  the  incidence  of  asymptomatic  cardiac  failure  and 
other significant cardiac conditions. 
• To observe the incidence of asymptomatic cardiac failure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rationale for Proposed 
Action(s) 
Detail further measures which 
may be adopted on the basis of 
the results of this action and the 
decision criteria for initiating 
such measures 
Milestone for evaluation and 
reporting including justification 
for choice of milestones 
Titles of protocol  
The  incidence  of  asymptomatic  left  ventricular  dysfunction  and 
symptomatic CHF was very low in the Herceptin® treated patients 
participating in the HERA study. However, the likelihood exists that 
cardiac  failure  may  occur  at  a  higher  rate  in  ordinary  clinical 
practice than in the setting of a randomized controlled clinical trial 
with strict entry criteria. 
This observational, single cohort safety study has been designed to 
observe  the  occurrence  of  cardiac  events  in  patients  with  HER2 
positive early breast cancer treated with Herceptin® in daily clinical 
practice. It is a non-interventional, observational study that serves as 
a commitment study to the EMEA approval in early breast cancer. 
Professional  labelling  may  be  altered  in  response  to  the  results  of 
this  study  following  consultation  with  the  relevant  competent 
authorities. 
Baseline information will be collected from all enrolled patients 
who signed the informed consent form. 
All patients receiving Herceptin® will be treated and monitored 
according to the local clinical practice. Data will be collected from 
centre’s medical records for up to 5 years or death, unless they are 
lost to follow-up or withdraw the informed consent. Patients will be 
monitored irrespective of actual treatment regimen they receive for 
the early as well as recurrent or metastatic disease. Once a year the 
data will be analyzed and presented to Competent Authorities for 
review. 
An Observational Study Of Cardiac Events In Patients With HER2 
Positive Early Breast Cancer Treated With Herceptin®. 
Overview of study protocols for the pharmacovigilance plan 
Study 
Protocol Version 
Protocol Status 
BO20652 
(OHERA) 
Version A 
Active 
Planned Date for 
Submission of 
Interim Data 
Annually with the 
September PSUR 
(DLP 25 Sep) 
Planned Date for 
Submission of 
Final Data 
Circa 2014 
Summary of outstanding actions, including milestones 
Actions 
Milestones / Exposure  Milestones / Calendar 
Annual analysis 
N/A 
Time 
With the PSUR – data 
lock point 25 September. 
Study Status 
Ongoing 
3.  Evaluation of the need for risk minimisation measures 
Summary of planned risk minimisation actions 
Safety Concern 
Are Routine Risk 
Minimisation Activities 
Sufficient? 
Important Identified Risks  
5.  Cardiotoxicity 
No 
Proposed Actions 
Algorithm is provided in professional labelling 
and is available to prescribers globally via 
package inserts. 
Criteria to be Used to Verify the Success of 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activity 
Analysis annually with the scheduled PSURs of 
the actions taken with Herceptin by prescribers 
globally in response to decreased LVEF and the 
outcome of the reported adverse event. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in 
the 
states 
labelling 
their  possibly 
Additional Risk Minimisation: 
(cid:31) Clinical Recommendation Algorithm 
Proposed Review Period 
Annually with the PSUR 
Current  professional 
that 
Herceptin  treatment  should  only  be  initiated  by 
physicians  experienced 
treatment  of 
cancer  patients.  It  is  advised  that  Herceptin  be 
discontinued  until  resolution  of  serious  adverse 
events associated with infusion and that patients 
experiencing dyspnoea at rest should be only be 
treated following consideration of the risk versus 
benefit,  given 
increased 
susceptibility to IRRs. 
Given  that  most  chemotherapy  regimen  are 
likely to induce haematotoxicity, it is considered 
sufficient  that  routine  monitoring  of  lab  test 
values  is  sufficient  to  allow  for  appropriate 
measures to be taken locally following onset.   
Current  professional 
that 
Herceptin  treatment  should  only  be  initiated/ 
maintained  during  pregnancy  if  the  potential 
benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk 
to the foetus. The MAHs licensing partner in the 
USA, Genentech, Inc., has initiated a pregnancy 
registry in an effort to better characterise the use 
and potential risks associated with Herceptin use 
during pregnancy. 
indicates 
labelling 
6. 
Infusion related 
reactions 
Yes 
7.  Haematotoxicity 
Yes 
8.  Oligohydramnios 
Yes 
B. Risk Minimisation  
4.  Risk Minimisation Plan  
Additional risk minimisation measures: Cardiotoxicity 
Additional Risk Minimisation: 
•  Clinical Recommendation Algorithm 
Objective and Rationale 
The  objective  of  this  algorithm  is  to  provide 
clinicians  with  a  clear  set  of  instructions  as  to  how 
best to deal with LVEF decreases that are associated 
with the cardiotoxicity of trastuzumab. 
Proposed Actions 
Algorithm is provided in professional labelling and 
is available to prescribers globally via package 
inserts. 
Criteria to be Used to Verify the Success of 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activity 
Analysis annually with the scheduled PSURs of the 
actions taken with Herceptin by prescribers globally 
in response to decreased LVEF and the outcome of 
the reported adverse event. 
Proposed Review Period 
Annually with the PSUR. 
Discussion on the RMP 
Version 5.0 of the RMP is presented in a structure completely different from the previous version. In 
general it is not very concise to present the data with regard to the incidences of identified and potential 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
risk by several tables for each single study. A pooled analysis of study data with regard to the indications 
would have been preferred. 
The cut-off dates are different for the several presented data. 18.04.2009 is reported as data lock point for 
the RMP, but cut off date for example for the presented cases of oligohydramnios is mentioned as 
08.08.2008. The data lock point of the RMP and the cut off dates for the data presented in the RMP should 
be congruent.  
Patients with previous chemotherapy for advanced/metastatic disease were excluded in the trial (prior 
adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy was allowed if at least 6 months had elapsed between completion of 
adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy and enrollment into the study).  Patients with a lack of physical integrity of 
the upper GI tract or malabsorption syndrome, and patients with active gastrointestinal bleeding were not 
allowed to enter the study. Therefore the target patient population may be not representative for patients 
treated after marketing authorization. Physical integrity could be affected by the underlying cancer. 
Additionally, patient with gastric cancer are at risk for developing gastrointestinal bleeding. Therefore, 
additional safety data are required and the MAH will continue enhanced pharmacovigilance measures 
which include targeted guided questionnaires designed to characterize identified risks. With regard to risk 
factors for cardiotoxicity a joint analysis of studies with 1799 patients is mentioned in table 6, but the 
studies included in the joint analysis are reported. The Applicant should specify the studies included in the 
joint analysis. In general, an overview of identified risks and potential risks should be presented by a 
pooled analysis of all trials performed. The RMP should be updated accordingly. 
No presentation of safety profile with regard to the new indication, including a comprehensive discussion 
of potential differences is presented. The Applicant is asked to present an overview of safety profile in 
patients treated for gastric cancer in comparison to the approved indications, including a comprehensive 
discussion of the differences observed. 
In the ToGA trial the frequency of infections was higher in patients treated with fluoropyrimidine, 
cisplatin and trastuzumab, compared with those treated with fluoropyrimidine and cisplatin (32% versus 
20%) and 2 patients in the trastuzumab containing arm died because of pneumonia, versus none in the 
fluoropyrimidine and cisplatin arm. Therefore infections should be addressed as potential risk in the RMP. 
Because the number of patients (294 patients) treated for gastric cancer is small, the median treatment 
duration (4.9 months) was short and the extent of the population intend for treatment is high, additional 
actions to collect further safety data, especially with regard to identified risk are necessary.  The MAH 
will continue enhanced pharmacovigilance measures which include targeted guided questionnaires 
designed to characterize identified risks. 
With regard to outstanding actions including milestone, annual analysis, to be presented with PSURs is 
reported, but it is not specified which analysis will be performed. The MAH is requested to specify annual 
analysis. 
In Appendix 2 of the RMP a lot of ongoing clinical trials are mentioned, e.g. study H4613g AKA Her-Q-
Les addressing cardiotoxicity and drug interactions, as well as the pregnancy registry. All of these studies 
are neither included in the table of study protocols for the pharmacovigilance plan, nor in the detailed 
action plan for safety concerns and also not in the table of outstanding actions and milestones. The 
Applicant should update the tables of the RMP with the information on these studies. 
Study ML20529, addressing relevant literature findings of association of genetic polymorphism of HER2 
and cardiotoxicity has been mentioned in previous PSURs and discussed in the PSUR assessment reports, 
but  this  study  is  not  reported  in  the  RMP,  neither  with  regard  to  activities  for  safety  concerns  nor  in 
Appendix 2, although this study will collect relevant data on cardiotoxicity. This study should be included 
in  the  RMP  and  should  be  discussed  in  relation  to  cardiotoxicity,  as  well  as  the  literature  finding  of 
association of genetic polymorphism of HER2 and cardiotoxicity. 
Appendix 6 of the RMP gives HER2 testing recommendations in gastric cancer. 
It is mentioned that the accuracy of HER2 testing in human gastric tumours including GE junction is 
crucial to select the right patient for HER2 target therapy with Herceptin. The quality of HER2 testing 
results can be affected by several factors, such as the fixative reagent used or the duration of fixation. If 
 
validated assays are not used, the accuracy can be affected as well. To guarantee proper HER2 testing the 
guidelines on both preanalytical factors and validated assays have been mentioned to be followed. 
In Section 1.3.1 of the RMP it has been reported that detailed educational material regarding HER2 testing 
will be made available to prescribers, but this educational material has not been included in section risk 
minimisation activities. The RMP should be updated accordingly. 
Additional the general consideration for HER2 testing as given “Before pathology laboratories embark on 
HER2 testing in gastric cancer, laboratory personal should be specifically trained. To ensure consistent 
HER2 testing quality it is recommended that pathology labs should participate in regular QC programs.” 
should also be included in the section risk minimisation activities. 
Of note, each updated RMP should include a presentation of changes, either by submitting a version where 
the changes are highlighted or by presenting the changes in the format of a table. 
Overall Discussion on Clinical safety 
Safety  data  from  the  ToGA  trial  suggest  that  there  are  no  additional  significant  safety  issues  with 
Herceptin used in the treatment of advanced gastric cancer over and above those seen when it is used to 
treat  breast  cancer.  Therefore,  risks  of  cardiac  dysfunction  and  pulmonary,  gastrointestinal  and  infusion 
related adverse reactions persist. However, the safety profile of Herceptin in breast cancer is considered 
relatively well-established and well-defined risk minimisation strategies exist and are detailed within the 
risk management plan, product information and within clinical guidelines. 
Overall Discussion and Benefit-Risk assessment 
Herceptin has been investigated in one randomised, open-label phase III trial ToGA (BO18255) in 
combination with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone.  
Chemotherapy was administered as follows: 
- 
- 
or  
capecitabine - 1000 mg/m2 orally twice daily for 14 days every 3 weeks for 6 cycles (evening 
of day 1 to morning of day 15 of each cycle)  
intravenous 5-fluorouracil - 800 mg/m2/day as a continuous i.v. infusion over 5 days, given 
every 3 weeks for 6 cycles (days 1 to 5 of each cycle)  
Either of which was administered with: 
- 
cisplatin - 80 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 6 cycles on day 1 of each cycle. 
The efficacy results from study BO18225 are summarized in the following table:  
Parameter 
FP 
N = 290 
11.1 
5.5 
Overall Survival, Median months 
Progression-Free Survival, 
Median months 
Time to Disease Progression, 
Median months 
Overall Response Rate, % 
Duration of Response, Median 
months 
FP + H: Fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin  + Herceptin  
FP: Fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin  
34.5% 
4.8 
5.6 
FP +H 
N = 294 
13.8 
6.7 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value 
0.74 (0.60-0.91) 
0.71 (0.59-0.85) 
0.0046 
0.0002 
7.1 
0.70 (0.58-0.85) 
0.0003 
47.3% 
6.9 
1.70a (1.22, 2.38) 
0.54 (0.40-0.73) 
0.0017 
< 0.0001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a Odds ratio 
Patients were recruited to the trial who were previously untreated for HER2-positive inoperable locally 
advanced or recurrent and/or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastro-oesophageal junction 
not amenable to curative therapy. The primary endpoint was overall survival which was defined as the 
time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. At the time of the analysis a total 
of 349 randomized patients had died: 182 patients (62.8 %) in the control arm and 167 patients (56.8 %) in 
the treatment arm. The majority of the deaths were due to events related to the underlying cancer. 
Post-hoc subgroup analyses indicate that positive treatment effects are limited to targeting tumours with 
higher  levels  of  HER2  protein  (IHC 2+/FISH+  and  IHC 3+/regardless  of  the  FISH  status).  The  median 
overall survival for the high HER2 expressing group was 11.8 months versus 16 months, HR 0.65 (95 % 
CI 0.51-0.83) and the median progression free survival was 5.5 months versus 7.6 months, HR 0.64 (95 % 
CI  0.51-0.79)  for  FP  versus  FP  +  H,  respectively.  For  overall  survival,  the  HR  was  0.75 (95% CI 
0.51-1.11)  in  the  IHC 2+/FISH+  group  and  the  HR  was  0.58 (95% CI 0.41-0.81)  in  the  IHC 3+/FISH+ 
group 
In an exploratory subgroup analysis performed in the TOGA (BO18255) trial there was no apparent 
benefit with the addition of Herceptin in patients with ECOG PS 2 at baseline, non measurable and locally 
advanced disease.  
Analysis  of  PK  in  gastric  cancer  gave  remarkable  differences  to  PK  in  breast  cancer,  e.g.  lower  trough 
concentrations and further clarification on the involved mechanisms is needed. 
Regarding PK/PD, there are still open issues remaining, concerning low serum levels (AGC is 54 %  (43 
%) -lower compared to breast cancer patients), lower T1/2 (14,5 days AGC vs  28,5 days for EBC and 
MBC)  and clearance (role of shed Ag, tumour mass, prehydration with cisplatinum Rx,..).  A post-
approval follow-up measure on PK/PD should address a number of points such as: 
(cid:131)  distinction between biologically active and inactive forms of the drug 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
suitability of a non-linear PK model to decribe trastuzumab pharmacokinetics 
investigation of PK/PD relationship based on other parameters 
On the basis of the above analysis, the MAH agreed to further investigate the PK issues. This may include 
consideration of further exploration of dose.   
In conclusion, the Overall benefit is clearly demonstrated and differential treatment effects are addressed 
in SmPC. The open issues related to pharmacokinetics will be resolved post – approval as FUMs, the risk 
is  relatively  well  known  and  a  further  RMP  revision  is  expected  as  a  FUM,  therefore  the  benefit/risk 
evaluation is considered favourable in the indication: 
Herceptin  in  combination  with  capecitabine  or  5-fluorouracil  and  cisplatin  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment  of  patients  with  HER2-positive  metastatic  adenocarcinoma  of  the  stomach  or  gastro-
esophageal  junction  who  have  not  received  prior  anti-cancer  treatment  for  their  metastatic 
disease. 
II.  CONCLUSION 
On  17  December  2009  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
