EMA/981900/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000278 
EPAR summary for the public 
Herceptin 
trastuzumab 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Herceptin. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Herceptin. 
What is Herceptin? 
Herceptin is a medicine that contains the active substance trastuzumab. It is available as a powder to 
be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein or as a solution for injection under the skin. 
What is Herceptin used for? 
Herceptin is used to treat the following types of cancer: 
• 
early breast cancer (when the cancer has spread within the breast or to the glands under the arm 
but not to other parts of the body) after surgery, chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer), and 
radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) if applicable. It can also be used earlier in treatment, in 
combination with chemotherapy. For tumours that are locally advanced (including those that are 
inflammatory) or more than 2 cm wide, Herceptin is used before surgery in combination with 
chemotherapy and then again after surgery on its own; 
•  metastatic breast cancer (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body). It is used on its own 
in patients in whom previous treatments have failed. It is also used in combination with other 
anticancer medicines: with paclitaxel or docetaxel, or with an aromatase inhibitor; 
When used as an infusion into a vein, Herceptin can also be used for: 
•  metastatic gastric (stomach) cancer, in combination with cisplatin and either capecitabine or 
5-fluorouracil (other anticancer medicines). 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Herceptin can only be used when the cancer has been shown to ‘overexpress HER2’: this means that 
the cancer produces a protein called HER2 in large quantities on the surface of the tumour cells, which 
makes the tumour cells grow more quickly. HER2 is overexpressed in about a quarter of breast cancers 
and a fifth of gastric cancers. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Herceptin used? 
Herceptin treatment should only be started by a doctor who has experience in the use of anticancer 
medicines. 
When given as an infusion into a vein, Herceptin is given over 90 minutes every week or every three 
weeks for breast cancer, and every three weeks for gastric cancer. For early breast cancer, treatment 
is given for a year or until the disease comes back, and for metastatic breast or gastric cancer, 
treatment is continued for as long as it remains effective. The recommended dose depends on the 
patient’s body weight and depends on the condition to be treated and whether Herceptin is given 
weekly or three-weekly.  
The infusion can be associated with allergic reactions, so the patient should be monitored during and 
after the infusion. Patients who tolerate the first 90-minute infusion can receive subsequent infusions 
over 30 minutes. 
When given as an injection under the skin, the recommended dose of Herceptin does not depend on 
the patient’s body weight and is 600 mg given over 2 to 5 minutes every three weeks.  
How does Herceptin work? 
The active substance in Herceptin, trastuzumab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is an 
antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure 
(called an antigen) that is found on certain cells in the body. Trastuzumab has been designed to attach 
to HER2, which is overexpressed in about a quarter of breast cancers and a fifth of gastric cancers. By 
attaching to HER2, trastuzumab activates cells of the immune system, which then kill the tumour cells. 
Trastuzumab also stops HER2 producing signals that cause the tumour cells to grow.  
How has Herceptin been studied? 
In early breast cancer, Herceptin given by infusion into a vein has been studied in five main studies 
involving around 10,000 patients. The first study was in patients who had first been treated with 
surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy (if applicable). Half of the patients received Herceptin, while 
the other half did not receive it. Three studies looked at the effects of giving Herceptin earlier in 
treatment, in combination with chemotherapy. A fifth study, in patients with locally advanced or 
inflammatory breast cancer, looked at the effect of giving Herceptin before surgery in combination 
chemotherapy and then again after surgery on its own. The studies measured how many patients died 
or had their cancer reappear or worsen. 
In metastatic breast cancer, Herceptin given by infusion into a vein has been studied in four main 
studies: one looked at Herceptin on its own in 222 patients whose previous treatment had failed; two 
looked at Herceptin in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel in a total of 657 patients; and one 
looked at the combination of Herceptin and anastrozole (an aromatase inhibitor) in 208 women who 
had been through the menopause. These studies measured how many patients responded to 
treatment, or how long they lived without their cancer getting worse. 
Herceptin  
EMA/558357/2013  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
In metastatic gastric cancer, Herceptin given by infusion into a vein in combination with cisplatin and 
either capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil was compared with the same combination but without Herceptin in 
one main study involving 594 patients. The main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients 
survived. 
Herceptin given as an injection under the skin was compared with Herceptin given by infusion into a 
vein in an additional study involving 596 patients with early breast cancer. Herceptin was given before 
surgery and the main measure of effectiveness was response to treatment assessed by measuring the 
proportion of patients who had no cancerous cells found on examination of the breast removed by 
surgery. The study also compared the levels of the active substance in the blood for Herceptin given 
under the skin and into a vein to demonstrate that sufficient levels are obtained when given under the 
skin. 
All the above studies were in patients whose cancers expressed HER2. 
What benefit has Herceptin shown during the studies? 
In the first study in early breast cancer, 8% of the patients who received Herceptin by infusion into a 
vein after having completed surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy (if applicable) experienced a 
reappearance of their cancer in the first year of treatment (127 out of 1,693), compared with 13% of 
the patients who did not receive it (219 out of 1,693). The addition of Herceptin to chemotherapy 
resulted in fewer patients experiencing a reappearance of their cancer over three years. The difference 
was between 4.8 and 11.8% depending on the type of chemotherapy. For locally advanced breast 
cancer, giving Herceptin by infusion into a vein before surgery in combination with chemotherapy and 
then again after surgery on its own resulted in fewer patients dying or having their cancer worsen or 
reappear over three years: after three years, 65% of patients given Herceptin were still alive without 
having their cancer worsen or reappear as compared to 52% in patients not given Herceptin. 
In metastatic breast cancer, 15% of the patients whose previous treatment had failed responded to 
Herceptin given by infusion into a vein. When used in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel, around 
half of the patients responded to Herceptin, compared with around a quarter of those receiving 
paclitaxel or docetaxel alone. Patients receiving Herceptin in combination with anastrozole also lived 
for longer without their cancer getting worse (4.8 months, on average) than those receiving 
anastrozole alone (2.4 months, on average). 
In metastatic gastric cancer, the patients with higher levels of HER2 expression who received Herceptin 
by infusion into a vein survived for an average of 16.0 months, compared with 11.8 months in those 
receiving cisplatin and either capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil alone. 
When given by injection under the skin, Herceptin had the same effectiveness as when given by 
infusion into a vein. The levels of the active substance were at least as high as when Herceptin is given 
by infusion into a vein. 
What is the risk associated with Herceptin? 
The most common or serious side effects with Herceptin are heart problems, infections, lung and blood 
problems, and reactions related to the way Herceptin is given. In the study comparing Herceptin given 
under the skin and by infusion into a vein, some side effects have been reported more frequently with 
Herceptin given under the skin: infections with or without neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type 
of white blood cells), heart problems, reactions related to the way Herceptin is given and high blood 
pressure. For the full list of all side effects reported with Herceptin, see the package leaflet. 
Herceptin  
EMA/558357/2013  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Herceptin must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to trastuzumab, mouse proteins 
or to any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have serious breathing 
problems when they are at rest because of advanced cancer, or who need oxygen therapy. 
Herceptin can cause cardiotoxicity (harm to the heart), including heart failure (when the heart does not 
work as well as it should). Care should be taken if it is given to patients who already have heart 
problems or high blood pressure, and all patients need to be monitored during and after treatment to 
check their heart. 
Why has Herceptin been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Herceptin’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Herceptin: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Herceptin on 28 August 2000.  
The full EPAR for Herceptin can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Herceptin, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2013. 
Herceptin  
EMA/558357/2013  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
