London, 22 March 2007 
Product name: Herceptin 
EMEA/H/C/000278/II/0033 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extension of the indication for use in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment 
of patients with HER2-positive and hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer, not 
previously treated with trastuzumab. 
1. 
Introduction 
Herceptin  (trastuzumab)  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of  Her2  over-expressing  metastatic 
breast  cancer,  either  as  monotherapy  if  therapy  with  anthracycline  and  taxanes  has  failed  or  is 
contraindicated,  or  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  in  patients  who  have  not  received  prior 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable or in combination 
with docetaxel in patients who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Trastuzumab  was  recently  approved  for  the  adjuvant  treatment  of  early  breast  cancer  following 
surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable). 
The MAH has submitted data from the BO16216 trial (TAnDEM study) to support an extension of the 
indication to include treatment of patients with Her2 positive, hormone receptor positive breast cancer 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor.  
. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
In study BO16216, patients were given a weekly Herceptin dose schedule (a loading dose of 4 mg/kg 
on day 1 followed by a weekly dose of 2 mg/kg). This is the dose schedule of Herceptin approved for 
metastatic breast cancer. Anastrozole was given at a daily dose of 1.0 mg. 
Pharmacokinetic analysis was planned for at least 16 patients per arm. However, on completion of the 
study, data were available for the analysis of Herceptin in only 6 evaluable patients. Similarly, data for 
the analyses of anastrozole were only available for 7 evaluable patients (one in the anastrozole alone 
group  and  6  in  the  anastrozole  plus  Herceptin  group).  Consequently,  the  data  are  of  a  descriptive 
nature, but suggest that the pharmacokinetic profile of Herceptin when given together with anastrozole 
compares  well  with  historical  values  for  Herceptin  at  the  same  dose  in  other  studies  and  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  anastrozole  was  generally  as  expected.  Within  the  limitations  of  the  data 
set,  achieved  concentrations  of  anastrozole  were  similar  with  or  without  coadministration  of 
Herceptin.  
For pharmacodynamic analysis, serum estrone and estradiol levels were measured at baseline and at 
week 12. Serum shed extracellular domain of HER2 receptor (ECD) was assessed at baseline, week 
12,  and  bi-monthly  after  week  12  until  the  end  of  study.  In  the  presence  of  Herceptin,  anastrozole 
reduces concentrations of estrone and estradiol effectively. Baseline serum shed ECD did not seem to 
correlate  with  best  tumor  response.  Although  the  median  baseline  ECD  values  seemed  higher  in 
patients  experiencing  progressive  disease  compared  with  patients  with  stable  disease  or  partial 
response, no conclusions could be reached because of the variability of baseline ECD levels. 
2.2. 
Clinical efficacy 
The MAH has conducted a single pivotal trial to investigate the effect of trastuzumab in combination 
with  anastrozole.  Study  BO16216  (TAnDEM)  is  an  open-label  randomised,  multi-centre  study  in 
postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. 
The study consisted of two treatment phases, main and extension. For patients in the anastrozole-plus-
Herceptin arm, the main phase was defined as the first 24 months of treatment or until PD, and the 
extension phase was defined as the treatment period after 24 months and a withdrawal from the study 
was either in the main phase or the extension phase. For patients in the anastrozole-alone arm, the 
main phase was defined as the first 24 months of treatment or until PD (where they crossed over to 
Herceptin) and the extension phase was defined as the treatment period after PD (if earlier than 24 
months) or after 24 months. A patient in the anastrozole-alone arm could withdraw from the main 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
phase of the study at PD, but continue in the study extension phase receiving a Herceptin containing 
regimen and subsequently withdraw from the extension phase and the study. 
Patients  with  a  histological  or  cytological  diagnosis  of  metastatic  breast  cancer  and  measurable  or 
evaluable disease who are suitable for endocrine therapy with anastrozole, postmenopausal, previously 
determined to be ER+ve and/or PgR+ve and HER2 overexpression, who have acceptable LVEF and 
haematological status, acceptable liver and renal function and performance status (ECOG scale 0 or 1) 
would be eligible for the study. 
Anastrozole  was  administered  at  a  dose  of  1  mg/day  which  is  the  recommended  dose.  Trastuzumab 
was administered at a 4 mg/kg loading dose iv over 90 min, followed by weekly doses of 2 mg/kg iv 
over 30 min. 
Primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of the combination of trastuzumab and anastrozole as 
compared  with  anastrozole  alone  in  patients  with  HER2  overexpression  and  hormone-sensitive 
metastatic breast cancer. 
Secondary  objectives  were:  to  characterize  the  safety  profile  of  the  combination  of  Herceptin  and 
anastrozole  as  compared  to  anastrozole  alone,  to  determine  and  compare  the  overall  clinical  benefit 
rate  (CBR)  between  the  two  treatment  arms  (defined  as  stable  disease  for  ≥  6  months,  complete 
response, or partial response) to determine and compare the overall survival, duration of response, and 
2-year survival in the two treatment arms. 
Primary endpoint 
Efficacy was determined by progression-free survival (PFS). Progression is defined according to the 
WHO criteria (Handbook for Reporting Results of Cancer Treatment ) 
Secondary endpoints were: 
•  Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR): Unlike assessment of response rate, patients who do not have 
bidimensionally measurable disease at baseline were included in the assessment of CBR. 
•  Duration of Response and Time to Response. 
•  Overall Survival:  
•  Two-Year Survival defined as the Kaplan Meier estimate at 2 years (730 days). 
•  Tumour Response Rates (Best response and overall response):  
•  Time to progression (TTP):. 
•  Performance Status (ECOG):  
Interim analysis 
An  interim  analysis  was  to  be  performed  when  approximately  60  events  (based  on  investigator 
assessments),  were  observed  in  the  study.  The  interim  analysis  was  to  be  performed  by  a  Roche 
statistician  not  directly  involved  in  the  study  and  was  based  on  the  primary  parameter,  progression-
free survival (PFS). The secondary parameter, survival, was also analyzed. The difference in PFS and 
survival between the treatments was tested with a log rank test. 
Sample size 
Anticipating a median PFS of 7 months in the group of patients treated with anastrozole alone and a 
prolongation  of  the  PFS  by  4  months  (57%  increase)  when  adding  Herceptin,  a  log  rank  test  on 
progression-free survival (PFS) requires 101 patients per arm, recruited over 24 months and followed 
up  for  at  least  24  months,  to  achieve  80%  power  at  a  2-sided  significance  level  of  5%  (≤  0.0493), 
assuming that 187 events are seen. This calculation accounts for a drop out rate of 10%.  
Randomisation 
A  minimization  procedure  according  to  Pocock  and  Simon  balancing  for  the  existence  of  liver 
metastase, tumor assessment, relapse following adjuvant tamoxifin and bisphosphonate therapy at time 
of  enrolment  was  used  for  treatment  allocation.  An  automated  Interactive  Voice  Response  System 
(IVRS) was applied for treatment allocation. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Out of 208 randomized patients, 1 patient did not receive study drug and was excluded from the FAS 
and safety population. The remaining 207 patients, who received either Arimidex-alone (n = 104) or 
Arimidex + Herceptin (n = 103), were included in the FAS and safety population.  
The  per  protocol  set  (PPS)  consisted  of  193  patients  (95  and  98  patients  in  the  Arimidex-alone  and 
Arimidex-plus-Herceptin  arm,  respectively),  and  included  all  patients  who  did  not  have  a  major 
violation of the protocol. 
In the anastrozole-alone arm, 9 patients were excluded from the PPS for the following reasons: prior 
chemotherapy; HER2 overexpression/amplification not documented; no protocol-specified tumor (no 
metastatic  disease);  or  anastrozole  compliance.  In  the  anastrozole-plus-  Herceptin  treatment  arm,  6 
patients  were  excluded  from  the  PPS  because  of  the  following  reasons:  prior  chemotherapy;  HER2 
overexpression/amplification not documented; anastrozole compliance; or no study medication given. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic data 
The following table shows demographic data at baseline 
ARIMIDEX ALONE 
Sex 
MALE 
FEMALE  
n  
Race 
CAUCASIAN  
BLACK  
ORIENTAL  
OTHER  
n  
Age in years 
Mean  
SD  
Median  
n  
Weight in kg 
Mean  
SD  
Median  
n  
Height in cm 
Mean  
SD  
Median  
n  
Efficacy Results 
N = 104  
 -  
104 (100%)  
104  
73 ( 70%)  
1 ( <1%)  
7 ( 7%)  
23 ( 22%)  
104  
55.5  
10.75  
54.0  
104  
65.86  
13.580 
67.00  
102  
159.472  
6.7516  
160.000 
101  
ARIMIDEX PLUS 
HERCEPTIN 
N = 103 
- 
103 (100%) 
103 
82 ( 80%) 
1 ( <1%) 
6 ( 6%) 
14 ( 14%) 
103 
57.4 
10.65 
56.0 
103 
68.82 
15.270 
67.00 
103 
159.141 
6.9939 
 159.000 
103 
The primary endpoint in this study was progression free survival. All 207 patients were assessed by an 
investigator and subsequently by a Response Evaluation Committee (REC) as long as they progressed 
during  the  first  24  months  of  treatment  in  the  main  phase  of  the  study.  If  a  PD  occurred  during  the 
extension phase, no REC assessment was carried out.  
28 patients were not evaluated by the REC because they withdrew from the study prior to getting a 
radiological  exam,  or  the  selected  baseline  tumours  could  not  be  followed  up  in  later  radiological 
exams.  In  situations  where  the  investigator  assessment  was  different  from  the  REC  assessment,  an 
independent oncologist made the definitive assessment- this process was called reconciliation.  
The  following  table  shows  the  data  for  progression  free  survival  as  assessed  by  the  different 
assessment procedures. 
Arimidex Alone 
(N = 104) 
Arimidex plus Herceptin 
 (N = 103) 
Progression-free Survival Time (months) 
Reconciled Assessment 
N 
Median (1)  
95% CI for Median (1)  
P-Value (Log-rank Test) 
Stratified analysis with all 
stratification factors (Cox 
regression, reconciles 
assessment) 
P-Value (Log-rank Test) 
104 
2.4  
2 - 4.6  
 0.0016 
0.0132 
103 
4.8 
3.7 – 7 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigator Assessment 
N 
Median (1)  
95% CI for Median (1)  
P-Value (Log-rank Test)  
Response evaluation 
committee 
N 
Median (1) 
95% CI for Median (1)  
P-Value (Log-rank Test)  
 Kaplan Meier estimates 
104 
2.9  
2.1 - 4.5 
0.0001 
87 
 3.9  
2.1 – 6 
0.0361 
103 
5.8 
 4.6 - 8.3 
92 
8.1 
 4.4 - 12.1 
Kaplan Meier Curve of progression free survival (reconciled assessment) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kaplan Meier Curve of progression free survival (investigator assessment) 
Kaplan Meier Curve of progression free survival (response evaluation committee assessment) 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy parameters 
The following table and Kaplan Meier curve shows  overall survival in the FAS population 
Number Dying  
Number Surviving (censored)  
Survival Time (months) 
Median (1)  
95% CI for Median (1)  
P-Value (Log-rank Test)  
Arimidex Alone 
(N = 104) 
64 ( 61.5 %)  
40 ( 38.5 %)  
23.9  
18.2 - 37.4  
Arimidex plus Herceptin 
(N = 103) 
58 ( 56.3 %) 
45 ( 43.7 %) 
28.5 
22.8 - 42.4 
0.325 
The following table shows the overall tumor response rate for the reconciled assessment 
Responders  
Non-responders  
Exact 95% CI for Overall 
Response Rate (1)  
Difference in Overall Response 
Rates  
95% CI for the difference in 
Overall Response Rates (2)  
P-Value (Chi-squared Test)  
Arimidex Alone 
(N = 73)  
5 ( 6.8 %)  
68 ( 93.2 %)  
(2.26, 15.27)  
Arimidex plus Herceptin 
(N = 74) 
15 ( 20.3 %) 
59 ( 79.7 %) 
(11.81, 31.22) 
13.4 
(1.82, 25.02) 
0.018 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table shows the clinical benefit rate for the reconciled assessment 
Clinical Benefit 
Yes  
No  
Exact 95% CI for Response 
Rates (1)  
Difference in Clinical Benefit 
Rates  
95% CI for the difference in 
Clinical Benefit Rates (2) 
P-Value (Chi-squared Test)  
Secondary efficacy parameters 
Arimidex Alone 
(N = 104)  
29 ( 27.9 %)  
75 ( 72.1 %)  
( 19.54, 37.53) 
Arimidex plus Herceptin 
(N = 103) 
44 ( 42.7 %) 
59 ( 57.3 %) 
 ( 33.02, 52.85) 
14.8 
( 1.42, 28.25) 
0.018026 
The following Kaplan Meier curve shows  overall survival in the FAS population 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of subpopulations 
A  Cox  regression  analysis  was  performed  on  the  reconciled  progression  free  survival.  The 
stratification  factors  and  the  following  baseline  characteristics  were  included  in  the  model:  Relapse 
following  adjuvant  Tamoxifen,    Bisphosphonate  therapy,    Age  classes  ,  Prior  hormonal  therapy  ,  
Regions , Race ,  Number of metastatic sites,  Sites of metastases (liver metastases, lung metastases, 
bone metastases, soft tissues metastases),  Histology (moderately, poorly differentiated), locally tested 
ER/PgR status for primary tumor.  
Hazard  ratios  that  were  obtained  for  these  subgroups  did  not  show  inconsistencies  and  showed  a 
homogenous effect. For two subgroups, patients with prior hormonal therapy (9 patients), and patients 
with  ER  negative/PgR  positive  primary  cancer  (15  patients),  the  confidence  interval  was  very  wide 
suggesting that no conclusions can be made for these two subgroups. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall discussion of efficacy 
The MAH has submitted the results from a single pivotal trial of anastrozole alone or in combination 
with  trastuzumab.  The  study  was  randomised  and  open  label.  The  doses  chosen  for  combination 
therapy  were  identical  to  the  recommended  doses  in  monotherapy,  no  dedicated  dose  finding  or 
interaction study has been performed. From the mechanisms of action of both drugs this is considered 
acceptable.  
Primary endpoint was progression free survival and secondary endpoints were overall survival, tumor 
response  rate,  clinical  benefit  rate  (stable  disease  for  ≥  six  months  or  complete  response  or  partial 
response) time to progression, duration of response, time to response, and 2-year survival. The chosen 
endpoint are considered relevant and in conformance with the anti-cancer medicinal product guideline 
(CPMP/EWP/205/95/Rev.3/Corr,  Dec  2005).  QoL  measures  were  not  included  which  would  not  be 
useful in an open label trial. Methods and procedure for assessing disease progression are acceptable 
in general. Several amendments were introduced during the conduct of the trial. The most important of 
these  was  amendment  E  that  allowed  the  cross-over  of  patients  that  had  disease  progression  in  the 
anastrozole only group. 
The  primary  endpoint  progression  free  survival  was  met  in  all  three  assessment  procedures  which 
became necessary because unblinded investigator assessment of progressive disease was checked by 
an independent blinded assessment. Median progression free survival was 2.4 months with anastrozole 
monotherapy  and  4.8  months  with  the  combination  of  anastrozole  and  trastuzumab.  There  was  no 
benefit with respect to overall survival but the other secondary endpoints tumor response rate, clinical 
benefit  rate  (stable  disease  for  ≥  six  months  or  complete  response  or  partial  response)  time  to 
progression  were  concordant  to  the  primary  endpoint.  No  effect  was  seen  for  duration  of  response, 
time  to  response.  Although  the  secondary  endpoint  overall  survival  was  not  met  the  results  are 
considered  as  relevant  and  clinically  meaningful.  Due  to  the  high  crossover  rate  to  the  trastuzumab 
plus anastrozole group after disease progression an effect of trastuzumab on overall survival is likely 
to be diluted. This was corroborated by a post-hoc analysis suggesting that patients in the combination 
of  Herceptin  plus  anastrozole  either  upfront  (28.5  months)  or  after  cross-over  (25.1  months)  had  a 
larger benefit in terms of survival than patients treated with anastrozole alone (17.2 months). 
Subgroup  analyses  were  consistent  and  did  not  give  an  indication  for  lack  of  efficacy  in  clinically 
relevant subgroups. Analysis of the PFS results  for patients that were enrolled after the amendment 
was provided and it was in line with the independent review results, which rules out significant bias. 
2.3 
Clinical safety 
The present application is based on results of trastuzumab combined with anastrozole in the treatment 
of patients with HER2 overexpression and estrogen receptor (ER) or progesterone receptor (PgR) 
positive metastatic breast cancer. These results were obtained from one randomized, parallel-group, 
open-label, phase III trial (BO16216) sponsored by Roche and Genentech, in which 207 patients (208 
randomized) received either the combination therapy of trastuzumab and anastrozole or anastrozole 
monotherapy. 
Patient Disposition 
A total of 208 patients were randomized and 207 patients were treated at 77 centres in 22 countries. Of 
the 207 patients, 104 were randomized to the anastrozole-alone arm and 103 were randomized to the 
anastrozole-plus trastuzumab arm. 
All 207 patients treated in the study were included in the safety analysis population. Demography, 
baseline characteristics, and safety data were evaluated using the safety population.  
Of the 104 patients from the anastrozole-alone arm, 58 started a Herceptin containing regimen after 
PD was assessed by the investigator (either during the main phase or extension phase of the study) and 
entered or continued in the extension phase. Two of the 58 patients who crossed over, had minimal 
information available on exposure and were excluded from the exposure table, but are included in the 
safety results. An additional 15 patients started Herceptin after they left the study (information was 
recorded during the survival follow-up phase) and their data are not captured in the after crossover 
safety outputs. This high proportion of crossover patients can be regarded as a confounding factor for 
12 
 
 
the survival analysis, making the contribution of Herceptin to overall survival in the anastrozole-alone 
arm unclear. 
A total of 187 patients were withdrawn from the study during the main phase, 100 patients in the 
anastrozole-alone arm and 87 in the anastrozole plus Herceptin arm. 
The majority of patients (166 out of 207) withdrew from the study due to insufficient therapeutic 
response, which was progression of disease (91 patients from the anastrozole-alone arm and 75 
patients from the anastrozole plus trastuzumab arm). One patient (29152/4608) in the anastrozole-
alone arm was withdrawn from the study due to a violation of selection criteria at entry (pre-
menopausal). One patient in the anastrozole plus trastuzumab arm (33339/8301) was withdrawn from 
the study because she received radiation to the only target lesion, which was a protocol violation. 
In the main phase, very few patients (9) were withdrawn from the study due to safety reasons (3 
patients in the anastrozole-alone arm, and 6 in anastrozole plus trastuzumab arm). The 3 withdrawals 
from the study in the anastrozole-alone arm were due to deaths, and for 2 patients (33339/8304, and 
33327/8322), the cause of death was progression of disease, and for the other patient (33339/8302) the 
cause of death was adverse events of respiratory tract infection and myocardial infarction. No 
withdrawals due to death were recorded in the anastrozole plus trastuzumab arm. 
Six  patients  in  the  anastrozole  plus  trastuzumab  arm  withdrew  due  to  AEs  [cardiac  failure  (2x), 
cardiotoxicity (2x), endometrial cancer (1x) and cervix carcinoma (1x)]. Two  of the cardiac adverse 
events were asymptomatic drops in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). 
For patients in the anastrozole-alone treatment arm who experienced disease progression and crossed 
over to trastuzumab treatment, data obtained after the start of trastuzumab treatment are not included 
in these comparative analyses, but are presented separately.  
Median  trastuzumab  treatment  duration  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  treatment  arm  was  26 
weeks  in  the  safety  population  (n  =  103),  with  a  median  of  25  trastuzumab  infusions.  The  median 
cumulative trastuzumab dose was 3990 mg. 
The median treatment duration of anastrozole in the anastrozole-alone arm was 98 days compared with 
189 days in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab treatment arm. Cumulative median anastrozole dose was 
97 mg for patients taking anastrozole-alone compared to 180 mg for patients taking anastrozole-plus-
trastuzumab.  Patients  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  arm  had  almost  double  the  exposure  to 
anastrozole, and almost double the cumulative dose of anastrozole. The longer treatment duration in 
the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm is due to longer time-to-disease progression. 
For patients in the anastrozole-alone treatment arm who experienced disease progression and crossed 
over to trastuzumab treatment, data obtained after the start of trastuzumab treatment are not included 
in these comparative analyses, but are presented separately.  
Median  trastuzumab  treatment  duration  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  treatment  arm  was  26 
weeks  in  the  safety  population  (n  =  103),  with  a  median  of  25  trastuzumab  infusions.  The  median 
cumulative trastuzumab dose was 3990 mg. 
The median treatment duration of anastrozole in the anastrozole-alone arm was 98 days compared with 
189 days in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab treatment arm. Cumulative median anastrozole dose was 
97 mg for patients taking anastrozole-alone compared to 180 mg for patients taking anastrozole-plus-
trastuzumab.  Patients  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  arm  had  almost  double  the  exposure  to 
anastrozole, and almost double the cumulative dose of anastrozole. The longer treatment duration in 
the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm is due to longer time-to-disease progression. 
13 
 
 
Adverse events 
An overview of the incidence of all adverse events in both treatment arms before cross over is given. 
For deaths, all events until database lock (May 12th 2006), regardless of phase of study or crossover is 
provided. 
Overview of Adverse Events (Safety Population-Before Crossover) 
Overall,  65%  (68/104)  of  patients  in  the  anastrozole-alone  arm  and  87%  (90/103)  of  patients  in  the 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm reported at least one adverse event during the study. As expected, 
there  was  a  higher  incidence  of  common,  non-serious  adverse  events  in  patients  treated  with 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  (total  number  of  AEs  reported:  636  for  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab 
versus  246  for  anastrozole-alone),  reflecting  the  addition  of  trastuzumab  side  effects  to  those  of 
anastrozole and likely also reporting bias due to longer treatment and thus longer AE reporting period. 
Additionally,  patients  in  the  combination  arm  had  more  contacts  with  study  staff  as  they  had  to  get 
trastuzumab infusions every week. In comparison, patients treated with oral anastrozole alone returned 
to sites only for scheduled visits (every 4 weeks up to 3 months and every 8 weeks thereafter). 
Considerably  more  patients  had  drug-related  adverse  events  in  the  combination  arm  compared  to 
anastrozole-alone  arm.  This  can  be  explained  by  the  additive  adverse  effect  of  two  anticancer  drugs 
and probably also by reporting bias. 
There was an overall higher incidence of patients with grade 3 and 4 adverse events in the anastrozole-
plus-trastuzumab: Grade 3 AEs were experienced by 15.4% and 23.3% of patients in the anastrozole-
alone  arm  and  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  arm,  respectively.  Grade  4  AEs  were  reported  by  1 
patient in the anastrozole-alone arm and 5 patients in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm. 
Fatigue,  vomiting,  and  diarrhoea  were  the  three  most  frequent  AEs  in  the  anastrozole-plus-
trastuzumab  arm,  followed  by  pyrexia,  nausea,  and  nasopharyngitis.  For  the  anastrozole-alone 
treatment  arm,  fatigue,  arthralgia,  and  dyspnoea  were  the  three  most  common  AEs.  These  most 
common  adverse  events  have  been  typically  associated  with  trastuzumab  and/or  anastrozole 
administration. 
14 
 
 
 
Common Adverse Events >10% in Either Treatment Arm (Before Crossover) 
Gastrointestinal disorders were the most frequently reported adverse events, being reported by 23% of 
anastrozole-alone  arm  patients  and  52%  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  arm  patients.  The  most 
frequently reported adverse events within this SOC were diarrhoea (8% vs 20%) and vomiting (5% vs 
21%) in the anastrozole-alone and anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arms, respectively. 
Cardiac disorders were seen more frequently in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm (13%) compared 
to the anastrozole-alone arm (2%); however, some of the cardiac AEs reported were asymptomatic (ie, 
LVEF  decreases),  but  were  reported  as  AEs  since  they  lead  to  withdrawal  of  the  patient  from  the 
study. 
In the anastrozole-alone arm, a majority of the adverse events were considered mild (grade 1 and 2) in 
intensity (90 patients reported 217 grade 1 and 2 events). Sixteen patients reported 27 adverse events 
of  severe  (grade  III)  intensity,  and  1  patients  reported  2  adverse  events  considered  life-threatening 
(grade  IV)  in  intensity  in  the  anastrozole-alone  arm  (respiratory  tract  infection  and  myocardial 
infarction). 
In the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab study arm, a majority of the adverse events were considered mild 
(grade 1) in intensity (146 patients reported 584 grade 1 and 2 events). Twenty-four patients reported 
47 grade III adverse events, and 5 patients reported 5 grade IV adverse events. The grade IV events 
reported were lower respiratory tract infection, dyspnoea, 2 events of hypercalcaemia, and myocardial 
ischemia. 
Grade 3 and 4 cardiac adverse events were comparable between the two treatment arms (one grade 3 
and one grade 4 event per treatment arm) 
A  total  of  55  patients  (54%)  reported  126  adverse  events  which  the  investigator  considered  to  be 
related  to  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  treatment.  Most  related  adverse  events  were  infusion  related 
events reported in the administrative site condition with chills (13 related events), pyrexia (9 related 
events),  and  fatigue  (7  related  events)  being  the  highest  reported  events.  Greater  than  or  equal  to  6 
percent  of  related  adverse  event  reported  were  diarrhea,  rash,  and  headache.  These  related  adverse 
events are also typically seen with trastuzumab administration. 
15 
 
 
 
Nine  of  the  13  cardiac  disorders  were  considered  related  to  study  treatment.  One  event  of  serious 
cardiac disorder (event of cardiac failure) was considered related to study treatment. 
The  number  of  patients  withdrawing  from  trial  treatment  due  to  an  adverse  event  was  low  in  both 
treatment  arms  but  occurred  more  frequently  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  treatment  arm  (9 
cases), than in the anastrozolealone arm (1 case). 
Majority  of  the  adverse  events  (5  out  of  9)  that  lead  to  discontinuation  of  trial  treatment  in  the 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab were cardiac abnormalities (2 with cardiac failure, 2 with cardiotoxicity, 
and one with myocardial infarction). All of these 5 cardiac adverse events were considered related to 
trial treatment by the investigator. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious adverse effects were also increased in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab treatment arm (23%) 
compared to the anastrozole-alone (6%) arm. 
There  were  a  total  of  122  deaths  (60%  of  FAS):  64  in  the  anastrozole-alone  arm  and  58  in  the 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  arm.  The  majority  of  the  deaths,  (59  in  anastrozole-alone  and  56  in 
anastrozole  plus  trastuzumab)  were  due  to  progressive  disease.  There  were  7  deaths  not  due  to  PD. 
Five  deaths  were  reported  in  the  anastrozole-alone  arm.  Two  additional  deaths  were  reported  in  the 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  treatment  arm:  1  due  to  unknown  cause,  and  1  due  to  gastrointestinal 
hemorrhage. 
Before  crossover,  there  was  1  death  due  to  2  adverse  events:  a  patient  (33339/8302)  with  both 
myocardial  infarction  and  respiratory  tract  infection  (it  was  unclear  which  of  these  2  events  lead  to 
death, thus both documented as leading to death). An additional patient died from an adverse event of 
sudden death (29168/3601) (not captured in the below Table) after crossover, according to the Case 
Report Form, the cause of death was probably cardiac failure; however, no autopsy was performed. 
Less patients in the anastrozole-alone arm experienced a serious adverse event than in the anastrozole-
plus-trastuzumab arm. Serious adverse events were reported for 6 patients (experiencing 9 SAEs) in 
the  anastrozole-alone  arm  (6%)  prior  to  crossover,  and  24  patients  (experiencing  47  SAEs)  in  the 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm (23%). 
Gastrointestinal disorders SAEs were reported in 7 (7%) patients in the anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab 
arm  compared  with  no  anastrozole-alone  arm  patients.  Infection  and  infestations  were  reported  in  4 
anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  patients,  and  3  anastrozole-alone  arm  patients,  and  General  Disorders 
and Administration Site Conditions were reported in 5 anastrozole plus trastuzumab arm patients and 1 
patient in the anastrozole-alone arm. 
The most common serious adverse event was vomiting reported in 3 patients in the anastrozole-plus-
trastuzumab arm. All of the other SAEs were experienced by 1 or 2 patients each. Three SAEs were 
reported as cardiac disorders, 2 events of myocardial infarction (1 patient in each treatment arm), and 
an event of myocardial ischemia in a patient in the Anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab arm. 
16 
 
 
Incidence of Serious Adverse Events by Body System (Before Crossover) 
17 
 
 
 
18 
 
 
 
Cardiotoxicity 
Patients  entering  the  study  were  required  to  have  an  LVEF  of  >  50%  at  baseline.  Cardiac  function 
monitoring was performed at week 9, the beginning of month 5, and every 4 months thereafter until 
the end of the main study (24 months). In the extension phase of the trial, cardiac function monitoring 
was  performed  every  4  months.  The  cardiac  function  monitoring  was  mainly  composed  of  LVEF 
measurements by echocardiogram or MUGA. The protocol recommended that trastuzumab treatment 
be discontinued if, during treatment, a fall in LVEF of ≥ an absolute 15% from the baseline value to 
the LVEF value below 50% were observed, and these asymptomatic cardiac functional abnormalities 
could be confirmed with a second assessment 3 weeks later. 
Summary of Patients with an LVEF Decrease by at least an Absolute 15% from the Baseline and the 
Absolute LVEF Value below 50%, Safety Population (Before Crossover) 
In study BO16216, 3 patients were reported to have serious cardiac disorders (myocardial infarction or 
myocardial  ischemia,  one  in  the  anastrozole-alone  group  and  2  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab 
group), the patient who had myocardial infarction in the anastrozole-alone group died. 
A  total  of  5  patients  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  group  prematurely  discontinued  study 
treatment  because  of  cardiac  disorders,  2  with  cardiac  failure,  2  with  cardiotoxicity,  and  one  with 
myocardial  infarction.  Three  of  the  4  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  study  treatment  due  to 
cardiac failure or cardiotoxicity had an asymptomatic LVEF drop below 50%, and one patient did not 
have an LVEF determination at the time the study treatment was discontinued. 
Of 104 patients from the anastrozole-alone arm, 58 started the trastuzumab regimen after progression 
of disease was assessed by the investigator during the main phase and extension phase of the study and 
entered or continued in the extension phase. For two (Patients 1704 and 1705) of the 58 patients who 
crossed  over,  minimal  information  was  available  on  exposure  and  they  were  excluded  from  the 
exposure table, but were included in the safety results. An additional 15 patients started trastuzumab 
after they left the study (information was recorded during the survival follow-up phase) and their data 
are not captured in the after crossover safety outputs. Altogether 73 patients crossed over. 
For the 56 patients with available dosing information, the median treatment duration was  21 weeks, 
with  a  median  of  20  trastuzumab  infusions.  Cumulative  median  dose  was  3034  mg.  trastuzumab 
exposure was slightly lower in patients who crossed over compared to patients originally randomized 
to  the  combination  treatment  arm,  probably  because  they  received  trastuzumab  as  their  second  line 
treatment with generally poorer prognosis and shorter time to the next progression. 
For patients who crossed over from the anastrozole-alone arm during the main phase of the study, the 
most  frequent  AEs  (more  than  4  patients)  were  diarrhoea  (14%),  alopecia  (10%),  nausea  (9%),  and 
vomiting (9%). A total of 8 patients  experienced 8 SAEs.  One  patient died (event of Sudden death) 
after crossover.  
Laboratory findings 
Haematological abnormalities have been associated with the use of trastuzumab. A higher proportion 
of  patients  in  the  anastrozole-plus-trastuzumab  therapy  arm  than  in  the  anastrozole-alone  arm 
experienced  decreased  haemoglobin  of  at  least  one  NCI-CTC  grade  during  treatment  (41  patients 
19 
 
 
 
 
versus  10  patients).  Thirty-seven  patients  in  the  combination  arm  experienced  a  minor  shift  of  one 
grade  to  no  greater  than  grade  2  of  the  NCIC-CTC  criteria.  Two  patients  (33313/8133  and 
33814/3431) had a shift from grade 2 to grade 3. One patient (29130/2302) had a shift from grade 1 to 
grade 3. Patient 33333/8442 was reported as having a shift from grade 0 to grade 4. At month 15 her 
haemoglobin was 13 g/dL, this was recorded as 5.86 g/dL at month 17 and subsequently returned to 12 
g/dL by month 19. The investigator commented that this was tumour related. 
Except  for  these  abnormalities,  there  was  no  evidence  of  other  major  safety  concerns  of  clinical 
significance that were clearly related to the use of trastuzumab in patients with HER2-over-expressed 
and  ER-  and/or  PgR-positive  metastatic  breast  cancer.  There  were  no  clinically  relevant  changes  in 
vital signs. 
3. 
OVERALL CONCLUSION AND Benefit-risk assessment 
The MAH has now submitted documentation to extend the indication of Herceptin to the treatment of 
HER2-positive  and  estrogen  and/or  progesterone  receptor  positive  metastatic  breast  cancer  in 
combination  with  an  aromatase  inhibitor  in  postmenopausal  women.  Treatment  of  this  patient 
population is challenging since two regimens compete: Herceptin + taxane vs aromatase inhibitors. 
In support of the extension of indication the MAH has submitted data from the TAnDEM trial, where 
Herceptin + anastrozole is compared to anastrozole. The choice of the comparator although debated is 
found to be acceptable. The choice of Herceptin + taxane vs Herceptin + aromatase inhibitor should 
remain in the discretion of the physician. 
The study has shown a difference in progression free survival. Median progression free survival was 
2.4  months  in  the  anastrozole  group  and  4.8  months  in  the  anastrozole  plus  trastuzumab  group. 
Efficacy results were consistent in clinically relevant subgroups. 
There was no statistically significant effect on overall survival (OS), other secondary endpoints such 
as tumor response rate, clinical benefit rate (stable disease for ≥ six months or complete response or 
partial response) and time to progression. The lack of significance in OS has to be considered in light 
of the high cross-over rate to Herceptin, which is understandable from a clinical perspective. 
The  Applicant  has  not  measured  Quality  of  Life.  However,  it  can  be  considered  that  the  Quality  of 
Life  with  Hercetin  treatment  in  the  metastatic  setting  is  already  established  as  demonstrated  by  the 
taxanes combination studies. The adverse event profile compares favourably to the taxanes +Herceptin 
regimens evaluated before. 
Another issue discussed at the CHMP was the feasibility to extrapolate from anastrozole to aromatase 
inhibitors  in  general.  The  MAH  showed  a  post  hoc  analysis  of  the  HERA  trial  where  patients  with 
hormone-receptor  positive  tumors  were  also  included  and  treated  with  aromatase  inhibitors.  The 
hazard ratio for PFS was comparable for this subgroup to the whole trial. However, from this trial it is 
also  clear  that  there  is  a  higher  rate  of  all  AE  and  treatment  related  AE  in  the  trastuzumab  plus 
anastrozole  group.  The  MAH  has  also  cited  data  from  a  small  phase  II  trial  (n=33)  which  used 
trastuzumab  in  combination  with  letrozole.  These  data  appear  comparable  to  the  Tandem  trial  with 
respect to response rate and time to progression. It can be agreed with the MAH that anastrozole and 
letrozole are used interchangeably. The situation is less clear for steroidal aromatase inhibitors such as 
exemestane.  However,  another  trial  in  this  setting  would  be  difficult  to  perform.  The  “Electra”  trial 
(comparison with letrozole) had to be stopped because of poor enrollment. 
A  restriction  to  primary  metastatic  disease  manifestation  is  not  covered  by  the  clinical  trial,  where 
most patients were metastatic after a primary localised disease. A restriction to secondary metastatic 
disease  would  effectively  force  the  physician  to  use  trastuzumab  in  combination  with  docetaxel  in 
patients  with  secondary  metastatic  disease.  As  outline  above  and  as  there  are  no  data  on  the 
comparison  of  paclitaxel  plus  trastuzumab  versus  aromatase  inhibitor  plus  trastuzumab  the  decision 
which combination to use should be left at the discretion of physician and patient.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
An  important  point  in  the  overall  benefit/risk  assessment  is  the  intended  patient  population,  whose 
characteristics are likely to be subject to major changes: Trastuzumab is now indicated already in the 
early breast cancer setting. The benefit and risk of re-treatment upon diagnosis of metastatic disease is 
currently unknown and due to the current evolution of the knowledge on Herceptin it could not have 
been  possible  to  be  addressed  in  this  study.  As  no  data  on  re-tretment  with  Herceptin  are  available, 
therefore the treatment should also be restricted to trastuzumab naïve patients. Currently a clinical trial 
is initiated to study re-treatment and the MAH is committed to report the results as soon as availble. 
Trastuzumab and anastrozole each have a well known safety profile. Foremost issue with trastuzumab 
is cardiotoxicity which does not appear to be more frequent in the studied population in combination 
with anastrozole than in previous studies with trastuzumab. Anastrozole has a well described effect on 
bone, there is a higher frequency of fractures in the trastuzumab plus anastrozole group that needs to 
be elucidated as this may have an influence on the quality of life in these very ill patients. 
No additional new or unexpected safety issue due to the combination of trastuzumab and anastrozole 
were seen in study BO16216. Some minor inconsistencies were noted in the event reporting, however, 
these inconsistencies do not change the general assessment that risk with combination therapy appears 
not more than additive. 
As  regards  cardiotoxicity,  once  entering  the  extension  phase,  patients  were  followed  up  until 
subsequent  disease  progression.  Patients  had  a  safety  follow  up  28  days  after  their  last  dose  of 
treatment. The cardiotoxicity could manifest after the safety follow up 28 days after their last dose of 
treatment. See SmPC if further follow-up is needed.  
The Risk Management Plan was revised and included in the subsequent PSUR (submission date: May 
24,  2007).  It  contained  both  changes  resulting  from  filing  study  BO16216  (Tandem),  and  those 
required  as  follow-up  measurement  (FUM)  to  the  indication  as  adjuvant  treatment  of  early  breast 
cancer. 
Benefit/Risk Assessment 
Herceptin  in  combination  with  anastrozole  treatment  met  the  primary  endpoint  of  the  study, 
progression-free  survival.  While  a  statistically  significant  effect  on  overall  survival  could  not  be 
shown with the planned analysis which included in the Anastrozole arm the patients that crossed-over 
to  Herceptin-containing  regimen  after  progression,  a  post-hoc  analysis  suggested  an  overall  survival 
benefit for patients who received the combination of Herceptin and anastrozole either upfront or after 
cross-over  compared  to  patients  treated  with  anastrozole  alone.  Although  no  quality  of  life  data  are 
available  it  can  be  considered  that  the quality of  life  of  metastatic  patients  treated  with  Herceptin  is 
well known and the safety profile compares favourably with a taxane containing regimen. In principle, 
the  proposed  indication  might provide an  alternative  to  more toxic chemotherapy (e.g. docetaxel) in 
combination with trastuzuamb.  
While currently there might be a patient group not yet having received adjuvant Herceptin treatment, 
thus representing a potential target population for this indication, the situation might change in some 
years  when  most  patients  have  already  been  pre-treated  with  Herceptin.  Retreatment  with  the 
combination  of  trastuzumab  and  an  aromatose  inhibitor  when  the  diseases  progresses,  following 
discontinuation of these agents, has not been investigated.  
The extrapolation of anastrozole treatment to the claim “in combination with an aromatase inhibitor” 
is appropriate. 
No additional new or unexpected safety issue due to the combination of trastuzumab and anastrozole 
were seen in study BO16216l. The risk with combination therapy appears not more than additive 
Therefore, the benefit/ risk of Herceptin in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment 
of patients with HER2-positive and hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer, not previously 
treated with trastuzumab, is positive. 
4. 
 CONCLUSION 
-  On 22 March 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
21 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area1 
Description 
Data on re-treatment from the on-going trial WO17299 (RHEA) 
“Phase II study of Herceptin alone or in combination with a 
taxane, as a first-line treatment for patients with metastatic breast 
cancer, who have relapsed after receiving Herceptin in the 
adjuvant setting for HER2 positive early breast cancer” will be 
provided.  
The results of this ongoing trial will be included in the RMP 
when they become available, currently estimated in 2010. 
Update of the Risk Management Plan (RMP): 
As agreed, the revised RMP will be appended to the next PSUR 
(planned submission date: May 24, 2007). It will contain both 
changes resulting from filing study BO16216 (Tandem), and 
those required as follow-up measurement (FUM) to the HERA 
filing. 
Due date2 
2Q 2010 
24 May 2007 
1. 
2. 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be 
committed to. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
