SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Herceptin.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  30  November  2004.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Herceptin  contains  the  active  substance  trastuzumab  (anti-p185,  rhuMab  HER2),  which  is  a 
humanised monoclonal antibody that binds to the HER2 protein. HER-2 is a transmembrane spanning 
receptor-like protein, which is structurally related to the epidermal growth factor receptor and has been 
shown  to  inhibit  the  proliferation  of  human  tumor  cells  that  overexpress  HER2  both  in  vitro  and  in 
vivo.  
Herceptin  is  presented  as  a  white  to  pale yellow  lyophilised  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for 
infusion.  
Herceptin  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  whose  tumours 
overexpress HER2: 
a) As monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two chemotherapy 
regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at least an anthracycline 
and  a  taxane  unless  patients  are  unsuitable  for  these  treatments.  Hormone  receptor  positive  patients 
must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
b)  In  combination  with  paclitaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
Herceptin should only be used in patients whose tumours have HER2 overexpression at a 3+ level as 
determined by immunohistochemistry. 
The  recommended  dosage  scheme  consists  of  a  trastuzumab  loading  (4mg/kg  body  weight)  and 
subsequent  weekly  doses  of  2-mg/kg  body  weights.  It  should  be  administered  until  progression  of 
disease. 
2.   Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Documents  were  filed  according  to  the  Notice  to  Applicants.  During  the  approval  procedure,  the 
applicant performed the validation of a new manufacturing site for the active substance at Genentech, 
Vacaville,  and  USA.  In  addition,  due  to  the  non  acceptance  of  the  submitted  multidose  finished 
product  formulation  which  originally  contained  benzyl  alcohol  after  reconstitution,  which  is  not  in 
compliance with the Ph. Eur. the applicant changed the manufacturing procedure, the fill size of the 
finished product and the manufacturing site of the finished product from Genentech, USA to Roche, 
Basel.  
These changes resulted in a new set of data on the active substance and finished product provided with 
the response. A separate solvent is no longer part of the drug product. 
The  manufacturing  sites  of  Vacaville  (active  substance)  and  of  Hoffman  La-Roche  Basel  (finished 
product)  were inspected following a  CPMP  request  and found in general  compliance with EC-GMP 
(Inspection report is annexed to this assessment report). 
1/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition 
Trastuzumab  is  formulated  as  a  lyophilised  powder  and  each  vial  is  designed  to  deliver  150  mg 
trastuzumab. The finished product also includes 3.36 mg L-Histidine HCl, 2.16 mg L-Histidine, 136.2 
mg trehalose, dihydrate, and 0.6 mg polysorbate 20.  
The  sterile  solution  is  filled  aseptically  into  15  ml  Type  I  borosilicate  glass  vials  with  20  mm 
lyophilised stoppers and lyophilised using validated methods. The lyophilised vial (finished product) 
is  reconstituted  with  7.2  ml  of  sterile  water  for  injections  (not  supplied)  to  yield  a  single-dose 
formulation at 21-mg/ml trastuzumab, at pH of approximately 6.0. A volume overage of 4% ensures 
that the labelled dose of 150 mg can be withdrawn from each vial.  
The  reconstituted  HERCEPTIN  is  a  colourless  to  pale  yellow  transparent  solution  and  should  be 
essentially  free  of  visible  particulates.  The  required  volume  is  determined  on  the  basis  of  a  loading 
dose of 4 mg trastuzumab /kg body weight, or a subsequent weekly dose of 2 mg trastuzumab/kg body 
weight.  The  appropriate  amount  of  solution  should  be  withdrawn  from  the  vial  and  added  to  an 
infusion bag containing 250 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride solution. 
The  single  dose  vial  of  150  mg  was  used  for  clinical  trials  outside  the  US.  However  in  the  dossier 
originally submitted Herceptin was presented as a multidose formulation of 440 mg trastuzumab to be 
reconstituted with 20 ml of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, containing 1.1% benzyl alcohol to yield 
a multi 
dose  formulation  at  21  mg/ml  trastuzumab.  As  the  use  of  preservative  was  contrary  to  the  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements  the  applicant  following  a  CPMP  request  changed  to  150  mg  single  dose  vials  to  be 
reconstituted with sterile water for injections without preservative. 
Product development and finished product  
Method of preparation 
The  applicant  developed  a  new  final  dosage  form  to  obtain  150  mg  as  a  single  dose  preparation 
without  the  need  for  a  preservative  in  the  reconstitution  solution.  In  contrast  to  the  originally 
submitted dossier, filling and lyophilization is now performed at the Roche, Basel, and facility. With 
the response, the applicant provided data on three pilot scale batches of Herceptin 150 mg which were 
completed by a second response including data on the validation of the full-scale manufacture on three 
full-scale batches produced at manufacturing scale. 
Trastuzumab  bulk  drug  substance  for  storage  is  aseptically  filled  into  120  L  stainless  steel  tanks  at 
Vacaville, USA, during prefiltration and stored at ≤ -20°C prior to use. The manufacture of Herceptin 
starts at Roche, Basel, with thawing of bulk material, pooling of up to three bulk lots and aseptically 
filtration. After filling under aseptically conditions the material is lyophilised.  
Production and control of active substance. 
Trastuzumab was generated by the immunisation of Balb/c mice with cells expressing HER-2 on their 
surface  and  partially  purified  membranes  containing  p185  HER-2  according  to  standard  hybridoma 
techniques. 
Hybridomas  were  either  screened  by  an  ELISA  utilising  immobilised  p185-HER-2  protein,  an  assay 
detecting  HER-2  mediated  growth  inhibition  of  SK-BR-3  cells  or  a  nude  mice  breast  cancer 
xenograph model, resulting in muMAb 4D5. 
The  humanisation  of  muMAb 4D5  was  performed  according  to  standard  procedures  after  the 
determination  of  the  primary  sequence  of  the  VH+L  chain  regions  of  muMAb 4D5.The  resulting 
constructs were designed to express the human Fc γ1 isotype to maximally support CDC and ADCC. 
The resulting antibody of the humanisation huMAb 4D5-8, which expressed maximal amount of the 
humanised  antibody,  is  reported  to  bind  to  ECD  of  HER-2  about  3-fold  more  tightly  than 
muMAb 4D5. 
The  active  substance  trastuzumab  is  produced  in  recombinant  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  cells  using  a 
serum  free  medium.  The  MCB,  WCB  and  End  of  Production  Cells  were  characterised  sufficiently. 
MCB andWCB were adapted to growth in serum free medium. 
Manufacturing  process  of  the  active  ingredient  starts  with  thawing  and  expansion  of  cells  from  the 
MCB or the WCB derived from the MCB. Cells are expanded using a seed train and fermenters from 
80 liters up to 12 000 liters.  
2/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  harvesting  different  chromatographic  steps  are  used  for  purification.  With  affinity 
chromatography (Protein A) unwanted protein and potential endotoxin contaminants can be removed. 
Cation  ion  exchange  chromatography  removes  antibody  aggregates  and  fragments  and  CHO 
impurities.  Anion  ion  exchange  chromatography  is  intended  to  separate  DNA,  endotoxin,  and 
retrovirus,  if  present.  With  hydrophobic  interaction  chromatography  antibody  aggregates,  fragments 
and  CHO  proteins  can  be  removed.  After  formulation  and  filtration  into  freeze/thaw  stainless  steel 
tanks  the  formulated  bulk  can  be  stored  at  2-80C  and/or  frozen  and  stored  at  –200C  or  lower  until 
further processing to finished product takes place.  
Process validation (active substance and finished product) 
The critical steps of the manufacture of the finished product have been validated using pilot scale and 
full-scale  batches:  influence  of  the  mixing  parameters  during  pooling,  protein  yield,  homogeneity 
during  filling,  simulation  of  an  interruption  during  filling,  homogeneity  during  filling  tested  after 
lyophilization, homogeneity of drying, evaluation of the lyophilization cycle. In addition, adequate in-
process controls have been established and analysis of three full-scale finished product batches shows 
consistency of the manufacturing process. As a follow-up measure, the data on in-process and release 
controls for two further batches will be provided  
For  active  substance,  process  validation  studies  were  presented  to  demonstrate  the  removal  of  host-
related DNA, Chinese Hamster ovary cell proteins (CHOP) and non-host-related impurities. Lifetime 
of purification columns and hold points during the purification process were validated. 
Data  from  the  validated  release  assays  for  five  lots  of  bulk  active  ingredient  produced  at  Vacaville 
were presented and compared to the ranges of these assays specified for trastuzumab.  
Consistency of the drug substance was assessed using test methods and specifications as described in 
the MAA in section II.C.1.1  
All  results  were  within  the  specification  limits  and  within  the  range  of  the  lots  produced  at  the 
previous site, South San Francisco.  
Comparing  the  cell  culture  process  of  Vacaville  and  the  previous  manufacturing  site  assessed 
production culture performance.  
All results were within the ranges of the results of the previous production. Recovery performance was 
assessed by comparing recovery yields of the Vacaville lots with the lots produced at the previous site 
and the yields of every production step were within the range of the known results. In-process controls 
for the Vacaville lots showed results within the specified limits.  
Impurity profiles were obtained by testing for host cell proteins, host cell DNA, and residual Protein A 
at various intermediate stages in the process 
All  results  were  within  the  ranges  of  the  lots  produced  at  the  previous  site.  Stability  studies  were 
performed after storage for 1 month at 37°C.  
Changes observed were within the range of the changes of material manufactured at the previous site.  
Further stability data are required as follow-up measure for the bulk product to reflect the anticipated 
storage time and conditions used during full production.  
Viral validation 
Five  production  steps  were  investigated  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  virus  safety  of  trastuzumab:  (1) 
Protein  A  Chromatography,  (2)  incubation  at  low  pH  (<3.7),  (3)  Cation  exchange  Chromatography, 
(4) Anion exchange Chromatography and (5) Hydrophobic Interaction Chromatography.  
Xenotropic murine leukemia virus (X-MuLV), MVM, and SV40 were used for the validation studies. 
X-MuLV is a model for type A and C retroviruses, which contaminate the cell culture. It was used for 
the evaluation of all five steps. No other enveloped virus was utilised.  
The  Protein  A  Chromatography  was  additionally  investigated  with  MVM  and  the  anion  exchange 
chromatography with MVM and SV40. 
Although  the  virus  safety  of  trastuzumab  relies  especially  on  the  virus  removal  capacity  of  the 
chromatographic steps, three of the four chromatographies were only tested with one or two viruses.  
Further data  were  provided for the Protein-A  and  anion exchange chromatographic steps  in order  to 
clarify  the  underlying  mechanism  for  the  removal  of  model  viruses  through  partitioning  and  to 
demonstrate  the  scaled-down  conditions  in  relation  to  that  of  the  production  scale.  Furthermore,  the 
3/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efficacy  of  the  anion  exchange  column  to  remove  viruses  after  50  cycles  of  use  and  the  effect  of 
sanitization of columns onto virus inactivation have been shown adequately. 
Product characterisation 
The  drug  substance  is  characterised  by  a  number  of  modern  analytical  techniques  to  determine 
chemical-physical and biological parameters.  
For non-compendial methods validation data were presented. Trastuzumab manufactured either by the 
early  development  cell  line,  which  was  used  in  phase  I  and  phase  II  clinical  trials,  or  by  the  to-be-
marketed cell line was compared intensively.  
It was demonstrated that the drug substances manufactured with both processes are equivalent, except 
for  the  absence  of  the  polymorphism  at  heavy  chain  residue  376.  Primary  reference  material,  lot 
HER1097-3 is characterised by a number of tests. 
For the previous manufacturing site, batch analysis data of bulk active ingredient of four qualification 
lots and 24 production lots were submitted. For the new manufacturing site, sufficient data obtained 
from manufacture of 5 batches of bulk active ingredient were submitted to demonstrate comparability 
of batches of bulk active ingredient produced at the previous and new sites.  
The finished product is characterised by a number of validated control tests. 
Comparability  of  the  single  dose  vial  versus  multidose  vial  was  demonstrated.  Similarities  were  the 
same strength, filled from the same formulated bulk, same final product composition, and same glass 
quality. Differences: were stoppers laminated with a fluoro resin film instead of siliconized, new vial 
size, additional; sterile filtration, adjusted lyophilization cycle to the smaller vial size, Roche Basel site 
for filling and lyophilization. 
One  lot  of  reference  material  has  been  manufactured  and  adequate  characterisation  data  were 
provided.  
Finished product testing 
A  comprehensive  assay  control  system  was  developed  to  ensure  that  the  product  meets  rigorous 
standards  of  quality  and  batch-to-batch  consistency.  The  quality  control  of  recombinant  proteins 
requires a careful selection  of  multiple  assays that are complementary for the evaluation of identity, 
purity, potency, strength, and stability. In the case of a recombinant protein such as trastuzumab, the 
degradation  pattern  is  complex  and  no  single  method  can  address  all  of  the  modes  of  degradation. 
Thus, a series of individual assays are used to detect subtle molecular changes. Testing for purity and 
molecular consistency  in production  of trastuzumab is primarily performed  on the Bulk for Storage. 
This step in the process was chosen because, at this point, all protein purification operations have been 
completed, and one bulk, or part of it, may be combined with other bulks, or parts of other bulks, prior 
to  production  of  the  Final  Vial.  Consideration  has  been  given  to  molecular  characterisation 
information,  process  validation  results,  compendial  requirements,  and  assay  validation  results  in 
devising  the  control  systems.  The  action  limits  and  specifications  are  consistent  with  the 
manufacturing  history  and  clinical  experience.  Assay  validation  reports  for  the  non-compendial 
release tests for Bulk for Storage and Finished Product were provided and found adequate. 
Complete re-testing is performed at Roche, Grenzach, Germany. 
During  the  approval  procedure,  samples  of  3  batches  of  the  finished  product  were  tested 
experimentally at the laboratory of the Rapporteur. The results meet the finished product specification. 
There  were,  however,  some  methodological  issues  identified  on  the  potency  assays,  which  will  be 
clarified by submission of an updated, SOP as a follow-up measure. 
Stability of the active ingredient 
Three  months  real  time  studies  were  performed  using  a  variety  of  storage  conditions  to  assess  the 
impact of performing freeze/thaw cycles, liquid storage at 2°C-8°C, and frozen storage at < -20°C.  
4/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While the data originally provided have been obtained for bulk active ingredient manufactured at the 
previous site, results of an ongoing study for the material produced at Vacaville will be provided as a 
follow-up measure in order to reflect the anticipated storage time and conditions used for bulk active 
ingredient produced at the new site. 
Stability of the finished product 
Results of real time studies to determine the stability of Herceptin in the to-be-marketed configuration 
were provided with the application for the product produced at the sites of Genentech. Accordingly, 
the  drug  product  has  been  reconstituted  with  Bacteriostatic  Water  for  Injection,  containing  1.1 % 
benzyl alcohol. Stability was monitored at the recommended storage condition of 2° - 8°C as well as at 
30°C.  Samples  were  tested  according  to  defined  protocols  and  assayed  using  stability-indicating 
methods.  In  addition,  studies  were  conducted  to  determine  the  effect  of  intense  light,  ambient 
temperature handling and shipping, handling and manipulation of reconstituted Herceptin for multiple 
uses,  as  well  as  to  assess  finished  product  stability  after  dilution  into  0.9%  sodium  chloride  or  5% 
dextrose  in  either  polyvinyl  chloride  or  polyolefin  IV  bags.  In  addition,  the  stability  of  the  and 
subsequently  stored  at  2° - 8°C,  was  examined.  The  results  of  these  studies  provided  adequate 
reassurance  on  the  stability  of  the  finished  product.  However,  since  the  manufacturing  site  and  the 
formulation  of  the  finished  product  have  been  changed  to  Basel  and  the  150  mg  single  dose, 
respectively, a new stability study was necessary to perform. Stability data of three pilot scale batches 
of 150 mg vials covering 6 months were provided. Supportive data were provided for 36 months from 
150  mg  vials  manufactured  at  Genentech  for  clinical  trials.  As  a  follow-up  measure,  results  of  an 
ongoing study to demonstrate stability of full-scale finished product batches produced at Roche, Basel. 
• 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  first  list  of  questions  raised  4  major  objections  regarding  the  lack  of  data  about  the  intended 
manufacturing site, the use of a multi-dose formulation containing 1% benzylalcohol as preservative 
which  was  in  contrary  to  the  Ph.  Eur.  requirements,  the  need  of  further  information  on  the  assay 
performed to test potency and residual DNA content. As part of the response, the complete data on the 
viral  safety  of  the  manufacturing  procedure  were  submitted  for  the  first  time  since  originally  brief 
summarising  reports  were  only  available.  In  addition,  a  large  number  of  questions  and  points  for 
clarification was raised. A second list of question resulted from the assessment of the response of the 
applicant.  The  questions  were  mainly  related  to  issues  which  needed  further  clarification  on  the 
performance of the virus validation studies.  
Five issues mainly resulting from the fact that the manufacturing sites for the active substance and the 
finished product were established newly and the final product dosage from were changed from multi-
dose  to  single-dose  were  accepted  to  be  handled  as  follow-up  measures.  These  relate  to  the  need  of 
submitting updated stability results and to the need of updating the SOP of the potency assay. 
3.  
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Herceptin is directed against HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 protein), which is part 
of a family of membrane-bound phosphoglycoproteins with tyrosine kinase activity. HER2 is encoded 
by the proto-oncogene c-erb B-2, the human homologue of the rat neu oncogene. The proteins coded 
by  the  oncogens,  the  oncoproteins,  are  all  involved  in  the  signalling  cascades  that  control  cell 
proliferation and differentiation. 
The  principal  relationship  of  the  v-erbB2  oncogene  and  its  associated  protein  (the  receptor  for  a 
growth  factor)  with  cancer  concerns  overproduction  of  the  receptor  with  the  consequence  that  the 
affected  cell  becomes  unusually  sensitive  to  mitogenic  stimulation  by  normal  (small)  amounts  of 
growth factor. Overexpression of the endogenous receptor protein can occur by genomic amplification 
or  by  a  mutation  in  the  ‘protein-enhancer  control  region’  of  the  cellular  c-erbB2  proto-oncogene, 
which can result in increased transcription and subsequently, increased protein formation. 
5/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HER2 overexpression, observed in approximately 30% of human breast tumors, is a prognostic factor 
of poor survival. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
Trastuzumab  inhibited  proliferation  of  HER2  overexpressing  cells  and  induced  loss  of  intrinsic 
resistance of cells that overexpress HER2 to the cytotoxic effects of TNFα.  
Furthermore, reduction in synthesis of cellular components affecting cell adhesion and the metastatic 
potential  of  tumour  cells  and  suppression  of  production  of  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  was 
observed upon treatment with trastuzumab. 
Based on evidence from a variety of cell lines, antibody-coated cells are also susceptible to cytotoxic 
damage through binding with the Fcγ RIII (CD16) receptor on effector cells, NK cells and monocytes, 
but not neutrophiles. 
Although trastuzumab has been shown to bind to HER2 on several breast adenocarcinoma cell lines 
and activate the complement cascade, no complement-mediated tumour-cell lysis occurred, probably 
due to the presence of regulatory proteins such as CD35, CD46 or CD55. 
Treatment of cells overexpressing HER2 (eg SK-BR-3, MCF7) with muMAb 4D5, the murine parent 
antibody, or trastuzumab significantly reduced the expression of the HER2 receptor in the cell surface 
(up to 50% over 5 days). 
Although trastuzumab or muMAb 4D5 seem to increase tyrosine autophosphorylation, and cause other 
agonist  effects  that  may  have  the  potential  to  stimulate  the  growth  of  HER2  overexpressing  tumour 
cells, downstream signalling pathways appear not to be affected. 
In  cross-reactivity  studies  with  frozen  human  or  Cynomolgus  monkey’s  tissues,  trastuzumab  and 
muMAb 4D5 showed similar patterns of immunoreactivity. They both were reactive in normal tissues 
with  membrane  staining  in  a  subset  of  epithelial  cells  including  squamous  epithelium  of  exocervix, 
skin,  esophagus,  urothelium  of  the  bladder  and  tonsil.  Epithelial  cells  of  different  organs  showed 
positive membrane staining in breast acinar and ductal cells, endocervical glands, esophageal glands, 
epithelial  cells  of  the  renal  tubules  and  epithelial  cells  lining  the  gastro-intestinal  tract  including 
pancreas and salivary glands. 
The  erbB2  receptor  is  currently  being  cloned  from  cynomolgus  monkey  tissue.   Preliminary  results 
(sequencing of one clone) at the DNA level indicate a very high degree of homology.  The nonlinear 
PK observed at lower doses of trastuzumab in monkey is consistent with specific, saturable binding. 
The tissue cross reactivity and nonclinical PK studies and the demonstrated specificity of muMAb4D5 
for HER2, support the conclusion that Herceptin (trastuzumab, GN1450) recognised monkey HER2. 
High sequence homology of human ErbB2 with Macaque fasicularis, and compatible/parallel binding 
patterns in human and Macaque mulatta tissue screens will indicate monkey is a good tox species. 
In vivo studies 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  relating  to  the  proposed  indications  were  studied  in  nude  mouse  models, 
which  have  been  transplanted  with  human  breast  tumour  xenografts.  The  murine  parent  antibody  of 
trastuzumab (muMAb 4D5) and cisplatin/carboplatin alone or in combination did interfere with tumor 
growth, leading to a greatly reduced tumour size in comparison to untreated animals. The combination 
muMAb 4D5  and  cisplatin  did  not  lead  to  a  significant  improvement  over  one  of  the  components 
alone. 
Combination studies 
Using both in-vitro and in-vivo approaches, the anti-tumour potential of trastuzumab in combination 
with  a  variety  of  established  therapeutic  agents  has  been  assessed  in  SK-BR-3,  HER2-transfected 
MCF7 and BT-474 cell lines. Synergistic effects were observed in cell culture with cisplatin, thiotepa 
and  etoposide  and  additive  interactions  with  doxorubicin,  paclitaxel,  methotrexate  and  vinblastine. 
6/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combinations  with  doxorubicin,  paclitaxel,  cyclophosphamide,  methotrexate,  etoposide  and 
vinblastine were most effective in vivo. The combination with paclitaxel produced the greatest tumour 
regression in vivo with the BT-474 cell line. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Since trastuzumab is a humanised MAb, significant species differences in pharmacokinetics are to be 
expected:  rodent  p185neu  (corresponding  receptor  protein  to  human  p185HER2)  is  not  recognised, 
whereas  in  non-human  primates  trastuzumab  recognises  a  receptor  (as  yet  uncharacterised)  in 
epithelial  cells.  However,  unlike  humans  these  primate  species  do  not  overexpress  p185HER2  or 
produce shed antigen. 
Several studies on the pharmacokinetic profiles of trastuzumab after a single administration revealed a 
terminal  half-life  ranging  from  approx.  2,8  to  14 days  determined  in  mice,  rhesus  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys.  
The presence of free extracellular domains (ECD) of HER-2 in the serum of cynomolgus resulted in 
an increased clearance and thus a shorter half life of trastuzumab.  ECD clearance was also decreased 
in  the  presence  of  trastuzumab  in  both  the  mouse  and  the  monkey  indicating  that  ECD  can  be 
maintained in circulation when complexed with trastuzumab..  
In  single-dose  studies  in  mice  Cmax  was  16.0,  250,  2250  µg/ml  for  the  doses  of  1,  10,  100  mg/kg 
respectively. The dose response in terms of Cmax or AUC in the rhesus monkey was non-linear, with a 
pattern of supraproprotional increases in AUC in relation to dose. The terminal half-life in the mouse 
(11-39 days) was considerably longer than that in the rhesus monkey (6 days for 0.5 mg/kg dose). 
In repeated-dose studies in rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys over 4-26 weeks involving doses of 1-25 
mg/kg once or twice weekly, clearance was reasonably similar in all groups (0.17-0.33 ml/h/kg) with 
terminal half-lives ranging from 3 to 14 days.  
However, non-linear kinetics were evidenced at doses approximately lower than 2 mg/kg, while dose 
independent (dose proportional) kinetics were obeyed above this dose. 
The distribution and fate of  125I-labelled trastuzumab were compared with those of similarly labelled 
huIgG1 in tumour-bearing beige-nude athymic  mice.  Through tissue and  blood analysis,  and whole-
body  autoradiography,  it  was  shown  that  the  disposition  of  the  specific  (trasyuzumab)  and  non-
specific  IgG1  Abs  were  similar  in  blood  and  non-tumour  tissues.  On  the  other  hand  uptake  of 
radioactivity was localised in tumour tissue for 125I-labelled trastuzumab and not IgG1, and was shown 
to  be  saturable.  Peak  tumour  uptake  occurred  24-48  hours  after  administration  and  ranged  from  22-
66% dose/g of tissue. 
 The  corresponding  tumour-to-serum  radioactivity  ratios  ranged  from  1.07  to  4.34.  Extrapolation  of 
these  results  to  humans  is  compromised  by  the  fact  that  the  animals  used  do  not  express  human 
p185HER2 on normal tissues. 
A  study  was  undertaken  in  groups  of  female  rhesus  monkeys  to  investigate  kinetic  interactions 
between  trastuzumab  and  a  range  of  conventional  anti-tumour  drugs  (Taxol,  Adriamycin, 
Adriamycin/Cytoxan  combination).  The  kinetic  parameters  of  the  various  chemotherapeutics  were 
essentially  unaffected  by  the  presence  of  trastuzumab  and  vice  versa,  except  in  the  case  of  the 
combination  with  paclitaxel  where  the  Cmax  for  trastuzumab  was  doubled  and  the  clearance  halved, 
terminal half-life being unaffected. 
In 
in  cynomolgus  monkeys  after  repeated 
administration,  the  fetal  serum  levels  were  10-33%  of  the  respective  maternal  concentrations. 
Trastuzumab was detected in the milk of Cynomolgus monkeys and in their neonates. 
intravenous  embryo-fetal  development  studies 
Toxicology 
Single Dose Toxicity 
Single-dose acute studies were undertaken using iv bolus administration in mice (M+F) at 0, 9.4, 47 
and 94 mg/kg and in rhesus monkeys (M+F) at 0, 4.7, 23.5 and 47 mg/kg. The absence of toxicity of 
several different preparations and formulations of trastuzumab could be demonstrated, as measured by 
7/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
standard parameters like food consumption, body weight, antibody formation, clinical chemistry and 
macro- and microscopic examination of standard organs/tissues. 
The  no-observable-effect-level  (NOEL)  was  determined  as  94  and  47  mg/kg  in  mice  and  monkeys, 
respectively. 
Repeated-Dose Toxicity 
The repeated-dose toxicity evaluation of trastuzumab is based on a four-week study in rhesus monkeys 
and 12- and 26-week studies in cynomolgus monkeys. 
In  all  three  studies  there  was  a  minimal  toxic  response,  with  the  only  noteworthy  observations 
concerning  injection-site  trauma  in  the  rhesus  monkey.  Neutralising  antibodies  were  detected  from 
weeks 5-26 in one low-dose female cynomolgus monkey. 
 This  represents  an  incidence  of  1/84  animals  in  repeated-dose  studies  in  which  antibodies  to 
trastuzumab were detected. 
Death of  a  mid-dose female in the  26-week study (not considered treatment-related) was considered 
connected to presence of large thoracic mass found at necropsy. 
study  of 
the  administration  of 
A 
together  with  Taxol,  Adriamycin,  or 
trastuzumab 
Cytoxan/Adriamycin in rhesus monkeys did not elicit significant findings on parameters like mortality 
and clinical observations, body weights, electrocardiograms, clinical pathology including hematology, 
serum chemistry and urinalysis. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Owing  to  the  lack  of  suitability  of  the  species  used  conventionally  (rat,  rabbit),  studies  were 
undertaken in the cynomolgus monkey. 
Reproductive function: 
Embryotoxicity: 
Peri-/Post-natal toxicity:  No maternal, foetal or neonatal toxicity 
No effects on menstrual cycles or sex hormone profiles 
No maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity 
Although several mortalities occurred in treated pregnant cynomolgus monkeys, results of necropsies 
and  other  follow-up  studies  indicated  that  the  deaths  were  probably  unrelated  to  treatment,  being 
characteristic of mortalities commonly observed in cynomolgus monkey colonies. 
Anti-trastuzumab antibodies The induction of antibodies against trastuzumab was a rare event in the 
monkeys.  It  is  recognised  that  the  sensitivity  of  the  detection  system  of  anti-trastuzumab  antibodies 
could be compromised by the presence of trastuzumab in the serum samples of the monkeys. 
Mutagenic Potential 
The genotoxic potential of trastuzumab has been investigated both in vitro and in vivo. In-vitro studies 
included  Ames  test  in  Salmonella  typhimurium  (strains  TA  98,  100,  1535  and  1537),  E.  coli  assays 
(strains  WP2pKM101  and  WP2uvrApKM101),  and  a  chromosome  aberration  assay  in  human 
peripheral lymphocytes. Concentrations up to 5 mg/ml were employed in both assays. The in-vivo test 
was  a  mouse  micronucleus  assay  involving  single  iv  injection  of  trastuzumab  at  29.5,  59  and  118 
mg/kg. All tests gave clearly negative results. 
Local tolerance 
No  local  irritation  was  observed  when  trastuzumab  and  trastuzumab  excipient  were  given  by  single 
bolus iv injection into the rabbit ear vein.  
Cardiotoxicity 
Preclinical studies  have  been  undertaken  in an attempt to elucidate the  mechanism  for the enhanced 
cardiotoxicity  observed  in  some  clinical-trial  patients  receiving  trastuzumab  in  combination  with  an 
anthracycline-based cytotoxic such as doxorubicin.  
Tissue  cross  reactivity  studies  with  trastuzumab  in  monkey  and  human  tissue  did  not  reveal 
localisation to heart tissue.  
Single-dose  studies  in  rhesus  monkeys  with  the  trastuzumab-doxorubicin  combination  (both  at  1.5 
mg/kg) had previously shown no evidence for cardiac effects.  
8/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enhanced  cardiotoxicity  was  not  observed  in  a  rat  model  of  doxorubicin  cardiotoxicity  following 
addition  of  a  surrogate  antibody  specific  for  rat  c-erbB2.  Potential  models  of  anthracycline-induced 
cardiotoxicity  in  mice  and  dogs  using  trastuzamab  were  unsuitable  due  to  species  specificity  of 
trastuzumab and in consideration of potential immunogenic responses to a humanised protein. Possible 
anthracycline  models  in  the  monkey  were  considered  unsuitable  based  on  ill-defined  dose 
requirements to produce cardiotoxicity.  
Discussion 
The  toxico-pharmacological  properties  of  trastuzumab  were  thoroughly  examined  in  Part  III  of  the 
dossier, which comprises more than 50 studies, of which the large majority was of very good quality. 
All  preclinical  safety  studies  appeared  to  be  well  designed,  and  conducted  in  concordance  with 
appropriate guidelines and in compliance with GLP. 
The  list  of  questions  included  different  topics  as  i.e.  Adriamycin-induced  cardiotoxicity,  affinity  of 
Herceptin for monkey’s HER-2, activation of breast cancer cells into invasiveness, signal transduction, 
formation  of  anti-trastuzumab  antibodies,  xenograft  models  and  technical  questions.  The  questions 
were  either  answered  by  the  submission  of  additional  documentation  in  the  form  of  literature, 
references within the dossier, re-evaluation of data or by submission of new data. All but one of the 
answers was considered acceptable. Further mechanistic studies on the mode of action and impact of 
trastuzumab  on  the  enhanced  cardiotoxicity  are  being  performed  for  which  the  results  will  be 
submitted on an ongoing basis. 
SPC  sections  relevant  to  preclinical  data  (particularly  Sections  4.6,  and  5.3)  were  discussed  and 
changed during the procedure. 
4.   Clinical aspects 
HER-2  over-expression  has  been  linked  with  a  poorer  outcome  in  patients  with  breast  cancer. 
Consequently,  HER-2  over-expressing  breast  cancer  presents  an  ideal  opportunity  to  exploit  the 
concept  of  “targeted”  cancer  therapy.  A  strategy  to  antagonise  the  abnormal  function  of  over-
expressed HER-2 was therefore developed. Murine monoclonal antibodies were produced against the 
extracellular domain of the HER-2 protein. One such antibody (muMAb 4D5) was found to markedly 
inhibit  the  proliferation  of  human  tumour  cells  over-expressing  HER-2.  This  effect  was  mediated 
through the binding of muMAb 4D5 to the HER-2 receptor. Efficacy was observed in non-clinical in 
vivo studies using the antibody alone, and in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Since  chronic  administration  of  murine  monoclonal  antibodies  to  humans  is  limited  by  immune 
responses to the non-human protein, the antibody was “humanised” (i.e. the regions of muMAb 4D5 
that determine anti-HER-2 binding specificity were engineered into the framework of a generic human 
antibody.  The  resulting  antibody,  rhuMAb HER-2  (trastuzumab),  binds  specifically  to  the  HER-2 
protein extracellular domain with high affinity. 
9/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overview of completed and finished clinical studies assessed through the procedure is presented 
below. 
Phase  
Ho407g 
I 
Ho452g 
I 
Ho453g 
I 
Ho551g 
II 
Ho552g 
II 
Enrolment 
Pat. 
population 
16 
Refractory 
cancer 
17 
Refractory 
cancer 
15 
Refractory 
cancer 
46 
Refractory 
MBC 
39 
Refractory 
MBC 
Design 
Open 
Open 
Open 
Open 
Control 
Treatment  Herceptin 
None 
None 
Herceptin 
None 
Herceptin  + 
cisplatin 
None 
Herceptin 
None 
Herceptin  + 
cisplatin 
Herceptin 
Dose (mg) 
w =  week  
10/50/100/ 
250/500 mg 
single dose 
10/50/100/ 
250/500  
mg/w  until 
PD 
10/50/100/ 
250/500  mg/ 
w + cisplatin 
until PD 
250 mg LD 
100  mg/w 
until PD 
250 mg LD 
100mg/w  + 
cisplatin 
until PD 
Endpoints 
Safety 
PK 
Safety 
PK  
Safety 
PK  
OR 
(REC/INV) 
DOR 
TTP 
Survival 
OR 
(REC/INV) 
DOR 
TTP 
Ho650 
NA 
114 
Previously 
untreated 
MBC 
Open,  rando-
mised 
None 
Herceptin 
4mg/kg LD 
2 mg/kg/w or 
8 mg/kg LD 
4  mg/kg/w 
until PD 
OR (INV) 
DOR 
TTP 
III 
Ho648g  Ho649g 
III 
pivotal 
469 
MBC 
222 
Refractory 
MBC 
+ 
Open 
Open, 
randomis
ed, 
controlle
d 
Chemo   None 
Hercepti
n 
chemo 
4mg/kg 
LD 
2 
mg/kg/w 
+  chemo 
vs. 
Chemo 
alone/  w 
until PD 
TTP 
(REC) 
OR 
DOR 
TTTF 
1-y-
survival 
QOL 
Herceptin 
4mg/kg LD 
2  mg/kg/w 
at 
PD 
Herceptin  ±  
anti-tumour 
therapy 
OR (REC) 
TTP 
DOR 
TTTF 
Survival 
QOL 
investigator response assessment 
pharmacokinetics  
INV  
PK  
DOR   duration of response 
TTTF  
time to treatment failure 
MBC   metastatic breast cancer  
overall response 
OR 
loading dose (this is followed by a weekly maintenance dose) 
LD  
REC 
NA 
TTP  
QOL  
PD 
response evaluation committee 
not applicable/available 
time to progression 
quality of life 
progressive disease 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics  
No  studies  investigating  pharmacodynamics  were  performed  in  humans.  However,  activity  against 
human tumours has been demonstrated in vitro and in vivo xenograft models.  
Trastuzumab  inhibits  HER-2  expressing  human  tumour  cell  proliferation  and  mediates  ADCC 
(FCγRIII)  against  such  tumours  in  vitro.  Toxicity  in  HER-2  over-expressing  tumour  cells  was 
increased compared to tumour cells, which express intermediate or low levels of HER-2.  
As  a  follow-up  measure,  the  company  will  collect  data  on  HER2  expression  as  compared  to  the 
primary tumour in approximately 100 samples of metastatic sites. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Non-linear pharmacokinetics was found in patients with MBC. A mean half-life of 5.8 days was seen 
following  a  loading  dose  of  4  mg/kg  with  a  weekly  maintenance  dose  of  2  mg/kg  of  Herceptin. 
Between the 16th and 32nd week serum concentrations reached a steady state with mean trough levels 
of 79 µg/ml and peak concentrations of 123µg/ml. Saturation trough level has been determined at 20 
ug/ml.  Baseline  shed  antigen  (the  circulating  extracellular  domain  of  HER2)  could  be  detected  in 
10/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approx. 64% of the patients, median levels were 11 ng/ml. With some exceptions, mean trough levels 
at  weeks  7  and  8  were  higher  in  complete  (70.3  ug/ml)  and  partial  (58.4  ug/ml)  responders  than  in 
nonresponders (44.3 ug/ml).  
No formal clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been performed. Pharmacokinetic data from the 
phase  II/III  studies  showed  that  concurrent  administration  of  the  anthracyclines  doxorubicin  or 
epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide (AC), or of cisplatin did not alter half-life, clearance, or exposure of 
Herceptin compared to the administration of Herceptin as a single agent. However, patients receiving 
paclitaxel had on average about 30% higher exposure to Herceptin than those receiving Herceptin in 
combination  with  AC.  This  observation  is  consistent  with  primate  studies,  which  showed  that 
administration of Herceptin with paclitaxel resulted in a reduction in Herceptin clearance. According 
to the applicant, it was unlikely that this difference would have clinical consequences, and so no dose 
adjustment was deemed necessary.  
Pharmacokinetic  data  from  the  H0649g  single-agent  study  were  analysed  by  a  number  of  baseline 
characteristics.  There  was  no  apparent  relationship  between  age,  or  renal  function  (baseline  serum 
creatinine) and PK parameters but heavier patients tended to have higher trough concentrations. The 
clinical significance of this is unclear. 
Clinical Efficacy  
“The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical 
principles”  
Dose-finding studies and Main Clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
In phase I studies, patients were treated with fixed  doses (10  mg to 500mg). In order to achieve the 
targeted  serum  concentration  more  quickly,  a  loading  dose  was  introduced  in  phase  II  (250mg) 
followed  by  a  maintenance  dose  of  100mg  weekly.  These  studies  confirmed  that  the  majority  of 
patients treated at this dose would attain trough concentrations above the targeted minimum. Further 
analyses suggested that clinical efficacy might be achieved more consistently by adjusting the dose by 
body weight. A trend towards clinical response in patients receiving doses between 1.6-1.9mg/kg was 
identified in this phase II data. A body-weight adjusted dose of 2mg/kg was, therefore, selected as a 
maintenance  dose  in  phase  III  to  ensure  that  patients  received  a  dose  that  had  been  associated  with 
clinical response in phase II. Since no significant tolerability problems had occurred with the loading 
dose in phase II, the concept of a loading dose was continued and was set at double the maintenance 
dose i.e. 4mg/kg. PK parameters were roughly similar from phase I to III although direct comparisons 
are difficult due to the change in dosing strategy from fixed to body-weight adjusted doses.  
In  vitro  studies  with  SK-BR-3  cells,  a  HER-2  overexpressing  human  breast  cancer  cell  line, 
demonstrated  that  muMAb  4D5  (the  murine  parent  of  trastuzumab)  was  cytostatic  (not  cytotoxic). 
Thus,  in  order  to  treat  patients  more  effectively,  chronic  treatment  or  treatment  until  disease 
progression was necessary. 
Efficacy 
The  two  Phase  III  studies  submitted  for  approval  consisted  of  the  HO648g  pivotal  study,  which 
assessed first line treatment in 469 women at 120 sites in 12 countries and the HO649g study, which 
evaluated second line treatment in 222 women at 55 sites in 7 countries. Both studies were conducted 
as open trials. 
Herceptin as a single agent in second or third-line therapy 
Study III HO649g 
This non-comparative, open-label Phase study encompassing 55 centres in 7 countries with a total ITT 
population  of  222  patients  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  response  in  patients  with  metastatic  breast 
11/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cancer  overexpressing  HER2,  who  had  relapsed  after  one  or  two  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  regimens 
and were then treated with Herceptin as a single agent, in second or third line therapy.  
The  primary  endpoints  were  overall  (complete  and  partial)  response  rate  and  the  safety  profile  of 
Herceptin. The secondary endpoints were duration of response (DOR), 1-year-survival estimates, time 
to disease progression (TTP), time to treatment failure (TTTF) and quality of life (QOL) assessment.  
Patients  recruited  had  the  characteristics  of  a  poor  prognostic  group  in  which  any  further 
chemotherapy would be expected to be associated with a low response rate: 
- 
presence of metastatic breast cancer that was HER2-positive (22% with 2+ and 78% 3+) 
68%  of  patients  enrolled  in  this  study  had  failed  two  chemotherapy  regimens  for  metastatic 
disease, 
65% had adjuvant chemotherapy  
in 94% of the patients, prior failed-chemotherapy had included anthracycline 
in 50% of the patients the prior chemotherapy regimens also included a taxane 
a quarter of the patients had failed high-dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic stem cell rescue 
as compared to the general population of patients with breast cancer, these patients were much 
younger (mean age 50 years) 
they were more likely to have hormone receptor-negative disease (55%) 
they  were  more  likely  to  have  a  short  disease-free  interval  between  the  diagnosis  of  primary 
breast cancer and discovery of metastatic disease (37% had disease-free interval of 12 months 
or less) 
70%  of  patients  had  visceral  metastases  that  are  generally  much  less  responsive  to 
chemotherapies and hormonal therapies commonly used to treat breast cancer.  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Overall response rate (partial or complete) 
Analysis Population 
ITT (n= 222) 
All treated patients (n= 213) 
Evaluable for efficacy (n= 207) 
OR by 
REC 
34 (15%) 
34 (16%) 
34 (16%) 
95%CI 
(11,21) 
(11,21) 
(12,22) 
Secondary Endpoints 
Median TTP  
Median TTTF 
Median survival 
time 
Median DOR  
N 
213 
213 
213 
Time in 
months 
3.1 
2.4 
12.8 
Range 
(0-28+) 
(0-28+) 
(0.5-30+) 
34 
9.1 
(1.6– 26+) 
At 1 year 55% (117/213) of the treated patients were alive, at 2 years 2% were alive.  
Efficacy in HER2 2+ versus HER2 3+ Patients in Monotherapy: Median (95%CI) 
Parameter 
Her2 3+ 
N=172 
3.2 (2.6-3.5) 
16.4 
n.e.) 
18% (13-25) 
(12.3-
Her2 2+ 
N=50 
1.9 (1.7-2.3) 
8.8 (8.5-12.8) 
6% (1-17) 
time 
TTP (months) 
Survival 
(months)*  
Response 
(%) 
*Cut-off April 99 
rate 
Despite  the  large  degree  of  previous  treatments,  15%  of  patients  had  objective  and  durable  (median 
9.1 months) responses to Herceptin. The clinical significance of the objective tumour responses in this 
group  of  patients  was  supported  by  the  quality-of-life  and  survival  data.  Responders  (complete  or 
partial  response,  as  assessed  by  the  REC),  but  not  non-responders,  had  clinically  meaningful 
12/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvements  in  physical  function,  role  function,  social  function,  global  quality  of  life,  and  fatigue 
scale scores during Herceptin treatment. Most responders were still alive at data cut off (28/34; 82%). 
In addition, 36% of patients had a minor response or stable disease. These included 20 patients (9%) in 
whom  the  disease  was  stable  for  ≥ 6  months.  Major  responses  were  seen  not  only  in  patients  with 
disease limited to chest wall, distal lymph node and/or bone, but also in patients with visceral disease. 
Furthermore, the tolerability of Herceptin as compared to other options was far better and quality of 
life parameters were clinically improved.  
b) Herceptin in combination therapy with paclitaxel  
The  pivotal  Phase  III  HO648g  study  encompassing  120  sites  in  12  countries  with  a  total  of  469 
patients, the first of which were enrolled on 12th June 1995, the last patient was enrolled on 7th March 
1997, was  performed as a  randomised,  controlled,  open-label  trial to  evaluate  efficacy and  safety of 
Herceptin combined with chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone in patients with metastatic 
breast cancer, who have tumours that overexpress HER2.  
The  chemotherapy  regimen  for  both  treatment  groups  was  either  anthracycline  +  cyclophosphamide 
(AC) or paclitaxel. Patients who had not received anthracycline therapy in the adjuvant setting were 
stratified to receive AC. Patients who had received any anthracycline therapy in the adjuvant setting 
were  stratified  to  receive  paclitaxel.  Upon  documented  disease  progression  (confirmed  by  an 
independent response evaluation committee), patients were entered into the extension study H0659g, 
in which they could receive either Herceptin alone or in combination with chemotherapy of choice. 
Four different treatment arms were created, that was derived from two different pre-treatment groups 
and  was  later  combined  for  statistical  purposes.  The  extent  of  the  patient's  previous  treatment,  esp. 
prior  chemotherapy,  is  considered  the  single  most  important  factor  for  a  response  to  subsequent 
chemotherapy.  
However, the pre-treated patients were equally distributed between the Herceptin + paclitaxel and the 
paclitaxel-alone group. 
The  primary  endpoints  were  TTP  (time  to  progression)  and  the  safety  profile  of  Herceptin.  The 
secondary  endpoints  encompassed  OR  (overall  response  rates),  DOR  (duration  of  response),  QOL 
(quality  of  life),  one-year  survival,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Herceptin,  when  co-administered  with 
chemotherapy and the TTTF (time to treatment failure). 
AC was chosen as an acceptable standard first-line chemotherapy regimen at the time the trial started 
(the  taxanes  had  not  yet  been  approved  for  use  in  breast  cancer).  However,  since  prior  adjuvant 
therapy with AC was an exclusion criterion for safety reasons, many patients were ineligible to enter 
the study. Prior anthracycline-based therapy was allowed by introducing a  stratum in which patients 
who  had  previously  received  anthracycline  treatment  could  be  randomised  to  receive  paclitaxel  as 
chemotherapy with or without Herceptin. Paclitaxel was selected because it had become widely used 
for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  resistant  to  anthracycline-based  therapy. 
This  meant, in effect,  that  two  studies  with  differing populations  were run  side by  side,  and for this 
reason the data were analysed separately for each chemotherapy stratum (AC or paclitaxel) and only 
those  of  the  paclitaxel  arm  were  taken  into  account  for  the  decision  on  the  requested  indication.  In 
addition,  at  the  same  time,  the  original  double  blind  design  of  study  H0648  was  abandoned  due  to 
ethical considerations. As a result, the phase III trials were open studies.  
The final assessment of the responses and the conclusion on the benefit-risk profile of Herceptin was 
only related to the paclitaxel data. 
13/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary endpoint 
No. of patients  
Median 
(months)  
p-value 
TTP 
Herceptin 
+paclitaxel 
N= 89 
7.4 
Paclitaxel 
alone 
N=89 
4.6 
0.0001 
Secondary endpoints 
Overall response (complete and partial response) 
No. of patients  
% OR 
p-value  
Herceptin 
+paclitaxel 
N= 89 
50 
0.0001 
Paclitaxel 
alone 
N=89 
32 
Duration of response (DOR) 
No. of patients  
Median DOR 
p-value 
Herceptin 
+paclitaxel 
N= 89 
9.1 
0.0002 
Paclitaxel 
alone 
N=89 
6.1 
Quality of life assessment (QOL) 
The  questionnaire used in the  Herceptin trials was developed by the EORTC and evaluates physical 
function, global QOL, social function, and fatigue scales. The assessments were performed at baseline, 
8  weeks,  20  weeks  and  32  weeks  after  the  start  of  the  therapy  regimen.  There  were  no  statistically 
significant differences in the quality of life scores between the two groups; a slightly more favourable 
trend was seen towards the  32nd week in the Herceptin +  chemotherapy group with  higher scores  in 
global QOL and less increase in fatigue compared to chemotherapy alone.  
Efficacy in HER2 2+ versus HER2 3+ Patients in Combination Therapy: Median (95%CI) 
Parameter 
Her2 3+ 
H+P 
N=68 
7.1 (6.2-12.0) 
24.8 
33.7)  
(18.6-
P 
N=77 
3.0 (2.0-4.4) 
17.9 
23.8) 
(11.2-
Her2 2+ 
H+P 
N=24 
5.3 (3.4-6.6) 
16.8 
25.1) 
(11.8-
P 
N=19 
2.7 (2.0-5.3) 
19.8 (8.1-26.9) 
49% (36 - 61) 
17% (9 - 27) 
21% (7 - 42) 
16% (3 - 40) 
TTP (months) 
Survival 
(months)*  
time 
rate 
Response 
(%) 
*Cut-off April 99 
Survival update. March 99 cut-off study 648 extended to study 659 
Of 234 patients in 648 study who had only received chemotherapy (AC =138, P =96) 81 (59%) from 
the AC group and 72 (75%) from the P group joined the extension and had Herceptin added on. 
14/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Previous survival data  
Herceptin  + 
paclitaxel 
92 
35 (38%) 
Paclitaxel 
alone 
96 
46 (47%) 
57 (62%) 
50 (53%) 
No. 
of 
patients  who 
died 
No.  of  pat. 
alive* 
Median 
survival 
95% CI 
Range  
P –value 
*Survival time was censored for patients who were alive at data-cut-off 8th April 98 
(16.8, NA) 
0.2 – 26.3* 
0.1444 
(13.5, NA) 
0.1 – 26.1* 
18.4 
NA 
Survival update data 
Herceptin  + 
paclitaxel 
92 
54 
Paclitaxel 
alone 
96 
63 
38 
33 
No. 
of 
patients  who 
died 
No.  of  pat. 
alive* 
Median 
survival 
95% CI 
Range  
P –value 
*Survival time was censored for patients who were alive at data-cut-off March 99  
(16.9, 30.7) 
0.2 – 37.3* 
0.2725 
(12.7, 24.4) 
0.26 – 38.1* 
22.1 
18.4 
Efficacy was shown with respect to all the primary and secondary endpoints in the overall population 
and  in  the  chemotherapy  subgroups.  Study  H0648g  showed  that  addition  of  Herceptin  to 
chemotherapy:  
- 
prolongs  progression-free  survival  by  three  months  (TTP;  7.4  vs  4.6  months;  61%  increase; 
p=0.0001), compared to chemotherapy 
this  benefit  of  Herceptin  treatment  was  statistically  significant  whether  given  in  combination 
with paclitaxel or anthracyclines 
increases tumour response rate (50% vs 32%, p<0.0001) 
increases duration of response (9.1 vs 6.1 months, p=0.0002) in combination with chemotherapy 
- 
- 
- 
Sites of progression 
15/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After Herceptin and paclitaxel therapy for metastatic breast cancer in patients in the pivotal trial the 
following sites of disease progression were found: 
Site* 
p-value 
Any site 
Abdomen 
Bone 
Chest 
Liver 
Lung 
Dist. Node 
Mediastinum 
CNS 
Other 
*Patients may have had multiple sites of disease progression 
- 
0.986 
0.250 
0.004 
0.915 
0.643 
0.667 
0.377 
0.410 
P Alone 
(N=92) 
% 
95.7 
0  
16.3  
13.0  
45.7  
18.5  
6.5  
2.2  
6.5  
9.8  
H+P 
(N=87) 
% 
70.1 
0  
17.2  
5.7  
21.8  
16.1  
3.4  
4.6  
12.6  
4.6  
The  frequency  of  progression  in  the  liver  was  significantly  reduced  in  patients  treated  with  the 
combination  of  Herceptin  and  paclitaxel.  More  patients  treated  with  Herceptin  and  paclitaxel 
progressed  in  the  central  nervous  system  than  those  treated  with  paclitaxel  alone.  This  issue  is 
adequately addressed in the SPC. 
Other clinical studies 
Phase I studies 
The Phase I studies (HO407g, HO452g and HO453g) were neither designed to evaluate efficacy, nor 
were  they  in  support  of  the  indication.  However,  response  rates  were  recorded.  For  study  HO407g 
stable  disease  was  seen  in  9/16  patients  and  progressive  disease  in  7/16  patients.  In  study  HO452g 
1/16 patient had a minor response, 5/16 showed stable disease and 10/16 had progressive disease. Of 
the 4 patients who then entered the maintenance phase, 3-showed progressive disease and 1 had stable 
disease after another 77 days on therapy. In the HO453g study, 4/16 had a partial response (2 in the 
250  mg  group  and  2  in  the  500  mg  group),  6/16  showed  stable  disease  and  5/16  had  progressive 
disease. The 4 patients who had a partial response, all had 3+ HER2 overexpression. Of the 4 patients 
who  entered  the  maintenance  phase,  1  showed  progressive  disease  and  2  had  stable  disease  and  1 
patient had a complete response and remains disease free 3 years after March 1996. 
For more detailed information on the Phase I studies see Annex. 
Phase II studies 
Both Phase II studies (HO551g, HO552g) had efficacy as their objective, however only HO551g is in 
support of the indication, as HO552g combined Herceptin with cisplatin. 
HO551g:  
In  this  study  the  overall  response  (OR)  of  the  main  study  and  maintenance  program  combined  was 
11.6%  (5/43  patients,  whereby  1  patient  had  a  complete  response).  The  mean  DOR  for  the  5 
responders was 9 months (median 6.6 months). By study cut-off date (March 96) 34/46 patients had 
died.  Median  survival  of  all  enrolled  patients  was  14  months  (censored  by  data  cut-off).  Of  the  12 
patients censored for survival at the time of data analysis 11 patients had survival times > 14 months 
and 1 patient had died. 
The Karnofsky score showed an improvement in 7.3% of the patients, 66 % of the patients maintained 
their baseline score and 26.8% deteriorated. Weight loss (> 10% of their baseline weight) occurred in 
4.4% of the patients. 
HO552g: 
The partial response of the main study and maintenance program combined (evaluable patients = 37) 
was  24%  (9/37),  minor  response  and  stable  disease  were  also  24%  and  progressive  disease  was 
16/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
registered in 51% of the patients. According to REC evaluation there were no complete responses on 
this study. The median TTP for all evaluable patients was 2.6 months. The median DOR was 5 months 
(range:  2  –18  months) for  the  9  partial  responses. By study cut-off date (March  96) 30  patients had 
died (29 due to MBC, 1 patient due to cardiomyopathy with congestive heart failure, on 1 patient no 
information is available). Of the 23% of patients that were alive and censored for survival, the median 
survival time was 11 months. 
The  Karnofsky  score  showed  an  improvement  in  5%  of  the  patients,  49%  maintained  their  baseline 
score  and  46%  deteriorated.  Weight  loss  (>  10%  of  their  baseline  weight)  occurred  in  10%  of  the 
patients. 
H0650g 
Multinational, randomised, single blind study of Herceptin in patients with HER2 overexpression who 
have not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. 
114 patients from 18 sites were enrolled. Patients had not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic 
disease.  These  patients  did  not  wish  to  receive  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  for  MBC.  Half  of  them  had 
received prior adjuvant anthracycline, half had not. 59 patients were randomised to a low-dose group 
(2mg/kg weekly after 4 mg/kg loading dose), and 55 patients were randomised to a high-dose group 
(4mg/kg weekly after an 8 mg/kg loading dose). Approximately, half of the patients in this study had 
relapsed after receiving prior anthracycline-containing adjuvant chemotherapy. 
The overall response rate was 26%. Forty-three (38%) patients showed clinical benefit as defined by 
stable disease or minor, partial, complete response for greater than 6 months. The response rate in the 
Her2 3+ population was 34%. Responses were seen in all sites of disease, including visceral disease. 
Sixty-four  percent  of  the  responders  had  received  adjuvant  anthracycline.  Overall,  79%  of  the 
responders had received prior adjuvant chemotherapy.  
For the subgroup of patients who had 3+ HER2 overexpression by IHC, the overall response rate was 
34%.  This  response  rate  in  this  first-line  metastatic  patient  population  compares  quite  favourably  to 
the first-line metastatic patient populations in the H 0648g study, 17% response rate in the paclitaxel 
group  (received  prior  anthracycline  in  the  adjuvant  setting)  and  the  42  %  response  rate  in  the  AC 
group (no prior anthracycline). 
N 
Response* Rates in Study H0650g (ITT population) 
Overall 
[95%CI] 
30 (26%) [18.2% - 34.4%] 
30 (34%) 
0 (0%) 
All patients  114 
3+  
2+ 
*Response criteria were as defined as in studies H0648g and H0649g. 
response 
87 
27 
rate 
The  study was  considered  only  relevant for  safety  considerations.  The protocol is not  applicable for 
efficacy  evaluation  since  it  was  a  non-controlled  study  and  no  standard  regimen  was  used  for  the 
treatment  of  MBC.  However,  an  important  finding  was  that  only  patients  with  3+  overexpressing 
tumours responded whereas patients with 2+ expressing tumours did not respond. Although the higher 
dosage regimen shows a slight trend for enhanced efficacy as compared to the lower dosage regimen, 
the  adverse  reactions  occur  with  higher  percentage  in  the  higher  dosage  group  indicating  a  dose 
response  relationship  for  adverse  events.  In  particular,  rash,  back  pain,  dyspnoea,  chills  and  fever 
occurred at a higher frequency in the high dose group.  
Clinical Safety 
The  entire  clinical  database  based  on  the  clinical  trials  included  safety  data  for  over  nine  hundred 
patients receiving Herceptin in combination with numerous chemotherapy agents or as monotherapy. 
In  addition,  cumulative  data  exposure  since  marketing  approval  in  USA,  Canada,  Switzerland  and 
Israel as estimated to be worldwide about 25,000 patients has been taken into consideration for safety 
assessment. Thus, the applicant provided two PSURs during the approval procedure in addition to the 
data submitted with the application.  
17/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While  in  the  clinical  trial  programme  the  main  safety  issue  was  identified  as  cardiotoxicity  of 
Herceptin, during the approval procedure additional issues arose, infusion related reactions including 
some  with  a  fatal  outcome,  hypersensitivity  reactions,  including  fatal  anaphylaxis  and  pulmonary 
events including adult respiratory distress syndrome and death. While some of these serious adverse 
events were observed in clinical trials, some of the events reported in the postmarketing setting were 
more severe. Thus, the originally suggested SPC needed to be completely amended according to the 
newly arising issues. 
Safety in clinical trials 
All  patients  who  received  treatment  on  study  were  evaluable  for  safety.  Patients  who  received 
Herceptin  +  chemotherapy  (study  H0648g)  or  Herceptin  alone  (study  H0649g)  were  evaluated  for 
safety  weekly  with  each  infusion.  In  contrast,  patients  who  received  chemotherapy  alone  (study 
H0648g)  were  evaluated  less  frequently.  In  study  H0648g,  patients  were  followed  for  safety  until 
progressive  disease.  In  the  single-agent  study  H0649g,  patients  were  followed  for  safety  until 
discontinuation of Herceptin therapy.  
Herceptin in Combination with Chemotherapy: Study H0648g 
469 patients were enrolled into study H0648g, and 464 patients were evaluable for safety (five patients 
discontinued  the  study  prior  to  treatment  with  Herceptin  or  chemotherapy).  234  patients  received 
Herceptin.  
The  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  greater  in  the  paclitaxel  alone  subgroup  than  in  the 
Herceptin  +  paclitaxel  subgroup.  Few  serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  >2.5%  of  patients.  The 
incidence of many adverse events was increased among patients receiving Herceptin. 
Infusion-associated signs and symptoms: In this study, fever, chills, nausea, pain at the tumor site, 
vomiting, headache, back pain, and dizziness in association with Herceptin infusion occurred in 25% 
of patients.  
Cardiovascular: see below under separate chapter. 
Infection: There was an increased incidence of adverse events that  mapped to the preferred term of 
infection  in  both  the  Herceptin  +  chemotherapy  treatment  groups  compared  with  the  chemotherapy 
alone treatment group. Most of these events could be grouped into two categories: upper respiratory 
tract infection (cold, upper respiratory infection, etc.), which constituted 72% of events, and catheter 
infections,  which  constituted  9%  of  events.  The  imbalance  in  the  incidence  of  catheter-related 
infections  among  Herceptin-treated  patients  may  be  due  to  the  increased  frequency  of  indwelling 
catheter access with weekly Herceptin infusions. 
Leukopenia and anemia: The incidence of mild leukopenia and anemia reported as an adverse event 
was increased with Herceptin treatment (leukopenia 41% vs 26%: anaemia 27% vs 19%). 
Digestive:  An  increase  in  a  number  of  adverse  events,  including  diarrhea  and  nausea  and  vomiting 
was  noted  in  both  Herceptin  +  chemotherapy  treatment  groups.  The  events  were  mostly  mild  to 
moderate in severity. 
Respiratory:  An  increased  incidence  of  dyspnoea  and  cough  in  the  Herceptin  +  chemotherapy 
treatment groups occurred. 
Occurrence of leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome: see below under separate chapter.  
Other adverse events: A number of other adverse events of uncertain relationship were increased in 
incidence with Herceptin treatment which were adequately addressed in the SPC. 
Laboratory Parameters: Routine hematology and serum chemistries were analyzed at baseline and at 
scheduled  intervals  at  a  core  laboratory  facility.  Modest  changes  were  noted  in  the  incidence  of 
neutropenia, anemia, and abnormal liver function test results. 
Hematological  Laboratory  Parameters:  Hematologic  adverse  events  were  transient  and  occurred 
during the period of chemotherapy administration. Improvement was noted at week 20, and by week 
32,  hematologic  values  were  nearly  back  to  baseline.  Median  hemoglobin  values  dropped  during 
chemotherapy  administration  (ie:  from  baseline  to  week  8  (–2.6g/dL)  and  week  20  (–2.4g/dL)  but 
were  close  to  baseline  levels  by  week  32  (change  from  baseline  –1.0g/dL)  when  patients  were  no 
longer receiving chemotherapy. Median absolute neutrophil counts did not vary markedly during the 
study.  The  incidence  of  WHO  grade  3  and  4  abnormalities  in  haemoglobin  levels  was  higher  in  the 
Herceptin + chemotherapy groups than in the chemotherapy alone groups (7% vs 1%). Grade 3 or 4 
18/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
neutropenia  was  observed  more  in  the  Herceptin  +  paclitaxel  group  than  the  paclitaxel  alone  group, 
which probably reflects the greater exposure to chemotherapy in the Herceptin-treated patients. 
Hepatic and Renal Laboratory Parameters: Overall, Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities were 
infrequent. Hepatic laboratory abnormalities were observed less frequently among patients receiving 
Herceptin + chemotherapy than among patients receiving chemotherapy alone. No patient experienced 
Grade 3 or 4 elevations in laboratory tests measuring renal function (BUN and creatinine). 
Antibodies: No patients enrolled in study H0648g developed antibodies against Herceptin. 
Herceptin as a Single Agent - Study H0649g 
A total of 213 patients were treated and evaluable for safety (received at least one dose of Herceptin) 
in  study  H0649g.  Patients  were  to  receive  weekly  2mg/kg  infusions  up  to  first  disease  progression. 
Following first disease progression, patients could continue to receive weekly Herceptin infusions of 
2mg/kg or could have their dose increased to 4mg/kg.  
Overall, 77 patients received the higher dose (4 mg/kg IV weekly) of Herceptin either as a single agent 
or with systemic anti-cancer therapy. Nearly all of these patients reported at least one adverse event 
during treatment  with the  higher  dose (97%;  75/77), while about  a third  experienced adverse events 
considered severe (36%; 28/77). Similar types of events occurred during treatment at the higher dose 
as those seen prior to first disease progression when patients (with few exceptions) were treated with 
the lower, 2mg/kg Herceptin dose. The following events commonly occurred (>10% incidence) during 
high dose Herceptin treatment: dyspepsia, anemia, leukopenia, bone pain, myasthenia, depression and 
paraesthesia. 
In general, the adverse events did not substantially differ as compared to study HO648g. One patient 
had a positive, neutralising antibody to Herceptin. This patient had received nine weekly infusions of 
Herceptin and had discontinued the study on day 67 due to progressive disease. This finding was not 
associated with any clinical symptoms. 
Cardiotoxicity 
A main safety concern was cardiotoxicity (cardiomyopathy leading to congestive heart failure, CHF). 
The original dossier contained a retrospective analysis of cardiac adverse events, which was made by a 
cardiac  review  and  evaluation  committee  (CREC).  For  this  analysis,  the  clinical  data  were  searched 
for  patients with cardiac-related AEs  using specific criteria for symptoms  of heart failure. A full re-
assessment  of  cardiac-related  events  was  performed  on  using  more  broader  search  criteria.  The 
findings were largely in accordance with those of the original CREC evaluation. The data provided by 
the applicant as part of the response confirmed that during the clinical studies cardiotoxicity was not 
prospectively  measured  as  an  adverse  event  and  that  any  data  only  allow  retrospective  analysis. 
Therefore,  the  cardiotoxic  potential  of  Herceptin  alone  or  in  combination  with  chemotherapy,  in 
particular  with  paclitaxel,  demands  explicit  clarification  with  regard  to  symptoms  and  nature  of 
cardiotoxicity, frequency, mechanism, threshold of toxicity, time and dose response relationship, risk 
factors  other  than  age,  major  confounding  factors,  mechanism  of  interaction  between  Herceptin 
toxicity and chemotherapy toxicity. These data will be submitted through a follow-up measure.  
Symptoms, nature, and frequency of cardiotoxicity 
Heart  failure  (New  York  Heart  Association  [NYHA]  class  II-IV)  has  been  observed  in  patients 
receiving  Herceptin  therapy  alone  or  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  following  anthracycline 
(doxorubicin or epirubicin)–containing chemotherapy. This may be moderate to severe and has been 
associated  with  death.  These  symptoms  are  apparently  very  similar  to  anthracycline  induced 
cardiotoxicity. 
19/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incidence of Cardiac Dysfunction original evaluation of the CREC (data cut-off Dec. 1997) 
Anthracyline+ 
cyclophosphamide 
N= 135 
Herceptin  + 
paclitaxel 
N= 91 
Herceptin 
alone 
N= 213 
Paclitaxel 
N= 93 
Herceptin+ 
Anthracyline+ 
cyclophosphamide 
N = 143 
28 % 
7 % 
Any  Cardiac 
Dysfunction 
7 % 
11 % 
1 % 
Since broader search criteria were used, new events have been found, and others have been classified 
differently after review. 
Overview of Cardiac Adverse Event Incidence (n,%): Pivotal studies 
Study H0648g 
P+H 
N=91 
P 
N=95 
p-value 
(χ2) 
AC+H 
N=143 
AC 
N=135 
p-value 
(χ2) 
Study 
H0649g 
H alone 
N=213 
7 (7.7) 
4 (4.2) 
0.314 
35 
(24.5) 
10 (7.4)  <0.001 
14 (6.6) 
4 (4.4) 
7 (7.4) 
0.390 
8 (5.6) 
8 (5.9) 
0.906 
5 (2.3) 
21 
(23.1) 
20 
(21.1) 
0.739 
23 
(16.1) 
34 
(25.2) 
0.060  (-
) 
40 (19.2) 
failure 
Classification 
event 
of 
according 
to 
likely aetiology 
Symptomatic 
heart 
”anthracycline 
typical” (a) 
Definitive 
cardiac 
diagnosis  other 
than 
heart 
failure (b) 
Event 
unevaluable  as 
to aetiology (c) 
Categories  are  mutually  exclusive:  patients  assigned  in  hierarchical  fashion  according  to  ranking  in 
Table.  
a 
preferred terms: congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, left ventricular failure, 
lung edema  
or  
other search terms and CRF information indicating cardiac failure (eg. a combination of 
shortness of breath, dyspnoea, cough increased, pulmonary congestion on X-ray, echo or 
MUGA findings) 
cardiac  condition  most  likely  not  related  to  Adriamycin  toxicity  (eg.  pericardial  tamponade, 
syncope, stroke, angina pectoris, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, ascites) 
Includes preferred terms: cardiovascular disorder, shock, respiratory failure, respiratory distress, 
hypoxia,  asthma,  dyspnoea,  cough 
increased,  edema,  peripheral  edema,  heart  arrest, 
hypotension, palpitation, bradycardia, tachycardia, arrhythmia which are not further specified in 
the text of the adverse event forms in the CRF as being definitely related to malignant disease.  
Any other events with insufficient information for assessment of aetiology 
b  
c  
(-) signifies that the difference is in the opposite direction ie the control group has a higher incidence 
than the Herceptin group. 
The  events  identified  as  having  a  higher  incidence  in  patients  receiving  Herceptin  treatment,  in 
particular  in  combination  with  anthracycline/cyclophosphamide,  were  events  related  to  heart  failure 
and were typical of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.  
The rate of symptomatic heart failure in the re-evaluation was not significantly different for Herceptin 
in  combination  with  paclitaxel  (7  patients,  7.7%)  from  that  for  paclitaxel  alone  (4  patients,  4.2%) 
(p=0.314  for  the  difference).  In  contrast,  there  was  a  significant  increase  in  patients  treated  with 
Herceptin in combination  with anthracycline compared with anthracycline alone (35 patients, 24.5% 
vs 10 patients, 7.4%; p<0.001). The rate of symptomatic heart failure associated with monotherapy in 
20/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study H0649g was 6.6% (14 patients). Notably, 13 of the 14 patients with heart failure had received 
prior anthracycline.  
The  incidence  of  cardiac  events  not  typical  of  anthracycline-induced  cardiotoxicity  was  not 
significantly increased with Herceptin treatment in combination with either anthracycline or paclitaxel 
when compared with either chemotherapy alone.  
In  the  entire  Herceptin  program  to  date,  84  patients  (30  patients  in  pivotal  studies,  54  patients  in 
H0650g)  were  anthracycline  naïve.  Three  (4  %)  of  these  patients,  (one  in  H0649g  and  two  in  trial 
H0650g), had events of heart failure. All three patients were elderly (aged 71, 76 and 79 years) and 
two had a documented history of coronary artery disease.  
The  safety of continuation or resumption of Herceptin in patients who experience cardiotoxicity has 
not  been  prospectively  studied.  Most  patients  who  developed  heart  failure  in  the  pivotal  trials 
improved  with  standard  medical  treatment.  This  included  diuretics,  cardiac  glycosides,  and/or 
angiotensin-converting  enzyme  inhibitors.  The  majority  of  patients  with  cardiac  symptoms  and 
evidence  of  a  clinical  benefit  of  Herceptin  treatment  continued  on  weekly  therapy  with  Herceptin 
without  additional  clinical  cardiac  events.  The  rate  of  cardiac  adverse  events  identified  after  the 
original evaluation of the CREC is summarised in the following table. Most patients with symptomatic 
cardiac dysfunction continued to receive Herceptin treatment. There was no obvious difference in the 
outcomes of patients who continued Herceptin therapy compared to those who withdrew from therapy.  
Due to the relatively small numbers  of  patients  discontinuing therapy and the incompleteness of the 
EF  data,  the  current  information  does  not  allow  a  definitive  conclusion  regarding  the  effect  of 
continuation  or  discontinuation  of  Herceptin  in  patients  with  asymptomatic  or  symptomatic  cardiac 
dysfunction. However, since all planned trials will include prospective monitoring of cardiac function, 
this issue should be resolved with subsequent data.  
Summary of Outcome in patients with Heart Failure in the main Studies 
All 
Continued 
Herceptin 
Withdrawn 
N 
41 
28 
13 
Cardiac outcome 
Improved 
32 
21 
Worsened 
5 
4 
unknown 
4 
3 
11 
1 
1 
For patients with asymptomatic Reduced Ejection Fraction limited data were available. Due to the fact 
that  no  prospective  cardiac  monitoring  was  foreseen  in  the  study  protocol.  Therefore,  the  survival 
status  in  patients  known  to  have  a  reduced  ejection  fraction  was  compared  to  those  in  whom  no 
decrease was observed and no clear trend was determined.  
The SPC contains a detailed section about the cardiotoxicity issue. According to this, caution should 
be  exercised  in  treating  patients  with  symptomatic  heart  failure,  a  history  of  hypertension,  or 
documented  coronary  artery  disease.  Candidates  for  treatment  with  Herceptin,  especially  those  with 
prior  anthracycline  and  cyclophosphamide  (AC)  exposure,  should  undergo  baseline  cardiac 
assessment including history and physical examination, ECG, echocardiogram, and/or MUGA scan. A 
careful  risk-benefit  assessment  should  be  made  before  deciding  to  treat  with  Herceptin.  Cardiac 
function should be further monitored during treatment (e.g. every three months). Monitoring may help 
to  identify  patients  who  develop  cardiac  dysfunction.  Patients  who  develop  asymptomatic  cardiac 
dysfunction  may  benefit  from  more  frequent  monitoring  (e.g.  every  6-8  weeks).  If  patients  have  a 
continued  decrease  in  left  ventricular  function,  but  remain  asymptomatic,  the  physician  should 
consider discontinuing therapy if no clinical benefit of Herceptin therapy has been seen. 
If  symptomatic  cardiac  failure  develops  during  Herceptin  therapy,  it  should  be  treated  with  the 
standard  medications  for  this  purpose.  Discontinuation  of  Herceptin  therapy  should  be  strongly 
considered  in  patients  who  develop  clinically  significant  heart  failure  unless  the  benefits  for  an 
individual patient are deemed to outweigh the risks.  
Safety issues identified through the post-marketing experience 
Serious  adverse  reactions  including  infusion  reactions,  hypersensitivity,  allergic-like  reactions  and 
pulmonary  events  have  been  observed  in  patients  receiving  Herceptin  therapy.  The  company  as 
possibly related and serious infusion reactions assessed 74 reports. Most of these patients responded 
21/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
well to supportive treatment and continued to receive Herceptin. 9/74 was reported with fatal outcome 
and 6 additional deaths. In some of these cases, a conclusive assessment was not possible due to the 
lack of data. All of these 9 deaths had pre-existing severe, malignancy-related respiratory distress, 7/9 
were hospitalised  prior to  Herceptin infusion. Patients who  are  experiencing dyspnoea at rest due  to 
complications of advanced malignancy and comorbidities may therefore be at increased risk of a fatal 
infusion  reaction.  Therefore,  it  was  required  to  contraindicate  the  use  of  Herceptin  in  those  patients 
with severe pulmonary compromise with dyspnoea at rest. 
The  severe  reactions  were  usually  associated  with  the  first  infusion  of  Herceptin  and  generally 
occurred  during  or  immediately  following  the  infusion.  For  some  patients,  symptoms  progressively 
worsened  and  led  to  further  pulmonary  complications.  Initial  improvement  followed  by  clinical 
deterioration and delayed reactions with rapid clinical deterioration have also been reported. Fatalities 
have occurred within hours and up to one week following infusion. On very rare occasions, patients 
have experienced the onset of infusion symptoms or pulmonary symptoms more than six hours after 
the start of the Herceptin infusion. Patients should be warned of the possibility of such a late onset and 
should be instructed to contact their physician if these symptoms occur. 
Since  at  present  the  mechanisms  of  the  above  mentioned  adverse  events,  risk  factors,  adequate 
premedication and tolerability of  subsequent  Herceptin infusions  are  unknown,  a follow-up  measure 
has been required to investigate these issues further.  
Infusion reactions, allergic-like reactions and hypersensitivity 
Serious adverse reactions to Herceptin infusion that have been reported infrequently include dyspnoea, 
hypotension,  wheezing,  bronchospasm, 
tachycardia,  reduced  oxygen  saturation,  anaphylaxis, 
respiratory distress, urticaria and angioedema. The majority of these events occur during or within 2.5 
hours of the start of the first infusion. Should an infusion reaction occur the Herceptin infusion should 
be discontinued and the patient monitored until resolution of any observed symptoms. The majority of 
patients experienced resolution of symptoms and subsequently received further infusions of Herceptin. 
Serious  reactions  have  been  treated  successfully  with  supportive  therapy  such  as  oxygen,  beta-
agonists,  and  corticosteroids.  In  rare  cases,  these  reactions  are  associated  with  a  clinical  course 
culminating in a fatal outcome. Patients who are experiencing dyspnoea at rest due to complications of 
advanced  malignancy  and  comorbidities  may  be  at  increased  risk  of  a  fatal  infusion  reaction. 
Therefore, these patients should not be treated with Herceptin. 
An  infusion  reaction  can  clinically  resemble  an  anaphylactic  or  other  allergic  reaction.  There  were 
single  cases  of  allergic  reactions  associated  with  subsequent  infusions.  It  is  difficult  to  differentiate 
between infusion-related and hypersensitivity reactions due to a similar pattern of symptoms.  
Pulmonary events 
Dyspnoea,  bronchospasm,  asthma  and  hypoxia  can  occur  as  part  of  an  infusion  reaction.  These  are 
most common with the first infusion and their severity decreases with subsequent infusions. Serious 
reactions  have  been  treated  successfully  with  supportive  therapy  such  as  oxygen,  beta-agonists,  and 
corticosteroids.  Single  cases  of  pulmonary  infiltrates,  pneumonia,  pulmonary  effusion,  respiratory 
distress, acute pulmonary oedema and respiratory insufficiency have been reported rarely.  
Adult  respiratory  distress  syndrome  has  been  reported  rarely  with  fatal  outcome.  Patients  who  are 
experiencing dyspnoea at rest due to complications of advanced malignancy and comorbidities may be 
at  increased  risk  of  pulmonary  events.  Therefore,  these  patients  should  not  be  treated  by 
contraindication.  
Other safety issues 
Haematological toxicity 
Haematological  toxicity  was  infrequent  following  the  administration  of  Herceptin  as  a  single  agent, 
WHO Grade III leucopenia, thrombocytopenia and anaemia occurring in < 1% of patients. No WHO 
Grade IV  toxicities  were  observed.  There  was  an  increase  in  WHO  Grade  III  or  IV  haematological 
toxicity  in  patients  treated  with  the  combination  of  Herceptin  and  paclitaxel  compared  with  patients 
receiving paclitaxel alone (34% versus 21%). This is possibly due to the result of greater cumulative 
22/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure to paclitaxel in the Herceptin plus paclitaxel arm of the study as time to disease progression 
is increased in this patient group compared with the group treated with paclitaxel alone.  
Neuropathy 
The raw incidence peripheral neuropathy was higher in the Herceptin group plus paclitaxel group than 
in  the  paclitaxel  alone  group.  However,  when  these  rates  were  adjusted  according  to  the  length  of 
observation  period  for  the  two  groups,  the  frequency  of  these  adverse  events  is  similar  between 
treatment groups. Nevertheless the issue has been addressed in the SPC. 
Leukaemia and myelodepression 
The  incidence  of  leukaemia  observed  in  Herceptin  trials  so  far  does  not  exceed  that  expected  in  a 
population of metastatic breast cancer patients who have been treated with chemotherapy.  
To  date,  there  have  been  four  reports  of  secondary  acute  leukemia  and  one  report  of  chronic 
myelogenous leukemia (CML) in patients participating in Herceptin clinical trials in advanced breast 
cancer. All four of these patients received anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide (AC) with Herceptin 
in either Study H0648g (n=3) or Study H0659g (n=1). These cases were considered in an analysis of 
incidence per patient year. The fifth case in study H0693g, was diagnosed in January 1999 in a patient 
receiving Herceptin and vinorelbine who had had prior CMF/anthracycline therapy and occurred after 
the analysis was performed. This patient had the characteristic 9:22 translocation of CML and was not 
felt to have drug-related leukemia. 
When the Dec-97 cut-off (which included the first 3 cases) was used, the incidence rate was 0.81 cases 
per 100 person-years (95% CI, 0.17 to 2.36). Additional data through November 1998 were available 
only for patients in Studies H0648g and H0659g. Using a data cutoff date of 15 November 1998 for 
these two studies, the incidence rate was calculated as 0.76 cases per 100 person-years (95% CI, 0.21 
to 1.95). These rates do not exceed expected rates estimated from a modified best evidence synthesis 
(BES);  a  systematic,  critical  evaluation  and  synthesis  of  the  global  literature  in  metastatic  breast 
cancer.  
The  observed  number  of  four  cases  in  patients  receiving  Herceptin  treatment  in  combination  with 
chemotherapy  falls  below  the  expected  range  of  9–18  cases  predicted  by  the  BES  for  patients 
receiving both an alkylating agent and a topoisomerase inhibitor, and falls within the expected range 
of 2–8 cases predicted for patients treated with just one of these types of agent.  
Based on this analysis, the current evidence does not support an association between Herceptin and an 
increased rate of secondary acute leukemia in women treated for metastatic breast cancer. Occurrence 
of leukemia or myelodysplasia will be observed in the future and data reported as a specific item of 
following PSURs. The issue is adequately addressed in the SPC.  
Hepatic and renal toxicity 
WHO  Grade  III  or  IV  hepatic  toxicity was  observed  in  12%  of  patients  following  administration  of 
Herceptin as single agent. This toxicity was associated with progression of disease in the liver in 60% 
of these patients. WHO Grade III or IV hepatic toxicity was less frequently observed among patients 
receiving Herceptin and paclitaxel than among patients receiving paclitaxel (7% compared with 15%). 
No WHO Grade III or IV renal toxicity was observed in patients treated with Herceptin. 
Diarrhoea 
Of  patients  treated  with  Herceptin  as  a  single  agent,  27%  experienced  diarrhoea.  An  increase  in  the 
incidence  of  diarrhoea,  primarily  mild  to  moderate  in  severity,  has  also  been  observed  in  patients 
receiving Herceptin in combination with paclitaxel compared with patients receiving paclitaxel alone. 
Infection 
An  increased  incidence  of  infections,  primarily  mild  upper  respiratory  infections  of  minor  clinical 
significance or catheter infections, has been observed primarily in patients treated with Herceptin plus 
paclitaxel compared with patients receiving paclitaxel alone. 
Anti-Herceptin antibodies 
All except two patients in the two pivotal trials have been evaluated for antibody production. Human 
anti- trastuzumab antibodies were detected in one patient, who had no allergic manifestations. 
23/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy and Safety  
As a result of the assessment of the clinical data ten major objections were raised related to efficacy 
and safety of the product. In particular, there were concerns on the insufficient efficacy data, the low 
level of efficacy observed in the paclitaxel alone arm of the pivotal study, the potential bias induced 
by the open-label design of the clinical studies, the pharmacodynamic behaviour of the antibody, the 
cardiotoxic reactions of Herceptin alone and in combination with chemotherapy and the development 
of peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, a large number of points for clarification were raised, among 
them of particular concern was the correlation of the clinical benefit of patients with the level of HER2 
overexpression,  the  impact  of  the  diagnostic  determination  of  HER2  overexpression  on  the  correct 
clinical  grading  of  patients,  the  increase  of  CNS  metastases  in  the  Herceptin  arms  and  safety  issues 
such as Herceptin’s potential of inducing leukemia and myelodepression.  
In their  response, the applicant  replied  on the  major concern  of using  a 440  mg  multidose  vial  with 
bacteriostatic water as solvent by providing a proposal to use a 150 mg single dose vial instead.  
Efficacy and level of HER2 overexpression 
There was concern over the lack of correlation between the clinical benefit and the HER2 expression 
level.  Since  study  H0648g  was  not  designed  to  allow  for  subgroup  analysis  of  patients  expression 
HER2 at 2+ or 3+ level and no stratification at randomisation on the basis of level of overexpression 
nor for other potential prognostic factors was performed, analysis was only retrospectively available. 
Nonetheless, on the basis of the analysis provided by the applicant as part of the response and during 
the  oral  presentation,  it  was  concluded  that  a  benefit  is  only  really  discernible  in  the  3+  groups.  A 
significant  difference  in  both  the  H0648  and  H0649  study  concerning  the  primary  endpoint  TTP  is 
only achieved in the 3+ overexpressing HER2 group. Accordingly, the indication has been limited to 
patients whose tumours have HER2 overexpression at a 3+ level. 
Diagnostic methods to determine HER2 
The  diagnostic  methodology  used  to  determine  HER2  overexpression  in  patients  before  Herceptin 
treatment  is  of  importance  in  order  to  identify  the  patients  who  benefit  most.  In  the  clinical  trial 
patients  were  enrolled  if  they  had  2+  or  3+  levels  of  overexpression,  determined  by  a 
immunohistochemical method (IHC) performed by one central testing laboratory.  
The  data  showed  that  only  laboratories  specialised  in  performing  immunohistochemistry  should 
investigate the tumour specimens.  
This has been adequately addressed in the SPC. 
Herceptin in combination with paclitaxel 
Treatment options will only change for a small group of patients, those with HER2 positive tumors. 
The  indication  was  supported  since  the  real  target  group  for  the  use  of  Herceptin  can  be  clearly 
identified by the use of appropriate diagnostic methods. 
Therefore,  a  strong  requirement  for  the  SPC  recommendation  on  the  use  of  diagnostic  methods  has 
been implemented. However, there were arguments to limit the indication to patients who did receive 
prior  adjuvant  and  to  patients  for  whom  AC  is  not  suitable.  There  are  no  data  available  on  those 
patients with no prior adjuvant AC (approx. 10% of MBC patients). Furthermore, comparative data to 
AC  (AC  vs.  H+P)  are  not  taken  into  account  for  approval  decision.  Therefore,  the  wording  of  the 
indication under b) combination therapy was amended as follows: 
„....b)  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom AC is not suitable“ 
24/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Herceptin as a single agent in second- and third-line therapy 
The applicant has presented a substantial and detailed discussion of the data observed with Herceptin 
used  as  single  agent  in  second  line  therapy  as  compared  to  the  current  knowledge  of  alternative 
treatment  options.  It  has  been  shown  that  the  patients  recruited  into  the  study  H0649g  had  the 
characteristics of a poor prognostic group in which any further chemotherapy would be expected to be 
associated  with  a  low  response  rate.  Herceptin  was  well  tolerated  in  the  pivotal  monotherapy  trial, 
even  by  patients  who  had  received  multiple  prior  chemotherapy  regimens.  Despite  the  poor 
characteristics, Herceptin monotherapy led to an objective response rate of 14 % in these patients. In 
addition,  36%  of  patients  had  a  minor  response  or  stable  disease.  The  monotherapy  indication  was 
therefore considered acceptable whereas the wording of the indication was changed in order to limit 
the use to patients who have received at least two chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease 
(instead  of  one  or  more).  Prior  chemotherapy  must  have  included  at  least  an  anthracycline  and  a 
taxane  unless  patients  are  unsuitable  for  these  treatments.  Hormone  receptor  positive  patients  must 
also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments 
Safety 
Substantial assessment has been performed on the new safety issues which arised within the procedure 
leading to comprehensive changes of the SPC:  
(cid:131)  4.4.: mentioning of 
Infusion related reactions, including fatal outcome 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including some with fatal outcome 
Pulmonary events, including ARDS, pleural effusion, pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary oedema  
(cid:131)  4.4.:  adequate  information  about  the  onset,  frequency,  progression  and  outcome  of  AEs  (i.e., 
majority during or after first infusion, within 6 hours, some cases may occur later, also after first 
improvement) 
(cid:131)  4.4.: adequate information about risk groups 
(cid:131)  4.4.:  adequate  information  and  recommendation  about  how  to  administer  Herceptin,  how  to 
monitor patients and how to treat AEs  
(cid:131)  4.4.: recommendation on the need to inform patients about the potential (re)occurrence of events 
with onset at a later time point 
(cid:131)  4.8. was updated entirely according to the assessment taking into account the above mentioned 
three  separate  chapters  on  Infusion  related  reactions, 
points  for  4.4.  Furthermore, 
Hypersensitivity reactions, and pulmonary events were included. 
(cid:131)  4.3. A contraindication in those patients with severe pulmonary compromise with dyspnoea at 
rest was introduced.  
(cid:131)  4.2. It was required that patients are monitored for at least 6 hours after the first infusion and for 
at least 2 hours after subsequent infusions  
5.   Overall Conclusion and benefit risk assessment 
The  data  provided  on  quality  were  adequate  and  demonstrated  that  Herceptin  is  manufactured  and 
controlled  according  to  the  requirements.  The  preclinical  characterisation  of  Herceptin  has  been 
performed according to the requirements and showed adequate preclinical safety. 
Five clinical questions were still outstanding to be clarified at an oral presentation in order to justify 
the  proposed  Monotherapy  indication,  the  explain  the  impact  of  the  indication  of  Herceptin  in 
combination with paclitaxel in First-line Therapy on the use of current standard treatment regimens of 
metastatic  disease,  to  discuss  the  correlation  between  the  clinical  benefit  and  the  HER2  expression 
level, further discuss the data presented in the recent PSUR in relation to serious allergic reactions and 
infusion  related  reactions  and  the  impact  of  these  data  on  the  risk  benefit  assessment.  From  the 
assessment  of  the  second  PSUR  two  additional  questions  resulted  which  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant at the Oral presentation (overview of the number of anthracycline naive patients with cardiac 
25/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events and outcome, re-assessment of those cases from clinical trials where the causality assessment of 
the drug/event relationship was listed by the investigator as at least possible).  
As outcome of the Oral presentation, the clinical efficacy and safety has been considered sufficiently 
demonstrated to recommend approval of Herceptin on clinical grounds. The Committee considered the 
applied indications acceptable with the suggested changes of the SPC.  
The  company  will  perform  a  large  number  of  clinical  trials  worldwide  to  investigate  combinations 
with new medications, the adjuvant use of Herceptin, safety and pharmacodynamic issues. In addition, 
the  company  committed  a  number  of  follow-up  measures  for  further  investigation  of  clinically 
relevant questions, which are listed separately.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Herceptin  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  metastatic  breast 
cancer whose tumours overexpress HER2 
a)  as  monotherapy  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  received  at  least  two  chemotherapy 
regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at least an anthracycline 
and  a  taxane  unless  patients  are  unsuitable  for  these  treatments.  Hormone  receptor  positive  patients 
must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
b)  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease for whom an anthracycline is not suitable.  
Was favourable. 
6. 
Update on pharmacokinetics from Follow-up Measures: Study BO15935 
Roche committed to investigate further the PK of trastuzumab in post-authorisation studies. 
Preliminary  PK  data  derived  from  Study  BO15935  indicated  a  longer  half-life  for  Herceptin  than 
originally estimated. The interim report of study BO15935 and the re-analysis of the data of single-
agent studies and the combined Herceptin+paclitaxel data of the pivotal study HO648 provided with 
the Marketing Authorisation Application were assessed.   
Based on the single agent studies H0407g n=16, H0551g n=46 and H0649g n=213 as well as on the 
data  from  trial  H0648g,  n=234  (where  Herceptin  was  co-administered  with  either  +  anthracycline/ 
cyclophosphamide  (AC)  or  paclitaxel)  the  population  PK  was  re-analysed  to  assess  the  effect  of 
pathophysiologic  covariates  and  the  potential  influence  of  concomitant  chemotherapy  (Herceptin  + 
AC or  paclitaxel) on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. A non-linear  mixed model approach was 
employed to analyze the data using a linear two-compartment model with zero-order input (infusion) 
as base model. 
In  a  first  step  a  model  for  pathophysiologic  covariates  (i.e.  demographic  factors,  laboratory 
parameters, HER2 overexpression, shed antigen, number of metastatic sites) was built using data from 
the single agent trials only. First, covariates were added sequentially to the model in order to evaluate 
the  effect  of  the  covariates  on  clearance  and  central  compartment  distribution  volume.  Having 
identified  those  covariates  improving  the  model  fit  statistically  significant  the  correlation  between 
covariates was  evaluated in order  to  determine which covariates  should  be incorporated in  the ‘full’ 
model. The full model incorporated the following covariates: total protein, shed antigen, and number 
of  metastatic  sites  (for  clearance)  and  weight,  total  bilirubin,  alkaline  phosphatase,  number  of 
metastatic  sites,  and  shed  antigen  (for  volume  of  distribution).  As  a  non-linear  relationship  was 
discovered between shed antigen and clearance respectively volume of distribution, shed antigen was 
modeled  nonlinearly  while  all  other  parameters  were  modelled  linearly.  Removing  each  covariate 
from the full model one at a time in order to identify those covariates that significantly influence the 
model fit then derived the final  model. By means  of this  approach “number  of  metastatic  sites” and 
“shed  antigen”  were  identified  as  the  most  influential  covariates  in  the  model  for  clearance,  and 
“weight” and “shed antigen” were the influential covariates in the model for volume of distribution. 
26/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a second step the data from the concomitant chemotherapy Study H0648 were added to the dataset 
and  the  effect  of  concomitant  chemotherapy  on  the  final  model  was  evaluated.  After  adjusting  for 
baseline  covariates,  there  was  no  statistically  significant  effect  of  concomitant  chemotherapy  on 
clearance  or  volume  of  distribution.  Therefore,  concomitant  chemotherapy  was  not  included  in  the 
final model.  
The model and program used to re-evaluate the PK data is considered adequate. The two-compartment 
model has been determined to be more appropriate to describe the PK data than the one-compartment 
model used previously. It cannot be excluded that a third compartment is involved, however, with the 
currently available data the two-compartment model is considered appropriate.  
In  conclusion,  the  re-assessed  data  indicate  that  the  half-life  is  approximately  28.5  days  (95% 
confidence  interval,  25.5  –32.8  days).  The  washout  period  is  up  to  20  weeks  (95%  confidence 
interval, 18-24 weeks). Steady state pharmacokinetics should be reached by approximately 20 weeks 
( 95 % confidence interval, 18 – 24 weeks ). The estimated mean AUC was 578 mg day/L and the 
estimated mean peak and trough concentrations were 110 mg/L and 66 mg/L, respectively. The mean 
clearance  when  a  loading  dose  of  4 mg/kg  trastuzumab  followed  by  a  subsequent  weekly  dose  of 
2 mg/kg was used was 0.225 L/day. The volume of distribution approximated serum volume, 2.95 L. 
Detectable  concentrations  of  the  circulating  extracellular  domain  of  the  HER2  receptor  (shed 
antigen)  are  found  in  the  serum  of  some  patients  with  HER2  overexpressing  breast  cancers. 
Determination  of  shed  antigen  in  baseline  serum  samples  revealed  that  64 %  (286/447)  of  patients 
had detectable shed antigen, which ranged as high as 1880 ng/ml (median = 11 ng/ml). The section 
5.2  of  the  SPC  was  updated  accordingly.  A  sentence  informing  the  patient  of  the  long  washout 
period  of Herceptin  was  included in the Package Leaflet section  2. Letters to  the  physicians and  a 
relevant public statement were issued in May 2001 informing the prescribers on the longer half life 
and wash-out period and the fact that due to this, potential risk of cardiotoxicity needs to be carefully 
considered when patients are treated or have been treated with Herceptin.  
7. 
Update of Clinical Safety post-authorisation.  
The  statement  on  cardiotoxicity  (SPC  section  4.4)  and  the  need  for  cardiac  function  monitoring  has 
been  emphasised,  the  warning  was  strengthened  and  extended  to  all  candidates  for  receiving 
Herceptin, including anthracycline -  naive patients. Severe rare  pulmonary events are also described 
under 4.4. as requested by the CPMP following the assessment of the 3rd PSUR, pneumonitis has also 
been added in respiratory serious adverse reactions (section 4.8) and hypertension has been added as 
an infusion related syndrome. Following the assessment of the 1st PSUR glomerulopathy was added in 
4.8.  Section  4.8  “Undesirable  effects”,  was  amended  to  include  pulmonary  fibrosis  following  an 
update to the Sponsor’s Core Data Sheet as presented in the 5th PSUR. 
8. 
Additional indication: Herceptin in combination with Taxotere 
• 
An  extension  of  the  indication  for  the  combination  of  Herceptin  and  docetaxel  (Taxotere)  as  a 
treatment for patients with HER2-positive MBC was based on data from:.  
• 
Study  JP16003.  This  is  a  clinical  pharmacology  study  in  Japanese  patients,  assessing  the 
pharmacokinetics of Herceptin and docetaxel in combination. 
Study  M77001.  This  controlled,  randomized,  multi-centre  pivotal  trial  was  designed  to 
investigate  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  combination  of  Herceptin  and  docetaxel  compared  with 
docetaxel alone. 
Publications from six completed and two ongoing phase II supportive efficacy studies.  
• 
Safety information from four ongoing multicenter trials on HER2-positive MBC patients treated with 
the combination of Herceptin and docetaxel.  
The main characteristics of these studies are summarised in table 1 below. 
27/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Design 
Centres, 
subjects, age  
location, 
Therapy  in 
MBC 
Docetaxel 
regimen 
Objectives  Main endpoints 
65, Australia, Europe, 188 
subjects, 24-80years 
First 
100mg/m2  iv 
q3w 
6 
cycles. 
x 
M77001 
JP160003 
Pivotal,  multi-
centre, 
randomised 
study  of  H+ 
doc  vs  doc, 
Phase II 
clinical 
pharmacology 
study 
1, Japan 
16 subjects 
36-61 years 
Esteva et al 
Single 
arm, 
weekly H+doc, 
Phase II 
1, US 
30 subjects 
33-78 years 
First/ 
second 
60mg/m2 
iv 
q3/4w  x  6 
cycles 
First/ 
second 
35mg/m2 iv 
q1w x 3 qw4 
Efficacy: ORR  
Safety:  AEs, 
cardiac monitoring 
labs, 
PK parameters  
AEs, labs, cardiac 
monitoring 
Tumour response 
Overall tumour 
response 
toxicity 
Tumour 
AEs, 
monitoring 
response, 
cardiac 
AES, 
tumour 
response and response 
duration 
response, 
Tumour 
AEs/cardiac 
monitoring 
Tumour response 
AEs 
Cardiac 
toxicity/hematological 
toxicity 
ORR 
ORR, clinical benefit 
rate 
Cardiac monitoring 
ORR,  safety 
profile,  TTP, 
and 
TTF 
duration 
of 
response  
PK of 
docetaxel +/-
Herceptin 
activity 
and 
safety  of  H+ 
doc. 
efficacy and 
safety of wk 
doc + 
Herceptin  
correlation: 
serum  HER2 
levels 
ECD 
with efficacy  
tolerability 
activity 
and 
of 
+ 
doc 
in 
Herceptin 
HER2+ MBC 
safety 
efficacy 
wk 
Herceptin 
+ 
of 
doc+ 
tolerability  + 
activity 
of 
Herceptin  + 
in 
doc 
HER2+ MBC 
efficacy of       
wk doc  
wk  doc  plus 
Herceptin 
efficacy  and 
cardiac  safety 
of H+doc 
in 
outcomes 
patients 
prosp. 
selected  with 
FISH,  treated 
with 
Herceptin 
plus a taxane 
Montemurro 
et al1 
Single 
H+doc 
arm 
5, Italy 
25subjects       36-73 years
First/ 
second/third 
Pilot phase II 
Meden et al 
Single 
H+doc 
arm 
1,  Germany,  12  subjects, 
36-63 years 
Second/ 
third 
Pilot phase II 
Montemurro 
et al2 
Single 
H+doc 
arm 
6, Italy, 53 subjects 
36-73 years 
First/ 
second 
Phase II 
75mg/m2 iv q 
3w x 6 
cycles. 
35mg/m2 
q1w 
x 
cycles. 
iv 
6 
75mg/m2 iv q 
3w 
6 
x 
cycles 
Sparano 
al 
et 
Single 
arm, 
weekly H+doc, 
Phase II 
1,  US, 
median 54 years 
25 
subjects, 
First/ 
second 
33mg/m2 
q1w 
iv 
8, Germany 
First 
392, US 
314 subjects 
First 
100mg/m2  iv 
q3w  or  35 
mg/m2  q1w 
for  6  of  8 
weeks  (max 
3 cycles) 
Per 
investigators’ 
discretion 
Raab et al 
HER-First 
Multi-centre, 
randomised 
study  of  H+ 
doc  q1w  vs 
q3w 
non-
community-
based, 
randomised 
of 
study 
H+doc 
or 
H+pac,  Phase 
IV 
Uber et al 
Single 
H+doc 
arm 
6,  US, 
subjects 
21 
(planned 34), 35-73 years 
First/ 
second 
Phase II pilot 
Kuzur et al 
Single 
H+doc 
arm 
1,  US, 
subjects 
21 
(planned 30), 36-72 years 
First/ 
second 
Phase II 
35mg/m2 
q1w (for 6 of 
8 weeks) 
safety 
efficacy 
weekly 
plus H 
+  
of 
doc 
Cardiac, 
ORR, 
haematological  
toxicity 
75mg/m2 
q3w 
x 
cycles 
iv 
6 
safety 
efficacy 
doc plus H 
+ 
of 
ORR, 
response 
duration,  TTF,  safety 
and tolerability 
28/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  provided  (limited)  information  on  the  PK  of  Herceptin  in  Japanese  patients.  Using  a 
population PK approach an attempt was made to assess the comparability of the PK in Japanese and 
non-Japanese patients. Due to limited number of Japanese patients this approach does not allow for a 
final conclusion. There are no additional PK data dealing with the possible impact of docetaxel on the 
PK of Herceptin. This is in a way justified by pointing to the similarity of taxanes in general.  
Pharmacodynamics 
No  specific  pharmacodynamic  study  has  been  performed.  The  data  gained  from  the  exploratory 
pharmacodynamic  analysis  of  the  pivotal  trial  M77001  are  too  limited  to  draw  any  conclusion 
concerning  trends  between  shed  HER2  extracellular  domain  (ECD)  and  clinical  response.  Thus  it 
remains open whether ECD concentrations at baseline > 200 ng/mL are predictive of a worse clinical 
outcome.  Regarding  the  immunogenicity  of  the  combination  Herceptin  +  docetaxel,  there  is  no  new 
information  on  the  incidence  of  anti-Herceptin  antibodies.  No  patient  receiving  the  combination  has 
been tested, because no unusual immune complex diseases or manifestations have been reported.  
Clinical efficacy 
Study M77001 was an open-label, comparative, multicenter, multinational, randomized phase II study,  
conducted as pivotal trial with the title:“A multicenter, randomized comparative study on the efficacy 
and safety of Herceptin (trastuzumab) plus docetaxel versus docetaxel alone as first line treatment in 
patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer”. Eligible patients had to have metastatic breast 
cancer  (MBC)  with  HER2  overexpression/amplification  (IHC3+  and/or  FISH  positive)  who  had  not 
previously received chemotherapy except, given as neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment.  
All patients were randomised to receive Herceptin in combination with docetaxel or docetaxel alone.  
The loading dose of 4mg /kg Herceptin was given intravenously over 90 minutes on day 1, followed 
by 2 mg/kg weekly Herceptin infusions over 30 minutes until disease progression. Patients received an 
initial  dose  of  docetaxel  (100mg/m2)  intravenously  on  the  day  following  the  first  dose  of  Herceptin 
(study  day  2).  Docetaxel  in  subsequent  cycles  (every  3  weeks)  was  administered  30  minutes  after 
completion of the Herceptin infusion, if the preceding dose of Herceptin was well tolerated. 
Primary endpoint: • Overall response rate (ORR) in each treatment arm. (Complete response CR plus 
partial response PR) during the treatment period.  
The  investigator,  according  to  WHO  criteria,  assessed  the  tumour  response  levels.  Additionally  an 
independent  radiological  review  (IRR)  evaluated  the  best  response  unless  best  response  was  PD.  In 
case of different assessments reconciliation was performed manually to decide whether the difference 
was  due  to  over-riding  clinical  factors  (i.e.  information  not  available  to  the  IRR  who  performed  a 
radiological review only). For the primary analysis, this reconciled data was used (i.e. IRR assessment 
modified  to  reflect  over-riding  clinical  data,  otherwise  the  IRR  assessment  prevailed).  The 
investigator’s assessments were analysed separately and considered secondary. 
Secondary endpoints:  
• To characterise the safety profile of docetaxel plus Herceptin and of docetaxel as a single agent in 
patients with HER2-positive MBC. 
•  To  determine  the  time  to  progression  (TTP),  progression-free  survival  (PFS),  time  to  treatment 
failure (TTF), time to response, duration of response and overall survival. 
The analysis of efficacy was primarily based on the full analysis set (FAS) defined by all patients who 
were randomised and received at least one dose of study medication (including the chemotherapy 
part). Groups were defined as they were randomised. In addition a per protocol set (PPS) was defined 
as subset of the FAS, excluding patients fulfilling at least one of the following criteria: 
1. 
Prior  chemotherapy  treatments  specifically  listed  in  the  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  for  the 
protocol. 
Failure to receive at least one dose of assigned treatment medication. 
Patients with LVEF <40% at baseline 
Patients  who  fail  to  meet  the  tumour  assessment  criteria  specified  in  the  inclusion/exclusion 
criteria for the protocol. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
29/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
6. 
7. 
Absence  of  documentation  of  over-expression/amplification  of  HER2  as  specified  in  the 
protocol. 
Absence of documentation of protocol specified tumour. 
Baseline ECOG > 2. 
Furthermore, the statistical analysis plan specified various subgroups (e.g according age, number of 
metastatic organ sites etc) for additional analyses. 
For  the  primary  efficacy  variable,  overall  reconciled  response  rates  overall  response  rates  and  95% 
confidence limits according to Pearson-Clopper were calculated for each treatment group. The Hauck-
Anderson  approach  was  used  to  calculate  confidence  limits  for  the  difference.  Although,  not  the 
primary focus according protocol, the overall reconciled response rates in both treatment groups were 
compared by means of a 2sided chi-square test.  
The same approach as for the primary variable (except hypothesis testing) was used to analyse the best 
tumour  response  (CR,  PR,  SD,  PD),  both  reconciled  and  by  investigator.  A  summary  of  the 
concordance between IRR best response and investigator best response was also made. 
For time to event endpoints, Kaplan-Meier curves were calculated and displayed. Medians and 
corresponding 95% confidence limits were given if they were reached. If large treatment differences 
were seen a two-sided log rank test was used to compare the hazard rates between both treatment 
groups. All analyses for time to event endpoints were performed for the FAS population. Only for 
TTP the analysis was repeated for the per protocol set and the subgroups mentioned above. 
Trends between ECD and clinical response were assessed by means of an exploratory analysis.  
Results 
Fig. 1. Disposition of patients. 
Both groups were balanced with regard to demographic, baseline and disease characteristics.  
30/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median age in the docetaxel group was 55 years, in the docetaxel + Herceptin group 53 years and 
90 and 99% of the patients were Caucasian. In both groups breast cancer histories and treatments were 
comparable.  The  median  duration  of  primary  disease  (time  from  first  diagnosis  to  diagnosis  of 
metastasis)  was  22.6  and  26.6  months  in  the  docetaxel  group  and  in  the  combination  group, 
respectively.  At  study  entry  the  median  duration  of  metastatic  disease  (time  from  diagnosis  of 
metastasis to entry in the study) was 1.0 months (range 0 – 66.8 months) in the docetaxel arm versus 
1.3 months (range 0 – 67.9 months) for the patients in the docetaxel + Herceptin group. 
Approximately  two  thirds  of  patients  in  both  groups  had  received  previous  radiotherapy  (66%  in 
docetaxel  and  64%  in  docetaxel  +  Herceptin)  and  chemotherapy  (68%  in  docetaxel  and  71%  in 
docetaxel  +  Herceptin)  as  (neo)adjuvant  treatment.  As  part  of  it,  slightly  more  patients  in  the 
docetaxel+Herceptin arm had received prior anthracycline therapy (64% in the Herceptin arm versus 
55% in the docetaxel arm). The primary tumours were more frequently estrogen and/or progesterone 
receptor positive in the docetaxel group (53 patients = 56%) than in the docetaxel + Herceptin group 
(38 patients = 41%). In both treatment arms the degree of HER2 overexpression was comparable with 
87% and 88% of patients in the docetaxel arm and the docetaxel +Herceptin arm, respectively, being 
tested IHC3+. Overall, 92 % and 96 % had IHC3+ and/or FISH positive disease. In median number of 
metastases was 4 metastases located at 2 sites with a very slightly higher burden of disease in patients 
in the docetaxel alone arm as compared to patients in the docetaxel + Herceptin arm (2 – 5 % more 
patients had lung, liver, bone and soft tissue metastases). 
Cardiovascular  risk  factors  other  than  prior  anthracycline  use  were  well  balanced  between  the  two 
treatment arms except for smoking (10% versus 20%). 
The results in terms of efficacy endpoints can be summarised as follows: 
Table 2: Overall tumour response and best tumour response (IRR, FAS population) 
Responders 
  Complete response 
  Partial response 
Non-responders 
  Stable disease 
  Progressive disease 
Missing (response not 
assessed) 
Difference in 
response rate 
24.7% 
(10.2%,39.2%) 
p=0.001 
Docetaxel alone 
(n=94) 
34 (36.2%) 
Docetaxel plus Herceptin 
(n=92) 
56 (60.9%) 
2 (2.1%) 
32 (34.0%) 
60 (63.8%) 
39 (41.5%) 
14 (14.9%) 
7 (7.4%) 
6 (6.5%) 
50 (54.3%) 
36 (39.1%) 
25 (27.2%) 
11 (12.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  (time  to  response  and  duration  of  response)  were  assessed  using  the 
investigator assessed tumour response. Additional survival time, progression-free survival (PFS), time 
to progression (TTP) and time to failure (TTF) were evaluated. The final analysis was conducted when 
all patients had been observed for at least 6 months, or had withdrawn or died. At data-cut-off nearly 
all patients 177/186 (95%) had been followed for at least 1 year (withdrawn or died) and the median 
duration  of  follow-up  was  12.4  and  14.6  months  in  the  docetaxel  respectively  docetaxel+Herceptin 
arm. The results are summarised in the following table: 
31/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Time related secondary efficacy endpoints (FAS population, months, median and range) 
Time to response 
Duration of response 
Number with PD
Number without PD (censored)
Time to progression (TTP) p=0.0001 
Number dying
Number surviving (censored)
Overall survival (OS) p=0.0002 
Number progressing or dying
Number surviving and disease free (censored)
Progression free survival (PFS) p=0.0001 
Number with failure 
Number without failure
Time to treatment failure (TTF) p=0.0001 
Docetaxel alone 
(N=94) 
n=41 
2 (1.1-3.8)  
4.2 (1.2-10.7) 
57 (60.6%) 
37 (39.4%) 
6.1 (0.2-12.2) 
34 (36.2%) 
60 (63.8%) 
18.3 (0.2-27) 
58 (61.7%) 
36 (38.3%) 
6.1 (0.2-12.2) 
79 (84%) 
15 (16%) 
3.7 (0-9.2) 
Docetaxel plus Herceptin 
(N=92) 
n=64 
1.6 (0.8-7.2)  
8.3 (1.6-27.4) 
57 (62%) 
35 (38%) 
10.6 (0.5-29) 
20 (21.7%) 
72 (78.3%) 
27.7 (1.5-29.7) 
58 (63%) 
34 (37%) 
10.6 (0.5-29) 
68 (73.9%) 
24 (26.1%) 
9.2 (0.2-24.4)  
n denotes the number of patients reaching the endpoint, N the total number of patients in the specified treatment group and population 
Table 4. Efficacy outcomes in Anthracycline pre-treated and Anthracycline naive subgroups 
Anthracycline pre-treated patients 
Anthracycline naive patients 
Docetaxel 
alone n=52 
Docetaxel + 
Herceptin 
n=59 
58% (44-70%) 
p-value 
Docetaxel 
alone n=42 
p-value 
Docetaxel + 
Herceptin 
n=33 
67% (48-82%) 
0.015 
8.8 (1.7-21.9) 
38% (24-
54%) 
35% (22-
49%) 
4.2 (1.2-6.9) 
ORR IRR* 
(95%CI) 
Median (range) 
duration of response 
(months) 
Median (range) TTP 
(months) 
Median (range) 
survival (months) 
* response as assessed by independent radiological review reconciled with investigators assessment (eg where overriding clinical information 
available) 
**= median could not be estimated due to extensive censoring 
5.4 (0.2-11.4) 10.6 (0.5-23.3) 
4.6 (1.9-10.7)  8.2 (1.6-27.4) 
18.3 (1.3-
21.8) 
6.9 (0.7-12.2) 
25 (4.5-29.7) 
21.9 (0.2-27) 
10.4 (7.6-29) 
** (1.5-29) 
0.0113 
0.0028 
0.0198 
0.0001 
0.014 
The primary and secondary parameters were reanalyzed after excluding the 16 patients whose 
assessment of objective response was based on clinical assessment only. The results of these analyses 
(ITT, excluding the 16 patients with assessment by clinical exam only) are given in the table below. 
Table 5 Analysis of primary and secondary parameters after excluding 16 patients 
Reconciled response Responders, n (%) 
P-value (chi square) 
Investigator response Responders, n (%)
P-value (chi square) 
Survival Median (months), 95% CI 
P-value (log-rank) 
PFS Median (months) 95% CI 
P-value (log-rank)  
TTP Median (months), 95% CI 
P-value (log-rank) 
TTF Median (months), 95% CI 
P-value (log-rank) 
Docetaxel alone 
N=87 
29 (33.3%) 
36 (41.4%) 
17.4 (15.6 – 22.6) 
5.8 (5.3 – 6.8) 
6.1 (5.4 – 6.8) 
3.7 (3.6 – 4.2) 
P=0.001 
P=0.0006 
P=0.0002 
P=0.0001 
P=0.0001 
P=0.0001 
Docetaxel +Herceptin 
N=83 
48 (57.8%) 
56 (67.5%) 
27.7 (23.6 – 29.7) 
10.4 (7.3 – 12.9) 
10.6 (7.6 – 13.5) 
9.8 (6.4 – 12.2) 
32/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH was required to update the 6-months analysis of the M77001 study to include data up to 12 
months after the last patient entered. 
Table 6 Efficacy Data from the M77001 Study – 12 month Analysis (ITT) 
Docetaxel plus Herceptin 
Docetaxel alone 
n=94 
34% (CR/PR 2/30) 
44% (CR/PR 5/36) 
5.1 (1.2 – 32.1+) 
ORR IRR* 
ORR investigator 
Median (range) duration 
of response (months) 
Median (range) TTP 
(months) 
Median (range) survival 
(months) 
*Response as assessed by independent radiological review reconciled with investigator assessment (eg where overriding 
clinical information available) 
+ censored observations 
n=92 
61% (CR/PR 6/50) 
70% (CR/PR 12/52) 
11.4 (1.6 – 34.4+) 
22.1 (0.2 – 36.2+) 
5.7 (0.2 – 33.6+) 
10.6 (0.5 – 36+) 
30.5 (5.9 –36+) 
p-value 
0.0002 
0.001 
0.0011 
0.0001 
0.0062 
Efficacy data were also presented from six completed and two ongoing phase I/II published studies, as 
well as from  the Japanese clinical pharmacology study (JP16003) and from an ongoing community-
based  study  in  the  US  (HER-First  study)  They  are  considered  to  be  supportive  for  the  combination 
therapy with docetaxel plus Herceptin. All studies had an open-label design. The pivotal, randomised 
study M77001 and the ongoing community based phase IV study in the US recruited a large patient 
population,  (188  and  314  patients  respectively)  whereas  the  remaining  phase  I/II  studies  were  only 
conducted with <42 patients. Herceptin was given in the approved dose and regimen (4mg/kg iv initial 
dose  followed  by  2mg/kg  weekly).  Only  in  one  (Esteva  et  al)  study  there  was  a  minor  variation 
because every fourth dose of Herceptin was omitted (ie three weekly doses and one week’s rest). The 
docetaxel  regimen  varied  in  dose  and  dosing  interval  (q1w  and  q3w)  with  a  weekly  regimen  of 
between 30-35mg/m2 in about half of the studies.  
Demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  of  the  supportive  studies  were  comparable  and  thus  the 
populations  similar  to  that  of  the  pivotal  study.  However,  there  were  differences  with  regard  to  the 
disease  characteristics  and  pre-study  treatment.  Across  studies  women  with  ICH  2+  tumours  and 
unknown  gene  amplification  status  were  included.  Around  30%  of  patients  had  received  prior 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease compared to none in the pivotal study. Prior anthracycline 
use  varied  between  24  and  100%  (pivotal  study  ~64-68%).  The  average  tumour  burden  was  similar 
across all studies. 
The comparison of the efficacy results is based on the investigator,s assessment of the pivotal study 
data, since the supportive studies did not have independent reviews. The overall response rate in the 
Herceptin  +docetaxel  arm  of  the  pivotal  study  was  70%  (44%  in  the  docetaxel  alone  arm)  and  lies 
within  the  range  reported  in  the  other studies (44% to  83% in the completed studies). However,  the 
supportive  studies  are  heterogeneous  and  differ  in  their  applied  docetaxel  regimens,  the  degree  of 
pretreatment  and  the  proportion  of  patients  with  HER-2  3+  disease.  The  lowest  reported  response 
study of 44% in an ongoing study might change because of 3 minor ongoing responses. Additionally, 
in those completed studies evaluating median TTP the data are similar with a range between 8.3 and 9 
months compared to 10.6 months in the pivotal study.  
Clinical Safety  
Safety  data  on the  Herceptin  plus  docetaxel combination is  derived from the  pivotal  study  M77001, 
and from the Japanese clinical pharmacology study JP16003. Interim safety information comes from 
an  ongoing  randomised  study  investigating  Herceptin  +  docetaxel  ± capecitabine  (MO16149  study). 
Supplementary  information  is  provided  on  serious  AEs  (SAEs)  occurring  in  2  ongoing  studies:  one 
community-based study in the USA (Study H2251n) and one co-operative group study (BCIRG007). 
Limited safety information is available in the literature from six completed and two ongoing phase I/II 
studies  of  efficacy  and  safety,  and  from  an  expanded  access  program  in  the  UK.  In  total,  data  from 
approximately  700  patients  with  HER2-positive  MBC  who  received  Herceptin  in  combination  with 
docetaxel in clinical trials are available and more than 80 patients with HER2-positive breast cancer 
33/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been treated with the combination in adjuvant and neoadjuvant settings. Duration of observation 
ranges up to 29.7 months in the pivotal study, and greater than 20 months in the supporting studies. 
This assessment will focus mainly on the data gained from the pivotal study. 
Adverse events in the pivotal study with an incidence >10% mainly included those usually associated 
with  docetaxel  treatment  (eg  alopecia,  asthenia,  nausea,  diarrhoea,  peripheral  oedema,  vomiting, 
neuropathy  and  neutropenia).  The  incidence  of  these  events  was  generally  slightly  higher  in  the 
Herceptin plus docetaxel arm than in the control arm. Common adverse events in the Herceptin plus 
docetaxel  arm  that  occurred  infrequently  in  the  docetaxel  alone  arm  included  influenza-like  illness, 
and rigors, which are common infusion, related reactions with Herceptin treatment. The slightly higher 
incidence  of  diarrhea  in  the  Herceptin  plus  docetaxel  arm  (43%  versus  36%)  is  consistent  with  the 
addition of Herceptin to docetaxel since both drugs cause some diarrhoea.  
With regard to the incidence of adverse events by body system the following differences between both 
treatment  arms  were  observed:  AEs  related  to  respiratory  system  disorders  were  increased  in  the 
Herceptin arm compared to the docetaxel alone arm and included nasal passage, larynx and pharynx 
disorders like irritation, pain, erythema, epistaxis, rhinorrhoea etc. The incidence of infections in the 
combination arm was higher (53% vs 40%) and mainly due to an increase in nasopharyngitis (15% vs 
6%). Cardiac-related events were more frequent in the Herceptin arm (12% vs 3%) with most of them 
being tachycardia (6.5% vs 0%) and palpitations (3% vs 1%). 
In the pivotal study M77001 up to the cut-off data a total of 54 patients died, 50 due to progressive 
disease and 4 as a result of adverse events. The deaths of two patients in the docetaxel alone arm (1 
sepsis, 1 multi-organ failure) were considered to be related to docetaxel treatment. Two patients in the 
Herceptin plus docetaxel arm died with cardiac failure in the context of progressive disease. One event 
was  judged  to  be  related  to  Herceptin,  the  other  one  not.  In  one  case,  the  patient  received  a  novel 
anthracycline one month after stopping Herceptin and this was felt to have been the primary cause of 
heart failure. In other clinical studies there were six fatal serious adverse events in patients receiving 
the  Herceptin  plus  docetaxel  combination:  4  events  of  neutropenic  sepsis  (2  of  them  under 
neoadjuvant therapy), 1 hepatic failure, 1 case with brain metastases. Hepatic failure was related to the 
treatment with both Herceptin and docetaxel (autopsy pending), 2-neutropenic sepses were considered 
to  be  related  to  docetaxel  alone.  In  2  ongoing  studies  MO16419  and  BCIRG007  a  total  of  3  fatal 
events  occurred  in  the  three-drug  arms  in  patients  with  neutropenia:  patients  with  pulmonary 
embolism  and  atypical  pneumonia  (death  related  to  docetaxel)  had  received  Herceptin  +  docetaxel 
+capecitabine,  the  patient  who  died  due  to  neutropenic  enterocolitis  had  received  Herceptin  + 
docetaxel +platinum salt.   
The overall incidence of serious adverse events was as follows: 
Pivotal study M77001: 104 SAEs in 66 patients 
Study MO16419: 56 SAEs in 30 patients 
StudyBCIRG007: 80 SAEs in 42 patients 
HER-First study: in 19 patients 
Study M77998: 33 drug-related SAEs in 33 patients 
In the pivotal study a total of 104 SAEs other than death were reported: 42 in 29/94 (31%) patients in 
the docetaxel arm and 62 in 37/92 patients (40%) in the docetaxel plus Herceptin arm. The types of 
SAEs  occurring  were  well  balanced  between  both  treatment  arms.  SAEs  occurring  in  at  least  2% 
patients are summarised in the following table:  
34/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Summary of Serious Adverse Events by Body System: Study M77001 (>2% difference) 
Body System/  
  Adverse Event  
Docetaxel Alone  
N = 94                   No.  (%)  
Docetaxel plus Herceptin  
N = 92                 No.  (%) 
BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM DISORDERS 
Total Pts With at Least one AE  
12 ( 13) 
Febrile Neutropenia  
  Neutropenia  
Febrile Bone Marrow Aplasia  
8 (  9) 
3 (  3) 
1 (  1) 
19 ( 21) 
GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS 
Total Pts With at Least one AE          
8 (  9) 
8 (  9) 
  Asthenia  
  Pyrexia  
General Physical Health  
Deterioration 
  Rigors  
INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS 
Total Pts With at Least one AE          
7 (  7) 
 Neutropenic Sepsis  
 Cellulitis  
 Sepsis Nos  
 Septic Shock  
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS 
Total Pts With at Least one AE          
4 (  4) 
 Diarrhoea Nos  
 Vomiting Nos  
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
- 
- 
2 (  2) 
- 
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
1 (  1) 
1 (  1) 
RESPIRATORY, THORACIC ANDMEDIASTINAL DISORDERS 
Total Pts With at Least one AE          
1 (  1) 
 Pleural Effusion  
- 
8 (  9) 
5 (  5) 
4 (  4) 
12 ( 13) 
5 (  5) 
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
1 (  1) 
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
3 (  3) 
- 
- 
3 (  3) 
2 (  2) 
2 (  2) 
Discussion on efficacy 
There is clear evidence of efficacy. The presented results from the pivotal study M77001, demonstrate 
that  a  significantly  higher  overall  tumour  response  was  observed  in  the  patients  receiving  the 
combination  docetaxel  +  Herceptin  compared  to  the  monotherapy  group  with  docetaxel.  The 
combination Herceptin + docetaxel is more effective than docetaxel alone for anthracycline pre-treated 
and  anthracycline  naïve  patients  in  terms  of  overall  response  rate,  median  duration  of  response, 
median TTP and median survival in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Supportive 
efficacy  data  for  the  combination  therapy  are  available  from  6  completed  and  2  ongoing  studies 
reported in the literature. 
The estimated median survival times have increased with longer follow up to an estimated median of 
30.5 months compared with the docetaxel alone arm (estimated median 22.1 months) (p=0.0062). 
Objectives and endpoints in the pivotal trial were chosen according to the CPMP “NfG on Evaluation 
of Anticancer Medicinal Products in Man”. The tumour response was standardised and assessed based 
on  the  WHO  criteria.  Additionally  an  external  independent  radiological  review  (IRR)  evaluated  the 
best  response  unless  best  response  was  PD.  The  chosen  primary  endpoint  was  the  overall  tumour 
response (CR + PR). To support the clinical benefit the following secondary endpoints were selected: 
time  to  and  duration  of  response,  time  to  progression  (TTP),  overall  survival  (OS),  and  progression 
free survival (PFS). The statistical methods used are appropriate.  
The results are consistent with those of Herceptin + paclitaxel in the original pivotal trial H0648g trial 
(see table below) and are supported by the results of the trials reported in the literature.  
35/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall response rate 
Median duration of response (months) 
Median time to progression (TTP) 
Median survival 
Herceptin + paclitaxel (H0648) 
N=68 
49% 
8.3 
7.1 
24.8 
Herceptin + docetaxel (M77001) 
N=92 
61% 
8.3 
10.6 
27.7 
The design of the M77001 trial was based on the strongly positive results from Herceptin + paclitaxel 
in the original pivotal trial H0648g trial and was done as a follow-on trial in order to test an alternative 
taxane  and  answer  the  question  whether  Herceptin  adds  to  docetaxel  monotherapy.  The  choice  of 
docetaxel –single agent as comparator was extensively discussed during an oral explanation with the 
MAH. It was considered that although single agent docetaxel is not an approved first line treatment in 
metastatic breast cancer, it is widely used. Moreover as use of anthracyclines in the adjuvant setting is 
current practice, metastatic patients are usually unsuitable to be treated with anthracyclines.  
As  Herceptin  was  effective  both  in  anthracycline-naive  and  anthracycline-pre-treated  patients,  there 
are  no  grounds  to  restrict  the  combination  Herceptin  +  taxane  to  patients  who  have  had  prior 
anthracycline therapy or for whom anthracycline therapy is not suitable. It would have been preferable 
to have a pre-specified sub-group analysis in relation to previous anthracycline therapy rather than as a 
post-hoc  decision.  However,  despite  being  an  exploratory  analysis  there  was  sufficient  power  to 
demonstrate  statistically  significant  benefit  in  both  subgroups:  OR  67%  vs  38%  (p=0.014)  in  the 
subgroup  of  no  prior  anthacycline  treatment  and  58%  vs  35%  (p=0.015)  in  the  subgroup  of  prior 
adjuvant anthracycline treatment. 
The  MAH  committed  to  further  elaborate  the  dosing  regimen  of  Herceptin  by  submitting  the  final 
study  reports  for  a  phase  II  study  of  Herceptin  monotherapy  administered  3  weekly  in  women  with 
HER2  overexpression/amplification  in  metastatic  breast  cancer  study  WO16229.  Furthermore  the  3-
weekly regimen is studied in HERA trial, a randomised three-arm multi-centre comparison of 1 year 
and  2  years  of  Herceptin  versus  no  Herceptin  in  women  with  HER2-positive  primary  breast  cancer 
who have completed adjuvant chemotherapy. The MAH has already submitted the final study report 
for the BO15935 trial: A phase I/II study to determine the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of 
Herceptin (trastuzumab) and paclitaxel in three weekly combinations in women with metastatic breast 
cancer. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  data  set  for  the  safety  evaluation  was  based  on  the  pivotal  study  M77001  and  on  the  Japanese 
clinical  pharmacology  study  JP16003.  Additional  information  is  provided  from  2  interim  safety 
reports  and from  published literature reports. Approximately 700  patients  with HER2-positive MBC 
exposed to Herceptin plus docetaxel have been treated.  
Patients  always  received  Herceptin  in  the  recommended  dose,  however  the  dosing  regimen  of 
docetaxel varied across studies. Overall, the treatment was well tolerated with no new or unexpected 
safety signals. The incidence of common, non-serious adverse events was higher in the combination 
with Herceptin, as was the incidence of severe (grade 3 or 4) and serious adverse events.  
The  overall  rate  of  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF)  was  low  (2-4%),  probably  because  36%  in  the 
combination  group  and  45%  on  the  docetaxel  alone  group  were  anthracycline  naive.  The  2  patients 
dieing  in  the  pivotal  study  were  anthracycline–pretreated.  More  patients  receiving  Herceptin  had 
asymptomatic  LVEF  declines  (>15%).  However,  the  incidence  of  CHF  and  asymptomatic  declines 
was  within  the  range  expected  for  patients  under  Herceptin  therapy.  The  addition  of  Herceptin  to 
docetaxel increased the incidence of transient grade 3/4 neutropenia (32% versus 22% in the docetaxel 
alone  arm).  The  same  was  observed  for  febrile  neutropenia  (23%  versus  17%),  suggesting  that 
Herceptin  may  exacerbate  the  docetaxel-associated  myelosuppression.  No  new  concerns  have  been 
identified  regarding  the  severity  and  frequency  of  infusion-related  reactions  with  the  combination 
Herceptin+  docetaxel.  However,  the  risk  of  neutropenic  events  is  increased  and  exceeds  that  of 
docetaxel alone. There were fewer safety related withdrawals for patients in the combination arm. 
The safety profile described in the main analysis (6 months after last patient entered) has not changed 
with the addition of data up to the 12-month cut-off. No new unexpected adverse events have occurred 
and the relative incidence of different types of AEs is similar to that seen at the 6-month analysis. 
36/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of decreases in LVEF (falls > 15% or absolute value <40%) remains the same. 
It  can  be  concluded  that  no  new  emerging  safety  concerns  could  be  identified  and  in  principle,  the 
toxicity profile is consistent with that of the two drugs alone. 
Benefit – Risk assessment 
Herceptin administered weekly in combination with 3-weekly docetaxel is an efficacious treatment of 
patients  with  HER2-positive  metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  benefit  in  terms  of  overall  response  rate, 
duration of response, time to progression, and overall survival is comparable with that of the licensed 
combination  Herceptin  plus  paclitaxel.  In  principal  no  new  emerging  safety  signals  could  be 
identified.  
The  benefit  risk  ratio  in  the  indication:  in  combination  with  docetaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those 
patients, who have not received chemotherapy for there metastatic disease, is therefore positive. 
9. 
Update of the SPC on diagnostic methods to determine HER2 status. 
Herceptin,  a  humanized  anti-HER2  antibody  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  MBC  patients  whose 
tumours overexpress HER2 as determined by an immunohistochemistry (IHC) diagnostic assay. This 
overexpression of the HER2 receptor in breast cancer is triggered by amplification of the HER2 gene 
located on chromosome 17. The amplification leads to increased transcription and consequently to an 
overexpression  of HER2 receptor proteins on the cell surface and is found in 20% to 30% of breast 
cancer tumours. Only patients with a strong overexpression (IHC score of 3+) are HER2 positive and 
thus eligible for Herceptin treatment.  
The diagnosis of HER2 expression in the pivotal trials was performed using in-house investigational 
assays.  In  parallel  to  the  clinical  development,  a  commercial  assay  was  developed  by  DAKO,  the 
HercepTest® (DakoCytomation). In the meantime  diagnostic developments continued and led to the 
introduction of HER2 testing methodologies based on the detection of HER2 gene amplification which 
is  the  initial  genetic  event  that  results  in  HER2  overexpression.  Fluorescence  in  situ  hybridisation 
(FISH)  and  chromogenic  in  situ  hybridisation  (CISH)  assays  were  developed  and  validated  against 
IHC.  
The SPC for Herceptin was updated in order to reflect the recent progress in the diagnostic methods to 
determine the HER2 status of a patient (previously defined on the basis of an immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) assay). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) 
were  included  as  an  alternative  to  immunohistochemistry  (IHC)  to  assess  the  eligibility  of  MBC 
patients for Herceptin therapy.  
Methods. 
For  the  individual  treatment  regimen  of  a  patient  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  it  is  essential  to 
determine  the  HER2  status,  because  only  patients  with  a  strong  overexpression  (IHC  score  3+)  that 
denotes  HER2  positivity  will  benefit  from  Herceptin  therapy.  Therefore  reliable  and  robust 
methodologies for the determination of the HER2 status are required. All assays described below are 
for  usage  on  paraffin-embedded tumour tissue  samples and  assess the  HER2  status  on  a  cell-by-cell 
basis. 
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) employs antibodies specifically directed against an epitope of the HER2 
protein  in  the  tumour  tissue,  thereby  detecting  HER2  on  the  cell  surface.  HER2  expression  in  fixed 
breast  tumour  samples  is  recognized  by  a  typical  IHC  staining  pattern  of  tumour  cells  and  is 
interpreted semi-quantitatively by the observer, applying a 0 to 3+ scale, where IHC3+ indicates the 
strongest  staining  intensity.  The  advantages  of  IHC  are  its  wide  availability,  speed,  simplicity  and 
relative low cost. 
New  methodologies  like  fluorescence  in  situ  hybridisation  (FISH)  and  chromogenic  in  situ 
hybridisation  (CISH)  detect  the  genetic  event,  HER2  gene  amplification,  which  leads  to 
overexpression  of  HER2  on  the  cell  surface.  These  DNA-based  methodologies  directly  assess  the 
HER2 gene copy number, and use labelled complementary DNA probes to detect HER2-specific DNA 
37/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sequences by hybridisation. Interpretation of the testing results is numeric and more quantitative than 
IHC.  DNA  is  an  inherently  more  stable  target  compared  to  protein  as  it  is  less  susceptible  to 
degradation. With CISH the HER2 gene is detected using a peroxidase enzyme-labelled probe with a 
chromogenic detection instead of using a fluorescent (FISH) dye to visualize the HER2 gene copies. 
One  advantage  is  that  a  standard  light  microscope  can  view  CISH  staining  signals  and  the 
histopathology of the specimen can be assessed simultaneously.  
To date, two IHC assays, three FISH assays and one CISH assay are commercially available. These 
are CE marked IVD assays in accordance with Directive 98/79/EC.  
IHC assays 
- 
- 
HercepTest (DakoCytomation, Glostrup, Denmark) was developed in 1998, in order to have a 
diagnostic  tool  to  select  patients  suitable  for  Herceptin  therapy,  as  the  Clinical  Trials  Assay 
(CTA), used in the two pivotal trials for the initial approval of Herceptin, was too impractical 
for commercialization and widespread clinical use.   
 PathWay  HER2  assay  (for  use  with  the  Benchmark®  automated  System;  Ventana  Medical 
Systems Inc., Tucson, USA): was developed in 2000 to aid in assisting the selection of patients 
for Herceptin therapy whose tumours overexpress HER2. 
In Europe, MBC patients are eligible for receiving Herceptin when their tumours express HER2 at an 
IHC score of 3+ (on a visualisation scale of 0, 1+, 2+, 3+).  
FISH assays for detecting HER2 gene amplification  
- 
FISH assay (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, USA) uses a 190 Kb DNA probe 
 PathVysion
directly fluorescence labelled with Spectrum Orange. The probe is specific for the HER2 gene 
locus  17q11.2-q12.  In  addition  to  the  HER2  specific  probe,  this  assay  also  includes  another 
DNA probe, which is labelled with Spectrum Green and specific for the centromere region of 
chromosome 17 (17p11.1-q11.1) known as the CEP17 probe. 
HER2  scoring  is  based  on  the  ratio  of  the  average  number  of  HER2  and  CEP17  gene  copy  signals 
observed per nucleus with a signal ratio of (cid:31)(cid:31)2.0 considered to indicate HER2 amplification. 
- 
- 
HER2  FISH  pharmDx™Kit  (DakoCytomation,  Glostrup,  Denmark)  employs  a  ready-to-use 
FISH probe mix based on a combination of peptide nucleic acid (PNA) and DNA technology. 
The probe mix consists of a mixture of Texas Redlabelled DNA probes covering a 218kb region 
including  the  HER2  gene  on  chromosome  17,  and  a  mixture  of  fluorescein-labelled  probes 
targeted at the centromeric region of chromosome 17  (CEN-17).  The specific  hybridisation  to 
the two targets results in formation of a distinct red fluorescent signal at each HER2 gene locus 
and a distinct green fluorescent signal at each chromosome 17 centromere. Using a fluorescence 
microscope  equipped  with  appropriate  filters,  tumour  cells  are  located  and  counting  of  red 
(HER2) and green (CEN-17) signals is conducted. HER2/CEN-17 signal ratio (cid:31)(cid:31)2.0 indicates 
HER2 amplification. 
INFORM®  HER2/neu  Probe  (for  use  with  the  Benchmark®  or  Benchmark  XT  automated 
slide  stainers;  Ventana  Medical  Systems  Inc.,  Tucson,  USA)  includes  a  biotin-labelled  locus-
specific  HER2  probe.  The  hybridized  HER2  probe  is  detected  by  a  ligand  with  a  fluorescent 
label  which  binds  to  the  biotin  label  on  the  DNA  probe.  The  HER2  gene  copy  number  is 
enumerated  without  normalizing  for  chromosome  17  copy  number  since  the  INFORM 
HER2/neu Probe does not include a centromere control probe. A HER2 gene copy number > 4 
has  been  established  as  the  optimum  cut-point  to  differentiate  amplified  versus  nonamplified 
samples. 
CISH assays for detecting HER2 gene amplification 
- 
Zymed SPOT-Light HER2 CISH Kit (Zymed Laboratories Inc., South San Francisco, USA) 
includes  a  double-stranded  DNA  probe  labelled  with  digoxigenin,  which  binds  specifically  to 
the HER2 gene locus on chromosome 17q12-21. CISH staining results may be assessed with a 
standard  brightfield  microscope  after  visualisation  with  the  conventional  peroxidase  reactions. 
Tumour  cell  nuclei  with  HER2  gene  amplification  appear  as  large  peroxidase-positive 
38/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
intranuclear  gene  copy  clusters  or  as  numerous  individual  peroxidase-positive  small  signals, 
where > 5 HER2 gene copies per nucleus in >50% of cancer cells indicate amplification. 
Published Concordance1 data 
In  many  published  intra-laboratory  and  interlaboratory  studies  the  HER2  status  on  the  same  breast 
cancer samples was assessed by IHC, FISH, and CISH in order to compare the results obtained with 
different  methodologies  directly.    The  MAH  has  performed  a  literature  search  and  collected 
publications  (from  peer  reviewed  journals  as  well  as  abstracts)  with  IHC/FISH,  IHC/CISH,  and/or 
FISH/CISH  concordance  data.  Only  studies  fulfilling  the  predefined  selection  criteria  have  been 
selected (Table 1).  
Table 1: Selection criteria that were applied for the publications/abstracts 
Criterion 
Standardization of HER2 
testing 
FISH / CISH assays and 
result interpretation 
IHC antibodies and scoring 
Minimum number of samples 
analysed 
Differentiation of FISH 
and CISH results 
Requirements for selection 
HER2 testing must have been performed using standardized testing procedures 
for all three methodologies: IHC, FISH, and CISH  
Commercially available FISH / CISH assays or probes must have been used, 
and interpretation of the results must have been according to the manufacturer’s 
recommended scoring 
Commercially available, validated anti-HER2 antibodies and/or IHC assays 
must have been used, i.e. antibody A0485 alone or as part of the HercepTest 
assay (DakoCytomation), antibody CB11 alone or as part of the PathWay IHC 
assay (Ventana Medical Systems), antibody TAB250 (Zymed Laboratories Inc), 
antibody SV2-61γ (Nichirei Corporation). IHC must have been scored 
according to the generally accepted interpretation (0-3+ scoring table) which is 
also recommended by the manufacturers of the approved diagnostic IHC assays 
and Roche (see Herceptin SmPC) 
A sufficiently high number of cases must have been studied; as an arbitrary cut-
off, we have taken a minimum of 50 cases. 
FISH and/or CISH results must have been clearly indicated for the IHC negative 
(0/1+/2+) and IHC positive (3+) categories. 
The studies were analysed in line with the Herceptin marketing authorisation such that a negative IHC 
result represents scores of IHC 0, 1+, and 2+, while a positive result represents a score of IHC 3+. 
Whether  a  new  methodology  is  reliable  can  be  assessed  by  a  direct  comparison  of  the  testing 
methodology  against  the  established‘standard’  methodology,  which  is  IHC  for  HER2  testing. 
Therefore  the  following  comparisons  were  conducted:  IHC/FISH,  IHC/CISH,  and  FISH/CISH  by 
analysing the data extracted from the literature.   
IHC/FISH concordance data 
Table 2:  Summary of IHC/FISH Concordance Data from Literature 
Study/Reference No  
Anderson et al., 2004  
Yaziji et al., 2004a 
Yaziji et al., 2004b 
Dowsett et al., 2003 
Hofmann et al., 2003 
Vincent-Salomon et al., 2003 
Cianciulli et al., 2002  
McCormick et al., 2002  
Paik et al., 2002 
Roche et al.,  
N 
1296 
4111 
2913 
426 
289  
116   
66  
198  
104  
119 
OC  
92% 
91% 
91% 
92% 
93%  
91% 
70% 
87% 
94% 
92% 
κ 
0.81 
0.64 
0.65 
0.80  
0.86  
0.79 
0.40 
0.68 
0.83 
0.82 
Sens 
0.85 
0.92 
0.92 
0.94 
0.92  
0.97 
1.00 
1.00 
0.96 
0.90 
Spec 
0.95 
0.91 
0.91 
0.91 
0.95  
0.88  
0.62  
0.83  
0.86  
1.00 
PLR 
18 
11 
10 
11 
17 
8 
3 
6 
7 
n.a. 
1 Overall concordance is the proportion of samples rated as either positive or negative by both assays over the 
total number of samples analysed. Concordance is therefore a measure of the agreement between two 
methodologies that assessed the same samples. 
39/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
Birner et al., 2001* 
Lebeau et al., 2001* 
Maas et al., 2001  
Tsuda et al., 2001* 
Tubbs et al., 2001* 
207 
202 
207 
78 
79 
79 
529 
215 
101 
145 
145 
100 
112  
116 
157  
98% 
93% 
92% 
95% 
86% 
95% 
90% 
95% 
95% 
90% 
90% 
97% 
92% 
87% 
92% 
0.92 
0.77 
0.69 
0.87 
0.59 
0.87 
0.80 
0.82 
0.83 
0.67 
0.63 
0.90 
0.71 
0.66 
0.74 
0.89 
0.72 
0.88 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
0.89 
0.97 
0.83 
0.75 
0.85 
0.89 
0.88 
1.00 
0.96 
0.99 
0.99 
0.93 
0.93 
0.84 
0.93 
0.91  
0.95 
0.98 
0.93 
0.90 
0.99  
0.93  
0.84  
0.91  
151 
57 
12 
15 
6 
15 
10 
18 
35 
11 
9 
73 
12 
6 
10 
Hoang et al., 2000  
Kakar et al., 2000  
Ridolfi et al., 2000  
Tanner et al., 2000  
 *Study used different antibodies for IHC, therefore concordance data presented per antibody; N, number of cases; OC, overall concordance; 
Sens, Sensitivity; Spec, Specificity; κ, κ coefficient; PLR, positive likelihood ratio; n.a., not applicable. 
The  data  presented  indicate  that  there  is  a  good  agreement  between  the  different  methodologies.  In 
nearly  all  (24/25)  studies  the  results  of  IHC  and  FISH  were  comparable  and  thus  concordance  rates 
between  86%  and  98%.  Only  in  one  study  20  samples  were  assessed  as  IHC  negative  but  FISH 
positive so  that  the  concordance rate decreased to 70%. The  calculated sensitivities and specificities 
ranged  from  0.72  to  1.00  and  0.62  to  1.00,  respectively,  indicating  very  good  concordance  and 
agreement between IHC and FISH. 
IHC/CISH concordance data 
The results of the comparison IHC/CISH are presented in table 3. Although the concordance data are 
high with >80% in 16 out of 17 studies, they are slightly lower in comparison with the IHC/FISH data. 
Nevertheless, as concordance data above 80% are accepted to demonstrate a good agreement between 
two methodologies, it can be concluded that also CISH is a suitable method to assess the HER2 status 
of a patient. 
Additionally  the  calculated  sensitivities  and  specificities  also  indicated  a  good  agreement  between 
both methodologies. 
Table 3:  Summary of IHC/CISH Concordance Data from Literature 
Study  
Bilous et al., 20041 
Hofmann et al., 2004 
Peiro et al., 2004*  
Arnould et al., 2003  
Kournelis et al., 2003 
Muller et al., 2003  
Sapino et al., 2003* 
Van de Vijver et al., 2003 
Wixom et al., 2003 
Dandachi et al., 2002 
Zhao et al., 2002*  
N 
50 
86 
59 
59 
75 
66 
73 
106 
106 
199 
81  
171  
62 
62 
62 
94  
157 
OC 
82% 
87% 
93% 
92% 
76% 
85% 
85% 
85% 
80% 
85% 
89% 
92% 
92% 
95% 
92% 
100% 
98% 
κ 
0.65 
0.57 
0.63 
0.62 
0.51 
0.69 
0.56 
0.58 
0.31 
0.70 
0.52  
0.73  
0.69 
0.85 
0.69 
1.00 
0.93 
Sens 
1.00 
0.92 
1.00 
0.71 
0.91 
1.00 
0.83 
0.71 
0.78 
0.92 
1.00 
0.92 
1.00 
0.85 
1.00 
1.00 
0.96 
Spec 
0.71 
0.67 
0.93 
0.94 
0.70 
0.77 
0.85 
0.89 
0.80 
0.80 
0.88  
0.93 
0.91 
0.98 
0.91 
1.00 
0.98 
PLR 
3 
3 
14 
12 
3 
4 
6 
6 
4 
5 
8 
12 
11 
41 
11 
n.a. 
63 
Tanner et al., 2001  
Tanner et al., 2000 
*Study used different antibodies for IHC, therefore concordance data presented per antibody; N, number of cases; OC, overall concordance; 
Sens, Sensitivity; Spec, Specificity; κ, κ coefficient; PLR, positive likelihood ratio; n.a., not applicable. 
1Inter-laboratory concordance, i.e. IHC and CISH were performed in different laboratories. 
40/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FISH/CISH concordance data 
A comparison of the methodologies determining the gene amplification indicates a very strong 
agreement between the two methods (table 4). 
Table 4:  Summary of FISH/CISH Concordance Data from Literature 
Study  
Bilous et al, 20041 
Hofmann et al., 2004 
Arnould et al., 2003 
Park et al., 2003 
van de Vijver et al., 20031 
Zhao et al., 2002 
Tanner et al., 2000 
N, number of cases; OC, overall concordance; Sens, Sensitivity; Spec, Specificity; κ, κcoefficient; PLR, positive 
likelihood ratio; n.a., not applicable. 
1Inter-laboratory concordance, i.e. FISH and CISH were performed in different laboratories. 
OC 
94% 
90% 
96% 
94% 
90% 
100% 
94% 
PLR 
n.a 
3 
19 
30 
27 
n.a. 
n.a. 
Spec 
1.00 
0.67 
0.95 
0.97 
0.97 
1.00 
1.00 
Sens 
0.90 
0.96 
0.97 
0.85 
0.84 
1.00 
0.73 
κ 
0.88 
0.66 
0.92 
0.84 
0.80 
1.00 
0.80 
N 
50 
86 
75 
188 
208 
62 
157 
Overview of recommendations and guidelines 
In  many  countries  HER2  testing  recommendations  and  guidelines  already  exist.  They  are  useful  to 
standardize testing procedures and to improve accuracy of test results and interpretation. 
European countries recommending FISH in addition to IHC as a HER2 methodology: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Published  HER2  testing  guidelines  recommending  FISH  as  an  appropriate  methodology  to 
assess the HER2 status of breast cancer samples: France, Germany, Norway, Poland, Slovenia, 
Sweden, The Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. 
No published guidelines, but local pathology groups recommend the use of FISH in addition to 
IHC: Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, the Slovak Republic, and Spain. 
No published guidelines but at least 1 reference laboratory where FISH is established and used 
for routine clinical assessment of HER2: Belgium, Greece, Hungary, and Portugal. 
Currently IHC use only, FISH not established: Latvia. 
European countries recommending CISH as a HER2 testing methodology:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
CISH instead of FISH for use in routine clinical practice in addition to IHC: Finland 
CISH in addition to FISH and IHC: Slovak Republic 
CISH routinely used: Greece, Portugal, and Italy. 
CISH might be used for routine clinical practice in the near future: France, Germany, Greece, 
and Sweden. 
Although  in  routine  clinical  practice  IHC  is  the  most  commonly  used  methodology  for  testing  the 
HER2 status, the FISH test is used in approximately 16% of all MBC patients in Western Europe, to 
test the eligibility for Herceptin therapy.  The use of CISH as a diagnostic tool for HER2 testing is also 
supposed to increase in the near future, due to its excellent performance and its proven reliability. 
Overall discussion 
In  the  majority  of  countries  IHC  is  no  longer  the  only  methodology  for  assessing  HER2  status  of 
breast  cancer  patients.  This  is  reflected  in  national  and  international  HER2  testing  guidelines 
recommending the use of FISH in addition to IHC specimens. In routine clinical practice CISH gains 
more and more importance and in Finland has already superseded FISH for HER2 testing. 
In order to reflect this diagnostic development in the SPC presented concordance studies (IHC/FISH, 
IHC/CISH,  FISH/CISH)  and  statistical  analyses  performed  out  of  published  literature  data  were 
presented.  These  data  have  demonstrated  that  the  results  of  the  diagnostic  methodologies  FISH  and 
41/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CISH are accurate, reliable and robust.  There is a strong association between HER2 overexpression 
and HER2 gene amplification demonstrating that direct determination of the HER2 gene copy number 
offers  a  valid  alternative  for  assessing  HER2  positivity.  Thus  FISH  or  CISH  can  be  used  for  either 
primary HER2 testing or for re-testing cases for which the initial test result is difficult to interpret.  
Specific  characteristics  of  the  different  diagnostic  methodologies  including  the  interpretation  of  the 
test results are adequately addressed. In clinical practise, the quality of HER2 testing will depend on a 
good  validation  of  the  test  methodology  in  the  laboratories  and  an  intra-  and  interlaboratory  quality 
control and quality assurance. 
There  is  ongoing  scientific  discussion  about  C/FISH  methods  and  their  concordance  with  (1) 
immunohistochemistry (IHC; can be negative despite positive IHC and vice versa) and (2) prediction 
of  clinical  response.  Discussion  on  this  concordance  is  controversial.  The  initial  marketing 
authorization for Herceptin included data from a rather small study that showed a clinical benefit only 
in  patients  with  strong  overexpression  of  HER2  (3+).  The  efficacy  database  has  not  changed  up  to 
now, and thus, this target population should be kept. However, the situation “in the real world” might 
be different with various tests available. It might be considered if (1) the common approach should be 
undertaken to include any new method that emerges over time by an own type II variation, or (2) if in 
these sections a  more  general  guidance could  be given that  gives a  certain  framework  new  methods 
have to stick to but would be allowed to be performed.  
Amendments to the SPC. 
This  discussion  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  as  follows:  The  indication  section  of  the  SPC  includes  a 
statement: Herceptin should only be used in patients whose tumours have either HER2 overexpression 
or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated assay and refers to 4.4 and 
5.1  where  general  guidance  is  given.  The  guidance  is  strict  enough  to  preclude  use  of  this  drug  in 
patients with insufficient HER2 expression, since the risk-benefit ratio for these patients is critical due 
to considerable possible side effects of the drug.  
42/42 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
