Summary of the risk management plan for Herwenda
This  is  a  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Herwenda,  a  biosimilar  to  Herceptin.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Herwenda, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Herwenda’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Herwenda’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Herwenda should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Herwenda should be read in the context of all this information 
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Herwenda’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Herwenda  was  developed  as  a  biosimilar  to  the  reference  product  Herceptin,  and  the 
proposed  indications,  dosage,  and  route  of  administration  for  Herwenda  are  identical  to 
those for Herceptin. Comparable efficacy, safety, PK, PD and immunogenicity of Herwenda 
with  Herceptin  had  been  demonstrated  during  the  development  program  including  data 
derived  from  analytical,  animal,  and  clinical  studies.  Therefore,  the  benefit  and  risks  of 
Herwenda are comparable to those of Herceptin. 
Herwenda is authorized for metastatic breast cancer (MBC), early breast cancer (EBC) and 
metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains trastuzumab 
as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Hervenda’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Herwenda’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/herwenda 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further 
characterize the risks
Important  risks  of  Herwenda,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Herwenda’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
•
•
•
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed (including PSUR assessment) so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A. List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Herwenda  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Herwenda. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based 
on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
There is currently no missing information for trastuzumab.
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Cardiac dysfunction
Administration-related reactions
Oligohydramnios
Important potential risks
Medication error (subcutaneous administration)
Missing information
None
II.B. Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed SmPC is aligned to the reference product Herceptin.
Important identified risk: Cardiac dysfunction
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
EG12014  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP 
and Herceptin product labels. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Patient  with  Early  Breast  Cancer  (EBC)  and  Metastatic 
Breast Cancer (MBC).
The  risk  factors  described  for  the  development  of 
trastuzumab-induced cardiotoxicity include age >50 years, 
borderline LVEF before trastuzumab treatment, history of 
cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular risk factors such as 
diabetes,  dyslipidaemia  or  elevated  body  mass  index 
(>30),  sequence  in  which  chemotherapy  is  administered 
and  prior  treatment  with  anthracyclines  (cumulative 
doses >300 mg/m2).
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC section 4.2, 4.4 
and 4.8
Additional risk minimization measures: None
Important identified risk: Administration-related reactions
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
EG12014  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP 
and Herceptin product labels.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
No risk groups or risk factors are known. However, patients 
with  dyspnoea  at  rest  due  to  complications  of  advanced 
malignancy and comorbidities may be at increased risk of 
severe reactions including fatal outcomes.
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC section 4.2, 4.4 
and 4.8 
Additional risk minimization measures: none
Important identified risk: Oligohydramnios
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
EG12014  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP 
and Herceptin product labels.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
There are no reliable indicators of patients who may or may 
not be at risk.
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC section 4.6 and 
4.8
Targeted  questionnaire  for  follow-up  of  any  reports  of 
pregnancy to further characterize the risk and analyse any 
adverse event of foetal harm for causal factors.
Additional risk minimization measures: none
Important potential risk: Medication error (subcutaneous administration)
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
Herwenda is only available as a formulation for IV 
administration. while the reference medicinal product, 
Herceptin is available both as formulation for IV and for 
SC administration.  
Herceptin RMP and Herceptin product labels
There are no reliable indicators of patients who may or 
may not be at risk.
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC section 4.2 
Targeted questionnaire for follow-up of any reports of 
medication errors to further characterize the risk.
Additional risk minimization measures: none
II.C. Post-authorization development plan
Not applicable. 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Herwenda.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Herwenda.
