EMA/1108/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002575
EPAR summary for the public
Herzuma
trastuzumab
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Herzuma. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Herzuma.
For practical information about using Herzuma, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist.
What is Herzuma and what is it used for?
Herzuma is a cancer medicine used to treat the following conditions:

early breast cancer (when the cancer has spread within the breast or to the glands under the arm 
but not to other parts of the body) after surgery, chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer), and 
radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) if applicable. It can also be used earlier in treatment, in 
combination with chemotherapy. For tumours that are locally advanced (including those that are 
inflammatory) or more than 2 cm wide, Herzuma is used before surgery in combination with 
chemotherapy and then again after surgery on its own;
 metastatic breast cancer (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body). It is used on its own 
in patients in whom previous treatments have failed. It is also used in combination with other 
cancer medicines: with paclitaxel or docetaxel, or with another class of medicines called aromatase 
inhibitors;
 metastatic gastric (stomach) cancer, in combination with cisplatin and either capecitabine or 
fluorouracil (other cancer medicines).
Herzuma can only be used when the cancer has been shown to ‘overexpress HER2’: this means that 
the cancer produces a protein called HER2 in large quantities on the surface of the tumour cells. HER2 
is overexpressed in about a quarter of breast cancers and a fifth of gastric cancers.
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Herzuma is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Herzuma is similar to another biological medicine 
(the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The reference 
medicine for Herzuma is Herceptin. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here.
Herzuma contains the active substance trastuzumab.
How is Herzuma used?
Herzuma can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the use of cancer medicines.
It is available as a powder used to make up a solution for adding to an infusion (drip) into a vein. The 
infusion is given over 90 minutes every week or every three weeks for breast cancer, and every three 
weeks for gastric cancer. For early breast cancer, treatment is given for a year or until the disease 
comes back, and for metastatic breast or gastric cancer, treatment is continued for as long as it 
remains effective. The recommended dose depends on the patient’s body weight, on the condition 
being treated and on whether Herzuma is given weekly or three-weekly.
The infusion may be associated with allergic reactions, so the patient should be monitored during and 
after the infusion. Patients who tolerate the first 90-minute infusion can receive subsequent infusions 
over 30 minutes.
For further information, see the package leaflet.
How does Herzuma work?
The active substance in Herzuma, trastuzumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to the HER2 protein. By attaching to HER2, trastuzumab 
activates cells of the immune system, which then kill the tumour cells. Trastuzumab also stops HER2 
producing signals that cause the tumour cells to grow.
What benefits of Herzuma have been shown in studies?
Laboratory studies comparing Herzuma with Herceptin have shown that the active substance in 
Herzuma is highly similar to that in Herceptin in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. 
Studies have also shown that giving Herzuma produces similar levels of the active substance in the 
body to giving Herceptin.
In addition, one main study involving 549 patients with early breast cancer that overexpressed HER2 
showed that Herzuma was as effective as Herceptin. Patients were given either Herzuma or Herceptin 
with other cancer medicines before surgery to remove the cancer, and then the same medicine on its 
own every three weeks for 1 year. There were no relevant differences in the main measure of 
effectiveness (absence of invasive cancer cells in the breast or in linked tissues called lymph nodes) 
between the two products: this was seen in nearly 44% of those given Herzuma (118 of 271) and 47% 
of those given Herceptin (131 of 278).
Because Herzuma is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of trastuzumab 
carried out with Herceptin do not all need to be repeated for Herzuma.
What are the risks associated with Herzuma?
The most common or serious side effects with Herzuma are heart problems, reactions related to the 
Herzuma infusion, reduced levels of blood cells (especially white blood cells), infections and lung 
problems. 
Herzuma 
EMA/1108/2018
Page 2/3
Herzuma can cause cardiotoxicity (harm to the heart), including heart failure (when the heart does not 
work as well as it should). Care should be taken if it is given to patients who already have heart 
problems or high blood pressure, and all patients need to be monitored during and after treatment to 
check their heart. 
Herzuma must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to trastuzumab, mouse proteins 
or to any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have serious breathing 
problems because of advanced cancer, even when resting, or who need oxygen therapy.
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with trastuzumab, see the package leaflet.
Why is Herzuma approved?
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Herzuma has been shown to have a comparable quality, safety and effectiveness to 
Herceptin. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Herceptin, the benefit outweighs the identified risk and 
Herzuma should be given marketing authorisation.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Herzuma?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Herzuma have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
Other information about Herzuma
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Herzuma on 9 February 2018.
The full EPAR for Herzuma can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Herzuma, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
This summary was last updated in 02-2018.
Herzuma 
EMA/1108/2018
Page 3/3
