Summary of risk management plan for Herzuma (Trastuzumab) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Herzuma.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Herzuma, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Herzuma’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Herzuma’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Herzuma should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Herzuma should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Herzuma’s RMP. 
I.  The Medicine and What It Is Used for 
Herzuma  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  HER2-positive  cancer  as 
following (see SmPC for the full indication): 
•  Breast cancer (Cancer develops in the lining of a duct or lobule in one of the breasts): 
Herzuma is used for Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) and Early Breast Cancer (EBC). 
•  Gastric Cancer (Cancer starts in any part of the stomach or the stomach wall, mostly 
in the gland cells in the inner stomach lining): Herzuma is used for Metastatic Gastric 
Cancer (MGC)   
It contains trastuzumab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Herzuma’s benefits can be found in Herzuma’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage.     
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002575/h
uman_med_002230.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II. Risk Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Herzuma, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Herzuma’s risks, are outlined below.   
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
If important information that may affect the safe use of Herzuma is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Herzuma are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Herzuma. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
-  Cardiac dysfunction 
Important potential risks 
-  Administration-Related Reactions (ARRs) 
-  Oligohydramnios 
-  Medication errors (e.g. reduced efficacy due to SC 
administration of IV formulation, incorrect dosing 
leading to adverse events) 
Missing information 
-  Safety of 75 mg/m2 v 100 mg/m2 docetaxel dose 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk – Cardiac Dysfunction 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
MBC, First-line HER2-positive 
The incidence of symptomatic CHF (National Cancer 
Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria [NCI-CTC] Grades 3 or 
4) for non-trastuzumab containing regimens: 
• Without anthracyclines: 0.3 % to 1 %   
• With anthracyclines: 3 % to 4.7 %   
MBC, Second-line HER2-positive 
Based on three lapatinib studies, the incidence of 
symptomatic CHF (Grades 3 or 4) was < 1 % for non-
trastuzumab containing regimens. In a pooled analysis of 
3,689 lapatinib patients enrolled in clinical trials, the 
incidence of symptomatic cardiac toxicity by prior treatment 
was: 
• Anthracyclines: 0.5 %. 
• Trastuzumab: 0.1 %. 
• Neither anthracyclines nor trastuzumab: 0.1 %. 
EBC, HER2-positive 
Based on data from three randomised controlled trials 
conducted in the US, US/Canada, and Europe, the incidence 
of NCI-CTC Grade 3 - 4 CHF was 0 % - 0.49 % among 
HER2-positive patients with EBC not treated with 
trastuzumab. The incidence of LVEF decrease (of > 10 %) 
ranged from 2.2 % to 17 % of the study population. 
Advanced Gastric Cancer 
A recent randomised trial reported a 1.1 % incidence of 
decreased LVEF (unspecified criteria) among HER2-positive 
patients with advanced gastric cancer not treated with 
Herceptin. 
The risks of both symptomatic and asymptomatic LVEF 
events following initiation of treatment were increased with 
lower on-study LVEF values. Older patients (> 50 years old) 
had an increased risk of both symptomatic cardiac and 
asymptomatic LVEF events regardless of treatment received. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.8 
-  SmPC section 4.4   
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-  No additional risk minimisation measures proposed. 
Important Identified Risk – Administration-Related Reactions (ARRs)   
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Not applicable 
There are currently no reliable predictors of patients who may 
or may not be susceptible to Administration-Related 
Reactions (ARRs) to trastuzumab. However, the SmPC 
indicates that patients, who are experiencing dyspnoea at rest 
due to complications of advanced malignancy or co-
morbidities, may be at greater risk of severe reactions 
including fatal outcomes. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.8 
-  SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.3 
-  SmPC section 4.4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
 
-  No additional risk minimisation measures proposed. 
Important Identified Risk – Oligohydramnios 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Stoll et al reviewed 225,669 consecutive pregnancies births 
and that 0.99/1000 pregnancies were complicated by 
oligohydramnios. However, since there is no accepted 
standard definition of oligohydramnios, incidence has been 
estimated as being between 0.4 % and 1 % of pregnancies. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
There are no reliable indicators of patients who may or may 
not be at risk. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.6 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-  No additional risk minimisation measures proposed. 
Important Potential Risk – Medication Errors (e.g. reduced efficacy due to SC 
administration of IV formulation, incorrect dosing leading to adverse events) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
At one outpatient cancer center in the US utilising a 
computerised medication ordering system, the rate of 
outpatient medication errors was 3 % (249/2454). A similar 
rate (3%) was reported among chemotherapy orders. Of 92 
chemotherapy errors, 80 were potential adverse drug events. 
At three adult clinics and one paediatric oncology clinic in 
the Southwest, Southeast, Northeast, and Northwest US, the 
medication error rate was 7.1 % (95 % CI, 5.7 to 8.6). Among 
the 90 medication errors, 61 % had the potential to injure the 
patient, including 11 errors that resulted in injury. 
At a French university hospital, 5.2 % of antineoplastic 
prescriptions contained at least one error. However, most of 
the errors were intercepted before medication was 
administered to patients. Data by age, sex, and race/ethnicity 
are not available. 
Not known.   
While the reference product Herceptin is available both 
intravenous (IV) and subcutaneous (SC) formulation, 
Herzuma is only available IV formulation. Therefore, an 
accidental or an intentional SC administration of IV 
formulation for Herzuma can be predictable. 
In addition, since Herzuma is available as two different 
presentations - 150 mg/vial and 420 mg/vial, and both 
presentations are for single-dose, accidental dosing error can 
be caused by confusion between the two presentations. In 
 
 
case the smaller vial (150 mg/vial) is used instead of the 
larger vial (420 mg/vial), the dose of trastuzumab per 
kilogram body weight would be lower than originally 
intended. Such underdosing may lead to reduced efficacy 
which can possibly harm patients by causing adverse events 
such as progressive disease. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.2 
-  SmPC section 6.6 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-  No additional risk minimisation measures proposed. 
Missing Information - Safety of 75 mg/m2 v 100 mg/m2 docetaxel dose 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.2   
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-  No additional risk minimisation measures proposed. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Herzuma. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Herzuma. 
 
 
 
