EMA/277823/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003870 
EPAR summary for the public 
Hetlioz 
tasimelteon 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Hetlioz. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Hetlioz. 
For practical information about using Hetlioz, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Hetlioz and what is it used for? 
Hetlioz is a medicine used to treat totally blind adults with non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder. Non-24-
hour sleep-wake disorder is a condition that occurs almost exclusively in people who are completely 
blind, where patients have sleep patterns that are not synchronised with day and night and often 
follow a cycle that is longer than the standard 24-hour clock. As a result, patients fall asleep and wake 
up at unusual times. 
Hetlioz contains the active substance tasimelteon.  
Because the number of patients with non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder is low, the disease is considered 
‘rare’, and Hetlioz was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 23 
February 2011. 
How is Hetlioz used? 
Hetlioz is available as 20 mg capsules and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Hetlioz is intended for long-term use. The recommended dose is one capsule per day, taken one hour 
before bedtime, at the same time every night. The medicine should be taken without food. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Hetlioz work? 
A hormone called melatonin plays a key role in co-ordinating the body’s sleep-wake cycle. In people 
with normal perception of light and dark, melatonin is produced in hours of darkness and promotes 
sleep by acting on melatonin receptors in specific areas of the brain. The active substance in Hetlioz, 
tasimelteon, acts on the same receptors as melatonin to promote sleep and regulate sleep patterns. By 
taking it at a suitable time each day it can help to reset the sleep-wake cycle to more standard timing. 
What benefits of Hetlioz have been shown in studies? 
Hetlioz has been shown to be effective at helping patients adjust to the standard 24-hour clock in 2 
main studies.  
The first study, which involved a total of 84 totally blind patients with non-24-hour sleep-wake 
disorder, compared Hetlioz with placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was 
the percentage of patients who were able to adjust to the 24-hour clock, which was calculated by 
looking at how the amount of melatonin breakdown products changed in the patient’s urine over time. 
20% of patients who received Hetlioz (8 out of 40) were able to adjust to the 24-hour clock after 1 
months of treatment, compared with around 3% of patients on placebo (1 out of 38). Improved results 
were seen in a subset of patients after 7 months of treatment, which indicate that patients may take 
weeks or months to respond. 
In the second study, 57 patients first received Hetlioz for around 11 weeks. Those patients who were 
able to adjust to the 24-hour clock (20 patients in total) were then given Hetlioz or placebo for a 
further 8 weeks to study how well the effect of Hetlioz was maintained. Of the 10 patients who 
remained on Hetlioz, 9 people remained adjusted to 24-hour clock at the end of the study, compared 
with 2 of the 10 patients who were switched to placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Hetlioz? 
The most common side effects with Hetlioz (which may affect more than 3 in 100 people) are 
headache, somnolence, nausea (feeling sick) and dizziness. These are usually mild or moderate in 
severity and temporary. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Hetlioz, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Hetlioz approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Hetlioz’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP noted 
that only around 20% of patients would be able to benefit from treatment with Hetlioz, but in view of 
the lack of approved treatments for non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder, which is a debilitating condition, 
this modest response was still considered important. However, continued treatment would be 
necessary to maintain the beneficial effects. Regarding safety, Hetlioz was shown to be well tolerated, 
causing only few mild side effects. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hetlioz? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Hetlioz is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
Hetlioz  
EMA/277823/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
package leaflet for Hetlioz, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Hetlioz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Hetlioz on 3 July 2015.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Hetlioz can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Hetlioz, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Hetlioz can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Hetlioz  
EMA/277823/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
