EMA/410264/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002702 
EPAR summary for the public 
Hexacima 
Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis B (rDNA), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) and Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate 
vaccine (adsorbed) 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Hexacima. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Hexacima. 
For practical information about using Hexacima, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Hexacima and what is it used for? 
Hexacima is a vaccine containing active substances derived from diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and 
Haemophilus influenzae type b bacteria, the hepatitis B virus, and inactivated polioviruses. It is used in 
babies and toddlers aged from six weeks to protect against the following infectious diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
diphtheria (a highly contagious disease that affects the throat and skin, and can cause damage to 
the heart and other organs); 
tetanus (lockjaw, usually caused by infection of a wound); 
pertussis (whooping cough); 
•  hepatitis B (a viral liver infection); 
• 
• 
poliomyelitis (polio, a disease that affects the nerves and can lead to muscle weakness or 
paralysis); 
invasive diseases (such as meningitis) caused by H. influenzae type b bacteria. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Hexacima used? 
Hexacima is available as a suspension for injection in vials and prefilled syringes. It can only be 
obtained with a prescription. Vaccination with Hexacima should be carried out according to official 
recommendations. 
The recommended initial vaccination schedule is either two doses, given two months apart or three 
doses, given at least one month apart. A booster dose should be given at least six months after the 
last of these initial doses. Hexacima or an appropriate combination of other vaccines can be used for 
the booster dose. Hexacima is given by deep injection into a muscle, normally in the upper thigh or the 
shoulder. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Hexacima work? 
Hexacima is a vaccine. Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) 
how to defend itself against diseases. Hexacima contains small amounts of materials derived from the 
bacteria and viruses it protects against. These materials have been inactivated where necessary so 
that they do not cause any disease. 
When a child is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the bacteria and viruses 
as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. The immune system will then be able to produce 
antibodies quickly when the person is naturally exposed to the bacteria or viruses. This helps to protect 
against the diseases that these bacteria and viruses cause. 
The vaccine is ‘adsorbed’. This means that some of the active substances are fixed onto aluminium 
compounds, to stimulate a better response.  
What benefits of Hexacima have been shown in studies? 
Hexacima has been studied in several countries worldwide in 12 main studies involving over 3,400 
children between six weeks and two years of age who were given three doses of the vaccine during 
their first six months of life according to different local vaccination schedules. The effects were 
compared with a combination of separate vaccines designed to protect against the diseases included in 
Hexacima. The main measure of effectiveness was the production of antibody levels known to be 
protective against those diseases.  
Five of these studies examined the effect of giving a booster dose at least 6 months after the initial 
vaccination schedule in 1,511 children. The studies showed that protective antibody levels against the 
various diseases developed in between 90 and 100% of children after the first three doses of 
Hexacima; protection was maintained or improved when a booster dose was given.  
A subsequent study involving 455 children looked at the longer-term persistence of protective 
antibodies up to 3 years after a booster dose with Hexacima, and another study in 1,336 children 
evaluated the response to different lots of the vaccine and what happened when it was given with 
vaccines for infections caused by the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae (Prevenar) and rotavirus 
(Rotarix). These studies showed that Hexacima produces similar antibody profiles over time to 
comparable vaccines, and that the vaccine can be given at the same time as Prevenar and Rotarix. 
The two-dose vaccination schedule was investigated in an additional main study involving 554 children. 
In the study, children who received Hexacima produced a similar antibody response to those who 
Hexacima  
EMA/410264/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
received a comparator vaccine (Infanrix hexa), when given as a two-dose schedule followed by a 
booster 6 months later. 
What are the risks associated with Hexacima? 
The most common side effects with Hexacima include pain and redness at the site of injection, 
irritability and crying. Reactions may be more likely after the first dose than later doses. For the full list 
of all side effects reported with Hexacima, see the package leaflet. 
Hexacima must not be used in children who have ever had an allergic reaction to Hexacima or a 
vaccine containing the same components, including substances used during the manufacture of the 
vaccine and which may be found at extremely low levels (such as the antibiotics neomycin or 
streptomycin). It must not be used in children who have ever had encephalopathy (a brain disease) of 
unknown cause within seven days of receiving a vaccine containing pertussis components in the past. 
It must not be used in children who have an uncontrolled or severe illness affecting the brain or 
nervous system, such as uncontrolled epilepsy, unless the condition has stabilised with treatment and 
the benefit clearly outweighs the risk. Vaccination with Hexacima should be postponed if a child has a 
moderate to severe fever. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Hexacima approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Hexacima’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
The CHMP noted that Hexacima has been shown to produce protective antibody levels against 
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and H. influenzae type b infections in children 
between six weeks and two years of age regardless of ethnicity. Although no data are available in 
children older than 2 years, there is no indication that older children would respond differently. 
Regarding safety, the CHMP considered that Hexacima’s overall safety profile is similar to other 
vaccines, although Hexacima is more likely than similar vaccines to cause reactions (mainly at the 
injection site).  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hexacima? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Hexacima have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
Other information about Hexacima 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Hexacima on 17 April 2013. 
The full EPAR for Hexacima can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Hexacima, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016.  
Hexacima  
EMA/410264/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
