27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/352675/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): Indacaterol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1121/PSUV/0023 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 December 2011 – 30 November 2012 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Onbrez Breezhaler, Oslif Breezhaler and 
Hirobriz Breezhaler, the scientific conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
Intubation,  hospitalisation  and  death  due  to  asthma  related  events  related  to  use  in  the  asthma 
population is considered an important potential risk for indacaterol since it is a known class effect for 
long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists when used in asthma. No information is currently included in the 
SmPC for indacaterol for this risk. Indacaterol is only indicated for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
(COPD), which distinguishes its use from that of other, established Long-Acting Beta- Agonists (LABA) 
which also have approved asthma indications. However some information regarding this risk should be 
included in the product information for indacaterol. Furthermore, it is relevant to state in the SmPC that 
the risk has been observed with LABAs when used for the treatment of asthma. Therefore, in view of 
available  data,  the  PRAC  considers  that  inclusion  of  this  information  to  the  product  information  is 
warranted.  
Long-acting  beta  agonist  agents  are  known  to  potentially  affect  QTc  intervals.  Available  data  for 
indacaterol do not demonstrate a relevant effect of QT prolongation from a dedicated QT-study during 
development or from clinical trials in COPD (although patients with a medical history of long QT syndrome 
or long QT interval at baseline were excluded). Post-marketing reports for QT prolongation have been 
evaluated in the PSURs and have not reveal data indicating a causal relationship with indacaterol so far. 
Therefore, in view of the available data, the PRAC considers that changes to the product information were 
warranted to better reflect the current evidence for QT-prolongation with indacaterol. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisations  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Onbrez Breezhaler, Oslif Breezhaler and Hirobriz Breezhaler 
the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing the active 
substance indacaterol is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
EMA/CHMP/352675/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
