EMA/516261/2017 
EMEA/H/C/0001211 
EPAR summary for the public 
Hirobriz Breezhaler 
indacaterol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Hirobriz Breezhaler. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Hirobriz Breezhaler. 
For practical information about using Hirobriz Breezhaler, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Hirobriz Breezhaler and what is it used for? 
Hirobriz Breezhaler is a medicine that is used to keep the airways open in adults with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs 
inside the lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Hirobriz Breezhaler is 
used for maintenance (regular) treatment. 
The medicine contains the active substance indacaterol.  
How is Hirobriz Breezhaler used? 
Hirobriz Breezhaler capsules, which contain a powder for inhalation, are only used with a Hirobriz 
Breezhaler inhaler and must not be swallowed. To receive a dose, the patient places a capsule into the 
inhaler and breathes the powder in through the mouth. 
The recommended dose is one 150 microgram capsule, once a day at the same time each day. The 
doctor may increase the dose to one 300 microgram capsule once a day in cases of severe COPD. 
Hirobriz Breezhaler can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Hirobriz Breezhaler work? 
The active substance in Hirobriz Breezhaler, indacaterol, is a beta-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. It 
works by attaching to beta-2 receptors that are found in the muscle cells of many organs and that 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
cause the muscles to relax. When Hirobriz Breezhaler is inhaled, indacaterol reaches the receptors in 
the airways and activates them. This causes the muscles of the airways to relax, helping to keep the 
airways open and allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Hirobriz Breezhaler have been shown in studies? 
In three main studies involving over 4,000 patients with COPD, Hirobriz Breezhaler was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment), tiotropium or formoterol (other inhaled medicines used to treat COPD). 
The main measure of effectiveness was based on changes in the patients’ forced expiratory volumes 
(FEV1, the maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second) after 12 weeks.  
Hirobriz Breezhaler was more effective than placebo at improving how well the lungs work in patients 
with COPD. On average, the increase in FEV1 in patients who received Hirobriz Breezhaler was between 
150 to 190 ml, while for patients who received placebo the change in FEV1 ranged from a decrease of 
10 ml to an increase of 20 ml. Overall, the effects of the 150 and 300 microgram doses of Hirobriz 
Breezhaler were similar, but the results showed that the 300 microgram dose may provide better relief 
in patients with more severe disease. The increase in FEV1 was 130 ml with tiotropium, and 80 ml with 
formoterol. 
What are the risks associated with Hirobriz Breezhaler? 
The most common side effects with Hirobriz Breezhaler (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
are nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat) and upper respiratory tract infection 
(infection of the nose and throat). Other common side effects include chest pain, cough and muscle 
cramps.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Hirobriz Breezhaler, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Hirobriz Breezhaler approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Hirobriz Breezhaler was shown to be effective at 
improving lung function in COPD. The Agency also noted that there were no major safety concerns with 
Hirobriz Breezhaler, with side effects being manageable and similar to other beta-2 adrenergic receptor 
agonist medicines. Therefore, the Agency decided that Hirobriz Breezhaler’s benefits are greater that 
its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hirobriz Breezhaler? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Hirobriz Breezhaler have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Hirobriz Breezhaler 
European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Hirobriz Breezhaler on 30 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Hirobriz Breezhaler can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Hirobriz Breezhaler  
EMA/516261/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment with Hirobriz Breezhaler, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Hirobriz Breezhaler  
EMA/516261/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
