Assessment report 
Hizentra 
Common name: human normal immunoglobulin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002127 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 20 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 24 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 42 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 51 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 53 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 56 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 2/56
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  CSL  Behring  GmbH  submitted  on  2  March  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Hizentra, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed  upon  by  the  EMA/CHMP  on  November  2007. The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  under 
Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of  significant  technical 
innovation. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Replacement therapy in adults and children in 
primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
- congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
- common variable immunodeficiency 
- severe combined immunodeficiency 
- IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections 
Replacement therapy in myeloma or chronic lymphatic leukaemia with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The  active  substance  is  known.  The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information, 
complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
Hizentra has been given a Marketing Authorisation in US on 4 March 2010. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 3/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Switzerland and Canada. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Christian Schneider 
Co-Rapporteur: Pierre Demolis 
 
 
 
 The application was received by the EMA on 2 March 2010. 
The procedure started on 24 March 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 June 2010. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 June 
2010. 
  During the meeting on 22 July 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
23 July 2010.  
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 
11 October 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 3 December 2010 . 
  During the CHMP meeting on 16 December 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing and by the applicant . 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 14 January 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 1 February 2011. 
  During the meeting 14-17 February 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Hizentra on 17 February 2011. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on 
the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 February 2011. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 4/56
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
The first use of purified human immunoglobulin G (IgG) for treatment of PID was described by Bruton, 
and involved the administration of intermediate purity IgG by subcutaneous injection (SCIG). 
Subsequent investigators reported treatment primarily administered by intramuscular injection. In the 
early 1980s, highly purified, lyophilized preparations of IgG for intravenous administration (IVIG) were 
developed by a number of manufacturers. These highly purified IVIG products became the standard of 
care for treatment of PID, offering the possibilities of higher and more effective dosing than 
intramuscular administration. However, the subcutaneous route has experienced a revival as it offers a 
number of advantages: it has a low rate of adverse effects and can often be used for patients with 
previous adverse effects to IVIG; the fluctuations in IgG levels are less than with IVIG; home therapy 
can be employed, as the infusion technique is easy for children, adults and elderly people to learn and 
there is no requirement for venous access; thus SCIG home therapy may lead to improved life 
situations for the patients. 
PID disorders result in increased susceptibility to recurrent infections, secondary to the underlying 
defects in humoral and/or cell-mediated immunity. To date, more than 100 different PID syndromes 
have been reported in the literature. The best described of these include X-linked 
agammaglobulinemia, common variable immune deficiency disease, selective IgA deficiency, severe 
combined immune deficiency, chronic granulomatous disease, Wiskott Aldrich syndrome, X-linked 
hyper IgM syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, IgG subclass deficiency, ataxia telangiectasia, leukocyte 
adhesion deficiency, and complement deficiencies. 
Therapeutic options for the treatment of infections in PID include standard antibiotic treatment and 
intravenous or subcutaneous administration of IgG. Therapeutic options for treatment of PID are 
transplantation of bone marrow-derived stem cells, and recently, gene therapy. 
SCIG also has been used in the treatment of secondary immunodeficiencies such as those occurring in 
patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and data derived 
from PID patients can be extrapolated to patients with MM and CLL so that no further studies are 
required in these patient populations.  
The main mechanism of action of immunoglobulin in the case of immunodeficiency (primary and 
secondary) is replacement of immunoglobulins.  
With this submission and in the case of an approval, a new subcutaneous product will enter the market 
that has a higher protein content than other marketed SCIGs hitherto. As the relevant Monograph 
(01/2002: 0388) of the European Pharmacopeia does not encompass higher protein content than 160 
g/L (=16%), changes to the monograph are foreseen. 
About the product 
Hizentra (IgPro20), is a new ready-to-use 20% protein liquid formulation of a polyvalent human 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) preparation for subcutaneous administration (SCIG) developed by CSL 
Behring. It has twice the IgG concentration of Privigen (IgPro10, a 10% IgG solution; marketed in 
several countries including Canada, the European Union, Switzerland, and the US), which contains the 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 5/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
same active drug substance as IgPro20. Hizentra is indicated for replacement therapy in primary 
immunodeficiency (PI) and in myeloma and CLL with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia and 
recurrent infections. On account of its higher IgG concentration, the use of a 20% SCIG formulation is 
expected to reduce the infusion volume and duration of infusion compared to the 10% and 16% SCIG 
products currently used for IgG replacement therapy. 
The protein moiety of Hizentra (IgPro20) is highly purified IgG (≥ 98% purity). More than 90% of the 
IgG consists of monomers and dimers. IgG function (Fc and Fab mediated activity) is retained. The 
sterile 20% IgG solution is formulated with 250 mmol/L L-proline and 20 mg/L polysorbate 80 at pH 
4.8. IgPro20 contains no preservative. The manufacturing process of the subcutaneous 
immunoglobulin (SCIG) solution Hizentra is based on the IgPro10 (Privigen: EMEA/H/C/831) process 
except for formulation and final protein concentration. Filling sizes include 5 ml (1 g), 10 ml (2 g), 15 
ml (3 g) and 20 ml (4 g). The primary packaging material is Type I glass infusion vials with rubber 
stoppers. 
The claimed indications and posology are consistent with those covered in the Core SPC for human 
normal immunoglobulin for subcutaneous and intramuscular use CPMP/BPWG/282/00, July 2002 
namely: 
“Replacement therapy in adults and children in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
 
 
 
 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections 
Replacement therapy in myeloma or chronic lymphatic leukaemia with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections.” 
“A loading dose of at least 0.2 to 0.5 g/kg (1.0 to 2.5 ml/kg) bodyweight may be required. After 
steady state IgG levels have been attained, maintenance doses are administered at repeated intervals 
to reach a cumulative monthly dose of the order of 0.4 to 0.8 g/kg (2.0 to 4.0 ml/kg) bodyweight.” 
This medicinal product is subject to medical prescription. 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific 
Advice 
This is a new centralised application for marketing authorisation of a Human Immunoglobulin normal 
for Subcutaneous Administration. It is a complete and independent application under article 8.3 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, with a known active substance. The submission is in CTD format. 
No formal scientific advice was obtained from CHMP. A meeting was held with the PEI in Germany in 
June 2006 to obtain advice on the development of IgPro20 (PEI Meeting Minutes were submitted with 
the Applicant dossier - 5.4 ). The PEI encouraged CSL Behring to perform separate Phase III studies in 
Europe and the US to account for the different dosing concepts established in these 2 regions. 
The studies performed to support the requested indications are in line with the relevant CHMP Note for 
Guidance on the clinical investigation of human normal immunoglobulin for subcutaneous and 
intramuscular use (SCIG/IMIG) CPMP/BPWG/283/00 and encompass the following trials: 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 6/56
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
study 
Phase III 
(Europe) 
Phase III 
(USA) 
Phase I 
Study 
identifier 
ZLB06_001CR  Pivotal study in subjects with PID to assess efficacy, safety, 
Description of the study 
tolerability, PK, and HRQL of IgPro20 
ZLB04_009CR  Supportive study in subjects with PID to assess efficacy, safety, 
tolerability, and PK of IgPro20 
ZLB04_008CR  Supportive study in healthy subjects to assess safety and local 
tolerability of IgPro16 and IgPro20 in comparison to Vivaglobin 
Phase I 
ZLB06_003CR  Supportive study in healthy subjects to compare safety and 
tolerability of IV administration of IgPro20 (at the SC dose) in 
comparison to Privigen 
HRQL = Health-related quality of life; IV = Intravenous; PID = Primary immunodeficiency; PK = 
Pharmacokinetic(s); SC = Subcutaneous; USA = United States. 
The applicant has applied the Guideline on the core SmPC for human normal immunoglobulin for 
subcutaneous and intramuscular use  (CPMP/BPWG/282/00) accordingly. 
No separate paediatric development has been described by the applicant, as it is not specifically 
required according to the Paediatric Regulation (2006/1901 EC). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The drug product, Hizentra (IgPro20), is a new ready-to-use 20% protein liquid formulation of a 
polyvalent human immunoglobulin G (IgG) preparation for subcutaneous administration (SCIG). The 
active ingredient IgG, manufactured from human source or recovered plasma, is neither isolated, 
characterised nor stored but continuously processed to the drug substance solution, (called IgPro10-
SOL) and further on to the bulk drug product Hizentra (IgPro20). As a consequence no specifications 
were defined and no batches of drug substance were analysed. 
The manufacturing process of the subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIG) solution Hizentra is based on 
the IgPro10 (Privigen: EMEA/H/C/831) process except for formulation and final protein concentration 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Manufacture 
The production site of the drug substance (IgPro10-SOL) is CSL Behring AG, Bern (Wankdorfstrasse) 
and the production site of the intermediates is either CSL Behring AG, Bern (Wankdorfstrasse) 
(manufacturer of the intermediate Precipitate A (NA PPT), obtained by fractionation of human plasma 
according to Kistler-Nitschmann) or CSL Behring L.L.C, Kankakee (USA) (manufacturer of the 
intermediate fraction II+III precipitate (II+III PPT), obtained by fractionation of human plasma 
according to Cohn). 
Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls 
Pooled plasma or recovered plasma is either cold ethanol fractionated in Berne (Precipitate A; Kistler-
Nitschmann fractionation) or in Kankakee (Fraction II + III Precipitate; Cohn fractionation). Both 
Precipitate A and Fraction II+III Precipitate are approved intermediates for the manufacturing of 
IgPro10 (Privigen). These precipitates are the only stored intermediates between plasma pooling and 
drug substance isolation. These intermediates are resuspended in a buffer and fractionated with 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 7/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
octanoic acid (also called caprylic acid) to selectively remove certain proteins and plasma derived 
lipids. The pH shift step removes IgM and aggregates whereas anion exchange chromatography 
removes almost all IgA and IgM molecules leading to an IgG purity of greater than 98%. The process 
also includes four virus reduction steps; octanoic acid fractionation, low pH inactivation, depth 
filtration, and virus filtration. The purified, ultrafiltrated IgG solution of IgG before final formulation can 
be considered the drug substance and is referred to as “IgPro10-SOL” for IgPro10 solution. Down to 
this stage, the manufacturing process for IgPro10 (Privigen) and IgPro20 are identical. 
The drug substance, IgPro10- SOL, is immediately further processed and formulated to the product 
(IgPro20-Bulk), which can be stored up to 8 days prior to aseptically filling into vials. The following 
flow charts show the manufacturing process. 
Entire manufacturing process: 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 8/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control of Materials 
The starting material containing the active ingredient is human plasma which complies with the 
requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph Human Plasma for Fractionation and with the Note for 
Guidance on Plasma-Derived Medicinal products CPMP/BWP/269/95 rev.3. The starting material is 
registered in a Plasma Master File and is updated annually in accordance with Commission Directive 
2003/63/EC. The actual PMF certificate of the PMF Holder CSL Behring GmbH was provided 
(EMEA/H/PMF/000001/04/AU/006). Ingredients used for processing meet the compendial requirements 
of Ph. Eur. Caprylic acid and polysorbate 80 are both of plant origin. The filter aid meets compendial 
requirements, whereas other auxiliary materials and filter materials meets CSLB in-house 
requirements. 
Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
The manufacturing process is controlled by Process Control Parameters (PCPs) and in the In-Process 
Controls (IPCs) as specified in the manufacturing procedures. Standard test methods for in-process 
controls are identical to finished product testing. The stability of intermediate precipitates was 
demonstrated.  
Process Validation and Evaluation 
The process validation of IgPro10-SOL was described and already assessed with the marketing 
authorisation application or variations applications for Privigen. The process validation included the 
validation of precipitate A manufacturing and the validation of Fraction II+III precipitate 
manufacturing. Two significant changes “Precipitate A Manufacturing with Alternative Filter Aids ”and 
“Fraction II+III Precipitate manufacturing optional prothrombin adsorption” have been made to the 
manufacturing process of IgPro10-SOL and were also specifically validated for Hizentra. It was 
demonstrated that the purification process of the drug substance solution (IgPro10-SOL) was robust, 
reliable and high yielding.  
Manufacturing Process Development 
The development of the product Hizentra was described in detail and the validation reports were 
provided. The initial development of the IgPro20 drug substance solution (IgPro10-SOL) was done 
according to manufacture procedure of the drug substance solution, IgPro10-SOL (Privigen).The 
manufacturing process development was initiated with the production of a 15% protein solution 
(IgPro15). Manufacturing of higher concentrated solutions (IgPro16, IgPro18 and IgPro20) 
demonstrated the feasibility to manufacture a 20% protein solution. At a later stage of development 
suitability of prothrombin adsorbed Fraction II + III Precipitate and the use of alternative filter aids for 
the IgPro20 manufacturing process was demonstrated. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Hizentra is a new ready-to-use 20% protein liquid formulation of a polyvalent human immunoglobulin 
G preparation for subcutaneous administration. With the exception of pH and protein concentration, 
Hizentra meets the requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph “Human Normal Immunoglobulin” 
07/2008:0338. All IgG subclasses found in normal serum are present in the final product. IgG function 
(Fc and Fab mediated activity) is retained. About 98% of the IgG portion of Hizentra consists of 
monomers and dimers as determined by size exclusion high performance liquid chromatography (SE-
HPLC). The percentage of polymers (aggregates) is typically below 0.1% and the low molecular weight 
fraction, IgG fragments generated by proteolysis, is typically below 2%. The sterile 20% IgG solution is 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 9/56
 
 
 
 
 
formulated with 250 mmol/L of L-proline at pH 4.8. IgPro20 is aseptically filled into vials allowing 
enough overage in filling volume to guarantee the removal of the claimed volume on the label.  
Pharmaceutical Development 
The chosen formulation (20% IgG, 250 mmol/L L-proline, 20 μg/mL polysorbate 80, pH 4.8) presents 
Hizentra as a stable, clear and almost colourless immunoglobulin solution. Both, L- proline and 
polysorbate 80, are of plant origin and fulfil the compendial requirements of Ph. Eur. Water for 
injections (as in Ph Eur. Monograph)  is used as a solvent to adjust the concentration of the drug 
substance and the excipients. HCl and NaOH are used in trace amounts to adjust the pH of the drug 
substance to pH 4.8 if necessary. 
The formulation of IgPro20 is based on the IgPro10 (Privigen) formulation and was then further 
developed in order to address typical features of very highly concentrated IgG solutions. Overfill, in 
terms of a volume or weight of the formulation filled in each container in slight excess of the labelled 
content is employed for IgPro20 to compensate for non-extractable volume. The overfill values were 
indicated.  
Subclass distribution and antigenic reactivity is discussed in detail and it is demonstrated that the 
reactivity to a variety of investigated antigens has been retained in the final product. Five different 
antigens (three viral, one bacterial, one toxin) measured in final IgPro20 were compared to Privigen 
and Sandoglobulin. Furthermore, the reactivity to antigens of particular clinical relevance (tetanus 
toxoid, Haemophilus influenza B, Pneumococcal Cell Wall Polysaccharide and Cytomegalovirus) 
contained in the three products have also been compared. These experiments demonstrate that the 
reactivity to the investigated antigens is comparable to other IVIGs licensed by CSL Behring. Fc-
function of IgPro20 is adequately demonstrated. The elimination of impurities in the production process 
revealed that octanoic acid precipitation and anion exchange chromatography also caused a slight 
reduction of the IgG3 and IgG4 subclass.  
Adventitious agents  
Hizentra is produced from human plasma. The overall viral safety strategy includes selection of 
qualified donors and testing of plasma donations Plasma is collected in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, 
Switzerland and the USA. Single donations are screened by an adequate testing program for viral 
markers (anti-HIV-1/2, HBsAg, anti-HCV). Manufacturing pools are tested by NAT for HIV RNA, HBV 
RNA, HCV RNA and parvovirus B19 DNA (limit: less than 104 IU B19V DNA per mL). Donors with an 
increased risk for sporadic or variant Creutzfelt-Jakob-Disease are excluded. The donor selection and 
plasma donation testing strategy for viral markers is considered adequate.  
Prion reduction has been demonstrated for the octanoic acid fractionation, clarifying depth filtration 
and nanofiltration steps. 
Several steps have been investigated for their virus clearance capacity. These include octanoic acid 
fractionation, Low pH treatment, Clarifying depth filtration and nanofiltration. In summary, a sufficient 
safety margin with respect to HIV, HBV, HCV, HAV and B19V, has been adequately demonstrated. 
Therefore the recommendations for the text in Section 4.4 SPC according to note for guidance on the 
warning on transmissible agents in SPCs and package leaflets for plasma-derived medicinal products 
(CPMP/BPWG/BWP/561/03) are considered acceptable.  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 10/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV, the AIDS virus), hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus (liver inflammation), and for the 
non-enveloped hepatitis A virus and B19V (Sticker’s disease). 
Immunoglobulins have not been associated with hepatitis A or B19V infections, possible because the 
antibodies against these infections, which are contained in the product, are protective. 
In summary compliance with the requirements on virus safety as outlined in Guideline 
CPMP/BWP/269/95 has been demonstrated.  
Manufacture  
The manufacturing process of the final product is performed at CSL Behring AG, Bern Switzerland. The 
manufacturing process starts with the isolated drug substance solution (IgPro10-SOL) and ends with 
the labelling & packaging step leading to the IgPro20 final product. The manufacturing steps 
downstream from IgPro10–SOL consist of protein concentration and formulation 0.2μm bulk filtration 
and storage, sterile filtration, aseptic filling visual inspection and labelling & packaging. 
Process Validation and/or Evaluation: 
The processing steps bulk storage and sterile filtration, aseptic filling into final containers, and sterile 
filter validation were initially classified as critical and discussed in the Risk Analysis. These processing 
steps have been validated in process validation studies. 
The manufacturing of the IgPro20bulk from precipitate A and fraction II+III was validated in three 
campaigns with 3 bulk lots each. 
1) IgPro20 bulk manufacturing process using Precipitate A and Fraction II+III Precipitate 
2) IgPro20 bulk manufacturing process using alternative filter aids, use of Precipitate A as starting 
material manufactured with an alternative filter aid and use of Fraction II+III manufactured with 
increased pool size, reduced Fraction I post-wash and increased ethanol addition rate 
3) use of Fraction II+III Precipitate manufactured with prothrombin adsorption 
In summary, all results of these three process validation activities met the acceptance criteria or 
complied following resolution of deviations. Comparability reports demonstrate that the stability of the 
final product IgPro10 as well as IgPro10 process parameters and IgPro20 impurity profiles are 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 11/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
comparable for the products manufactured from either intermediates Precipitate A or Fraction II+III 
Precipitate, or the alternative filter aids or the prothrombin adsorption. So far, the validation of the 
combination of all three options (1-3) demonstrating consistency was missing at the time of the 
opinion. The applicant has committed not to use alternative filter aids with and without prothrombin 
adsorbed, modified II+III PPT until process validation data is submitted.  This combination occurs 
rarely. These data should be submitted as follow up measure. Depending on the data necessary 
corrective actions, a variation might be requested in order to adapt the manufacturing process 
accordingly. 
The aseptic filling process validation was limited to the IgPro20 bulk storage, sterile filtration and 
aseptic filling. The formulated bulk (IgPro20-BLK) is stored in a 300 L mobile tank. Bulk stability in 
stainless steel containers was demonstrated by limited stability studies and bulk storage was validated 
by media holds in the tank and process validations.  
Batch Analysis: Bulk lots as well as their associated filling lots have been manufactured from 
Precipitate A and Fraction II+III Precipitate for the purposes of clinical testing, process validation and 
stability testing. The data were provided. IPCs of all batches manufactured demonstrate excellent lot-
to-lot consistency for microbiological attributes and for protein content. 
Control of excipients 
Excipients are L-proline, polysorbate 80 and Water for Injections. All excipients are tested according to 
the methods described in the actual monographs. No novel excipients, no excipients of human or 
animal origin are used in the formulation of IgPro20. Non-compendial excipients are not present in 
IgPro20. 
Control of Drug Product 
The proposed specifications for the drug product are in compliance with the requirements laid down in 
the Ph. Eur. Monograph “Human normal immunoglobulin”; except for the parameters pH and total 
protein. The Expert Group 6B (European Pharmacopeia Commission) decided to revise the upper limit 
for total protein and the pH range in the monograph as soon as licensing of Hizentra is complete. Due 
to the subcutaneous route of administration a higher protein content than the maximum of 180g/l is 
acceptable. In order to reach stability of this high protein solution it was also necessary to go below 
the lower pH limit of 5.0. These deviations from the “Human Normal Immunoglobulin” 0338 
monograph are acceptable and justified already with the nature of this product. The applicant decided 
to use the bacterial endotoxin test instead the rabbit pyrogen test. This can be accepted according to 
the revised monograph 01/2010: 0338 if a justification is provided.  
Descriptions of the different analytical methods are presented in a condensed form. The methods 
described have been validated according to ICH and pharmacopoeial guidelines with the exception of 
the test for appearance. All analytical methods met the acceptance criteria of the validation and are 
suitable for the intended use. 
Batch analysis data were presented. Batch data, which are clearly inside the specification-range, 
demonstrate uniformity of the product and show consistency of the manufacturing process. 
In very detailed impurity profile reports the characterization of impurities of Hizentra produced from 
precipitate A, Fraction II+III precipitate, Beriplex-adsorbed Fraction II+III precipitate and IgPro20 
manufactured using alternative filter aids were presented. No relevant differences between the 
investigated lots were detected. All impurities were either depleted to levels near or below the 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 12/56
 
 
 
 
 
quantification limits or were at least drastically reduced. All measured parameters included in the 
specification were within the specified limits. 
Reference Standards or Materials 
The applicant uses different in-house standard materials calibrated against international standards for 
drug product testing. 
Container Closure System 
The IgPro20 final product is aseptically filled into 6R, 10R, 15R, and 20R Type I glass containers. 
Tubular glass injection vials with high hydrolytic resistance. The filling volumes are 5 ml, 10 ml, 15 ml 
and 20 ml, respectively.  
The vials can be closed with a ready-to-sterilize stopper.The stopper is similar to the CSL Product 
Privigen (formulation and coating) but 20 mm design instead of 32 mm. The rubber formulation 
complies with the Type I requirements of Ph. Eur. and USP and is free of latex: The stopper is secured 
by crimp caps consisting of an aluminium hole-bordered cap with a polypropylene plastic disc. 
Furthermore container closure integrity has been validated through a program of microbial container 
closure integrity tests.  
Stability 
The presented stability program is acceptable. The stability studies, including the selection of test 
parameters and test intervals, were performed according to ICH guidelines Q1A (R2) and Q5C. The 
stability studies apply a bracketing design according to ICH guideline Q1D by using the smallest (5mL) 
and the largest (20mL) filling sizes. A Post-approval Stability Protocol and Stability Commitment were 
provided. 
To demonstrate the long-term stability of the drug product (24 months at 5 / 25°C) the applicant has 
performed adequate stability studies for the drug product derived from intermediate Precipitate A and 
fraction II+III for the filling sizes 5 and 20 ml using glass type I vials. The reports provide 24 months 
real time data of three IgPro20 process validation bulk lots. An extensive comparability report 
compares real time data of 24 months (25°C). The presented data demonstrate that the stability is 
comparable. For the main changes during the development of the manufacturing process 18 month 
real time data are presented. The resulting measured stability data are acceptable for the parameters 
analyzed.  
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The manufacturing process of the subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIG) solution Hizentra is based on 
the IgPro10 (Privigen: EMEA/H/C/831) process except for formulation and final protein concentration. 
The manufacturing of the drug substance IgPro10-SOL is congruent with Privigen. Up to this point the 
process validation of IgPro10-SOL was described and already assessed with the marketing 
authorisation application or variations applications for Privigen. In response to the day 120 LOQ a 
tabulated overview was provided with Privigen questions/responses made during the review in 2007 
and the following variations. It was indicated how they relate to Hizentra. The same commercial plant  
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 13/56
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
is used for both PRIVIGEN and HIZENTRA. Both products are alternatively produced at the same 
manufacturing lines. 
A description of the manufacturing process and in-process controls is provided. However, in 
comparison to PRIVIGEN, there is an additional concentration step. This process step formulation was 
now described in more detail and the corresponding section of the Dossier was updated.  
The development of the product Hizentra was described in detail and the process validation reports 
demonstrate that the entire manufacturing process is robust, reliable and high yielding. Different filter 
aids and the three plasma treatments on cryo-poor plasma might be used alternatively. So far the filter 
aids and the plasma adsorption steps itself were validated. The applicant has committed not to use 
alternative filter aids with and without prothrombin adsorbed, modified II+III PPT until process 
validation data is submitted. The very detailed impurity profile reports together with the presented 
batch analysis data demonstrate that Hizentra is a highly purified IgG solution (≥ 98% purity) which is 
clearly inside the specification-range. Uniformity of the product and consistency of the manufacturing 
process was demonstrated. More than 90% of the IgG consists of monomers and dimers. IgG function 
(Fc and Fab mediated activity) is retained. Subclass distribution and antigenic reactivity is discussed in 
detail and it is demonstrated that the reactivity to a variety of investigated antigens has been retained 
in the final product. 
The applicant specifies that no IPC’s regarding the filled volume or extractable volume are set for the 
filled vials. Since Hizentra is a high concentrated IgG solution, the viscosity of the solution can have an 
influence on the extractable volume of the filled vials. However, the weight check performed during 
filling and the validation of the extractable volume justify the lack of the extractable volume as an IPC. 
The formulation of Hizentra (20% IgG, 250 mmol/L L-proline, 20 μg/mL polysorbate 80, pH 4.8) is 
based on the IgPro10 (Privigen) formulation and was then further developed in order to address typical 
features of very highly concentrated IgG solutions. The Company claims that the formulation is based 
on the prior knowledge acquired with PRIVIGEN, particularly with regards to the selection of pH and 
proline. Polysorbate 80 was mainly tested with regards to appearance of HIZENTRA.  
The proposed specifications for the drug product are in compliance with the requirements laid down in 
the Ph. Eur. Monograph “Human normal immunoglobulin”; except for the parameters pH and total 
protein. The Group of Experts No 6B (European Pharmacopeia Commission) decided to revise the 
upper limit for total protein and the pH range in the monograph as soon as licensing of Hizentra is 
complete. Due to route of administration “subcutaneous” a higher protein content than the maximum 
of 180g/l is acceptable. In order to reach stability of this high protein solution it was also necessary to 
go below the lower pH limit of 5.0 as defined in the “Human Normal Immunoglobulin” 0338 
monograph. These discrepancies are acceptable and justified by the nature of this product. 
The applicant decided to use the bacterial endotoxin test instead the rabbit pyrogen test. This can be 
accepted according to the revised monograph 01/2010: 0338 if a justification is provided. The 
applicant presented sufficient data of 67 IgPro20 lots tested for both Pyrogen and Endotoxins, 66 lots 
passed the initial Rabbit Pyrogen Test. In one case, additional Rabbit Pyrogen testing was necessary 
but also passed the test. This result is reflected in the Endotoxins test results where all results are 
below quantitation limit. The applicant laid down also the principle of process controls and quality 
assurance program in order to assure the microbiological control. The use of the Bacterial Endotoxin 
test is so far justified. The applicant addressed the point “presence of non-endotoxin pyrogenic 
substances” in relation to cytokines with the temperature profiles observed in the rabbit pyrogen test 
but not with an additional alternative test. Process related considerations were not addressed 
(guideline on the replacement of rabbit pyrogen testing by an alternative test for plasma derived 
medical products EMEA/CHMP/BWP/452081/2007).  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 14/56
 
 
 
 
 
The results of 38 final drug products lots show that Polymers + aggregates were below 0.1% for all 
batches, except one batch with a 0.2% value. The applicant tightened the final specifications at release 
for the parameter Polymer + Aggregates to ≤ 4%. The limit of ≤ 10.0% for Polymers + Aggregates at 
end of shelf life is set according to the Ph.Eur. However, the results of the stability studies which are 
currently available show that Polymers + Aggregates were ≤ 0.4% after 18 months at +25°C and ≤ 
0.5% after 24 months at +25°C, depending on the alternate manufacturing processes.  
The preapproval testing revealed that all tested samples complied with the specifications. The 
consistency of the lots produced is considered acceptable.  
The chosen formulation presents Hizentra as a stable, clear and almost colourless immunoglobulin 
solution for the long-term stability of the drug product at 5 / 25°C. Therefore the applicant proposes 
storage of 24 months between 5 ºC and 25 ºC of Hizentra. In summary the presented data show that 
after storage for 24 months at 5 ºC or 25 ºC all parameters remain within the specified ranges. In 
order to demonstrate stability during temperature shifts the applicant presented new 12 months 
stability data with four temperature cycling steps between -5°C and 30°C in the beginning of the 
study. The selected stability parameters required remain stable if exposed to varying temperature 
conditions. No additional wording in the SPC is necessary. 
In summary compliance with the requirements on virus safety as outlined in Guideline 
CPMP/BWP/269/95 has been demonstrated. 
Finally no major points are identified during the assessment of the Quality part of Hizentra, the points 
for clarification were answered by the applicant. Five remaining issue for clarification should be 
addressed by the applicant 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects  
The marketing authorisation application for Hizentra is recommended for approval based on quality 
grounds. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Human immunoglobulins are naturally occurring proteins with well-established safety and tolerability 
record. It is generally acknowledged that testing of human immunoglobulin preparations in animal 
models is of limited value and these limitations are also discussed in the ICH S6 (Note for Guidance on 
Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-derived Pharmaceuticals CPMP/ICH/302/95, which are 
applicable to plasma derived products). Therefore, several nonclinical studies are not required for 
IgPro20.  
For IgPro20 the Applicant has performed pharmacodynamic, safety pharmacology, pharmacokinetic 
and antigenicity studies in rats, and pharmacokinetic and local tolerance studies in rabbits. Local 
tolerance studies were performed according to GLP.  
In addition, several non-clinical studies have been performed for the excipient L-proline.  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 15/56
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Primary pharmacodynamic evaluation with six antibody specificities (Fab-function) and two Fc-function 
in vitro assays (one measuring complement activation by complexed IgG, the other Fcγ-receptor 
interaction of complexed IgG) showed proper Fab- and Fc-function of IgPro20. The Fc-function of 
IgPro20 was tested and compared well with licensed IVIG products. The efficacy of subcutaneous 
immunoglobulin IgPro20 has been demonstrated in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in 
rats, a preclinical model of human multiple sclerosis and was comparable to the intravenous 
immunoglobulin treatment (study EAR03/06 Treatment of EAE with IgPro20). For a human 
immunoglobulin preparation with its various non-relevant interactions within the animal models the 
approach is considered sufficient. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies have not been performed with IgPro20, which is acceptable given 
the knowledge about human normal immunoglobulins. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Study HYR 01/06 Effects of IgPro20 on Blood Pressure was conducted in anaesthetized rat model for 
characterizing the vasoactivity of IgPro20. It measured hypotensive effects of IgPro20 after i.v. bolus 
administration. IgPro20 was well tolerated and the changes in blood pressure were only moderate 
(short drop of mean arterial blood pressure to 65-73% of control 9-20 min after i.v. bolus), and the 
extent of change was similar as with other marketed products. These results do not raise any 
concerns. Further safety pharmacology studies with IgPro20 are not necessary because of the well-
established history of safety and efficacy of IVIGs in humans. 
Safety pharmacology studies with L-proline revealed no clinical signs of neurotoxicity, and no relevant 
modifications of behaviour were seen with L-proline in rats (Study 1657/ZLB/02 Irwin Test with L-
Proline, Study PSR 08/06 Pharmacokinetics of L-Proline in Rats following a single s.c. or i.p. Injection).  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Nonclinical pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have not been performed with IgPro20. Human 
IgG products have been used in clinical practice for over 50 years and as significant adverse drug 
interactions have not been reported with them, therefore it is acceptable not to conduct 
pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies for this product.  
Due to the biotransformation routes of L-proline no pharmacodynamic interactions are to be expected 
with this excipient. 
Polysorbate 80 is a well-known and widely used non-ionic surfactant which is used at low concentration 
in marketed SCIG and IVIG products, and has been applied in such products at doses higher than in 
IgPro20. Because of the low dose of polysorbate 80 applied with IgPro20 (≤ 0.06 mg/kg bw) and the 
experience with IVIGs pharmacodynamic drug interactions are not expected with polysorbate 80. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 16/56
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were performed in rabbits and rats. An ELISA method was used for the 
determination of human IgG in plasma samples from rats and rabbits. These analytical methods were 
validated according to the validation reports of analytical methods submitted by the Applicant. 
In a single dose pharmacokinetic study PSK 01/05 in rabbits (10/group) the bioavailability of IgPro20 
after subcutaneous (s.c.) administration at dose of 400 mg/kg was compared to Vivaglobin and 
IgPro16. The differences between the three products were not significant. 
In a second single dose pharmacokinetic study PSK 04/05 in rabbits (20/group) s.c. administration by 
single injection of IgPro20 at dose of 400 mg IgG/kg was compared to IgPro16. The investigated 
products showed a similar absorption rate and bioavailability. 
Repeat-dose studies were performed in rats for 5 (Study PSR 02/06) and 28 days (Study PSR 09/08). 
In study PSR 02/06 IgPro20 was injected s.c. on five consecutive days and relative bioavailability was 
assessed in comparison to IgPro10 administered intravenously. The overall bioavailability was 57% 
with 90% confidence interval of 49-67%. AUC values increased for both application routes with 
increasing doses. The AUC was clearly larger in the higher dose group. While the elimination-related 
half-lives showed no significant differences between the dose groups, the absorption half-life in the s.c. 
groups was clearly shorter in the high dose group. After s.c. administration the two doses showed 
similar rates of elimination but a four times more rapid rate of absorption in the higher dose group. 
The reason for this finding is not clear, but the higher application volume might explain a faster 
absorption from the injection site. It was concluded that the bioavailability of s.c. administered IgPro20 
is about 60 % of the i.v. administered IgPro10 and that the AUC increased with increasing doses of 
immunoglobulin. 
In study PSR 09/08 IgPro20 was administered s.c. in rats at doses of either 200 mg or 800 mg 
IgPro20/kg bw once daily every other day for 28 days. Both groups showed increasing serum levels of 
human IgG up to day 21. During the last week of treatment steady state concentrations were reached. 
All animals tolerated the repeated s.c. application of IgPro20 without adverse effects or notable clinical 
signs. 
Distribution studies of IgPro20 have not been performed, which is considered acceptable.  
Pharmacokinetic studies with the excipient L-proline were performed in the rat and the dog (Study PSR 
08/06: Safety Pharmacology and Pharmacokinetics exploratory study, 925/034: Repeat-dose toxicity, 
925/035, 668316, 668321, AA30034: Reproduction toxicity Segment II, PSR 03/07: Pharmacokinetics 
in juvenile animals). The metabolism of L-proline is sufficiently described in the literature. Data of the 
toxicity studies in dogs demonstrate that the urinary excretion is in line with human data showing that 
L-proline is reabsorbed in renal tubules.  
No further pharmacokinetic studies are required. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No single dose toxicity studies were performed, which is considered justified. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 17/56
 
 
 
 
 
Repeat dose toxicity 
No repeat dose toxicity studies were performed with IgPro20. This is acceptable since administration of 
Human normal immunoglobulin to animals can be expected to initiate the immunological response, 
which would interfere with the toxicity evaluation. 
Genotoxicity 
No studies on genotoxicity were performed with IgPro20, which is in accordance with Note for 
Guidance on Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-derived Pharmaceuticals 
(CPMP/ICH/302/95, ICH S 6). Human immunoglobulins are not expected to directly interact with DNA 
or other chromosomal material. 
Carcinogenicity 
No studies on carcinogenicity were performed, which is in accordance with Note for Guidance on 
Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-derived Pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95, ICH S 6). 
Human immunglobulins are endogenous materials for which carcinogenicity studies are inappropriate. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Human IgGs cannot interact directly with DNA or chromosomes in intact human cells. Genotoxicity 
testing of IgPro20 is therefore not appropriate. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data has not been generated and are not considered necessary. 
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance of IgPro20 was evaluated in rabbits. 
Study 143-143-552 (Local tolerance testing of ready-to-use protein solutions in the rabbit) was 
designed to determine the local tolerance of four different formulations of the same test article IgPro in 
comparison to the excipient solution, a control protein and 0.9% saline in male and female rabbits. All 
were applied both as a s.c. bolus injection and as a s.c. infusion, and observation was performed for 96 
hours IgPro20 was in the same range of tolerability when compared to the reference product 
(Beriglobin P). No differences could be identified between genders and no statistically significant 
difference was observed between s.c. bolus injection and s.c. infusion. 
Study 143-140-883 (Local tolerance testing of IgPro20 vs. saline 0.9% in the rabbits) tested local 
tolerance of IgPro20 in a concentration of 200 mg/ml in comparison to saline in 6 male and 3 female 
New Zealand White rabbits after a single intravenous, intra-arterial and paravenous administration of a 
volume of 0.5 ml. IgPro20 was well tolerated after intravenous and intra-arterial application.  
IgPro20 was locally well tolerated in rabbits. Erythema and oedema formation induced by IgPro20 were 
fully reversible and suggested to be a protein-dose dependent effect. 
Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity study was performed in rats (Study PSR0908 Anti-human IgG Antibody detection in rat 
serum after repeated dosing of IgPro20). Rats were treated with either 200 mg/kg or 800 mg/kg 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 18/56
 
 
 
 
 
IgPro20 via the subcutaneous route. IgPro20 was given every other day, starting at day 0 and ending 
at day 28. Plasma samples for rat IgG/IgM antibody detection were drawn at day 0, 6, 14, 21 and 28 
before IgPro20 administration. Repeat subcutaneous IgPro 20 application induces a rapid human 
IgG/M antibody formation in the rat. 
Toxicity studies with the excipient L-proline 
Several toxicity studies have been conducted for the excipient L-proline. 
The assessment of high doses of L-proline alone in 5-day and 28-day repeat-dose studies in rats 
(Applicant Study No. 02_046, Test Facility Study No. 925/034 L-proline- 5 day intermittent intravenous 
infusion dose range-finding study in the rat and Applicant Study No. ZLB 03_037, Test Facility Study 
No. 925/035 L-proline- 4 week daily 7-hour intravenous infusion toxicity study in the rat followed by a 
2-week treatment-free period) did not reveal signs of toxicity except for reductions in the body weight 
gain and food consumption in some groups of animals in the 28-day toxicity study, mainly during the 
first two weeks of treatment. For L-proline, a NOAEL of 1449 mg/kg bw/day, the highest dose 
assessed, was defined for rats. Thus a safety margin of 25 was obtained compared to the L-proline 
dose of 58 mg/kg administered once a week with IgPro20 at 400 mg IgG/kg bw in clinical studies.  
In the 7-day and 28-day repeat-dose toxicity studies in dogs, daily intravenous L-proline doses of up 
to 4350 mg/kg bw showed no overt toxicity (Study ZLB 06_009, 668316 L-proline preliminary 7-day 
dose range finding intravenous (7 h) infusion study in beagle dogs and Study CSL 07_002, 668321 28 
Day Intravenous (7 h) Infusion Toxicity Study in the Beagle Dog with a 14 Day Recovery Period). The 
NOAEL was considered to be 4350 mg/kg. Thus, a safety margin of 75 relative to the maximum human 
dose used in clinical trials with IgPro20 could be established. 
For excipient L-proline no genotoxic effects were shown in results from in vitro and in vivo 
genotoxicity/clastogenicity assays in combination with L-isoleucine and nicotinamide (Study 22196 
Salmonella thyphimurium/ mammalian microsome plate incorporation assay (Ames Test), Study 49196 
Bacterial reverse mutation test (Ames Test) using the pre-incubation method, Study CLE 1554-3-
D5140 Induction of chromosome aberration in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, Study 
Zen-0995 Pro-Tox (C): Bacterial Stress Gene Assay (16 constructs) with solutions containing 
nicotinamide, proline, leucine, and isoleucine). Considering the known metabolism of the three 
excipients, which suggest a low interaction between the compounds, these studies are considered 
relevant for L-proline as a single excipient as well. 
For L-proline segments I (fertility and early embryonic development) and III (pre- and post-natal 
development, including maternal function) of reproductive toxicity data have not been generated. 
Teratogenicity (segment II) data were generated in rats for L-proline (Study AA30034 Embryo Toxicity 
study). As result 1449 mg/kg/day L-proline administered 7-hour daily by intravenous infusion can be 
considered as No Observed Effect Level. 
No significant memory-impairing effects of L-Proline pre-treatment was found on Morris Water Maze 
Performance in rats (Study PSR 0107 Effects of early L-proline or glycine administration on Morris 
Water Maze Performance in rats, Study ZLB06-006 Effects of L-proline or glycine administration on 
Morris Water Maze Performance in rats). 
The efficiency of clearance of L-proline by young as compared to adult rats was less after a single s.c. 
administration (Study PSR0307 Pharmacokinetics of L-proline or glycine following a single s.c. 
administration in young rats). This pharmacokinetic observation was expected from literature. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 19/56
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Guideline on the Environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) states that “aminoacids and proteins […] are exempted [of environmental 
risk assessment] because they are unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment”. 
IgPro20 contains human immunoglobulins as the active substance and also L-proline as an excipient. 
Therefore, environmental risk assessment is not required. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pre-clinical studies performed with IgPro20 show results that are expected for human normal 
immunoglobulin product and do not raise any concerns. 
L-proline is used as a stabilizer and is already approved as stabilizer in marketed IgG products and as 
active ingredient in medicinal products for parenteral nutrition (at daily doses of up to 245 mg/kg/day 
up to several months), which are well tolerated. L-proline as an amino acid is part of proteins and 
normal diet with normal daily intake of approximately 5.2 g. In conclusion, the results from a battery 
of in vivo and in vitro toxicology, genotoxicity and teratotoxicity studies the excipient L-proline can be 
considered as safe at the proposed doses of up to 58 mg L-proline/kg bw. 
Considering the purity and stability characteristics of IgPro20, not conducting pharmacodynamic and 
pharmacokinetic interaction studies for substance related impurities is acceptable. During the 
production process the ethanol which is added for fractionation of human plasma as well the octanoic 
acid which is used in a precipitation step are eliminated. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Several non-clinical studies are not required for IgPro20. The pre-clinical studies performed by the 
Applicant are deemed sufficient and do not raise any concerns. 
Overall, the safety pharmacology and toxicology studies reveal no special risk for humans. This 
information has been included in the SPC. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
IgPro20 is a Human Normal Immunoglobulin product that has been developed for subcutaneous 
administration. The product has 20% IgG concentration, which is higher that for currently marketed 
products and aimed at decreasing administered volume in s.c. infusions. The clinical development 
programme has been developed in line with requirements of Note for Guidance on the Clinical 
Investigation of Human Normal Immunoglobulin for Subcutaneous and Intramuscular Use 
(CPMP/BPWG/283/00). In the development programme treatment with IgPro20 has been compared to 
current immunoglobulin replacement therapy (mainly intravenous therapy with ‘parent’ product of 
IgPro20 – Privigen). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 20/56
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Table. Overview of clinical studies  
Type of 
study 
Phase III 
(Europe) 
Phase III 
(USA) 
Phase I 
Study 
identifier 
ZLB06_001CR  Pivotal study in subjects with PID to assess efficacy, safety, 
Descritpion of the study 
tolerability, PK, and HRQL of IgPro20 
ZLB04_009CR  Supportive study in subjects with PID to assess efficacy, safety, 
tolerability, and PK of IgPro20 
ZLB04_008CR  Supportive study in healthy subjects to assess safety and local 
tolerability of IgPro16 and IgPro20 in comparison to Vivaglobin 
Phase I 
ZLB06_003CR  Supportive study in healthy subjects to compare safety and 
tolerability of IV administration of IgPro20 (at the SC dose) in 
comparison to Privigen 
HRQL = Health-related quality of life; IV = Intravenous; PID = Primary immunodeficiency; PK = 
Pharmacokinetic(s); SC = Subcutaneous; USA = United States. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The data on pharmacokinetic properties was derived from 2 sub-studies in multi-centre, single-arm, 
prospective, open-label, Phase III studies in PID adults and children: 
  Study ZLB06_001CR (Europe: 23 out of 51 patients in PK substudy) 
  Study ZLB04_009CR (USA: 21 out of 49 patients in PK substudy) 
In both studies the patients had been on previous IVIG treatment (either at 4-weekly or 3-weekly 
dosing intervals). After a 12 week wash-in/wash-out period, the patients’ PK parameters for total IgG 
(AUC, Cmax, Cmin, Tmax) were derived by non-compartmental analysis in steady state at Week 28 ± 
1. Furthermore, descriptive statistics were derived for concentrations of IgG subclasses, specific IgGs 
(anti-measles, anti- CMV, anti-Haemophilus influenzae, anti-tetanus, and anti-Streptococcus 
pneumoniae), and L-proline. The main difference between the two studies was in the dosing.  For 23 
PID patients in the PK sub-study ZLB06_001CR the mean IgPro20 dose per week (118.7 mg/kg) was 
comparable to the weekly equivalent of mean previous IGSC or IGIV doses. In the Study 
ZLB04_009CR the mean dose per week during the wash-in/wash-out period ranged from 193.8 - 205.4 
mg/kg. (1.3 times the mean weekly equivalent dose of the former IVIG which was 156.1 mg/kg). To 
attain Ctarget (15.00 g/L) a dose adjustment coefficient (DAC) for IgPro20 treatment was calculated as 
1.53 (range: 1.26 to 1.87), therefore for the second part of the study this resulted in a mean IgPro20 
dose of 234 mg/kg. Please refer to Clinical efficacy section for more detailed information on dosing. 
Absorption, Distribution and Elimination 
ZLB06_001CR 
At steady state (Week 28 ± 1) the mean Cmax was 8.26 g/L, Tmax 2 days, AUC 53.6 g/l*day and the 
mean total serum IgG concentrations in range between 7.44 and 7.98 g/L. The mean Cmin (Ctrough) 
measured prior to the next SCIG administration was 7.54 g/L. The distribution of IgG subclasses at 
steady state corresponded to the naturally occurring distribution. The data submitted on the specific 
IgGs at Week 28 indicate good protection from selected pathogens relevant for immunodeficiency 
patients. The Tmax for IgPro20 in study ZLB06_001CR is similar or shorter than for currently marketed 
SCIGs (2 days vs. 2 to 6 days). 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 21/56
 
 
 
 
 
For the excipient L-Proline 3 out of 23 patients had L-proline levels above the upper limit of the normal 
range of 450 μmol/L (max 662 μmol/L). 
ZLB04_009CR 
At steady-state (Week 28 ± 1) the resultant Cmax was 16.16 g/L, Tmax 2-4 days, Ctrough was 14.48 
g/L and standardised AUCs was 105 day x g/L the mean total serum IgG concentrations ranged 
between 13.83 and 15.58 g/L. The mean trough levels were 29% higher than the former Privigen 
trough levels (11.27 g/L). 
For L-proline no accumulation could be seen when measured at steady state during one dosing 
interval. The maximum reached individual value was 789.0 µmol/L. One day post-infusion the mean 
levels returned to the level prior to the infusion (~220 µmol/L). 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In study ZLB04_009CR comparison of the geometric mean ratios of the AUCs revealed that exposure 
under IgPro20 was non-inferior to Privigen, thereby fulfilling the aim of the second part of the study. 
The trough level ratios (TLR) of SCIG vs. IVIG at steady-state was 1.29, i.e. matching AUCs are 
associated with IgG Ctrough values during SCIG treatment that are 1.29 times higher than the 
preceding IgG Ctrough values during IVIG treatment with Privigen. As expected, the total serum IgG 
concentrations were higher in study ZLB04_009CR where almost double doses of IgPro20 were used. 
Special populations  
The proportion of children 2 to < 12 years of age included in the PK assessments was considerably 
higher in study ZLB06_001CR compared to study ZLB04_009CR (39.1% vs. 5.6%). In study 
ZLB06_001CR in children 2 to < 12 years of age, slightly lower mean values compared to adults 16 to 
< 65 years of age were observed for Cmax (8.09 vs. 8.31 g/L), AUC last (52.30 vs. 54.52 day × g/L), 
and AUCτ (48.18 vs. 56.26 day × g/L). However, overall there were no clinically relevant differences 
between children and adults in the PK of total IgG, IgG subclasses, specific IgGs, and L-proline after 
IgPro20 administration, as indicated by subgroup analyses by age class in study ZLB06_001CR. 
Table. Steady-state pharmacokinetics, additional analysis by age groups in study 
ZLB06_001CR 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 22/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No pharmacokinetic interaction studies have been conducted, which is acceptable for human normal 
immunoglobulin product. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No pharmacokinetic studies using human biomaterials have been conducted, which is acceptable for 
human normal immunoglobulin product. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic studies are not requested by the relevant Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/283/00). The text 
of the core SPC has been adopted by the Applicant and reflects the pharmacodynamic properties of 
human normal immunoglobulin: 
“Human normal Immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a broad spectrum of 
antibodies against infectious agents. 
Human normal immunoglobulin contains the IgG antibodies present in the normal population. It is 
usually prepared from pooled plasma from not fewer than 1,000 donors. It has a distribution of 
immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma. Adequate doses of 
this medicinal product may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin G levels to the normal range.” 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
For the entire assessment of human normal immunoglobulin for subcutaneous administration 
(pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety) the relevant Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/283/00) requests data 
from at least 30 patients (15 subjects for pharmacokinetics – no children required), for time period of 
12 – 24 weeks. Therefore, the submitted data set of 100 patients with primary humoral 
immunodeficiency (44 of them in pharmacokinetic study, 16 children) followed for up to 12 months 
meets these requirements. 
According to the inclusion criteria for the ZLB04_009CR pharmacokinetic substudy, subjects should 
have received IGIV therapy with Privigen at regular 3- or 4-week intervals for at least 3 months prior 
to receiving IgPro20. These subjects were previously enrolled in the preceding studies with Privigen 
ZLB03_002CR (11 out of the 18 patients assessed for PK) and/or its extension ZLB05_006CR. (7 out of 
the 13 patients assessed for PK). 
Both studies meet the criteria of two different approaches (Europe, USA) for the investigation of 
pharmacokinetics of a subcutaneous immunoglobulin product. The switch of dosing from IVIG to SCIG 
in the study ZLB06_001CR was a simple calculation (namely dividing the former IVIG dose by 3 or 4) 
and leaving the finer adjustments up to the treating physician with the aim of maintaining sufficient 
trough levels. In the study ZLB04_009CR an algorithm was developed to ensure similar AUCs between 
former IVIG and current SCIG and to provide the physician with a tool for calculation of individual 
trough level ratios. The resulting mean IgPro20 dose was approximately 50% higher in the study 
conducted in the USA than in the pivotal study conducted in Europe, which resulted in higher Cmax 
and AUC values at steady-state. However, in the Core SPC for SCIGs (CPMP/BPWG/282/00) no specific 
target trough levels are defined, rather it is stated that … “the subcutaneous route should achieve a 
sustained level of IVIG”. Additionally, in the revised IVIG Core SPC protective trough levels are 
considered to be 5-6 g/L, whereby individual tailoring maybe necessary if further SBIs occur, when 
levels may have to be raised to >6-9 g/L. Such values have been achieved also with the lower dosage 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 23/56
 
 
 
 
 
levels applied in the study conducted in Europe. Thus, the dosage strategy applied in the study 
conducted in Europe and proposed for IgPro20 is acceptable and it is the individual patient’s clinical 
response that plays the major role in any dose adjustment. 
Upon request by the CHMP the applicant provided the data regarding the terminal half-life. However, 
the values obtained were not reliable due to the short observation period of 7 days for PK 
measurements. Nevertheless, given the established efficacy of IgPro20, this unsolved issue is of a 
limited impact and does not justify further requests. 
For the excipient L-Proline in the study ZLB04_001CR 3 out of 23 patients had L-proline levels above 
the upper limit of the normal range of 450 μmol/L (max 662 μmol/L). In study ZLB04_009CR maximal 
level of 789 μmol/L was reached. However, this is considerably lower than in the studies with “parent” 
product Privigen, where maximal levels of 1927 µmol/L (in PID study) and 2951 µmol/L (in ITP study) 
were reached and more than 90% were eliminated within 24 hours. The safety issues of possible 
hyperprolinaemia were fully discussed at the time of granting the marketing authorisation for Privigen. 
From the preclinical evaluation derived from a battery of in vivo and in vitro toxicology, genotoxicity 
and teratotoxicity studies L-proline can be considered to be safe at the proposed dose of up to 58 mg 
L-proline/kg. No additional concerns with regard to L-proline are raised by these studies. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Due to differences in study design between the two studies, the mean of individual median IgPro20 
doses were approximately 50% lower in study ZLB06_001CR compared to study ZLB04_009CR, 
accordingly the Cmax and AUC values were also lower. 
Although no specific target values are set in the core SPC or Guideline for SCIG, mean Cmax 
(8.26 g/L), Tmax (2 d) and AUC (53.6 g/l* d) and Ctrough (7.54 g/L) obtained in the study 
ZLB06_001CR are in line with data from other licensed SCIGs. The Cmax and AUC results are 
minimally lower in children, but this is not considered to be clinically relevant and does not warrant any 
different wording in the SPC. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
In s.c. regimens smaller doses are given more frequently (weekly) as compared to the large boluses of 
IV infusions every 3 or 4 weeks. The European Note for Guidance on the Clinical Investigation of SCIG 
(CPMP/BPWG/283/00) request the demonstration of sustained IgG Ctrough values that are comparable 
to the previous IGIV treatment and provide adequate protection from infections at the same weekly 
equivalent dosing as for IGIV for IGSC therapy. 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
A formal dose finding study was not conducted for IgPro20. Dosage in main studies was adjusted 
according to clinical practice and obtained Ctrough levels. 
2.5.2.  Main study 
A multicentre, single-arm, prospective, open-label, phase III study was performed for the evaluation of 
clinical efficacy in subjects with a diagnosis of primary humoral immunodeficiency (PID). 
Study ZLB06_001CR 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 24/56
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Male or female subjects > 2 to ≤ 65 years of age (for sites in the UK: 16 to 65 years of age) with a 
diagnosis of primary humoral immunodeficiency (common variable immunodeficiency [CVID], x-linked 
agammaglobulinemia [XLA] or autosomal recessive agammaglobulinaemia [ARAG]) and who have 
received IGIV therapy at regular 3- or 4-week intervals or IGSC therapy at regular weekly intervals at 
a stable dose for at least 6 months prior to receiving IgPro20 and had at least 3 documented IgG 
Ctrough values ≥ 5 g/L during 3 months on IGIV or IGSC replacement therapy prior to receiving 
IgPro20. 
Treatments 
Subjects were treated with weekly SC IgPro20 infusions for a 12-week wash-in/wash-out period 
(Infusions 1 to 12) followed by a 28-week efficacy period (Infusions 13 to 40 including 1 week of 
follow-up) at doses that were generally equal to the weekly equivalent doses of the subjects’ previous 
IVIG or SCIG therapy. In total, each subject was to receive 40 infusions. 
IgPro20 was administered s.c. using infusion pumps. The number of injection sites depended on the 
volume of the total dose, the maximum volume per injection site ranging from 15 mL (initially) to 
25 mL and maximum total infusion flow rate ranging from 25 mL/h (during the wash-in/wash-out 
period) to 35 mL/h (during efficacy period), depending on tolerability. Treatment with IgPro20 was 
predominantly home-based and performed by the subject (or parent or guardian) after a training 
period at the study site. 
For subjects previously treated with IGIV, the initial weekly dose of IgPro20 during the wash-in/wash-
out period was one third (previous 3-weekly schedule) or one fourth (previous 4-weekly schedule) of 
the previous IGIV dose. For subjects already on IGSC therapy, the initial weekly dose of IgPro20 
during the wash-in/wash-out period was the same dose as previously.  
If necessary or medically indicated, the weekly dose of IgPro20 was adjusted at the investigator’s 
discretion during the wash-in/wash-out period to attain IgG Ctrough values of at least 5 g/L. Except for 
adjustments due to changes in body weight, no further dose adjustments were to be performed during 
the efficacy period, unless medically indicated. Subjects with 2 consecutive IgG Ctrough values of 
< 5 g/L during the efficacy period were to be discontinued from the study. 
Other immunoglobulins, steroids (except in small doses) or other immunosuppressive drugs were 
prohibited during the study. Any medication that was not intended for the primary purpose of masking 
signs of adverse reactions to the infusions, and which was taken by the subject on a regular basis, 
could be continued. 
Objectives 
The overall objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy, tolerability, safety, and 
pharmacokinetics of IgPro20 in subjects with PID. A further objective was to investigate the HRQL 
associated with IgPro20 treatment. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 25/56
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was evaluated by a descriptive comparison of 3 Ctrough values measured during 
previous treatment prior to the study with 6 consecutive Ctrough values measured at a steady-state 
period within the study. 
The secondary endpoints were consistent with those required in the Note for Guidance 
CPMP/BWPG/283/00 (e.g infection rate, use of antibiotics). Quality of life of patients was specifically 
followed considering the wide use of SCIg as self-administration at home and the intended reduction of 
infusion volume and duration of infusion of IgPro20 (20% IgG solution) compared to 10% and 16% 
IGSC preparations used in Europe and elsewhere in the world for replacement therapy. HRQL 
instruments included Short Form-36 (SF-36) Health Survey, Child Health Questionnaire-Parent Form 
50, Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication, Questionnaire on the IgG Therapy, Life 
Quality Index and a health status rating scale. 
Sample size 
There was no formal sample size calculation, which is appropriate for performing descriptive 
comparison of primary endpoint. Sample size was chosen in order to fulfil the recommendations of the 
Guideline CPMP/BWPG/283/00. 
Randomisation 
Not applicable (single-arm study). 
Blinding (masking) 
Not applicable (open-label study). 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis was a descriptive comparison of 6 consecutive IgPro20 IgG Ctrough values per 
subject (before Infusions 12 to 17) with IgG Ctrough values obtained prior to the first IgPro20 infusion. 
Further efficacy and safety data were analysed descriptively. Changes in HRQL scores compared to 
baseline were analysed descriptively, including median changes and confidence intervals. 
All efficacy endpoints were evaluated in the ITT population (all subjects who had the disease under 
study and were treated with IgPro20 during the efficacy period starting with Week 13), except for an 
additional analysis of both the primary efficacy endpoint and the secondary efficacy endpoint of SBIs in 
the PPE population (all subjects who completed the 28-week efficacy period according to protocol). 
Subgroup analyses of efficacy endpoints were performed in ITT population. The PPK population 
comprised subjects included in PK substudy. The Full HRQL population comprised subjects who 
completed the baseline and at least 1 follow-up HRQL assessment. 
No data imputation was made. For primary efficacy endpoint, patients with missing or unsuitable 
baseline value were not excluded from the analysis, but all available and adequate values were taken 
into account. For the calculation of annual rates periods of days for which the data was missing were 
not taken into account. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 26/56
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure. Participant flow in study ZLB06_001CR 
Assessed for  
Elegibility (n= 53) 
Included in PK 
substudy:  
n= 24 
Enrolled and treated 
with IgPro20:  
n= 51 subjects 
(IGIV: 31/IGSC:20) 
Completed PK 
substudy per 
protocol  
(Week 28 +/-1): 
n=23  
Treated in efficacy 
period (starting in 
Week 13): n= 46 
(IGIV:27/ IGSC:19) 
Completed efficacy 
period (Week 40)  
n= 43 
Excluded (n= 2) 
Not meeting Inclusion 
criteria 
Discontinued during 
wash-in/ wash-out 
period: n= 5 
Reasons: 
- Adverse event   n=3 
- Withdrawal of consent  
n=2 
Discontinued during 
efficacy period: n= 3 
Reasons: 
- Adverse event 
Recruitment 
A total of 53 subjects were screened, and 51 subjects were enrolled into the study and treated. 
Conduct of the study 
During the 28-week efficacy period, subjects visited the study site at least every 4 weeks for the 
efficacy and safety evaluations. In addition, subjects recorded in a diary details regarding the dose of 
IgPro20 administered and certain aspects of the efficacy and safety of IgPro20. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 27/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 3 amendments to the original study protocol, including deletion of one secondary objective 
(change in viral safety markers, which were measured only at screening), change in inclusion criteria 
(addition of ARAG) and definition of minimum number of subjects per subgroup for subgroup analysis. 
Baseline data 
In the ITT population, 15 subjects (32.6%) were female and 31 subjects (67.4%) were male. 
Seventeen subjects had XLA, while gender distribution was balanced amongst subjects with other 
PIDs. There were no statistically significant differences in the demographic characteristics of the ITT 
and PPK population, and the demographic characteristics of the AT and PPE populations were generally 
similar to those of the ITT population. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 28/56
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Demographic characteristics of subjects in study ZLB06_001CR 
Numbers analysed 
The AT population consisted of 51 subjects, the ITT population of 46 subjects, and the PPE population 
of 34 subjects. The PPK population comprised 23 subjects. The Full HRQL population comprised 48 
subjects. 
A total of 43 subjects completed the efficacy period (full treatment period of 40 weeks) out of 46 
patients in the ITT population. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 29/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
During the last 9 months before enrolment into the study, the mean of the individual median weekly 
equivalent IGIV or IGSC doses administered before the start of the study was 118.4 mg/kg (for the 28 
IVIG subjects (60.9%) the dose was 131.5 mg/kg, and for the 18 SCIG subjects (39.1%) it was 
107.0 mg/kg). This is comparable to the doses during the study: 120.0 mg/kg, with a similar mean 
value during the wash-in/wash-out and the efficacy periods. Overall, the individual median doses 
(120 mg/kg i.e. around 0.4 g/kg monthly), and the median treatment interval (7 days) concurred with 
the posology claimed in the proposed SPC. 
Mean IgG Ctrough values were generally stable during the efficacy period, ranging between 7.99 and 
8.25 g/L with a mean of individual median IgG Ctrough value of 8.10 g/L. This equates an increase of 
8.1%. 
Figure. Mean serum IgG Ctrough levels in ITT population (study ZLB06_001CR) 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 30/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Median serum IgG Ctrough levels in ITT population (study ZLB06_001CR) 
Clinical data regarding the number of serious bacterial infection (SBIs), infection rate, days out of 
school/work, days of hospitalization and use of antibiotics have been evaluated as secondary 
objectives. 
During the wash-in/wash-out period, 1 subject had an SBI (as defined in the FDA Guidance for 
Industry) of pneumonia, resulting in an annual rate for the full evaluation period of respectively 0.03 
SBIs/subject/year (ITT) and 0.04 SBIs/subject/year (PPE). 
During the efficacy period there was no case of SBI, therefore the annual rate of SBIs per subject was 
0, with upper 99% confidence limits of 0.192 for the ITT population and 0.250 for the PPE population. 
Other infections, mainly cough, upper respiratory tract infection and bronchitis, resulted in a total 
annual rate of 5.18 infections/subject/year (95% confidence limits: 4.305; 6.171).  
20 subjects in the ITT population (43.5%) missed work/school/kindergarten/day care or were unable 
to perform normal activities due to infections on a total of 198 days during the efficacy period, which 
amounted to an annual rate of 8.00 days/subject/year. 4 subjects (8.7%) were hospitalized due to 
infections during the efficacy period for a total of 86 days, which is in accordance with an annual rate 
of 3.48 days/subject/year. Overall, 32 subjects (69.6%) were treated with antibiotics on 1743 days 
during the efficacy period, mainly for treatment of an AE (63%) which resulted in an annual rate of 
72.75 days/subject/year and equates a median duration of 23.0 days (range: 4 to 197 days). 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 31/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Results for secondary efficacy endpoints (study ZLB06_001CR) 
The improvement of quality of life was not evidenced through the analysis of HRQL instruments, 
neither when patients switched from IgIV to SCIg nor when they switched from “less concentrated” 
SCIg to IgPro20. Out of 43 patients who completed the efficacy period 39 patients received IgPro20 at 
home at Week 40. 
Ancillary analyses 
For the primary endpoint, similar results were observed in ITT and PPE populations. The mean of 
individual median IgG Ctrough values during efficacy period were respectively 8.10 g/L (ITT) and 8.25 
g/L (PPE). Compared to IgG Ctrough values during the pre-study IGIV or IGSC treatment, the mean of 
individual median IgG Ctrough values increased respectively by 8.1% (ITT) and 7.4% (PPE). 
Subgroup analysis by age class, disease type, gender and previous replacement therapy brought up 
neither clinically relevant differences nor consistent trends. However, it should be taken into account 
that number of subjects in most of the subgroups was low. 
Due to the small number of participants, some parameters in study ZLB06_001CR have been 
influenced by the course of the disease of a 5-year old female subject with a history of «chronic 
pneumonia» who was hospitalized due to recurrent episodes of pneumonia for 63 days and was treated 
with antibiotics for 116 days and had an SBI (pneumonia) in the wash-in/wash out phase. Although the 
actual rate of infections would not be influenced, the parameter “days missed from school” and “days 
spent in hospital” would be considerably decreased if this patient was omitted in the analysis. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 32/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the main study 
The following table summarise the efficacy results from the main study supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table. Summary of Efficacy for trial ZLB06_001CR  
Title:  A  multicentre  study  of  the  efficacy,  tolerability,  safety,  and  pharmacokinetics  of  Immune 
Globulin Subcutaneous (Human) IgPro20 in subjects with primary immunodeficiency 
Study identifier 
Protocol: ZLB06_001CR 
Design 
Prospective, uncontrolled, open-label, multicentre, single-arm, Phase III 
study of IgPro20 in subjects with primary immunodeficiency (PID) previously 
treated with IVIG or SCIG for at least 6 months.  
Duration of main phase: 
28 weeks 
Duration of wash-in/ wash-
out period: 
12 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase:  N/A 
Hypothesis 
N/A (descriptive comparison) 
Treatments groups 
Pre-study 
Infusions 12 to 17 
Infusions 12 to 41 
Efficacy period 
Full evaluation period 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Total serum 
IgG C trough 
values 
Secondary 
endpoint 
SBI 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Infections 
Days out 
Treatment: IVIG or SCIG  
Duration: for 3 to 6 months prior to the study 
Number of subjects: 46 
Treatment: IgPro20 dose generally equal to 
previous weekly equivalent IVIG or SCIG 
dose; weekly infusion; s.c. 
Duration: Infusions 12 to 17 
Number of subjects: 46 
Treatment: IgPro20 dose generally equal to 
previous weekly equivalent IVIG or SCIG 
dose; weekly infusion; s.c. 
Duration: Infusions 12 to 41 
Number of subjects: 46 
Treatment: IgPro20 dose generally equal to 
previous weekly equivalent IVIG or SCIG 
dose; weekly infusion; s.c. 
Duration: Infusions 13 to 41, 28 weeks 
Number of subjects: 46 
Treatment: IVIG or SCIG weekly and then 
after IgPro20; weekly infusion; s.c. 
Duration:  wash-in/ wash-out and efficacy 
period, infusions 1 to 41 
Number of subjects: 46 
Six total serum Ctrough values before Infusions 
12 to 17 were descriptively compared to 
three Ctrough values obtained during the 
previous IGIV or IGSC treatment. 
Rate of clinically documented serious 
bacterial infections (SBIs defined according to 
Food and Drug Administration guidance)  
Number of infection episodes 
Number of days out of work/ school/ 
kindergarten/ day care or unable to perform 
normal activities due to infections 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 33/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Hospitalization 
days 
Antibiotics use  Use of antibiotics for infections, prophylaxis 
Number of days of hospitalization due to 
infections 
and treatment 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Intent to treat: 46 subjects comprised all subjects who had the disease 
under study and were treated with IgPro20 during the efficacy period 
(starting with Week 13) 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
Pre-study 
Infusions 12 
to 17 
Infusions 12 
to 41 
Mean total serum IgG 
C trough  
(SD) 
Median total serum 
IgG C trough 
(range) 
Treatment group 
Number of subjects 
Annual Rate of SBI 
(upper 99% 
confidence limit) 
Annual rate of 
Infections 
Annual rate of Days 
out 
7.49  
(1.570) 
8.10  
(1.443) 
8.10  
(1.340) 
7.02  
(5.3-11.7) 
Efficacy period 
46 
0 SBIs/subject/year 
(0.192) 
7.99  
(5.1-12.4) 
8.09  
(5.2-11.2) 
Full evaluation period 
46 
0,03 SBIs/subject/year 
(0.192) 
5.18 
infections/subject/year 
8.00 days/subject/year  9.35 days/subject/year 
5.24 days/subject/year 
3.48 days/subject/year  3.05 days/subject/year 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Annual rate of 
Hospitalization days 
Annual rate of 
Antibiotics use 
Primary endpoint: 
Total serum IgG C 
trough values 
72.75 
days/subject/year 
Comparison groups 
Mean of individual 
median IgG C trough 
values 
71.34 days/subject/year 
Pre-study vs Infusions 12 
to 17 
Increased by 8.1%  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
According to the recommendations of the CPMP “Note for guidance on the clinical investigation of 
human normal immunoglobulin for subcutaneous and intramuscular use” clinical efficacy data for 
children have been provided within the scope of studies ZLB06_001CR and ZLB04_009CR.  
Subgroup analysis by age class as well as by disease type, gender and previous replacement therapy 
brought up neither clinically relevant differences nor consistent trends. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 34/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive study 
Study ZLB04_009CR 
Study ZLB04_009CR was multicentre, single-arm, prospective, open-label, phase III study for the 
evaluation of clinical efficacy in subjects with a diagnosis of primary humoral immunodeficiency (PID). 
It was designed according to the FDA Guidance for Industry for developing IVIG products and 
suggestions by the FDA. 
Methods 
Contrary to the study ZLB06_001CR, patients could be aged more than 65 years and were previously 
treated by IVIG only (for a majority with the parent product of IgPro20, Privigen). The exclusion 
criteria were the same as in the trial ZLB06_001CR. The efficacy period was longer (12 months) than 
in study ZLB06_001CR (28 weeks). 
Study Participants  
Male or female subjects 2 to 75 years of age with a diagnosis of primary humoral immunodeficiency 
(common variable immunodeficiency [CVID], X-linked agammaglobulinaemia [XLA], who had received 
an IGIV therapy at regular 3- or 4-weekly intervals for at least 3 months prior to receiving IgPro20 and 
had previous documented serum IgG Ctrough values of ≥ 5 g/L. 
Treatments 
IgPro20 was administered SC infusion pumps. The number of injection sites depended on the volume 
of the total dose. Depending on stage of the study and tolerability the maximum volume per injection 
site ranged at different from 15 mL to 25 mL per site and maximum total infusion flow rate – from 15 
mL/h to 50 mL/h. The number of injection sites was not supposed to exceed 4, though in practice 
more than 4 injection sites could be used consecutively during the same infusion. 
The initial weekly dose of IgPro20 during the wash-in/wash-out period was the equivalent of previous 
weekly dose times 1.30 (130%). The weekly s.c. dose of IgPro20 was adjusted individually at the end 
of the wash-in/wash-out period. For subjects in the PK substudy, the individual adjustment was based 
on 4 IgG Ctrough values measured at Weeks 9 to 12 (at the end of the wash-in/washout period) of s.c. 
dosing). Subjects not participating in the PK substudy had their IgPro20 doses adjusted by applying 
the mean dose adjustment coefficient from the PK substudy population with evaluable data for Part I, 
which was 1.53 times the subjects’ preceding IGIV dose.  
Other immunoglobulins (i.e., SCIGs or IVIGs) or systemic immunosuppressive drugs (except steroids 
in limited doses) were prohibited during the study. 
Objectives 
The overall objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of IgPro20 in 
subjects with PID. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate whether the annual rate of SBIs 
per subject was less than one. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint was annual rate of SBIs per subject. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 35/56
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints were: 
  Rate of SBIs in the PPE and ITT populations 
  Number of infection episodes 
  Number of days out of work/school/kindergarten/day care or unable to perform normal daily 
activities due to infections 
  Number of days hospitalized due to infections 
  Number of days with antibiotics for infection prophylaxis or treatment 
 
Trough levels of total IgG serum concentrations 
Sample size 
Sample size calculation was done in order to assess whether the infection rate per subject per year 
was less than 1. It was calculated that with 32 patients and a yearly infection rate of 0.5 infections per 
subject a one-sided test with type I error 0.01 would have about 80% power to detect a risk decrease 
(i.e. an infection rate < 1 infections per year per subject). In order to account for subject withdrawal 
50 subjects were planned to be enrolled. 
Randomisation 
Not applicable (single-arm study). 
Blinding (masking) 
Not applicable (open-label study). 
Statistical methods 
For the primary efficacy endpoint (annual rate of clinically documented SBIs during the efficacy period) 
the upper 1-sided 99% confidence limit upper limit was calculated (assuming Poisson distributed data). 
In case this limit was below 1, it was concluded that the annual rate of clinically documented SBIs is 
less 1. Secondary efficacy endpoints and safety variables were analysed descriptively. 
All efficacy endpoints were evaluated for the MITT population (subjects treated with IgPro20 during the 
efficacy period, i.e. after Week 12), except for the secondary efficacy endpoint of SBIs in the ITT (all 
subjects treated with IgPro20) and PPE (subjects who completed the efficacy period with no major 
protocol deviations) populations. Subgroup analyses of efficacy endpoints were based on the PPE 
population. 
For subjects discontinued from the study 5 different data imputation methods were applied in 
additional exploratory analyses in order to evaluate the robustness of the result of the primary 
analysis, but no data imputation was made in the primary analysis. 
Results 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 36/56
 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Figure. Participant flow in study ZLB04_009CR 
Assessed for  
Elegibility (n= 52) 
Included in PK 
substudy:  
n= 21 
Enrolled and treated 
with IgPro20  
n= 49 subjects 
Completed Part I of 
PK substudy:  
n= 19 
Completed wash-in/ 
wash-out period 
(Week 12): n= 38 
Completed PK 
substudy per 
protocol  
(Week 28 +/-1): 
n=18 
Completed efficacy 
period (Week 66)  
n= 28 
Excluded (n= 3) 
Reasons: 
- Withdrawal of consent 
n=2 
- Non-compliant n=1 
Lost to follow-up: 
Discontinued during 
wash-in/ wash-out 
period: n= 11 
Reasons: 
- Adverse event   n=2 
- Withdrawal of consent  
n=8 
- Disqualifying 
laboratory results n=1 
Discontinued during 
efficacy period: n= 10 
Reasons: 
- Withdrawal of consent 
n=6 
- Multiple violations of 
the protocol n=1 
- Lost to follow-up n=1 
- Non-compliance n=1 
- Termination of the 
study site n=1 
Recruitment 
This multicenter study was conducted at 12 sites in the USA. A total of 52 subjects were screened and 
49 subjects were enrolled into the study. 
Conduct of the study 
During the 12-month efficacy period, subjects visited the study site at 4-week intervals for the efficacy 
and safety evaluations. In addition, subjects were issued a diary into which details regarding the dose 
of IgPro20 administered and certain aspects of the efficacy and safety of IgPro20 were entered. 
There were 4 amendments to the original study protocol, including incorporation of health-related 
quality of life assessment and definition of maximum number of injection sites and maximum total flow 
of study drug. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 37/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The demographic characteristics of the ITT and PPE populations were similar to those of the MITT 
population. The demographic characteristics of the 19 PK subjects were similar to those of the ITT 
population, and approximately 40% of the ITT population were PK subjects, indicating that there was 
no great difference between the demographics of PK subjects and non-PK subjects. 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 49 subjects were treated with IgPro20 and comprised the ITT population that was evaluated 
for safety. 11 subjects in the ITT population were excluded from the MITT population. Thus, the MITT 
population consisted of 38 subjects who were evaluated for efficacy. The PPE population consisted of 
25 subjects.  
Outcomes and estimation 
The individual median IgPro20 doses administered for MITT population was 181.4 mg/kg during the 
wash-in/wash-out period, corresponding to 1.27 times the previous IGIV dose and 213.2 mg/kg, 
during the efficacy period, corresponding to 1.49 times the IGIV dose. Furthermore, these median 
doses were considerably higher than in study ZLB06_001CR (1.62 and 1.87 times respectively). This 
was expected considering that a Dose Adjustment Coefficient of 1.5 was applied when switching from 
IGIV treatment to IgPro20 to ensure comparable systemic IgG exposure. 
The annual SBI rate per subject was zero (upper 99% confidence limit: 0.132). Thus, the goal set by 
the protocol was achieved and is considered clinically relevant. 
The total number of subjects who had a non-serious infection in the efficacy period was 31/38, namely 
(81.6%). Nevertheless, the total rate of infection was 2.76 infections/subject/year (95% CI: 2.235; 
3.370) whereby the majority affected the upper respiratory tract.  
12 subjects (31.6%) missed work/ school/kindergarten/day care or were unable to perform normal 
activities due to infections on 71 days during the efficacy period, which amounted to an annual rate of 
2.06 days/subject/ year. Only one subject was hospitalized during the efficacy period for 7 days due to 
infections, which amounted to an annual rate of 0.20 days/subject year. Overall, 27 subjects (71.1%) 
were treated with antibiotics on 1688 days during the efficacy period, mainly for treatment of an AE 
(65,8%) which amounted to an annual rate of 48.5 days/subject/year. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 38/56
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Results for secondary efficacy endpoints in MITT population (study ZLB04_009CR) 
Mean IgG Ctrough values were generally stable and reached 12.53 g/L (SD: 3.21 g/L) during the 
efficacy period. Compared to the last 3 months of IGIV treatment before the start of IgPro20 treatment 
in the current study, the mean IgG Ctrough increased by 2.44 g/L (24.2%) with IgPro20. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 39/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure. Mean IgG Ctrough levels (study ZLB04_009CR) 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The study design of the pivotal study complies with the current standards requested by the Guideline 
(CPMP/PWG/283/00). 
In both studies, only the diagnostic criteria for serious bacterial infections were uniformly defined in 
the protocols. Diagnosis of all other infections was at investigator’s discretion and according to the 
national standard of medical practice. This situation may reflect different diagnostic approaches to 
infections in various countries. The efficacy period of study ZLB04_009CR lasted 12 months, thereby 
excluding a seasonal bias, contrary to study ZLB06_001CR. The differences in study design between 
the two phase III studies may have led to differences in some of the results. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The pivotal study ZLB06_001CR demonstrated that the sustained IgG Ctrough levels measured at 
steady-state during IgPro20 treatment were comparable to those measured during the subject’s 
previous treatment. The supportive study ZLB04_009CR demonstrated that no SBI occurred during the 
study. For both studies the primary endpoint was thus clearly met.  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 40/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The doses in study ZLB06_001CR were approximately 50% lower than in study ZLB04_009CR. In 
addition, one or more infusion site could be used in study ZLB06_001CR and the mean infusion rates 
were 25.3 mL/h, whereas up to 4 injection sites could be used in study ZLB04_009CR and the mean 
infusion rates were 39.1 mL/h. 
The mean of the weekly equivalent median doses of previous therapy were comparable between the 
studies (144.4 mg/kg in study ZLB04_009CR and 131.5 mg/kg in study ZLB06_001CR). The individual 
median serum IgG Ctrough values were higher in study ZLB04_009CR (10.09 g/L) than in the pivotal 
study ZLB06_001CR (6.78 g/L). Each study then followed its own dosing regimen which resulted in 
different mean values of the individual median IgG Ctrough values (12.53 g/L in study ZLB04_009CR 
and 8.10 g/L in study ZLB06_001CR). 
The total annual rate of infections reported in study ZLB06_001CR was 5.18 infections/subject/year for 
the efficacy period. This rate appears quite high compared to that of study ZLB04_009CR (2.76 
infections/subject/year). In the discussion of this difference in the annual rate of infections between 
the two studies the Applicant highlighted that a major impact was made by 8 study ZLB06_001CR 
subjects with individual annualized infection rate between 10.139 and 17.743 for the full study 
duration. The highest incidence by type of infection in study ZLB06_001CR was for upper respiratory 
tract infections and bronchitis (> 20% of patients for each) and it was for sinusitis (39.5% of subjects) 
and nasopharyngitis (15.8%). Interestingly, only 1 case of cough (=annual rate of 0.029) was reported 
as an infection in study ZLB04_009CR, whereas 23 episodes (=0.960) were reported in study 
ZLB06_001CR. Other infections (i.e. non-respiratory) showed no imbalance between the studies. So 
although it cannot be ruled out that the higher IgPro20 doses administered in study ZLB04_009CR (up 
to 1.87 times) and subsequent higher mean IgG Ctrough values may lead to lower annual rate of 
infections when compared to study ZLB06_001CR, it may also be influenced by reporting practices 
(e.g. registering cough as an infection or not).  
The rate of infections per subject per year in both IgPro20 studies is within the reported range from 
the studies of other immunoglobulins (Lucas, 2010 – a longitudinal study in 90 CVID patients over 22 
years receiving either IVIG or SCIG showed an annual rate of infections of 4.7). 
14 subjects withdrew consent in study ZLB04_009CR compared to 2 in study ZLB06_001CR. 60.5% of 
subjects received the stipulated infusions (54) in study ZLB04_009CR compared to 80.4% in study 
ZLB06_001CR. This questions the compliance of the subjects in study ZLB04_009CR, in particular 
considering high doses. The lower compliance may have resulted from patients’ discomfort. Overall, 
the reasons of withdrawal of consent in study ZLB04_009CR seem to be related to patients’ discomfort, 
especially when compared to study ZLB06_001CR. As a result the EU SPC has adopted the lower 
infusion rate (initial infusion rate should not exceed 15 ml/hour/site; maximum: 25 ml/hour/site) and 
limited the infusion sites to 4, provided that the maximum infusion rate for all sites combined does not 
exceed 50 mL/hour. 
In addition, as the compliance to the home treatment is a criterion of success for a SCIG, the data 
from currently ongoing extension study ZLB07_002CR will be of interest. 
In the subgroup analyses in study ZLB06_001CR, analysing the previous replacement therapy/trough 
levels and infection rates did not reveal a distinct linear relationship between trough level and infection 
rate. The mean of individual median IgG Ctrough values was higher in subjects previously treated with 
SCIG (8.43 g/L) compared to subjects previously treated with IVIG (6.78 g/L); following IgPro20 
treatment the levels then decreased in the former SCIG group by 1.9% and increased in the former 
IVIG group by 17.7%. A higher annual rate of infections was observed in former SCIG group (7.48 
infections/subject/year) compared to the former IVIG group (3.44 infections/subject/year), probably 
due to a small number of individuals who experience multiple infectious events. The higher annual rate 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 41/56
 
 
 
 
 
of infections in subjects previously treated with SCIG was reflected in a higher incidence of subjects 
missing work/school/kindergarten/day care or unable to perform normal activities due to infections.  
The company provided an additional event analysis concerning the per subject annual rate of 
infections, days out of work, days of hospitalization and use of antibiotics which excluded the data from 
a 5-year old female subject with a history of «chronic pneumonia» (in order to prevent a bias caused 
by the chronic nature of this participants’ pneumonic disease). For both the main and full evaluation 
periods the actual rate of infections was not influenced by including or omitting this patient, however 
given the chronic nature of her severe infection the days missed from school and days spent in hospital 
were considerably decreased by the omission of this patient. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
For both efficacy studies the primary endpoints (sustained IgG trough levels and SBI < 1/subject/year, 
respectively) were clearly met.  
IgG Ctrough levels were comparable to those measured during the subject’s previous treatment. In 
study ZLB04_009CR and study ZLB06_001CR during the efficacy period there was no case of serious 
bacterial infections (SBI). However, in the wash-in/wash-out period in study ZLB06_001CR there was 1 
SBI (pneumonia), resulting in an annual rate of respectively 0.03 SBIs/subject/year, which is below 
the accepted threshold of 1 SBI/subject/year. 
The 1.87 times higher IgPro20 doses administered in study ZLB04_009CR led to higher mean IgG 
Ctrough levels; this may be the cause of the lower annual rate of infections compared to study 
ZLB06_001CR (~2.5 vs ~5 infections/patient /year). However, this should be viewed with caution as 
a) the diagnosis of “other infections” (i.e. not SBI) was at investigator’s discretion and according to the 
national standard of medical practice and therefore not easily comparable and b) a clear linear dose-
Ctrough-response correlation did not result from the subgroup analysis in study ZLB06_001CR of 
previous treatments, the resulting trough levels and the infections rates when compared to the current 
treatment. 
The compliance of patients in study ZLB06_001CR seemed to be higher than in study ZLB04_009CR, 
supporting the dosage regime used in study ZLB06_001CR. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The applicant presented data of two completed Phase III studies (ZLB06_001CR, ZLB04_009CR) and 
two completed Phase I studies (ZLB04_008CR, ZLB06_003CR). In these four studies a total of 148 
patients were treated, 115 adults (age: 16 - < 65 years) and 33 children (age: 2 - < 16 years, 
whereby more patients from 2 to < 12 years group were included in Study ZLB06_001CR than in 
Study ZLB04_009CR (respectively 18 vs 3 patients).  
During the completed Phase III studies 100 PID patients were administered IgPro20 at weekly 
intervals for up 41 weeks in study ZLB06_001CR and for up to 66 weeks in study ZLB04_009CR. In 
study ZLB06_001CR, subjects were treated with mean dose of 120.1 mg/kg bw per week during the 
efficacy period, and in the study ZLB04_009CR 1.8 times higher doses were administered 
(213.2 mg/kg bw). The total infusion rate was higher in study ZLB04_009CR than in study 
ZLB06_001CR (respectively 37.6 ml/h versus 26.3 ml/h).  
Data of 4095 s.c. infusions (cumulative number) were presented.  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 42/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events  
Study ZLB06_001CR  
50 subjects (98.0%) had at least 1 AE, 31 subjects (60.8%) had at least 1 AE that was at least 
possibly related to study drug, and 48 subjects (94.1%) had at least 1 temporally associated AE 
(within 72 h). 
There were 527 AEs and 1831 infusions, resulting in an AE rate per infusion of 0.288. The rate of AEs 
that was considered at least possibly related to study drug was 0.106, for temporally associated AEs it 
was 0.177 (324 events) and for both temporally associated and possibly related it was 0.090 (165 
events). 
The most common adverse event was “local reaction” with 110 events in 1831 infusions (0.060) 
experienced by 25/51 patients (49%). The term “local reaction” encompassed a large number of 
findings at the injection site, in all except for one patient these were also temporally associated and 
causally related. The majority of the local reactions (87%) were mild in intensity. Over the course of 
the study these reactions decreased and very few experienced any after infusion 24. Other common 
related adverse events in ~ 6% of the patients were headache, pruritis, fatigue and pyrexia. 
Table. Incidence of subjects with common adverse events (experienced by ≥ 4 subjects) by 
preferred term and rate per infusion, irrespective of causality in AT population of study 
ZLB06_001CR 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 43/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ZLB04_009CR  
All subjects had at least one AE that was considered at least possibly related to the study drug and 
occurred within 72 h of infusion. There were 1749 AEs and 2264 infusions in this study, resulting in an 
AE rate per infusion of 0.773. The rate of AEs that were considered at least possibly related to study 
drug was 0.634 (1436 events). This rate remained approx. the same for temporally associated and 
possibly related AEs (0.617).  
The majority of AEs were infusion related local reactions namely 1313 in 2264 infusions (0.580) 
experienced by 49 patients (100%). If one excluded the local reactions, there were 409 AEs, resulting 
in an AE rate of 0.181, whereby only a fraction of these were considered related (0.043).Most of the 
injection site reactions (94.8%) were reported by the subjects to have been “very slight” or “slight” in 
intensity. 
The next most common related AEs were headache seen in approx. one quarter of the patients 
followed by injection site bruising, vomiting, pain and fatigue in ~6% of the patients. In general the AE 
profile corresponds to that seen in other SCIG products. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 44/56
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Incidence of subjects with common adverse events (experienced by ≥ 4 subjects) by 
preferred term and rate per infusion, irrespective of causality in ITT population of study 
ZLB04_009CR 
Study ZLB04_008CR 
Was a single-centre, randomised, assessment-blinded, 4-way crossover, Phase I study in 28 healthy, 
male Caucasian subjects between 18 and 45 years of age. It investigated the local tolerability of 
IgPro20 (both 12 and 15 ml), IgPro16 (a 16% IgG solution) compared to 16% Vivaglobin. 
The primary endpoint was local tolerability which was based on the subjects’ assessment of pain by 
VAS scale (from 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (unbearable pain)) and assessment of various other 
symptoms (erythema, oedema/induration, local heat, and itching – from none increasing in categories 
until severe) by a blinded investigator for up to 72 hours after the end of infusion. The secondary 
endpoint of safety was assessed in terms of AEs, clinical laboratory evaluations, viral safety, 
electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital signs, and physical examination.  
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 45/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
The design of the study to assess the extent of the commonly expected local reactions is acceptable. 
The VAS scales are a commonly used method for pain measurement and are generally considered to 
be sensitive and reliable. 
There were no clinically relevant differences between the 4 treatments with regard to pain perception. 
Apart from one outlier, the reported values for mean maximum pain were fairly low (on the VAS 100 
mm scale: 6.8 and 9.3 mm). For the other parameters (erythema, oedema/induration, local heat, and 
itching and AEs), no new tolerability or safety signals emerged – the main related AE was headache 
(14.3% observed in IgPro20 15 ml vs. 3.6% in Vivaglobin arm). 
Study ZLB06_003CR 
Study ZLB06_003CR was a single-centre, randomised, single-blind, 2-way crossover, Phase I study in 
20 healthy male volunteers (20 to 45 years of age). It primarily investigated the safety and tolerability 
of IV administration of IgPro20 given at the SC dose used for IgG replacement therapy (single dose of 
50 mL of IgPro20 in short infusion of 45 minutes), compared to IV administration of the IVIG product 
Privigen at the same dose.  
The design to assess the safety of inadvertent IV administration of IgPro20 during intended SC use is 
considered acceptable. 
Fourteen subjects experienced 39 TEAES (10 experienced 17 TEAEs vs 12 experienced 22 TAES, 
respectively in IgPro10 vs IgPro20), all of which resolved without sequelae. 
The most frequent AE was chills, followed by chest discomfort, feeling cold, and headache. Most AEs 
were of mild intensity. The study results do not show any significant difference in the related and 
temporally associated AEs between IgPro 10 given intravenously and IgPro 20 given intravenously. 
This is reassuring to the treating physician and patient in home treatment that the nature and rate of 
side-effects will be similar to Privigen, if IgPro20 is inadvertently given intravenously. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Study ZLB06_001CR  
No deaths occurred during the study. However, a 5 year-old patient with SAEs (pneumonia) died from 
respiratory failure (acute exacerbation of chronic pneumonia) 4 days after infusion 5 in the ongoing 
extension to this study (ZLB07_002CR). The final study report of ZLB07_002CR is awaited for the first 
quarter of 2013. 
7 SAEs (0.004) occurred in 5 subjects (diarrhoea; pneumonia [2 events], pyrexia; bronchiolitis; 
appendicitis; and sciatica) all of which unrelated to the study drug. Three patients were under 12 
years-old and one patient was 18. Three patients had previous medical history for their effects. All the 
patients recovered without sequelae. 
Study ZLB04_009CR  
There were no deaths in this study. 
10 SAEs (0.004) occurring in 7 patients (gastroenteritis; small intestinal obstruction and chest pain; 
tooth abscess, cellulitis, and urinary tract infection; hemoglobin decreased; chest pain; 
musculoskeletal stiffness; and papillary thyroid cancer) were not related to the study drug. All the 
patients were older than 18 years-old. Five subjects have medical histories which could explain their 
AEs. All SAEs resolved without sequelae except 2 (papillary thyroid cancer and abdominal pain). 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 46/56
 
 
 
 
 
Studies ZLB04_008CR and ZLB06_003CR 
There were no deaths or serious adverse events during the course of these studies. 
Laboratory findings 
Study ZLB06_001CR 
Haematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis analytes were evaluated at screening, at Weeks 1, 4, 
28, and at the completion visit. In addition to numerous individual fluctuations, a total of 22 
haematology values in 3 subjects were assessed as abnormal and clinically significant and mainly 
concerned low Hb, Hk and high WBC. Underlying conditions (anaemia, infection) could explain these 
values. Haemolysis did not occur. For blood chemistry in 2 patients a clinically relevant elevation was 
seen for LDH, which is a general indicator of tissue breakdown. As haematology and other blood 
chemistry values showed no clinically relevant changes, it is therefore difficult to assess the origin of 
these elevations. 
Study ZLB04_009CR 
The evaluations were performed at the same time points as in study ZLB06_001CR and additionally 
due to the longer duration at week 40. Again individual fluctuations were seen in study population with 
very few cases reaching clinical significance. Haemolysis (defined as + DAT and a decrease in Hb> 
2g/dL) did not occur. 19 abnormal values in blood chemistry were assessed as clinically significant in 4 
subjects; 15 of them occurred in one subject with chronic hepatitis. Relevant increases in LDH were 
seen in 4 patients and non-relevant in 6 patients. 
Study ZLB04_008CR 
There were 5 subjects with increased bilirubin, 6 had increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and 2 
subjects had lipase and amylase increases, 5 subjects had low lymphocyte counts of 20% (normal 
range 25 - 45%), but only as single outlier values. The increases in bilirubin are of note in otherwise 
healthy males. As a possible explanation the company proposes “Occasionally and intermittently 
elevated total bilirubin concentrations are found in the Caucasian population known as the Morbus 
Meulengracht, a hereditary benign metabolic disorder of the liver”. CK increases may be explained by 
physical activity in this healthy population. Intermittent lipase and amylase increases are seen in the 
general population. However, the 3 to nearly 4 fold increases of lipase and amylase seen here are 
rather high and are also seen in another subject from trial ZLB06_003CR.  
Study ZLB06_003CR 
Two subjects experienced moderate to severe neutropenia. There were no signs of hemolysis. One 
patient had increased lipase. 
Physical examination and vital signs   
Although there were numerous individual fluctuations in vital signs, no clear trends or patterns emerge 
from the data. No relevant findings or new signals arise from the changes in physical examination or 
vital signs. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 47/56
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Study ZLB06_001CR  
Age 
The incidence of children and adolescents with related and temporally associated adverse events was 
lower (~39%) compared to adults (71%), as were the rates of AEs per infusion (~0.22 vs. 0.36).  
Underlying disorder 
Although the incidence of subjects with at least possibly related AEs was higher in subjects with CVID 
compared to subjects with XLA (76.7% vs. 40.0%), no distinct differences were seen between the 2 
categories with regard to rates of events per infusion. Thus, no clear conclusion can be drawn with 
regard to the relationship of the underlying disorder and resulting AEs. 
Previous replacement therapy 
No relevant differences with regard to AEs could be discerned for patients previously receiving IVIG 
(n= 31) or a different SCIG (n=20) replacement therapy. 
Starting infusion rate 
No relevant differences with regard to AEs could be discerned for the different starting infusion rates 
(< 15 mL/h; 15 to 25 mL/h and >25 mL/h) 
Study ZLB04_009CR  
Gender 
There were 22 males and 27 females in the study. The overall AE rate per infusion was similar in males 
and females (0.746 vs. 0.794), as was the rate of causally related AEs (0.601 vs. 0.660). Local 
reactions apart, females had a higher proportion of related AEs in the other AE categories (8 males 
[36.4%] vs. 17 females [63.0%]) this was predominantly due to headache being increased in women 
(m:f 18%: 29%), but also due to how the causality was rated e.g. upper abdominal pain and back pain 
were classified more frequently as “related” in females compared to males. Thus, no clear conclusions 
can be drawn from the data regarding possible differences in AEs between the sexes.  
Age 
The small number in the age groups 2-<12y (n=3), 12 -16 (n= 7) and > 65 (n= 6) do not allow for 
firm conclusions. Although related AE rates seem higher in the 12-16 year-olds, seen in conjunction 
with the paediatric data from study ZLB06_001CR, where children (n= 18) and a small number of 
adolescents (5) had a lower incidence of related and temporally associated AEs compared to the adult 
population a change in the wording of the SPC for adolescents does currently not seem warranted. 
Dose 
There were 2 patients in the < 100 mg/kg group, 10 patients in the 100 – 150 mg/kg group and 37 
patients in the >150 mg/kg group. For 20 infusions the dose was not known. The overall AE rates per 
infusion was between 0.669 in the < 100 mg/kg group and 0.806 in the 100-150 mg/kg group and 
0.765 in the highest dosing group. 
No clear pattern emerged between the groups with regard to the nature and rate of the AEs.  
Infusion rate 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 48/56
 
 
 
 
 
No distinct differences in AE rate per infusion (0.887 vs. 0.686) arose from the 2 categories of 
infusions rates (15-25 ml/h (n= 21) and >25 ml/h (n= 28)). 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal interaction studies were performed. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Study ZLB06_001CR  
Six subjects (11.8%) discontinued from the study due to 14 AEs, 7/14 AEs were considered at least 
possibly related (r) to study drug. (0.008): myalgia, pyrexia, nausea, chest pain, and C-reactive 
protein increased; injection site pain (r) and injection site pruritus (r); pulmonary tuberculosis; 
injection site reaction (r), fatigue (r), and feeling cold (r); injection site reaction (r) and 
hypersensitivity (r); and anaemia. 
Except for the AEs of pulmonary tuberculosis and anaemia that were ongoing at final assessment, all of 
the AEs resolved without sequelae. The case of pulmonary tuberculosis is not viewed by the CHMP as 
related to the study; from the narrative provided it may be an exacerbation of a pre-existing infection 
– however, this is merely speculative. 
Study ZLB04_009CR  
A total of 3 AEs in 3 patients were classified as leading to discontinuation from the study (< 0.001), 2 
of which were considered at least possibly related to study drug: dermal hypersensitivity reaction 
associated with the infusions, myositis, chronic hepatitis (this condition existed long before the study 
and the reason for discontinuation was violation of an exclusion criterion). The company has 
adequately discussed the development of myositis in one patient. There does not seem to be any clear 
causal relationship with IgPro20. Some symptoms seem to have been pre-existing prior to study entry; 
liver values and CK were increased at screening. No reports of myositis developing from IVIG or SCIG 
were found in the literature. 
Studies ZLB04_008CR and ZLB06_003CR 
No discontinuations. 
Post marketing experience 
The product was not licensed at the time of submission of the Marketing Authorisation Application. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Both Phase III studies encompassed 100 PID patients (adults and children) who received IgPro20 
during a period of 28 -54 weeks, thereby meeting the requirements of SCIG Guideline 
CPMP/BPWG/283/00, which requests data from at least 30 patients, including children, followed for 12 
– 24 weeks. 
There was a noticeable difference in the rate of AEs per infusion between study ZLB06_001CR and 
study ZLB04_009CR: 0.288 vs 0.773, this difference was also reflected in the related AEs (0.106 vs. 
0.634) and temporally associated AEs (0.177 vs. 0.692). In both studies the main adverse event was a 
local injections site reaction, as would be expected from an SCIG. The discrepancy in AE rates was 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 49/56
 
 
 
 
 
mainly due to the higher rate of local reactions in study ZLB04_009CR (0.06 vs 0.592). It is difficult to 
assess how much of this was due to the different doses applied (approx. twice higher doses were 
administered in the study ZLB04_009CR) and how much due to the different assessment of local 
tolerability (only patient’s perception 24 hours to 72 hours after the administration for study 
ZLB06_001CR and for study ZLB04_009CR in addition to patient’s perception the investigator assessed 
local tolerability within 15 to 45 minutes after the end of the infusion). 
However, almost all AEs (99%) in both studies were mild or moderate in intensity. Local reactions 
were also mostly mild in intensity and diminish in frequency over time. The tolerability of IgPro20 was 
rated as good to very good by most patients. 
While infections were also reported as AEs, they were expected due to the underlying disease of PID 
and the extensive history of chronic infections in most subjects; patients in study ZLB06_001CR 
suffered more from cough, bronchitis and URTI, more patients in study ZLB04_009CR had sinusitis and 
acute sinusitis. The rate of nasopharyngitis was similar in both studies. 
Other common AEs were headache, diarrhoea, rash, fatigue that occurred at a similar rate in both 
studies. Other pain syndromes (headache as a related AE, back pain, abdominal pain, migraine, 
arthralgia) occurred more frequently in study ZLB04_009CR. Pyrexia was more frequent in study 
ZLB06_001CR than in study ZLB04_009CR. (17.6% vs.4.1%). 
No clear conclusion can be drawn with regard to the relationship of AEs and the underlying disorder, 
infusion rate and gender.  
Comparing SCIG and IVIG administration is fraught with difficulty, as the nature and frequency of side-
effects differ. The rates for systemic AEs (e.g. headache, nausea + vomiting, pyrexia, pain) with IVIGs 
are in general higher than those seen in the submitted SCIG studies. However, the rates in the 
literature can vary considerably for IVIGs as has been shown in an article by R. Pierce and N. Jain 
(Transfusion Medicine Reviews, Vol. 17, Issue 4, October 2003, Pages 241-251 Risks associated with 
the use of intravenous immunoglobulin) “Depending on the particular disease/ patient population 
studied, the AE incidence reported on a per-infusion basis appears to vary markedly (ranging from 2%-
25%). This is the case even while comparing trials of the same manufacturer’s IGIV product”. Judging 
by the submitted data, it can be concluded that treatment with IgPro20 shows good tolerability and 
very low related adverse event rates.  
No deaths occurred on either studies and the SAEs were not considered to be related. One subject who 
had previously been treated in study ZLB06_001CR died from respiratory failure during the ongoing 
extension study ZLB07_002CR. This subject had an SAE of pneumonia that was considered by the 
investigator to be unrelated to the study drug. In general the 30 year survival rate in CVID is ~ 80%. 
As there are 2 peaks of onset, one from 1-5 years of age and the other from 16-20 years of age, some 
severely affected patients will die in childhood despite multiple treatment modalities. The most 
common cause of death is respiratory failure. The CHMP concurs with the evaluation of the company 
that this subject does seem to represent one of those cases with severe recurrent infections that can 
not be controlled despite treatment. 
With regard to the laboratory findings individual fluctuations which were seen in the Phase III study 
population with very few cases reaching clinical significance could often be attributed to underlying 
causes. Some intermittent changes from baseline will also be random and may appear in the 
population at large (e.g. LDH, bilirubin, CK, lipase etc.) and thus also in healthy male volunteers. It is 
therefore impossible to conclude that any signal would emerge from these studies. The company 
performed a detailed repeated analysis of the elevated liver function tests (LFT), LDH and lipase and 
provided convincing data that in those cases where consistent (not clinically relevant) elevations were 
seen, the screening or/and pre- first infusion values were also increased. Currently available data on 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 50/56
 
 
 
 
 
IgPro20 does not qualify elevation of LFTs as a safety signal that would require further specific 
activities other than routine pharmacovigilance. 
Physical examination and vital sign changes did not give rise to any new concerns. 
Age did not seem to play a role with regard to any safety signals; in the study ZLB06_001CR less 
children and adolescents had AEs than adults. A specific wording for children in the SPC is therefore 
not warranted. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety data is comprehensive. The safety profile of IgPro20 is similar to marketed SCIGs. The main 
adverse events are local injection site reactions of mild intensity. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table. Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Listed in EU-SPC, section 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
 Local Reactions (very common) 
 Headache (common). 
Important potential risks 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Listed in EU-SPC, section 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Pruritus, Fatigue, Pain, and Vomiting 
(all uncommon) 
 Potential for transmission of 
infectious agents 
Information included in 
EU-SPC, section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use, recommending the name 
and batch number of the 
product to be recorded. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 51/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
 Potential for allergy-like 
(hypersensitivity) and anaphylactic 
reactions 
(routine and additional) 
Information provided in 
EU-SPC, sections 
 4.3 Contraindications: 
Hypersensitivity to any of 
the components; 
 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use: 
Recommendation for  careful 
monitoring of patients during 
and after administration; 
and 
 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Information in EU-SPC, section 
4.2, subsection 'method of 
administration': 
Home treatment should be 
initiated by a physician 
experienced in the guidance of 
patients for home treatment. 
The patient will be instructed 
in the measures to be taken in 
case of severe adverse 
reactions. 
Contraindication in EU-SPC, 
section 4.3: "Patients with 
hyperprolinaemia". 
None 
 Potential for increased or unknown 
risks in the home-based SC (self-) 
administration 
 Potential for exacerbation of 
existing hyperprolinaemia 
 Potential for haemolysis 
(theoretical consideration) 
 Potential for aseptic meningitis 
(theoretical consideration) 
 Potential for thrombo-embolic 
events (theoretical consideration) 
Important missing information 
 Potential off-label use in 
therapeutic areas which have 
become medical practice for IVIg 
products; 
 Safety-profile of IgPro20 in the 
paediatric population; 
 Safety-profile of IgPro20 in the 
geriatric population. 
None 
None 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
User consultation 
The submitted bridging study report on results of the user consultation with target patient groups 
regarding the package leaflet is not sufficient to show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for 
readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 52/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
products for human use. The Applicant is requested to perform full user consultation with patient 
target groups. 
2.8.   Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
In 1952 Bruton identified the first case of X-linked agammaglobulinemia in an 8-year old boy and 
subsequently IgG was introduced as replacement therapy for primary immunodeficiencies. The trials 
that followed were uncontrolled but so convincing as to render placebo-controlled trials unethical. 
Initially IgG therapy was given as subcutaneous injections, which were later replaced by intramuscular 
injections (IMIG). In the 1970’s IMIGs were modified to be rendered virtually free of aggregates; other 
changes were made leading to the production of intravenous immunoglobulins. In the last 12-15 years 
the use of SCIG has become more widespread for home treatment of PID patients due to the greater 
convenience this route offers. Additionally, no venous access is required making SCIG a more 
acceptable route for children or patients with poor veins. The rate of side-effects is in general lower 
than with IVIG, especially with regard to systemic adverse events. Efficacy in terms of infection rate, 
days off school or work, use of antibiotics or in terms of the surrogate marker IgG trough levels can be 
maintained at the same level as with IVIGs.  
Prevention of infection is the primary benefit that is expected from immunoglobulin replacement 
therapy. An accepted surrogate for this benefit is the trough concentration, alternatively AUC, of 
immunoglobulin. Prevention of serious bacterial infection was the primary endpoint in study 
ZLB04_009CR and a secondary endpoint in study ZLB06_001CR. In both studies the endpoint was 
clearly met. Infections, especially serious bacterial infections, could be contained to a minimum (0-1 
serious bacterial infections SBI/patient/year), considering that in the historical setting patients suffered 
from > 4 SBI per year. Attaining sufficient trough levels/comparable AUC as a surrogate for efficacy 
was the primary endpoint in study ZLB06_001CR and a secondary endpoint in study ZLB04_009CR; 
this endpoint was also met. IgG trough levels with the subcutaneous route were sufficiently similar to 
those seen under the previous IVIG treatment (7-14 g/L) and are thus in line with levels seen in 
healthy subjects. 
Additional beneficial effects resulting from the reduction of infections (especially SBIs) are a decrease 
in days off school or work and in use of antibiotics. 
Furthermore, as indicated by the 39 out of 43 patients who received IgPro20 at home until Week 40, 
the compliance to the home-treatment with IgPro20 accounts for a relevant criterion of success. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
The major uncertainty with regard to the beneficial effects is the question of dosing and related 
outcome. In general, in the replacement therapy setting cumulative monthly doses of SCIG (given 
weekly) and IVIG (given once monthly) are similar. The main criterion for dosing is the clinical 
outcome. 
The approach taken in the 2 submitted Phase III studies (Europe and USA) of switching a patient from 
IVIG to SCIG and calculating the necessary SCIG dose was slightly different. 
However, there are many caveats with the comparison of the two studies: a) both are separate studies 
and not designed as a comparative study, b) regional differences in prescribing practices (e.g. 
antibiotics) and “accepted” length of hospital duration will differ and are therefore difficult to assess 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 53/56
 
 
 
 
 
and c) one patient in study ZLB06_001CR with the SBI (chronic pneumonia) influenced some endpoints 
due to prolonged antibiotic treatment and hospitalisation, days off kindergarten etc. 
The dosing and thus trough levels in study ZLB04_009CR were approx. double that of levels observed 
in study ZLB06_001CR. The secondary endpoints (other infections, days off school, use of antibiotics) 
were more favourable in study ZLB04_009CR. Prima vista, it appears that the higher IgPro20 
doses/higher trough levels in study ZLB04_009CR led to lower annual rate of infections when 
compared to study ZLB06_001CR. However, it is uncertain whether the discrepancy in “other 
infections” between the 2 studies was a direct consequence of the different dosing schemes or was it 
impacted by the different national standards of medical practice in capturing “other infections”. 
Furthermore, a clear linear dose-trough level-response correlation did not result from a subgroup 
analysis in study ZLB06_001CR of previous treatments when compared to the current treatment. 
In view of the high incidence of local reactions in study ZLB04_009CR (in 100% of subjects), 
increasing the dose may impact on the patients’ comfort and compliance as evidenced by the higher 
number of withdrawals of consent in study ZLB04_009CR. Taken together, the balance of the most 
effective dose and tolerability has to be individually tailored. 
An effect on quality of life may be expected with the use of this 20% IGSC formulation, which reduces 
the infusion volume and duration of infusion compared to 10% and 16% IGSC preparations currently 
used in Europe and elsewhere in the world for replacement therapy. Nevertheless, this improvement 
was not evidenced through the analysis of HRQL instruments, neither when patients switched from 
IgIV to SCIg nor when they switched from “less concentrated” SCIg to IgPro20. 
Risks 
For over 12 years SCIGs have been successfully applied in PID patients with very good safety records. 
  Unfavourable effects 
The main unfavourable effect was “local injection site reactions” as would be expected for the SCIG 
route of administration and was thus in line with other marketed SCIG products.  
The difference in the rate of AEs per infusion between study ZLB06_001CR and study ZLB04_009CR: 
(0.288 vs 0.773), was mainly due to the higher rate of local reactions in study ZLB04_009CR (0.06 vs 
0.592). These reactions seem more frequent when higher dose (> 150 mg/kg) and higher infusion rate 
(>25 m l/h) are used (see study ZLB04_009CR). Almost all AEs (99%) in both studies were mild or 
moderate in intensity. Local reactions were also mostly mild in intensity and diminished in frequency 
over time. The tolerability of IgPro20 was rated as good to very good by most patients. 
While infections were also reported as AEs, they were expected due to the underlying disease of PID 
and the extensive history of chronic infections in most subjects.  
Other common AEs were headache, diarrhoea, rash, fatigue that occurred at a similar rate in both 
studies. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
It is difficult to assess how many of the local reactions were due to the different doses applied (approx. 
twice higher dose was administered in the study conducted in the USA) and how much due to the 
different assessment procedures of local tolerability. 
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 54/56
 
 
 
 
 
Favourable effects of IgPro20, as shown in clinical studies fulfil the requirements of respective 
guidelines (CPMP/BPWG/283/00). There are no major unfavourable effects identified for IgPro20 as 
compared to other human normal immunoglobulin products. 
  Benefit-risk balance 
The benefit-risk balance is positive considering that through weekly subcutaneous injections of IgPro20 
(in a home setting) serious bacterial infections can be kept at bay in the majority of the PID patients 
(≤1 SBI/patient/year) and the side-effects caused are very low in rate, mild in severity and mainly 
localised reactions in nature. 
The overall benefit/risk balance of IgPro20 is positive. 
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The main benefit that is expected from immunoglobulin replacement therapy is prevention of infection. 
A surrogate measure of trough IgG concentrations is widely recognised in this kind of therapy. 
Beneficial and sufficient effect of IgPro20 on these outcomes is clearly demonstrated in line with 
guideline requirements. 
Different dosing strategies exist in immunoglobulin replacement therapy. Results of studies performed 
with IgPro20 suggest that higher doses might provide lower infection rate, but also might be related to 
higher incidence of local reactions and decreased patients’ comfort and compliance. Therefore, the 
balance of the most effective dose and tolerability has to be individually tailored. 
Analysis of HRQL instruments in currently available studies has failed to show a positive IgPro20’s 
impact on the quality of life, but such effect might be expected from the demonstrated relatively good 
compliance with home treatment. 
Safety information on IgPro20 is obtained from a population size that exceeds the minimum 
requirements set by guidelines, show results that are consistent with results from other SCIGs and do 
not raise any additional concerns. 
Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that: routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product and no 
additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.8.2.  Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
Not applicable 
2.8.3.  Market exclusivity 
Not applicable 
2.8.4.  Significance of paediatric studies 
Not applicable 
2.8.5.  Conformity with agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Not applicable 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 55/56
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Hizentra in the treatment of  
Replacement therapy in adults and children in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
- congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
- common variable immunodeficiency 
- severe combined immunodeficiency 
- IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections 
Replacement  therapy  in  myeloma  or  chronic  lymphatic  leukaemia  with  severe  secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections. 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Hizentra 
Assessment report  
Page 56/56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
