EMA/636071/2021 
EMEA/H/C/002127 
Hizentra (human normal immunoglobulin) 
An overview of Hizentra and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Hizentra and what is it used for? 
Hizentra is used in patients whose blood does not contain enough antibodies (proteins that help the 
body to fight infections and other diseases), also known as immunoglobulins. It is used to treat the 
following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
primary immunodeficiency syndromes (PID, when people are born with an inability to produce 
enough antibodies); 
secondary immunodeficiencies (SID) in people who have severe or recurrent infections that do not 
respond to treatments and who are unable to produce certain antibodies;  
chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). In this rare disease, the immune 
system (the body’s defense system) works abnormally and destroys the protective covering over 
the nerves. 
Hizentra contains the active substance human normal immunoglobulin.  
How is Hizentra used? 
Hizentra can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor or nurse 
who is experienced in the treatment of patients with weakened immune systems or CIDP.  
Hizentra is available as a solution for injection. It is given by subcutaneous infusion (very slow injection 
under the skin) through a device that controls the speed of infusion. It is given in the abdomen (belly), 
thigh, upper arm or hip. Patients (or their carers) may inject Hizentra at home once they have been 
trained.  
The dose and how often Hizentra infusion is given depend on the disease being treated. The dose may 
need to be adjusted depending on how well the medicine is working.  
For more information about using Hizentra, see the package leaflet or contact a doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Hizentra work? 
The active substance in Hizentra, human normal immunoglobulin, is a highly purified protein extracted 
from donated human blood. It contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG), which is composed of a range 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
of antibodies involved in fighting organisms that can cause infection. Hizentra works by restoring 
abnormally low IgG levels to their normal range in the patient’s blood. It can also help to control the 
immune system when it is working abnormally such as in CIDP. Normal immunoglobulin has been used 
as a medicine since the 1980s. 
What benefits of Hizentra have been shown in studies? 
As human normal immunoglobulin has been used to treat these diseases for many years, in 
accordance with current guidelines, two small studies and an analysis of scientific literature were 
needed to establish the effectiveness and safety of Hizentra in patients. 
In the first study, Hizentra was investigated in 51 patients with PID who had already received human 
immunoglobulin into a vein for at least six months. The patients received Hizentra for 28 weeks and 
the lowest IgG levels during treatment with Hizentra (average level of 8.1 g per litre) were comparable 
to those seen during previous immunoglobulin treatment. IN addition, no infections occurred during 
the study period. 
In the second study Hizentra was studied in 172 patients with CIDP who had previously received 
human immunoglobulin treatment by injection into a vein. Patients received Hizentra or placebo (a 
dummy treatment) for 13 weeks and the study measured the proportion of patients in whom the 
disease came back within 13 weeks. For patients on placebo, the disease came back in about 63% of 
patients, for patients on Hizentra, the disease came back in 33 and 39% of patients; depending on the 
dose used. 
The scientific literature analysis involved seven studies comparing the use of Hizentra in patients with 
SID with other subcutaneous infusion or intravenous (injected directly into a vein) immunoglobulin 
treatments. All studies showed increases in antibody levels and/or a reduction in infection rates after 
receiving Hizentra or another subcutaneous immunoglobulin treatment; the effects were comparable to 
those seen with intravenous immunoglobulin treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Hizentra? 
The most common side effects with Hizentra (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, rash, muscle and joint pain (including muscle spasm and weakness), reactions around the 
injection area (swelling, soreness, redness, pitting, warmth, itching, bruising and rash) and flu-like 
illness. Rarely patients may have a sudden drop in blood pressure or an anaphylactic shock (sudden, 
severe allergic reaction). 
Hizentra must not be used in patients with hyperprolinaemia (a genetic disorder causing high levels of 
the amino acid proline in the blood). It must not be injected into a blood vessel. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Hizentra, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Hizentra authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Hizentra’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Hizentra was shown to prevent serious bacterial infections in patients 
with PID or SID and reduce the chance of CIDP coming back. It may be given at home, with 
manageable side effects.  
Hizentra (human normal immunoglobulin)  
EMA/636071/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hizentra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Hizentra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Hizentra is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Hizentra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Hizentra 
Hizentra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 April 2011.  
Further information on Hizentracan be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/hizentra. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Hizentra (human normal immunoglobulin)  
EMA/636071/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
