EMA/26006/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Holoclar 
(ex vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial 
cells containing stem cells) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Holoclar, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Holoclar is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Holoclar, which can be found on Holoclar’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Holoclar is an eye implant for replenishing corneal cells in adults with moderate to severe limbal stem-
cell deficiency caused by chemical or physical burns to the eyes. Patients with this condition do not 
have enough limbal stem cells (found at the edge of the cornea), which normally act as a repair 
system, replenishing the corneal cells when they get damaged. 
The prevalence of corneal lesions, with associated corneal (limbal) stem-cell deficiency, due to 
chemical or physical burns, is estimated to be approximately 0.3 in 10,000 people in the European 
Union (EU). Limbal stem-cell deficiency can lead to persistent pain, photophobia, increased 
susceptibility to corneal infections, corneal perforation and blindness. There are many causes of limbal 
stem-cell deficiency, such as burns to the eye, inflammatory diseases and hereditary diseases. 
Chemical burns mainly occur at the workplace in people aged between 16 and 65 years. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Holoclar is an individualised medicine prepared from the patient’s own cells. Two retrospective studies 
of the medical records of patients who had received Holoclar showed that the product was effective in 
restoring the cornea in patients with moderate or severe limbal stem-cell deficiency caused by 
chemical or physical burns. One year after Holoclar implantation, 75 out of 104 patients studied (72%) 
were judged to have had successful treatment based on the presence of stable cornea with little or no 
defects or blood vessels present in the cornea (a common feature of limbal stem-cell deficiency). There 
were also reductions in patients’ symptoms, such as pain and inflammation, and improvements in 
vision. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is no or limited information in patients under 18 years old, the elderly, and pregnant or 
breastfeeding women. Holoclar is only indicated for adult patients, and as a precautionary measure, it 
is preferable to avoid the use of the product during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Holoclar is for use in 
patients with moderate to severe limbal stem-cell deficiency. Use in patients with less severe 
deficiency or with a deficiency due to causes other than eye burns is not indicated because the safety 
and effectiveness of Holoclar in these patients have not been studied. 
There was no apparent difference in the way the product worked in people of different ages or in men 
and women. There are no data on the way Holoclar works in people of different races (as only people 
living in Italy were studied). 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Glaucoma 
Glaucoma, a condition caused by 
Patients should be closely monitored 
increased pressure in the eye, was 
for glaucoma and should be warned of 
reported in 23 out of 142 patients who 
all possible side effects of Holoclar 
received an implant. For five 
and of anti-inflammatory eye drugs 
implantations it was reported that 
during the consent process. 
glaucoma was potentially related to 
anti-inflammatory corticosteroids 
medicines given within 3 months of 
implantation, since this is a well-known 
side effect of corticosteroids. 
Lack of effect  
Lack of effect, manifesting as corneal 
Other eye problems should be 
defects, were reported for 8 
corrected prior to implantation of 
implantations out of 142. 
Holoclar, and patients and doctors are 
Patients with other eye problems may 
be at increased risk of their implant 
advised that corneal epithelium 
defects are common side effects. 
failing to work, including patients with: 
Patients should be informed about all 
•  uneven eyelids 
possible side effects, including 
implant rejection, before giving 
• 
• 
• 
• 
scarring of the conjunctiva with 
consent to undergo the procedure and 
fornix (the folds) shortening  
to have the cells implanted. 
corneal anaesthesia or 
Holoclar must be administered by an 
hypoesthesia, where the patient 
appropriately qualified eye surgeon 
cannot feel pain 
and is restricted to hospital use only. 
growth of the conjunctiva over the 
Surgeons are only allowed to 
cornea (pterygium) 
administer Holoclar after appropriate 
severe dry eye. 
training. 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Inflamed eyelids (blepharitis) 
Inflamed eyelids are common after administration of Holoclar. 
However, this condition is also a common recurrent long-term 
problem in the general population. It is not clear whether 
implanting Holoclar triggers this condition. 
Use of eye drops containing the 
Benzalkonium chloride can damage the newly regenerated cells in 
preservative benzalkonium 
the eye. Therefore, patients should not use eye drops containing 
chloride 
benzalkonium chloride. 
Post-implant infection 
As with all surgical procedures there is a risk of bacterial infection 
post-implantation. The experience from clinical studies with 
Holoclar indicates that infection of the eye post-implant is 
uncommon. Treatment with antibiotics is recommended for 2 weeks 
following implantation to reduce the risk of eye infection. 
Errors administering Holoclar 
Errors in the way that Holoclar is administered may affect the 
(e.g. patient does not meet 
chances of the treatment being successful. Holoclar is intended for 
correct medical criteria for 
patients with eye injury due to chemical or physical burns. The 
Holoclar treatment, patient 
product may not work for patients with similar eye conditions due 
receives Holoclar intended for a 
to other causes. 
different patient, or incorrect 
surgical technique) 
Other eye conditions should be treated prior to Holoclar 
administration, because these could also affect the success of the 
treatment (see section above on ‘lack of effect’). 
It is important to check that patients are not allergic to any of the 
ingredients in Holoclar before administration. 
As Holoclar is an individualised medicine prepared from the 
patient’s own cells, the patient’s name should be carefully checked 
with the patient/donor identification before implantation to ensure 
that the patient receives the correct product containing their own 
limbal stem cells. 
Holoclar must be administered by an appropriately qualified 
surgeon and is restricted to hospital use only.  
Surgeons and other healthcare professionals are provided with 
information concerning the correct surgical technique to be used, 
as well as post-operative administration of anti-inflammatory and 
antibiotic drugs. 
Development of tumours 
Holoclar is applied locally to the surface of the eye, and information 
from experiments suggests that it is unlikely to cause tumours. 
However, the number of patients who have received Holoclar is not 
large enough for such a risk to be ruled out. 
Risk of unapproved use in: 
Safety and benefits of Holoclar have not been evaluated in these 
• 
patients with milder forms of 
limbal stem-cell deficiency  
patients. 
Risk 
What is known  
• 
patients with limbal stem-
cell deficiency due to causes 
other than burns 
• 
patients under 18 years 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Pregnancy and 
No patients included in the two clinical trials were pregnant or breastfeeding. 
breastfeeding 
Treatment with Holoclar should be delayed if the patient is pregnant or 
breastfeeding. 
Children (limited 
Only limited data are available on the use of Holoclar in children and 
data) 
adolescents under 18 years. Holoclar should not be used in children or 
adolescents under the age of 18. It is not known whether the product is safe 
for use in children or how effective it may be. 
Older people (limited 
Only limited data are available on the use of Holoclar in the older people (over 
data) 
65 years). The precautions to be taken for the older people are the same as 
those for adults in general. 
Re-administration of 
Only limited data are available concerning patients who have received Holoclar 
Holoclar 
more than once, although no specific risks related to re-administration of the 
product have been observed. 
Long-term safety and 
Follow–up data available from patients treated with Holoclar do not raise any 
efficacy 
particular concern with respect to the long-term effectiveness or safety of 
Holoclar. However, more long-term follow-up data are required and a new 
clinical trial is to be conducted to look at Holoclar’s long-term effects. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Holoclar can be found on Holoclar’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Holoclar’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
 
 
Glaucoma 
Risk minimisation measure: educational material for healthcare professional and patient information 
guide 
Objective and rationale: 
• 
To increase healthcare professionals’ understanding of the required treatment procedures, 
including the use of antibiotics and corticosteroids after the implantation of Holoclar 
• 
To remind users about the risk of increased pressure in the eye and to provide key information for 
safe use of concomitant medications following the surgery 
Description: 
• 
The educational manual will be given to healthcare professionals and will provide full technical 
details on the procedures associated with the implantation, including post-implant treatment with 
anti-inflammatory drugs, as well as information on the possible risk of increased pressure in the 
eye. 
• 
The patient information guide will provide details of the anti-inflammatory treatment required post-
implant and key information for the safe use of concomitant medications.  
Lack of effect manifesting as corneal epithelium defects 
Risk minimisation measure: educational manual for healthcare professionals 
Objective and rationale: 
To increase healthcare professionals’ understanding of eye conditions which should not be present or 
should be corrected prior to Holoclar administration and to advise them that corneal epithelial defects 
are a common side effect 
Description: 
The educational manual will provide full technical details on the procedures associated with the 
implantation, including details of eye conditions which should be corrected prior to implantation in 
order to increase the chance of a successful implant 
Inflamed eyelids (blepharitis) 
Risk minimisation measure: educational manual for healthcare professionals and patient 
information guide 
Objective and rationale: 
To increase the healthcare professionals’ and patients’ awareness that inflamed eyelids are a common 
adverse event 
Description: 
•  An educational manual will be given to healthcare professionals, providing full technical details on 
the procedures associated with the implantation, including common adverse reactions such as 
blepharitis. 
•  A patient information guide will provide details of common side effects, including inflamed eyes. 
 
 
 
Use of eye drops containing benzalkonium chloride 
Risk minimisation measure: educational manual for healthcare professionals and patient 
information guide 
Objective and rationale: 
To increase the healthcare professionals’ and patients’ awareness that eye drops containing the 
preservative benzalkonium should be avoided because this ingredient can damage cells and could 
damage the implant. 
Description: 
•  An educational manual will be given to healthcare professionals, providing them with full technical 
details on the procedures associated with the implantation, and advising them that eye drops 
containing benzalkonium must be avoided. 
•  A patient information guide will advise patients not to use any eye drops containing benzalkonium 
chloride because it can damage cells and could damage the implant. 
Post-implant infection 
Risk minimisation measure: educational manual for healthcare professionals and patient 
information guide 
Objective and rationale: 
• 
To increase the healthcare professionals’ and patients’ understanding of required post-implant 
treatment with antibiotic drugs to prevent corneal infection, which is an uncommon side effect of 
Holoclar 
Description: 
•  An educational manual will be given to healthcare professionals, providing them full technical 
details on the procedures associated with the implantation including post-implant treatment with 
antibiotic drugs to prevent the uncommon side effect of corneal infection. 
•  A patient information guide will provide details of the antibiotic treatment that is required post-
implant to reduce the risk of an eye infection. 
Errors administering Holoclar 
Risk minimisation measure: educational manual for healthcare professionals 
Objective and rationale: 
To inform healthcare professionals of procedures to be followed by in order to prevent medication 
errors 
Description: 
An educational manual will be given to healthcare professionals, providing them with full technical 
details of the procedures associated with the implantation that are to be followed in order to prevent 
medication errors. 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status   Planned date 
for 
submission 
of (interim 
and) final 
results  
Study HLSTM03 
To determine the 
To confirm the efficacy and 
Planned  December 
Clinical study to 
determine the 
efficacy and safety of 
Autologous Cultivated 
Limbal Stem Cells 
transplants (ACLSCT) 
for restoration of the 
eye surface (corneal 
effect and safety of 
safety of the product in 
one or two ACLSCTs 
restoring the eye surface 
in restoring the eye 
in patients suffering from 
surface in patients 
moderate to severe LSCD 
suffering from 
due to eye burns using the 
moderate to severe 
current method for 
LSCD due to eye 
performing ACLSCT 
burns. 
(including performing 
2020 
(planned) 
epithelium) in 
Patients from 2 
patients with Limbal 
years of age and 
Stem-Cell Deficiency 
adults will be 
(LSCD) due to eye 
included in the 
burns. 
study. 
more than one transplant 
if needed and using 
current treatments after 
the operation). 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
Study HLSTM03 is a condition of the marketing authorisation 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable 
This summary was last updated in 02-2015.  
 
