18 December 2014 
EMA/25273/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Holoclar  
International non-proprietary name: Ex vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial 
cells containing stem cells 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002450/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Manufacturers ..................................................................................................... 8 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 11 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 12 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 16 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 16 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 16 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 17 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 20 
2.3.6. Discussion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 20 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 21 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 21 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 21 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 22 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 23 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 24 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 24 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 25 
2.5.1. Dose response study(ies) ................................................................................. 25 
2.5.2. Main study(ies) ............................................................................................... 25 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 50 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 53 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 54 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 61 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 64 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 65 
2.8. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 65 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 74 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 74 
Assessment report  
Page 2/81 
  
  
 
 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 75 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 79 
Assessment report  
Page 3/81 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ACLSCT  
Autologous cultured limbal stem cell transplantation  
ADR 
AE 
ATMP 
BCVA 
Bid 
CI 
CBMP 
CHMP 
COMP 
cm2 
CNV 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Adverse Event 
Advanced Medicinal product 
Best Corrected Visual Acuity  
two times a day 
Confidence Interval 
Cell-Based Medicinal Products  
Committee for Medicinal Product for Human Use 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products 
Square centimeters  
Corneal Neovascularisation 
Good Clinical Practice  
Good Laboratory Practice  
Good Manufacturing Practice  
GPLSCD01 
Company code for Holoclar used during product development 
HIV  
ICH 
IOP 
ITT 
K3  
K12  
K19  
kg 
LSCD 
LSC 
MA 
MAA 
MCB 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
International Conference on Harmonisation  
Intraocular pressure 
Intent-to-Treat 
Cytokeratin 3 
Cytokeratin 12 
Cytokeratin 19 
Kilogram 
Limbal Stem Cell Deficiency  
Limbal Stem Cells  
Marketing Authorisation  
Marketing Authorisation Application  
Master Cell Bank 
MedDRA  
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
mg 
mL 
μg  
PD 
PI 
PIP 
Milligram  
MilliLiter 
Micogram 
Pharmacodynamics 
Product Information 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Assessment report  
Page 4/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK 
PP 
SAE 
Pharmacokinteics 
Per Protocol 
Serious adverse event  
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristic  
SOC 
TEAE 
Tid 
VA 
WCB 
System Organ Class (MedDRA) 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event 
three times a day 
Visual Acuity 
Work Cell Bench 
Assessment report  
Page 5/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. submitted on 6 March 2013 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Holoclar, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 
3(1) and point 1 Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
Holoclar was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/08/579 on 7 November 2008. Holoclar was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication:  Treatment of corneal lesions, with 
associated corneal (limbal) stem cell deficiency, due to ocular burns. 
The applicant applied for the following indication in adults: 
“Treatment of patients with moderate-severe (superficial corneal neovascularisation in at least two quadrants) 
limbal stem cell deficiency, unilateral or bilateral with a minimum of 1-2 mm2 of undamaged limbus, due to 
ocular burns.” 
Following the CHMP positive opinion on this marketing authorisation, the Committee for Orphan Medicinal 
Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of Holoclar as an orphan medicinal product in the approved 
indication. The outcome of the COMP review can be found on the Agency's website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Rare disease designations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that the 
ex-vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells containing stem cells was considered to be a new 
active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting 
certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
EMA_001082-PIP02-11 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan and on the granting of a deferral and 
on the granting of a waiver. 
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0199/2012 was not yet completed as some measures 
were deferred. 
Assessment report  
Page 6/81 
  
  
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
Conditional Marketing Authorisation  
The applicant requested consideration of its application for a Conditional Marketing Authorisation in accordance 
with Article 14(7) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 based on the following claim(s): 
Holoclar falls under the following categories regarding the scope of conditional marketing authorisation as laid 
down in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 507/2006: 
• 
• 
“medicinal products which aim at the treatment, the prevention or the medical diagnosis of seriously 
debilitating diseases or life-threatening diseases” 
“medicinal products designated as orphan medicinal products in accordance with Article 3 of 
Regulation (EC) No 141/2000“  
The applicant considers that the requirements for conditional marketing authorisation as laid down in Article 4 
of Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 are met: 
(a) the risk-benefit balance of the medicinal product, as defined in Article 1(28a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, is 
positive; 
(b) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data; 
(c) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled; 
(d) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned 
outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
New active substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance ex-vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells 
containing stem cells contained in the above medicinal product to be considered as a new active substance in 
itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a product previously authorised within the Union. 
The applicant Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. submitted on 27 Oct 2010 an application for Scientific recommendation 
on Classification to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Holoclar, which was designated as an Advanced 
Therapy Medicinal Product on 20 December 2010. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 25 June 2009, with follow-up or clarifications 
received on 25 September 2009, 23 June 2011, and 05 September 2011. The Protocol Assistance pertained to 
Assessment report  
Page 7/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Holostem Terapie Avanzate S.R.L. 
Via Glauco Gottardi,100, Modena, 41100, Italy 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Holostem Terapie Avanzate S.R.L. 
Via Glauco Gottardi,100, Modena, 41100, Italy 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
CAT Rapporteur: Egbert Flory 
CHMP Coordinator (Rapporteur): Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
CAT Co-Rapporteur: Paolo Gasparini 
CHMP Coordinator (Co-Rapporteur): Daniela Melchiorri 
CAT Peer reviewer: Marit Hystad 
CHMP Peer reviewer: Karsten Bruins Slot 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 6 March 2013. 
•  The procedure started on 27 March 2013.  
• 
• 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CAT and CHMP members on 19 June 2013. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CAT and CHMP members on 14 June 
2013.  
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview was adopted by PRAC on 17 July 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 19 July 2013, the CAT agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CAT consolidated List of Questions on 21 August 2014. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CAT and CHMP members on 29 September 2014. 
• 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview was adopted by PRAC on 9 October 2014. 
Assessment report  
Page 8/81 
  
  
 
 
•  During the CAT meeting on 17 October 2014, the CAT agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CAT List of Outstanding Issues on 14 November 2014. 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list of 
outstanding issues to all CAT and CHMP members on 26 November 2014. 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview was adopted by PRAC on 4 December 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 11-12 December 2014, the CAT, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation 
to Holoclar on 12 December 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 18 December 2014, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a conditional Marketing 
Authorisation to Holoclar. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Limbal stem cells (LSC) are undifferentiated, long-lived progenitors of corneal epithelium cells, located in the 
narrow  transitional  zone  of  the  ocular  surface  between  the  cornea  and  the  bulbar  conjunctiva.  LSCs  are 
important  for  corneal  epithelial  regeneration  and  wound  healing.  In  the  course  of  tissue  regeneration,  LSCs 
divide, creating daughter cells called transient amplifying cells, which migrate centripetally and after a high but 
limited number of mitoses, further differentiate into post-mitotic cells and finally into corneal epithelium. In 
addition  to  the  regeneration  of  the  corneal  epithelium,  the  limbus  acts  as  a  barrier,  ensuring  separation  of 
corneal and conjunctival/scleral components. 
Damage to the limbus results in a reduction in the population of LSCs thereby impacting on the eye’s ability for 
corneal  healing  and  rejuvenation  and  compromising  the  limbal  barrier  function.  As  a  result  the  conjunctiva 
overgrows the cornea. This conjunctivalisation of the cornea is associated with neovascularisation, which in turn 
is linked to the development of an unstable corneal epithelium. Further manifestations include ingrown fibrous 
tissue, corneal opacification, conjunctival scarring (symblepharon) and corneal ulceration. The clinical spectrum 
of limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD) includes pain, photophobia, inflammation, corneal neovascularisation, and 
eventually, the reduction or complete loss of visual acuity. If left untreated, the condition may progress to a 
stage whereby persistent epithelial defects present with an associated high risk for the development of bacterial 
keratitis, corneal perforation and blindness.  
Cases  of  LSCD  can  be  distinguished  as  being  of  either  primary  or  secondary  origin.  Primary  LSCD  is 
characterised  by  the  absence  of  identifiable  external  factors  and  is  related  to  an  insufficient  stromal 
microenvironment to support stem cell function. Secondary LSCD is caused by ocular surface diseases, such as 
Stevens-Johnson  syndrome,  chemical  (e.g.  acids,  alkalis  and  solvents)  and  thermal  burns,  ultraviolet  and 
ionising  radiation,  ocular  cicatricial  pemphigoid,  severe  microbial  infections,  contact  lens  wear  and  multiple 
ocular surgeries or cryotherapies.  
Assessment report  
Page 9/81 
  
  
 
According to Donisi (2003), alkali injuries are the main cause of LSCD due to chemical burns resulting in either 
moderate, severe or total LSCD, as alkali agents rapidly penetrate the ocular tissues causing extensive epithelial 
cell necrosis and stromal cell denaturation. General epidemiologic data relating to the prevalence of LSCD (due 
to  ocular  burn  injury)  were  not  available  in  the  medical  literature  at  the  time  of  this  report.  Therefore,  the 
prevalence  of  the  condition  in  Europe  was  calculated  using  primary  patient  discharge  data  from  hospital 
registries of four European countries: England, Germany, France and Italy. According to this information, the 
prevalence of the condition in the EU population was 0.3361 per 10,000 (95% confidence interval: 0.3321; 
0.3401).  
The management of LSCD depends on the extent of the damage and symptomatology and aims at achieving 
symptom relieve and increase in visual acuity or visual stabilisation. Asymptomatic patients with partial and 
peripheral conjunctivalization of the corneal surface may not require intervention. Patients with total LSCD, on 
the contrary, are indicated for corneal surface reconstruction with auto- or allo-transplantation, combined with 
or followed by keratoplasty in case of deep stromal injury. Donor tissue can be obtained from the fellow eye 
(autograft) in case of unilateral disease, or from a living related donor or a cadaver (allograft) in case of bilateral 
disease. Autologous cultivated stem cells have the advantage to permanently restore the corneal epithelium 
without  the  need  of  donor  tissues  and  consequent  chronic  systemic  immunosuppression.  However,if  the 
autologous stem cells are not cultivated, the transplantation of autologous limbal cells requires a large limbal 
graft from the healthy eye resulting in a risk of damaging integrity and function of a previously healthy eye. It 
is furthermore unsuitable for bilateral disease.  
At the time of this report, no medicinal products had been approved in the European Union/European Economic 
Area (EU/EEA) for this indication and there was no gold-standard in treatment. 
About the product 
Holoclar  consists  of  a  transparent  circular  sheet  of  300,000  to  1,200,000  viable  autologous  human  corneal 
epithelial cells (79,000-316,000 cells/cm2), expanded in cell culture and including on average 3.5% (0.4% to 
10%) limbal stem cells in addition to stem cell-derived transient amplifying and terminally differentiated cells. 
The pharmaceutical form of the product thus is a living tissue equivalent on a transparent, circular sheet and the 
active  substance  is  defined  as  ‘ex-vivo  expanded  autologous  human  corneal  epithelial  cells  containing  stem 
cells’.  
Holoclar is proposed to be used for treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe LSCD due to ocular 
burns. In these patients,  Holoclar is intended to be transplanted in the affected eye(s) after removal of the 
altered  corneal  epithelium.  The  recommended  dose  is  79,000  –  316,000  cells/cm2,  whereby  the  product 
contains a sufficient number of cells to cover the entire corneal surface of the patient’s affected eye. 
Holoclar acts by replacing the damaged corneal epithelium and creating a reservoir of LSCs for the continuous 
regeneration of the epithelium. It is intended for use in ocular burn injuries both with and without preservation 
of deep stromal components. In case of deep stromal injury, patients may also require keratoplasty in order to 
restore visual function. However, in the absence of a healthy limbus, keratoplasty is associated with a very high 
failure rate, whereas restoration of limbal function with Holoclar aims at achieving long-term maintenance of 
normal  corneal  function.  Holocar  is  not  intended  for  use  in  case  of  genetic  disorder  or  other  inherent 
predisposition  associated  with  LSCD,  which  are  associated  with  a  microenvironment  unable  to  support  LSC 
survival and proliferation. 
Assessment report  
Page 10/81 
  
  
 
LSCs are derived from a biopsy taken from a small area of undamaged limbus of the patient’s eye. Following 
biopsy, the cells are grown in cell culture with the help of an irradiated 3T3-J2 mouse feeder cell line. The cell 
suspension  is  cryopreserved  until  a  transplantation  date  is  scheduled.  Thawed  cells  are  then  used  for 
subsequent manufacture of the final product. To this end, the expanded cells are again seeded on irradiated 
3T3J2-feeder cells which have been previously grown on fibrin. When the patient cells have expanded and built 
a confluent layer, the product is formulated, packaged, shipped and administered to the patient. The finished 
product  contains  cells  beginning  to  build  a  stratified  epithelium,  including  stem  cells.  Depending  on  the 
individual  patient’s  biopsy,  the  LSC  population  of  the  product  varies  within  individual  batches.  Repeated 
manufacture of patient-specific grafts is possible. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The  product  responds  to  an  unmet  medical  need  for  a  rare  disease.  The  design  and  manufacturing  process 
presented  by  the  Applicant  reflects  the  finished  product  development  and  it  is  linked  to  the  clinical  data 
presented. The Applicant provides a clear distinction between active substance and finished product definition:  
Holoclar active substance is defined as “ex-vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells containing 
stem cells”. The active substance is manufactured from a biopsy taken from a small area of undamaged limbus 
of the patient’s eye. After non-specific isolation of the cells, they are expanded in cell culture under specific 
culture medium conditions and are seeded on a layer of an irradiated 3T3-J2 mouse feeder cell line. Prior to 
active  substance  release,  the  expanded  cell  suspension  is  cryopreserved  until  a  transplantation  date  is 
scheduled.  The  active  substance  is  defined  as  a  thawed  suspension  of  a  heterogeneous  mixture  of  ex  vivo 
expanded  sub-confluent  autologous  human  corneal  cells  in  medium,  with  the  potential  to  form  a  stratified 
epithelium. The active substance contains a minimum of small-sized limbal epithelial stem cells, as determined 
histochemically by expression of the phenotypic marker p63 bright at release (‘holoclones’). Beside the p63++ 
cells,  the  keratinocyte  culture  is  comprised  of  clonogenic  transiently  amplifying  (TA)  cells  (‘meroclones’  and 
‘paraclones’),  and  terminally  differentiated  non-clonogenic  corneal  epithelial  (K3+)  cells.  Other  starting 
material-related cellular impurities are not analysed in detail at the active substance stage. The thawed cells are 
used for subsequent manufacture of finished product.  
Holoclar is defined as autologous tissue-engineered product which consists of a transparent circular sheet of 
300,000 to 1,200,000 viable autologous human corneal epithelial cells (79,000-316,000 cells/cm2), expanded 
ex vivo,  including on average 3.5% (0.4% to 10%) limbal stem cells, stem cell-derived transient amplifying and 
terminally differentiated cells, prepared from a limbus biopsy of the patient as starting material, and attached on 
a  2.2cm  diameter  fibrin  support  (manufactured  from  Ph.  Eur.  compliant  human  fibrin)  and  maintained  in 
physiological  transport  medium  (containing  Dulbecco’s  modified  eagle  medium  (DMEM),  supplemented  with 
L-glutamine).  The  proposed  shelf  life  is  36  hours.  The  primary  container  is  placed  inside  multiple  layers  of 
secondary packaging to protect the vulnerable product. The finished product presentation does not include a 
medical device. 
The  cellular  components  of  the  finished  product  are  characterised  to  be  qualitatively  identical  to  the  active 
substance with regard to cell types present, although quantitative differences in cellular populations between 
active substance and finished product are observed. This is expected and raises no concern. 
Assessment report  
Page 11/81 
  
  
 
Due to the inherent complexity, variability and autologous nature of the patient-specific corneal-derived ex vivo 
expanded cells, a noticeable degree of variability within cell identities and growth behaviour is intrinsic, making 
control  and  standardisation  of  the  manufacturing  process  highly  challenging.  The  need  of  the  corneal 
keratinocytes  for  a  direct  feeder  cell  support  for  growth  and  stem  cell  maintenance  adds  another  biological 
system, the irradiated 3T3 feeder cells, to the manufacturing process, leading to further variability. Keratinocyte 
culture  obedience  on  feeder  cells  is  a  commonly  recognised  state-of-the-art  practice.  The  properties  of  the 
excipient fibrin support further increase the overall complexity of the product and its manufacturing.  
The  Applicant  therefore  implemented  the  approach  to  control  the  manufacturing  process  by  structuring  the 
process  into  several  process  stages  and  sub-stages,  which  are  monitored  by  a  number  of  operational 
parameters, in-process controls (IPCs), and in-process monitoring measures. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  active  substance  is  manufactured  at  Holostem  Terapie  Avanzate  S.r.l  (Modena,  Italy).  The  site  is  also 
responsible  for  batch  release  testing  of  the  active  substance.  The  manufacture  of  the  active  substance  is 
patient-specific.  
The Applicant has implemented a training program which is mandatory for surgeons interested in treating 
patients with Holoclar, including training for collection of a biopsy sample including guidance on location and size 
of sample to collect. 
As starting material, a limbus biopsy of 1-2 mm2 in size from a patient’s unaffected limbal eye area is procured 
at the hospital and transported to the manufacturing site in Modena, Italy. The starting material is thus of high 
value and of limited quantity. It is most critical to generate sufficient cells from the limited number of cells 
isolated from the small biopsy. In consequence, retaining testing samples from the starting material or from 
manufacturing intermediates is restricted. This is acknowledged.  
The manufacturing process consists of the following steps: 
1. Biopsy Processing 
2. Primary Culture 
3. Cryopreservation 
4. Thawing 
The cells are seeded on a cell layer of non-proliferating 3T3 J2 cells, a mouse cell line that provides growth 
factors  for  proliferation  of  the  patient  cells.  When  the  keratinocytes  reach  the  target  confluency,  they  are 
detached with trypsin and prepared for cryopreservation.  
Beside the Colony Forming Efficacy (CFE) test, with the CFE value as predictor for clonogenicity/proliferative 
capacity, no destructive IPCs on identity, purity, potency have been established. The progress of manufacture is 
mainly controlled by observing confluency of the cells via microscopy in a certain culture time.  
The quantitative ratio of cell identities present in the active substance depends on the inherent variability of the 
patient’s biopsy cells. The active substance contains p63bright positive limbal stem cells. A specified amount of 
them is needed for clinical success and therefore this marker is convincingly analysed within an active substance 
potency release test. The non-stem cells contribute to the forming of the epithelial-like structure during finished 
product manufacture, thereby harbouring the stem cells. Therefore, the need to define certain non-stem cell 
phenotypes as cellular impurities was not stressed. 
Assessment report  
Page 12/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Several raw materials have been exchanged during development. This includes the switch from non-irradiated 
to  gamma-irradiated  bovine  sera,  and  the  introduction  of  higher  qualified  reagents,  as  suggested  during 
Protocol  Assistance.  These  measures  were  endorsed  as  suitability  of  the  new  materials  was  sufficiently 
demonstrated.  
One Major Objection was raised at Day 120 with respect to the murine 3T3 feeder layer, as non-proliferation of 
the cell line after irradiation was not sufficiently demonstrated. The Applicant was asked to use a validated and 
direct assay to demonstrate that irradiated 3T3 cells do not further proliferate. This concern was sufficiently 
addressed by validation of the irradiation method. Several methods were successfully employed to demonstrate 
that irradiated cells do not proliferate. 
Overall, concerning manufacturing, characterisation and control of content, identity, potency, purity, impurities 
of  the  active  substance,  a  number  of  other  concerns  were  raised  during  the  procedure.  All  concerns  were 
sufficiently addressed by the Applicant.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Holoclar finished product consists of living autologous human corneal epithelial cells, prepared from the active 
substance,  supported  on  a  fibrin  support.  The  product’s  definition  has  been  slightly  adjusted  during  the 
marketing  authorisation  procedure,  thus  the  definitions  in  the  SmPC  and  in  the  dossier  were  also  aligned 
accordingly. Holoclar finished product is manufactured at Holostem Terapie Avanzate S.r.l (Modena, Italy). The 
site is also responsible for batch release testing of the active substance.  
Holoclar finished product is manufactured from an aliquot of Holoclar active substance. The expanded cells are 
again  seeded on  an  irradiated  3T3J2-feeder  cells that  have  been  at  this  stage  previously  attached  to  fibrin. 
Cultivation ranges from 5 to 9 days. When the patient cells have expanded and built a layer reaching a target 
confluency,  the  product  is  trimmed  to  size,  formulated,  packaged  in  a  specifically  designed  steel  primary 
container, shipped and administered to the patient. Holoclar finished product is therefore presented as a finished 
product containing cells beginning to build a stratified epithelium, containing limbal stem cells (LSCs). The fibrin 
support is defined as an excipient of the finished product and is intended to rapidly dissolve in situ in order to 
release  the  cells.  Depending  on  the  amount  of  active  substance  cells  and  the  cryopreservation  period,  a 
repeated manufacture of patient-specific finished product is possible. 
The Applicant does not indicate any specific tri-dimensional organisation of the final product but only describes 
a  semi-confluent  epithelial  sheet.  It  is  assumed  that  the  physical  organisation  is  self-assured  and  that  the 
different  cell  components  will  organise  themselves  once  correctly  grafted  in  vivo,  a  view  that  is  actually 
supported by clinical data. Holoclar is supplied with a diameter of 2.2 cm, which has been demonstrated to be 
suitably large to ensure corneal replacement in all patients. The product is trimmed to match the exact size of 
the individual patient’s cornea by the administering surgeon. 
The manufacturing process of the finished product is comprehensively described (Figure 2). Certain refinements 
have been made mainly in the light of issues raised at Day 120 List of Questions, e.g. the qualification of a new 
feeder  cell  bank  and  the  omission  of  antibiotics  during  final  culture  steps.  In  addition,  adjustment  of  the 
specifications has been made, including the introduction of feeder cell impurity control. The Applicant performed 
a new study to confirm the validity of the refinements in the manufacture. Additional data were generated to 
support or amend the set limits for the following finished product parameters: 
•  Stability and transport for the finished product. 
Assessment report  
Page 13/81 
  
  
 
 
 
•  Storage times for materials used in the process. 
•  Introduction of the additional control test for residual 3T3-J2 cells in the finished product. 
Taking into account the type of the product, the manufacturing process can be regarded as standardised. This 
is supported by the data provided. 
Regarding  cell  type  characterisation  and  control,  the  Applicant  defines  the  p63++  stem  cell  subset  forming 
holoclones as main functional component of the product, since these cells are expected to mediate long-term 
efficacy. Potency is addressed by quantification of p63bright cells. Further differentiated cell populations are 
considered as supportive, but functionally contributing cells for short/medium-term efficacy. The argumentation 
was regarded comprehensible and valid. Omission of K19+ marker was justified as requested.  
The Applicant was asked to consider the potential of the newly described ABCB5, PAX6 and WNT/A LSC markers 
in Holoclar characterisation and control. Because the markers are newly described and still under study, it was 
suggested to include this as part of the confirmatory study post-marketing authorisation. In their responses, the 
Applicant agreed on this proposal. Due to the short shelf life the product must be immediately released on the 
basis of macroscopic and microscopic appearance and results of intermediate control testing. As requested, the 
Applicant provided detailed information on the microscopic and macroscopic assessment. This visual  control 
testing  has  been  validated.  To  respond  to  the  concern  the  Applicant  extended  the  validation  studies  and 
provided acceptable levels of precision, accuracy and reliability on this visual  control testing. The issue was 
considered solved. 
A full dossier for the fibrin sealant was provided under Section 3.2.A.3. For Holoclar the specifications of the 
fibrin sealant finished product components thrombin and fibrinogen are relevant, which have been provided 
under 3.2.P.4.5 The Applicant does not perform itself tests on the excipients but states that thrombin, fibrinogen 
and aprotinin are accepted based on the suppliers’ certificate of analysis. In the context of qualification and 
control of thrombin, fibrinogen, aprotinin, as well as on the manufacture and control of the matrix, a number of 
specific  Other  Concerns  were  raised.  With  their  Day  120  responses,  the  Applicant  was  able  to  solve  most 
concerns, with two minor remaining issues on the storage conditions of fibrinogen and thrombin bulk, which has 
been solved.  
The specifications of the finished product serve to confirm routine quality, including tests for content, identity, 
potency, purity, impurities and contaminants  
The final product has a proposed shelf life of only 36 hours and is vulnerable and sensitive to mechanical and 
temperature stress. An accurate and reliable stability evaluation, together with a strict and robust container 
closure system and a tight control of transport conditions was thus regarded crucial to ensure product quality. 
The  Applicant  was  requested  to  provide  further  evidence  on  stability  (physical  integrity  and  viability  of  the 
product) and transport conditions. 
Stability of Holoclar was sufficiently addressed by the Applicant. As requested, viability has been included in the 
stability  studies  and  shows  good  results.  The  p63++  potency  marker  conforms  to  the  specification.  The 
established  transport  conditions  are  endorsed,  taking  into  consideration  the  established  risk  minimisation 
activities. It is also acknowledged that no deviations on shipped batches manufactured at Modena have been 
reported. However, regarding the suitability of the container closure system, the temperature profile presented 
did  not  support  an  effective  isolation  and  temperature  compensation  capacity  of  the  outer  packaging.  The 
validation data presented were incomplete and supportive supplier’s information was not provided. The chosen 
experimental environmental stress peak temperatures) appeared not appropriate for EU-wide transport under 
worst case low and high temperature peaks. The requested additional evidence for suitability of the container 
Assessment report  
Page 14/81 
  
  
 
closure system with respect to long-distance transport under challenging temperature conditions was thus not 
regarded fully convincing. As requested, the Applicant presented further measures by introducing additional risk 
minimisation  strategies.  Notably,  the  additional  provisions  target  long  distance  transportation  over  under 
extreme  climatic  conditions.  Thus,  the  Applicant  implemented  improvements  beyond  current  standard 
pharmaceutical transport controls. 
Regarding  an  ongoing  stability  program  and  a  definition  of  the  in-use-stability  after  opening  the  primary 
packaging,  the  Applicant  will  perform  ongoing  stability  assessments  on  an  annual  schedule  and  perform 
additional in-use stability testing on 5 GMP conformant lots.  
Adventitious agents safety evaluation 
The  control  of  adventitious  agents  for  Holoclar  is  based  on  a  risk  management  and  mitigation  approach.  A 
summary of potential sources of adventitious agents and their control is presented. Various preventative actions 
have been applied for risk minimisation. An overview of the studies to investigate effectiveness of these risk 
minimisation measures was presented.  
The  Applicant  adequately  addressed  concerns  raised  during  the  evaluation  (see  Sections  2.2.2  to  2.2.4). 
Adventitious agents safety including TSE have been sufficiently assured. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
A major concern was raised with respect to the murine 3T3 feeder layer, as non-proliferation of the cell line after 
irradiation  was  not  sufficiently  demonstrated.  The  Applicant  was  asked  to  use  a  validated  and  direct  (e.g. 
biochemical, radiopharmaceutical, Colony Forming Efficacy) assay to demonstrate that irradiated 3T3 cells do 
not further proliferate. This Major Objection was sufficiently addressed by validation of the irradiation method. 
Several methods were successfully employed to demonstrate that irradiated cells do not proliferate. Therefore, 
this concern was considered solved. 
Another Major Objection was raised on the microbiological control strategy. In their response, the Applicant 
proposed several measures. As requested, the Applicant implemented an appropriate in-process control (IPC) 
for microbial contaminations during primary culture and established a microbial control performed on samples 
collected before release of the finished product. A rapid detection method was validated for the intended sample 
matrices. The method was considered acceptable to improve safety, since information on potential microbial 
contamination may now be available before product administration. The antibiotics have been removed from the 
culture media after the thawing of the Intermediate Cell Bank (ICB). A new rapid sterility release test has been 
implemented on a sample taken from the beginning of the secondary culture, after thawing of the ICB. The test 
provides assurance that all original microbial contamination had been eliminated by this stage. The Applicant 
also satisfactorily addressed the minor outstanding issue regarding the use of filtration devices. In summary, all 
issues regarding control of microbiological safety are considered solved.  
A full dossier for the fibrin support was provided under Section 3.2.A.3  For Holoclar the specifications the fibrin 
finished  product  components  thrombin  and  fibrinogen  are  relevant  and  were  provided  under  3.2.P.4.5  The 
Applicant does not perform itself tests on the excipients but states that thrombin, fibrinogen and aprotinin are 
accepted based on the suppliers’ certificate of analysis. In the context of qualification and control of thrombin, 
fibrinogen,  aprotinin  as  well  as  on  the  manufacture  and  control  of  the  matrix,  a  number  of  specific  Other 
Concerns were raised at Day 120. With their responses, the Applicant was able to solve most concerns on the 
quality and safety of this raw material with only two minor topics remaining at Day 180. The Applicant also 
clarified  that  despite  the  fact  that  the  strength  of  the  fibrinogen  and  thrombin  components  may  vary,  their 
Assessment report  
Page 15/81 
  
  
 
 
concentration used to prepare the fibrin support remains constant, therefore not affecting the fibrin support 
properties. 
Additional  questions  regarding  description  of  the  physicochemical  properties,  mechanical  stability  and 
degradation of the altered excipient were extensively addressed in the Applicant’s Day 120 responses.  
It was considered at Day 120 that stability of Holoclar finished product was not adequately demonstrated. The 
Applicant  satisfactorily  addressed  this  concern  and  will  perform  ongoing  stability  assessments  on  an  annual 
schedule  and  additional  in-use  stability  testing  on  GMP  conformant  lots.  The  Applicant  also  provided  good 
evidence  that  the  physical  integrity  of  the  product  is  preserved  during  anticipated  transport  conditions. The 
Applicant also confirmed that an adequate temperature monitoring system is in place. 
The other outstanding issues raised at Day 180 are considered resolved. 
The Applicant agreed to the post-authorisation measure to perform prospective study HLSTM03 (multi-national, 
multi-centre, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of autologous 
cultivated limbal stem cells grafting for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with limbal stem cell 
deficiency due to ocular burns) and the Applicant will include suitable markers in the product characterisation 
strategy.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The overall Quality of Holoclar is considered acceptable. The different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical 
and  biological  documentation  comply  with  existing  guidelines.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  active 
substance  is  adequately  described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  active substance  is  well  characterised  and 
appropriate specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the finished product has been satisfactorily 
described  and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  finished  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications. Adventitious agents safety including TSE have been sufficiently assured.  
The CHMP endorse the CAT assessment regarding the conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and 
biological aspects as described above.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical development programme of Holoclar, a transparent sheet of autologous human corneal 
epithelial cells including stem cells, comprised an evaluation of published studies from the scientific literature in 
conjunction with the proposed testing programme for production and release of the medicinal product. To justify 
the abridged development programme, reference was also made to the experience gained from clinical use of 
epidermal and limbal epithelial cells over more than 30 years and in particular with Holoclar which was used in 
clinical practice since 1998.  
Assessment report  
Page 16/81 
  
  
 
 
Conventional non-clinical studies were generally not considered appropriate for Holoclar as a cell-based 
medicinal product (CBMP). However, the applicant conducted in vitro non-clinical toxicology studies to evaluate 
the tumorigenic potential.  
The non-clinical development programme is briefly summarised in sections 2.3.2. to 2.3.5. and further 
discussed in section 2.3.6.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Considering the available evidence from the scientific literature supporting the proposed mechanism of action, 
no non-clinical studies have been conducted to assess the primary and secondary pharmacology of Holoclar. 
This was further justified by the applicant by the clinical experience originating from the use of the product since 
1998 (see section 2.4. - 2.5. and the limited relevance of animal models for characterising the 
pharmacodynamic (PD) response to administration of Holoclar. In particular, support for the proof of principle 
was available from published non-clinical studies in rats which showed that ex vivo expanded limbal cells 
cultured on a fibrin support can be used to replace and regenerate corneal epithelium lost due to LSCD by 
creating a structural replacement, with the formation of a normal thickness corneal epithelial cell layer 
(Sacchetti et al., 2002; Talbot et al., 2006; Gimeno et al., 2007). The functionality of these types of grafts is 
further supported by the demonstration of clinical efficacy, as defined by a resolution of LSCD-associated 
symptoms (ocular burning and pain, photophobia, foreign body sensation) as well as improved visual acuity 
(Rama et al., 2001; Rama et al., 2010).  
Reference was also made to the Part IV of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended by Directive 
2009/120/EC, which acknowledges that the usual requirements for the pharmacological and toxicological 
testing of medicinal products may not always be appropriate for advanced therapy medicinal products (ATMPs) 
due to their unique and diverse structural and biological properties.  
Finally, as the product is intended for administration to the eye where it remains locally at the site of application, 
conventional pharmacodynamic safety and drug interactions studies were not conducted. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
In accordance with the Guideline on Human Cell-Based Medicinal Products (EMEA/CHMP/410869/2006), 
classical absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion studies were not considered relevant for a human 
CBMP and thus these kind of studies have not been performed by the applicant.  
The applicant furthermore argued that the proposed treatment was a single topical replacement treatment 
without systemic effect. Transplanted cells only colonise on the ocular surface. To support the lack of invasion of 
the cultured cells into basal ocular structures, the applicant provided data from an histological analysis of 
corneal sections derived from Holoclar-treated patients who underwent perforating keratoplasty. These data 
were generated as part of the clinical safety evaluation and relevant information for the PK/PD review is 
summarised in section 2.4.2.  and 2.4.3. Moreover, the applicant referred to published data (Di Nunzio et al., 
2008) in which the distribution of a similar cell sheet based on skin keratinocytes was analysed after 
subcutaneous transplantation in athymic mice. These data indicated that integrity of such a cell sheet is 
maintained after implantation.   
Assessment report  
Page 17/81 
  
  
 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The non-clinical toxicology assessment of Holoclar was limited and abridged, as was justified by the applicant by 
the already existing clinical experience with the product as well as the lack of relevant animal models due to 
differences  in  the  ocular  structure  of  most  other  mammals.  Furthermore,  complications  may  arise  from  the 
xenograft setting of such studies and due to ethical concerns with primate models.  
The development programme focussed on the characterisation of the tumorigenic and carcinogenic potential of 
Holoclar.  Other  aspects  of  toxicology,  such  as  antigenicity  and  microchimerism  due  to  the  presence  of  the 
irradiated 3T3-J2 feeder layer, were largely deduced from clinical findings (see sections 2.4.  - 2.6. ). However, 
in  order  to  investigate  the  proliferative  capacity  of  the  3T3-J2  feeder  cells,  the  applicant  performed  in  vitro 
karyotype analysis and soft agar assays.  
Except for the analysis of the adhesion dependent growth, which was conducted following the general principles 
of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), all studies have been performed in full compliance with GLP. This approach 
was considered acceptable by the CAT. 
Tumorigenic potential 
While  conventional  carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  performed,  the  potential  for  transformation  and 
formation of tumours by the human corneal epithelial cells in Holoclar was investigated in in vitro assays. 
Karyotype analysis 
The applicant provided data on chromosomal characterisation of the cells to detect genomic instability in order 
to  ascertain  whether  culture  and  manipulations  of  the  cell  population  during  the  manufacturing  of  the  drug 
product induced chromosomal damage or abnormalities, including cell fusion. A worst case scenario was applied 
by performing the analysis subject to an additional cell passage step beyond that used to produce Holoclar.  
The karyotype analysis included chromosomal counts and the frequency of hyperploidy, hypoploidy, polyploidy, 
breaks and structural abnormalities in 50 metaphasic cells in six batches cultured from the drug product. The 
analysis  demonstrated  a  consistent  karyotypic  profile  throughout  the  tested  cell  cultures.  No  evidence  of 
chromosomal aberrations or minor chromosomal damage was detected, and the karyotypes were consistent 
with that of normal, unprocessed cells of human origin.  
Growth factor dependence 
The growth of cells extracted from Holoclar drug substance and drug product was evaluated both in the presence 
and in the absence of growth factors supplemented into the normal growth media, in order to investigate if 
manipulations during the manufacturing process give cell subpopulations a proliferative advantage. Two batches 
of pooled drug substance and drug product were cultured  
- 
- 
in the presence or absence of a feeder layer of lethally irradiated 3T3-J2 cells, and  
in  the  presence  or  absence  of  exogenous  growth  factor  supplementation  (insulin,  epidermal  growth 
factor, or hydrocortisone).  
The  cell  populations  were  proliferative  in  the  presence  of  fibrin  support  and  cell  growth  was  consistent 
independent  of  the  source  of  the  fibrin  support.  However,  cell  growth  was  either  completely  attenuated  or 
markedly slowed in the absence of feeder cells and growth factor supplementation. In comparison, the positive 
cell  growth  control  (squamous  cell  cancer  line)  showed  proliferative  capacity  under  all  growth  conditions 
independent of the presence of growth factors and/or a layer of feeder cells.  
Assessment report  
Page 18/81 
  
  
 
Soft agar assay 
The adhesion dependence of Holoclar was assessed by evaluation of colony formation in soft agar gels. At the 
conclusion of the incubation period, the number of colonies (more than 40 cells) and bursts (less than 40 cells) 
were counted under light microscopy for both the positive control (human breast adenocarcinoma cell line) and 
test cells. Floating cut points were defined as 186 and 42 for bursts and colonies, respectively. 
Holoclar human corneal epithelial cells showed growth and burst formation after 19 days of incubation. The 
number of bursts was always below the floating cut point and was therefore considered a negative result. The 
number of bursts was significantly lower than the MCF-7 positive tumour cell line control (p<0.001). No colonies 
of more than 40 cells were formed by human corneal epithelial cells, in contrast to MCF-7 cells. No effect of 
increased seeding concentration on the formation of bursts or colonies was evident, as seeding at a higher cell 
density did not manifest in increases in cell burst formation.  
Other toxicity studies  
Microchimerism 
The risk of xenogeneic microchimerism arises from the presence of irradiated murine 3T3-J2 feeder cell layer in 
the composition of the drug product and the potential occurrence of viable 3T3-J2 cells and a lack of native 
immune  clearance.  The  viability  of  3T3-J2  cells  following  irradiation  was  investigated  in  the  context  of  the 
validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  confirming  that  the  radiation  dose  applied  to  the  feeder  layer  is 
sufficient to render them fully non-proliferative (see section 2.2.4. ). Moreover, a karyotype analysis and soft 
agar assays were performed. 
Karyotype analysis (3T3-J2 cells) 
Chromosomal characterisation was conducted in both irradiated cells and non-irradiated cells, the latter of which 
were included in the analysis as a positive control. Initial analysis did not detect metaphase cells amongst the 
irradiated  cells,  which  was  considered  consistent  with  treatment  of  normal  eukaryotic  cells  with  ionising 
radiation leading to G1 arrest. Re-testing however concluded that metaphase cells were present and a high 
degree of chromosomal damage was reported, with widespread chromosomal fragmentation evident in almost 
every metaphase cell observed. Detection of metaphasic cells was later considered to be an artefact reflecting 
the high degree of chromosomal damage that was elicited by the irradiation procedure. 
Soft agar assay (3T3-J2 cells) 
Soft agar assays were conducted to analyse the growth properties of three batches each of irradiated versus 
non-irradiated mouse 3T3-J2 cells from the Master and Work Cell Bench using an internal positive control. In 
addition, a fibroblastic cell line that does not exhibit anchorage-independent growth was employed as a negative 
control. Cell numbers of non-irradiated 3T3-J2 cells were shown to effectively remain stable until the 3-day time 
point  of  the  assay,  followed  by  a  slight  decrease  at  the  6-day  time  point,  indicating  that  no 
anchorage-independent  growth  was  occurring.  For  3T3-J2  cells  irradiated  according  to  the  Holoclar 
manufacturing  protocol  a  decrease  of  the  cell  number  was  observed  over  the  full  timeframe  of  the  assay, 
comparable to the negative control.  
Assessment report  
Page 19/81 
  
  
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The CAT agreed that no environmental risk assessment (ERA) was required for Holoclar, as the cells of the 
product are not viable outside the laboratory or dangerous to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
The  general  concept  for  the  transplantation  of  allogenic  or  autologous  limbal  stems  cells  is  well  known  and 
described in the scientific literature. The clinical efficacy of such therapies strongly depends on the underlying 
disease and their severity. In each case the injured eye has to be carefully diagnosed to make the decision on 
the optimal medical therapy. However, the clinical experience gained at the time of this report provide evidence 
for the general proof-of-concept and the benficial role of LSC in the treatment of LSCD.  
Several publications were available on ex vivo expanded LSCs analysed in a homologous or heterologous LSCD 
rabbit model (including Ti et al. 2002; Talbot et al., 2006; Luengo et al., 2007). However, since the products 
used in studies described in the literature were not identical or sufficiently comparable to Holoclar, published 
non-clinical data were only considered supportive. 
The anatomical and physiological differences between animal models and the human eye as discussed by the 
applicant were acknowledged by the CAT. In view of the species differences, a homologous model would be most 
suitable. However, confirmation of validity of this approach would be difficult and require an adequate bridging 
of the quality data of the animal cells to the intended human medicinal product Holoclar. Therefore, and in light 
of  the  availability  of  clinical  data  (see  section  2.5.  ),  in  vivo  studies  in  a  homologous  animal  model  were 
considered by the CAT not to be necessary and the absence of non-clinical PD data was accepted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  discussed  the  potential  for  invasion  of  the  grafted  cells  beyond  the  area  of  transplantation. 
Possible  risks  associated  with  systemic  distribution  of  cells  derived  from  Holoclar  are  tumour  formation,  an 
accelerated immune response after application of a repeated graft or the transmission of adventitious agents. 
However, the risk of tumourigenicity was considered low (see discussion on toxicology below), no significant 
adaptive immune response was observed after repeated transplantation in the clinical setting (see section 2.5.  
and 2.6. ) and transmission of adventitious agents was addressed by adequate quality control measures (see 
section 2.2. ). Furthermore, some supportive evidence for a lack of cell migration was available from published 
data (Di Nunzio et al., 2008). Moreover, dissemination from the area of engraftment was considered unlikely 
due to the adhesion dependency of normal epithelial cells as well as other localised cell-type specific factors and 
the crossing of the basal membrane was considered a worst case scenario. 
The  main  support  for  a  lack  of  biodistribution,  however,  was  provided  by  clinical  data  including  an 
immunohistological  analysis  of  corneal  sections  derived  from  Holoclar-treated  patients  who  had  perforating 
keratoplasty. These data are presented and discussed in sections 2.4.2. and 2.4.4. of this report. In light of the 
available clinical data, the CAT agreed that no additional non-clinical biodistribution data were needed. The CAT 
furthermore agreed that classical, non-clinical PK studies were not relevant for Holoclar.  
Toxicology 
One  of  the  main  concerns  with  the  use  of  any  cell  therapy,  in  particular  those  comprising  a  heterogeneous 
population  of  cells  including  cells  with  proliferative  potential,  is  the  formation  of  tumours.  The  potential  for 
Assessment report  
Page 20/81 
  
  
 
tumourigenicity of Holoclar drug substance and product was investigated in three different in vitro approaches, 
all of which pointed towards a low risk of tumour formation. 
Regarding the risk of microchimaera formation by the murine feeder cells in the final drug product, available 
data suggested a low tumourigenic potential of the cells even without irradiation. Furthermore, irradiation as 
part of the manufacturing process resulted in lethal chromosomal damage rendering the cells non-proliferative 
(see section 2.2.4. ). In light of these data in addition to the results from immunohistological analyses in a 
subset of patients treated with Holoclar and the absence of a significant adaptive immune response (see section 
2.5.   and 2.6. ), the CAT considered that microchimera formation may not be expected. 
Overall, the omission of classical toxicology animal studies, including single and repeat dose studies as well as 
immunogenicity studies, was considered by the CAT to be justified due to the lack of suitable animal models and 
in light of the available clinical safety data. As no systemic exposure was to be expected and since the product 
was autologous in nature, the risk for product-related toxicity to the reproductive system was considered to be 
negligible and therefore omission of reproductive toxicity testing was deemed acceptable. 
The CHMP endorse the CAT discussion on the non clinical aspects as described above.  
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In light of the supportive information from the scientific literature as well as the available clinical data and since 
due to the lack of suitable animal models, conventional non-clinical studies with Holoclar were considered not to 
be appropriate or feasible, the CAT considered the abridged non-clinical programme acceptable. No ERA was 
considered necessary. 
The CHMP endorse the CAT conclusions on the non clinical aspects as described above.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
No prospective clinical trials were conducted in support of this application. However, the applicant provided data 
from retrospective studies. Quality, integrity, and reliability of these data have been verified in GCP inspections 
performed at the two sites used for the pivotal study HLSTM01 as well as one site in HLSTM02. While ICH-GCP 
was not considered fully applicable in light of the retrospective, observational nature of the data collection, the 
inspections nevertheless confirmed that general GCP principles were complied with. 
Assessment report  
Page 21/81 
  
  
 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Conventional PK studies have not been performed for Holoclar since, according to the Guideline on Human 
Cell-Based Medicinal Products (CBMP, EMEA/CHMP/410869/2006), such studies were not considered relevant. 
Holoclar consists of an autologous sheet of stratified epithelium, applied topically to the eye to act locally at the 
site of application. The cells are not expected to migrate beyond the ocular surface, or to produce systemic 
effects. Evaluation of the potential dissemination of the transplanted cells is difficult, due to an inability to 
distinguish engrafted autologous cells that by definition, lack unique identification markers.  
However, some information on the potential for biodistribution was derived from data from an histological and 
morphological evaluation of corneal material collected from 26 patients who had undergone perforating 
keratoplasty 9 to 93 month (average 28 month) post limbal stem cell transplantation with Holoclar. Both central 
and paracentral cornea sections were obtained to analyse the expression of the human keratinocyte marker, 
keratin 3 (K3), and the murine 3T3-J2 cells marker, H2KQ. Samples were also tested for the conjunctival marker 
K19 and goblet cells. Expression of these markers was determined by an indirect immunohistochemical assay 
system (UltraView Universal DAB Detection Kit) using specific antibodies to the different markers.  
Analysis of stained sections of the tissue samples showed that the cells formed a normal multilayer, stratified 
squamous epithelium on a continuous extracellular matrix, comparable to healthy corneal tissue. In all patient 
tissues, K3 expression was positive and H2kQ expression negative. However, no epithelial cells were detected in 
the underlying corneal stroma, indicating lack of migration beyond the location of treatment. Samples also 
contained a number of K19-positive cells, but no goblet cells. Hence, it resembled a normal control corneal 
epithelium. 
Assessment report  
Page 22/81 
  
  
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The proposed mechanism of action of Holoclar is the replacement of LSC in LSC deficient regions of the cornea 
subsequent to removal of the impaired corneal epithelium in patients in whom the limbus has been irreversibly 
and extensively damaged as a result of an ocular burn. By re-establishing a reservoir of stem cells, normal 
physiological growth and repair of the corneal epithelium is enabled. As a result, corneal epithelial integrity as 
well as long-term maintenance and regeneration of the epithelium is achieved and the limbal barrier function is 
restored preventing new ingrowth of the conjunctiva.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Conventional pharmacodynamic studies have not been performed. Due to the nature of the product and related 
administration procedure, studies in healthy patients would have been unethical, while monitoring of the 
pharmacodynamic response in patients would have required additional eye biopsy(ies). Such invasive approach 
was considered inappropriate given that other measures of clinical success were available and in light of the 
available evidence in the scientific literature. In particular, the functionality of Holoclar grafts is supported by the 
demonstration of clinical efficacy, as defined by a resolution of LSCD-associated symptoms as well as improved 
visual acuity (Rama et al., 2001; Rama et al., 2010; see also section 2.5.2. for details). The demonstration of 
restoration of visual function is in accordance with the Guideline On Human Cell-Based Medicinal Products 
(EMEA/CHMP/410869/2006), which states that if the intended use of the CBMP is, for example, to restore the 
function of deficient cells/tissue (tissue regeneration), functional tests should be implemented to demonstrate 
that function is restored.  
The guideline on human CBMP furthermore recommends structural or histological assays as potential 
pharmacodynamic markers for regenerative medicines. Such data were available from impression cytology 
performed on a subset of patients in the two main retrospective studies HLSTM01 and HLSTM02 (for a more 
detailed description of these studies see section 2.5.2 of this report) at baseline and 12 months (HLSTM01), or 
at least 3 months (HLSTM02) after transplantation.  
In HLSTM01, the mean percentage of cytokeratin 3 (K3) expressing cells (corneal phenotype, K3+) increased 
from 14.0% (n=13) at baseline to 57.0% (n=15) post-treatment. The mean percentage of cytokeratin 19 (K19) 
expressing cells (conjunctival phenotype, K19+) decreased from 73.2% (n=14) at baseline to 20.4% (n=15) 
post-treatment. A subgroup analysis was conducted in patients for whom data was available from both pre- and 
post-treatment time points (n=12 for K3+; n=13 for K19+). In this subgroup, the mean percentage of K3+ cells 
increased from 13.9% to 64.6%. The mean percentage of K19+ cells decreased from 73.5% to 19.7%. These 
changes were statistically significant (p<0.00001).  
In study HLSTM02, pre-treatment data were available with respect to K3+ cells and K19+ cells in 20 and 23 
patients, respectively. Post-treatment data were available for 11 patients (for both K3+ and K19+ cells). At 
month 3, the mean percentage of K3+ cells was greater (32.3% vs. 21.7% pre-treatment), and the mean 
percentage for K19+ cells was lower (21.4% vs. 37.3% pre-treatment). Patients with both pre- and 
post-treatment impression cytology data were considered in a subgroup analysis (n=9 for K3+; n=10 for 
K19+). In this subgroup analysis, the percentage of K3+ cells increased slightly from 32.3% to 33.9%, and the 
percentage of K19+ cells decreased from 25.8% to 18.5% (p=0.865 and p=0.417, respectively). 
Assessment report  
Page 23/81 
  
  
 
The guideline on human CBMP also indicates that suitable pharmacodynamic markers, such as defined by 
microscopic, histological, imagine techniques or enzymatic activities, could be used. The pharmacodynamic 
marker of p63 has been selected for characterisation and control of the medicinal product. The potency of 
Holoclar and therefore the anticipated pharmacodynamic effect was defined by the percentage of p63bright cells, 
which are undifferentiated holoclones and considered the ‘functional’ component of the drug substance. 
Determination of p63bright is used as a test for potency in the release specification (see section 2.2.3. ). 
Finally, histological examination of the engrafted corneal epithelium (see section 2.4.2.  for details) removed at 
the time of keratoplasty in a small group of patients showed formation of a stratified squamous epithelium with 
a cuboid basal layer, devoid of goblet cells and papillary structures, resembling a normal cornea and lying on an 
avascular stroma. The regenerated epithelium was uniformly stained for K3 and contained a number of 
K19-positive cells, but did not contain goblet cells. Hence, it resembled a normal control corneal epithelium. All 
sections were negative for the murine marker H2KQ.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
With regards to PK, the CAT agreed that classical absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion studies 
were neither necessary nor relevant. Data from the K3 immunohistochemical analysis of histological sections of 
the human cornea obtained from patients treated with Holocar who had perforating keratoplasty, showed no 
invasion of keratinocytes into basal ocular structures. Hence, no evidence for dissemination of cells beyond the 
intended treatment area was found. Overall, given the autologous nature of the cells and the highly restricted 
growth environment requirements, the risk for migration beyond the ocular surface into deeper tissue or 
systemic exposure was considered low.  
The CAT furthermore considered that the lack of conventional PD studies to demonstrate the mechanism of 
action of Holoclar was acceptable. The results of impression cytology in a subset of patients in the pivotal 
studies, showed an increase of the percentage of keratinocytes and a decrease of the percentage of conjunctival 
cells after Holoclar treatment, thus providing evidence that Holoclar enables corneal type epithelialisation of the 
ocular surface and exerts a regenerative effect. Moreover, results from immunohistological analysis showed the 
establishment of a normal layer of stratified corneal epithelium by the transplanted stem cells. Additional 
support for the functionality of Holoclar grafts, as provided by the demonstration of clinical efficacy, is discussed 
in section 2.5.  of this report.  
Finally, no evidence of murine feeder cells was found in histological examinations of surgically removed corneas 
several months after Holoclar treatment, providing further support to the low risk of microchimaera formation 
derived from the available non-clinical data. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The CAT considered the lack of a conventional clinical pharmacology development programme acceptable. 
Supportive evidence for the regenerative mechanism of action of Holoclar as well as lack of invasion of graft cells 
beyond the ocular surface was available from immunohistological analyses and impression cytology.  
The CHMP endorse the CAT assessment regarding the conclusions on the clinical pharmacology as described 
above.  
Assessment report  
Page 24/81 
  
  
 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
At the time of this application, more than 200 patients had already been treated with Holoclar (GPLSCD01) in 
clinical practice from 1998 onwards. The application is based on retrospective analyses of these data.  
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
Conventional dose-response studies for Holoclar have not been conducted. 
The  final  product  consists  of  a  confluent  sheet  of  300,000  to  1,200,000  viable  autologous  human  corneal 
epithelial cells (79,000-316,000 cells/cm2), including on average 3,5% (0.4% to 10%) limbal stem cells. The 
size of the graft is related to the size of the patient’s cornea and the exposed corneal stroma after surgical 
excision of the fibrovascular pannus. 
Cytological characterisation during the manufacturing process is used to determine the potency of the product 
linked to the presence of human keratinocyte stem cells. Expression of p63 is used to distinguish LSCs from 
transiently amplifying cells. Deductively, potency is addressed by quantification of p63bright cells. Release 
specifications were set at 2.5-10.0% p63bright cells which has been shown to be significantly related to clinical 
success (see section 2.2. ).  
2.5.2.  Main study(ies) 
To support this application for a conditional marketing authorisation, the applicant submitted clinical data from 
two retrospective, multicentre, case series based, non-randomised, and uncontrolled observational studies:  
• 
Pivotal study HLSTM01 including 106 patients from 2 centres in Italy with the diagnosis limbal stem cell 
deficiency (LSCD) who underwent at least one Holoclar transplantation during the time period from 
1998 to 2007, with data provided for 113 transplantation events, and  
•  Supportive study HLSTM02 including 29 LSCD patients from 7 Italian centres with 29 transplantation 
events.  
Study HLSTM01 aimed at evaluating efficacy and safety of Holoclar treatment, and HLSTM02 evaluated the 
safety of the product, with supporting evidence for efficacy. The primary difference between patients evaluated 
in study HLSTM01 and HLSTM02 was the specific clinical centres involved. In HLSTM01, patients were included 
from two related, yet distinct clinical sites which used a standard treatment protocol (pre-treatment 
assessments, limbal biopsy procedures, cellular expansion, treatment application and subsequent patient 
follow-up), whereas HLSTM02 encompassed all other available patient data treated at a total of seven other 
sites. The strategy behind this approach was to generate a sufficiently homogeneous patient population in study 
HLSTM01 to enable merging of individual patient information into a single composite data set for efficacy 
assessment, whereas patients in HLSTM02 reflect a more heterogeneous participant population. 
Of the total of 219 patients treated with Holoclar from 1998 to 2007, 82 patients have not been included in the 
two retrospective studies HLSTM01 and HLSTM02 because centres declined to release patient data. The overall 
evaluable efficacy population therefore comprised 133 patients (104 in HLSTM01 and 29 in HLSTM02, 
respectively). 
Furthermore, in response to a CAT/CHMP request, the applicant submitted data from additional 15 patients with 
moderate to severe LSCD due to ocular burn injury who have been treated from 2008 to 2013 at three Italian 
Assessment report  
Page 25/81 
  
  
 
sites (retrospective study HLSTM04). These 15 patients accounted for 100% of patients treated from 2008 
onward. 
2.5.2.1.  Study HLSTM01 
Study title: Retrospective evaluation of the efficacy and safety of autologous cultivated limbal stem 
cells transplantation for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with limbal stem cell 
deficiency due to ocular burns 
Study HLSTM01 was performed based on data from two Italian centres in Milan and Rome. These two centres 
treated the majority of all patients that received Holoclar from 1998 to 2007. Both centres used the same 
procedures for Holoclar treatment, post-transplantation patient care, and associated patient follow-up using a 
standardised and consistent parameter set. The eligibility criteria of the protocol of study HLSTM01 were 
modelled to this treatment protocol.  
Methods 
Study Participants  
The study population included patients transplanted with Holoclar because of LSCD due to ocular burns. 
Patients enrolled in this trial had to fulfil all the following inclusion criteria: 
•  Males or females of all ages; 
•  Moderate or severe LSCD secondary to ocular burns, unilateral or bilateral with minimum 1-2mm2 of 
undamaged limbus to harvest for stem cells expansion in culture. LSCD severity grading was based 
upon  the  extent  of  superficial  corneal  neovascularisation  as  observed  upon  clinical  examination  and 
categorized according to a 4-point grading scale. 
Table 1 – Criteria for LSCD severity grading 
Superficial corneal neovascularization 
Score  Clinical meaning  Clinical observation 
0 
1 
2 
3 
None 
Mild 
No vessel penetration 
Vessel penetration up to 1 quadrant, without central cornea involvement. 
Moderate 
Vessel penetration of 2-3 quadrants, with or without central cornea involved. 
Severe 
Total vascularisation of the cornea 
Patients who fulfilled any of the following exclusion criteria were not enrolled in the study: 
•  Compromised eyelid mobility and/or symblepharon; 
•  Tear secretion deficiency (Schirmer test < 5 mm); 
•  Corneal and conjunctival anaesthesia; 
•  Unable to stop the topic treatment(s) for the pathology; 
•  Active local or systemic infections; 
Assessment report  
Page 26/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
•  Positive to HIV-1 or HIV-2 test; 
•  Diagnosis of local or systemic neoplastic disease; 
• 
Limbar deficiency due to radiotherapy; 
•  Aniridia; 
•  Steven-Johnson syndrome; 
•  Active ocular inflammation; 
•  Pterygium or pseudopterygium; 
•  Neurotrophic keratitis. 
Treatments 
All the patients received the same treatment in form of transplantation of autologous cultured limbal stem cells 
(ACLSCT). 
Visits 
Patients might have had more than 1 pre-surgical visit prior to limbal biopsy. Additional visits included the 
following: 
•  Transplantation: day 0 
•  Post-transplantation visit 1-5 at day 3, 14, 25 ± 5, 90 ± 15 and day 180 ± 21 
•  Post-transplantation visit 6: day 360 ± 30 (endpoint visit). In case of failure the patient can be enrolled 
for a new ACLSCT at this visit. 
•  Additional visits could be performed in the following years (up to 10 years from transplantation) to 
follow-up the patients’ clinical outcome. If the patient needed to be visited in the period between two 
study visits, the Investigator could perform an additional visit reporting the reason of the visit, the 
clinical condition, the possible adverse event and the treatment prescribed or used in the CRF section 
‘Emergency/Not Planned Form’. 
Procedure for biopsy collection 
1. Topical anesthesia with Oxybuprocaine chlorhydrate 0.4% (Novesina) or para/retrobulbar anestesia with 
Carbocaine 1% without adrenalin. Avoid to use topical Lidocaine or other topical anesthetic different from 
Oxybuprocaine; 
2. Preparation of the surgical field as preferred; 
3. Detachment of the conjunctiva to expose 2-3 mm of superior limbus; 
4. Removal of superficial limbal tissue (square 2-3 mm, 80-100 mμ deep). Do not cauterize the area of the 
biopsy to prevent damage to the donor-stem cells; 
5. Insert the biopsy (with attention to maintain the sterility) in the vial with the transport medium (received in 
advance from the Coordinating Centre); prepare the box for sending the biopsy to the Laboratory as indicated 
in the instructions send with the medium before the biopsy; 
6. Suture the conjunctiva with nylon 10/0; bandage is not required; 
Assessment report  
Page 27/81 
  
  
 
7. Topical antibiotic three times daily (tid) for 7 days. 
Procedure for transplantation 
1. Para/retrobulbar anesthesia with Marcaine or Naropine or general anesthesia; 
2. Preparation of the surgical field as preferred; 
3. Limbal perithomy with accurate cauterization. The conjunctiva should be undermined for 3-4 mm in order to 
create a pocket for the insertion of the fibrin sheet; 
4. Excision of the corneal fibrovascular tissue trying to avoid keratectomy; 
5. Place the fibrin-cultured epithelial sheet on the corneal-sclera surface and fit it under the undermined 
conjunctiva; 
6. Remove the surplus of the fibrin sheet and cover the periphery suturing the conjunctiva using vicryl 8/0; 
7. Close carefully the eyelids over the grafted cells and keep them closed with steril-strip band; 
8. A systemic + topical treatment was chosen to avoid the potential side effects of topical medicaments: topical 
treatments were allowed only in case of contraindication to systemic drugs. The systemic treatment chosen and 
the topical treatment suggested are described here below: 
Systemic treatment+ topical treatment: 
• 
• 
• 
prophylactic systemic antibiotics for two weeks: doxycycline 100 mg two times a day (bid) or amoxicillin 
500 mg bid; 
systemic prednisolone or prednisone (0.5 mg/kg/day) for two weeks and then tapered until suspension 
at day 30; an anti-ulcer (i.e. ranitidine) may be used for gastroprotection during the treatment with 
systemic corticosteroid; 
topical preservative-free methylprednisolone 05% or dexamethasone 0.1% tid for two weeks, starting 
two weeks after transplantation, and tapered in two weeks (BID one week and 1 daily for 1 week) or 
maintained in case of persistent inflammation. 
Topical treatment only: 
• 
• 
• 
preservative-free topical antibiotics (as preferred) tid for one week or longer in case of persistent 
epithelial defect; 
topical preservative-free methylprednisolone 0.5% or dexamethasone 0.1% tid; 
for one month and then tapered or maintained in case of persistent inflammation. 
9. Eye bandage suggested for two weeks. Other antibiotics or corticosteroids molecules might be used. In such 
a case the antibiotic or corticosteroid, the dosage regimen and the duration of treatment have to be reported. 
Criteria for retreatment 
In the case of transplantation failure, the patients were allowed to receive additional limbal stem cell 
transplantations. The criteria for admittance to a new procedure were: 
1. 
failure of the previous transplantation at the endpoint visit; 
2.  absence of active ocular inflammation; 
Assessment report  
Page 28/81 
  
  
 
3.  absence of active local or systemic infections; 
4.  negative to HIV-1 or HIV-2 test;; 
5.  patient consent. 
In the case of additional limbal stem cell transplantation the patients were followed up with the same trial 
schedule applied to the patients who received one transplantation. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the success of transplantation based on a stable corneal 
epithelium without significant recurrence of neovascularisation at 12 months post-intervention. 
The secondary objectives of the study were: 
•  To evaluate symptoms (pain, burning, photophobia) at baseline and 12 months post-intervention. 
•  To evaluate the inflammation at baseline and at 12 months post-intervention. 
•  To evaluate the superficial corneal neovascularisation in blinded fashion (i.e., not knowing the patient 
and the visit in which the picture was taken) by an independent assessor. 
•  To evaluate the improvement of visual acuity at 12 months versus baseline.  
•  To evaluate the impression cytology: percentage of CK3+, CK3-, CK12+, CK12-, CK19+, CK19-, 
presence of caliciform cells. 
•  To evaluate the number of previous limbal stem cell transplantations in each patient. 
•  To evaluate the number of successful keratoplasties after limbal stem cell transplantation. 
•  As part of the safety evaluation, any corneal material from patients undergoing keratoplasty was 
processed for histology and evaluated morphologically for abnormal differentiation, proliferation and cell 
transformation (also with specific markers). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was a composite endpoint of the rate of patients with a successful 
transplantation at 12 months post-intervention, based on the co-presence of clinical signs as follows: (i) a 
superficial corneal neovascularisation classified as ‘None’ (no vessel penetration) or ‘Mild’ (vessel penetration 1 
quadrant without central cornea involved), and (ii) epithelial defects classified as ‘None’ (no fluorescence 
staining) or ‘Trace’ (minimal superficial staining, pooling with light and/or late staining). 
The success of the treatment was evaluated based on the assumption that a percentage of a positive outcome 
in more than 50% of transplantations is the minimal effect of clinical relevance in the management of patients. 
Secondary endpoints: 
•  Change in symptoms (pain, burning, photophobia) from baseline to 12 months post-intervention. 
Symptoms were graded with categorical scales (0= None; 1=Mild; 2=Moderate; 3=Severe). 
•  Change in inflammation from baseline to 12 months post intervention. The assessment will be 
conducted using categorical scales for limbal and bulbar conjunctival hyperaemia. Inflammation yes: 
Limbal and/or bulbar hyperaemia= Mild or Moderate or Severe (Severe Limbal Hyperaemia). 
Inflammation no: Limbal and bulbar hyperaemia= None. 
Assessment report  
Page 29/81 
  
  
 
•  Superficial corneal neovascularisation evaluated in blinded fashion by an independent assessor on 
photos of patients’ eyes taken before and after the transplantation. The assessor will use the same 
categorical scale for superficial corneal neo-vascularisation used by the investigator (see primary 
efficacy variable). 
•  Change in visual activity from baseline to 12 months post-intervention. Improvement of visual acuity at 
12 months versus baseline will be evaluated. Visual acuity will be measured as both natural and best 
refracted using the Snellen chart and values will be expressed according to tenth scale. Visual acuity 
lower than 1/20 will be evaluated as light perception or hand movements or finger count (from light 
perception to hand movements or from hand movements to finger count). 
•  Number of limbal stem cell transplantations in each patient. 
•  Number of successfull keratoplasties after limbal stem cell transplantation. The success was assessed 
based on the same criteria used to determine success of the limbal cell transplantation (primary 
endpoint), i.e. persisting success of limbal cell transplantation after keratoplasty, at the first visit at 
least 12 months after cornea transplantation. 
•  Evaluation of impression cytology: percentage of K3+, K3-, K12+, K12-, K19+, K19-, presence of 
caliciform cells 
Sample size 
The sample size was not based on any power calculation. All patients transplanted at the 2 Italian centres from 
1998 to 2007 were included. 
Randomisation 
The study was uncontrolled and non-randomised. 
Blinding (masking) 
To provide an objective mechanism for assessment of efficacy of Holoclar, a retrospective blinded analysis of 
ocular photographs (before and after treatment) was performed by an independent investigator to confirm the 
results for corneal neovascularisation.  
Statistical methods 
The following populations were to be considered in data analysis: 
• 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) population: all patients who underwent the cultivated limbal stem cells 
transplantation and had a control visit at least six months after transplantation. For patients who 
received two or more transplantations only the last documented one was considered for efficacy 
analysis. The demography and baseline characteristics and the analyses of efficacy were performed on 
the ITT population. 
•  Per Protocol (PP) population: all patients from the ITT population without any major protocol violations. 
Exact definition of major protocol deviation was discussed by the clinical team, case by case, before 
database lock. Primary efficacy analysis and analysis of the superficial neovascularisation evaluated on 
photos were performed also on the PP population. 
Assessment report  
Page 30/81 
  
  
 
•  Safety population: all patients who underwent the cultivated limbal stem cells transplantation. Subjects 
who received two (or three) interventions were counted twice (or three times) and each intervention 
was considered independently. The safety analysis were performed on the safety population. 
Protocol violations 
Violations considered as potentially affecting the efficacy outcomes (e.g. significant violation from 
inclusion/exclusion criteria or absence of baseline measurement of the primary efficacy variable) were 
considered as major violations and led to the exclusion from the PP population. In the case of minor protocol 
violations that did not have a potential influence on efficacy outcomes, subjects were regularly included in the PP 
analysis. 
Analysis of efficacy: 
The analysis of the primary efficacy variable and of superficial neovascularisation evaluated on photos was 
carried out both on the ITT and PP population. 
Primary variable: 
An exact one-sided binomial test with 0.025 significance level was performed for the proportion of successful 
transplantations in order to test the null hypothesis H0: π≤50% and therefore to check the success of the study. 
The 95% confidence interval (CI) for the estimated proportion of successful transplantations was to be 
calculated. The study was to be considered successfully if the lower bound of the 95% CI for the estimated 
proportion of successful transplantations was higher than 50%. 
Secondary efficacy variables: 
Comparison between proportions at baseline and at 12 months were be performed by means of McNemar’s test 
for relevant endpoints.  
The estimated proportion of patients with neovascularisation at baseline and 12 months post intervention, as 
evaluated in blind fashion by an independent assessor, was to be compared with that obtained from the 
evaluation of neo-vascularisation conducted by the investigator during the visit of the patient by means of the 
Cohen’s kappa. 
The number and percentage of patients with an improvement in visual acuity (VA) of at least one line was to be 
calculated. This analysis was to be conducted in two subsets of patients: the group without deep corneal opacity 
(no stromal scarring) and the group with deep corneal opacity (stromal scarring). Visual acuity lower than 1/20 
was to be evaluated as light perception or hand movements or finger count. Visual acuity was considered 
improved if i) an increase by at least one line read without mistakes on the Snellen chart compared to baseline, 
or ii) a categorical change from light perception (LP) to hand movements (HM) or from HM to finger count (FC), 
or iii)  1/10 or 1/20 in best refracted conditions could be observed. 
Handling of missing data 
The following method was applied for the primary efficacy variable (successful transplantations) and for the 
superficial neo-vascularisation evaluated on photos: Zero imputation: In case of missing data for the endpoint 
visit the result of transplantation is considered a ‘Failure’. 
No replacement for missing data were to be performed for the other secondary efficacy variables. 
Assessment report  
Page 31/81 
  
  
 
Results 
Recruitment 
A total of 106 patients at the 2 selected centres in Rome (14, 100% of patients treated between 1998 and 2010) 
and Milan (92, 100% of patients treated between 1998 and 2010) underwent at least one ACLSC graft and were 
included in this study.  
Conduct of the study 
There were no amended versions of the protocol. However, a number of changes to the planned analyses were 
defined in the final statistical analysis plan dated 03/08/2010: 
•  Secondary endpoint definition: 
o  The definition of ‘Inflammation no’ was changed in the sense that neither limbal nor bulbar 
hyperaemia should have been present; 
o 
In the definition of ‘Failure of transplantation’ the case that either superficial corneal 
neovascularization was ‘moderate’ or ‘severe’ or epithelial defects by fluorescein staining was 
‘dense coalescent staining up to 2 mm in diameter’ (coded as ‘mild’ in the case report forms) or 
‘severe’ was included; 
•  Statistical analysis: 
o  The primary hypothesis was changed from a two-sided test to a one-sided test in order to cover 
the medical requirements; 
o  The safety evaluation of any corneal material from patients undergoing keratoplasty regarding 
abnormal differentiation, proliferation, and cell transformation was not documented in the case 
report form by the investigators and therefore could not be evaluated; 
o  The sensitivity analysis on the primary efficacy variable with the next observation carried 
backward technique was not performed; 
• 
Inclusion criteria were clarified (due to inconsistencies/typing errors in the documentation): 
o 
o 
o 
o 
confirmation that a moderate or severe LSCD was considered as inclusion criterion; 
confirmation that the categorisation of the grade of severity of LSCD was based on corneal 
neovascularisation; 
confirmation that a moderate degree of superficial corneal neovascularisation was defined as 
vessel penetration 2-3 quadrants (from 3 to 9 hours o’clock) without or with central cornea 
involved; 
confirmation that the epithelial defects that defined a successful transplantation were: None (No 
staining) or Trace (Minimal superficial staining, pooling), whereas the defects that defined a 
failure of transplantations were: Mild (Dense coalescent staining up to 2 mm in diameter) or 
Severe (Dense coalescent staining greater than 2 mm in diameter). 
Assessment report  
Page 32/81 
  
  
 
Baseline data 
The mean age was 46.8 ± 14.4 years (range 13.7-79.1). The study population included 80 males (76.9%) and 
24 females (23.1%). Only limited data were available on patients younger than 18 years of age (3) and older 
than 65 years of age (7).  
Table 2 - Demographic Profile of the Patient Population 
Age (years) 
Mean (+ SD) 
46.8 ± 14.4 
45.8 ± 17.4 
46.1 ± 15.0 
HLSTM01 
(n=104) 
n (%)  
HLSTM02 
(n=29)1) 
n (%) 
Total 
(n=133)1) 
n (%) 
Groups 
Gender 
Median 
Range 
< 18 
18 – 39 
40 – 64 
65 – 75 
> 75 
Female 
Male 
49.2 
13.7 – 79.1 
3 (2.9%) 
31 (29.8%) 
63 (60.6%) 
5 (4.8%) 
2 (1.9%) 
24 (23.1%) 
80 (76.9%) 
43.5 
8.0 – 71.0 
2 (7.1%) 
10 (35.7%) 
9 (32.1%) 
7 (25.0%) 
0 (0%) 
8 – 79 
5 (3.8%) 
41 (31.1%) 
72 (54.5%) 
12 (9.1%) 
2 (1.5%) 
7 (24.1%) 
31 (23.3%) 
22 (75.9%) 
102 (76.7%) 
1): Age data was available for 28 patients in HLSTM02 and 132 patients in total 
Data regarding ethnicity of patients were not collected. Patients were assumed to be Caucasian of Italian 
descent. 
Study HLSTM01 included patients with uni- or bilateral moderate to severe LSCD secondary to ocular burns. The 
diagnosis of LSCD was based on medical history (i.e. ocular burn injury) and clinical signs, in particular corneal 
neovascularisation (CNV) and corneal opacity. Patients presented pre-treatment with either moderate (55.8%) 
or severe (43.3%) superficial corneal neovascularisation (information missing in 1 case). About one third of 
patients had no epithelial defects at baseline as assessed by fluorescein staining, reflecting stabilisation of the 
ocular surface condition (e.g. pannus formation).  Based on these clinical parameters, 99% of the patients were 
diagnosed with moderate to severe LSCD.  
Deep stromal vascularisation was involved in 87.5% of the patients, and 90% had a severe loss in visual acuity. 
Information about corneal opacity and depth of corneal injury was recorded and used to classify two subsets of 
patients:  i)  those  with  stromal  scarring  (deep  corneal  opacity)  and  ii)  those  without  stromal  scarring  (deep 
corneal opacity absent or superficial). Stromal scarring was present in 89 cases (86.4%), absent in 13 cases 
(12.6%), and information was missing in one case. 
Assessment report  
Page 33/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 – Outcome of examination of the involved eye at pre-surgery visit for HLSTM01 
and HLSTM02 
HLSTM01 
(ITT; n=104) 
HLSTM02 
(n=29) 
Superficial corneal neovascularization: 
•  None 
•  Mild 
•  Moderate 
• 
Severe 
•  Missing information  
Epithelial defects (fluorescein staining): 
•  None 
•  Minimal superficial staining, pooling (trace defect) 
•  Dense coalescent staining up to 2 mm in diameter (mild) 
• 
Severe (dense coalescent staining > 2 mm in diameter) 
0 (0%) 
0 (0%) 
58 (55.8%) 
45 (43.3%) 
1 (0.96%) 
36 (34.6%) 
57 (54.8%) 
6 (5.8%) 
5 (4.8%) 
Epithelial defects:  
                           < 2 mm 
                           > 2 mm 
                           Occasional 
                           Recurrent 
                           Persistent 
                           < 2 mm + Recurrent 
                           < 2 mm + Persistent 
                           > 2 mm + Persistent 
                           Not available 
Corneal opacity: 
•  None 
• 
Superficial 
•  Deep 
• 
Superficial & deep 
•  Missing information 
Pain: 
•  No 
• 
Yes 
    - Mild 
•  Missing information 
Burning: 
•  No 
• 
Yes 
- Mild 
- Moderate 
•  Missing information 
Assessment report  
0 (0%) 
12 (11.5%) 
13 (12.5%) 
78 (75.0%) 
1 (0.96%) 
94 (90.4%) 
7 (6.7%) 
7 (6.7%) 
3 (2.9%) 
71 (68.3%) 
30 (28.8%) 
19 (18.3%) 
11 (10.6%) 
3 (2.9%) 
2 (6.9%) 
5 (17.2%) 
10 (34.5%) 
12 (41.4%) 
0 (0%) 
9 (31.0%) 
17 (58.6%) 
1 (3.5%) 
1 (3.5%) 
2 (6.9%) 
5 (17.2%) 
4 (13.8%) 
1 (3.5%) 
1 (3.5%) 
2 (6.9%) 
3 (10.3%) 
2 (6.9%) 
7 (24.1%) 
8 (27.6%) 
12 (41.4%) 
0 (0%) 
21 (72.4%) 
6 (20.7%) 
2 (6.9%) 
17 (58.6%) 
10 (34.5%) 
2 (6.9%) 
Page 34/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photophobia: 
•  No 
• 
Yes 
- Mild 
- Moderate 
- Severe 
•  Missing information 
Inflammation: Limbal hyperaemia 
No 
• 
•  Mild 
• 
• 
Severe 
Significant 
Inflammation: Bulbar hyperaemia 
No 
Slight diffuse 
• 
• 
•  Marked regional or diffuse 
•  Diffuse episcleral or scleral 
Corneal sensibility: 
• 
Normal 
•  Hypaesthesia 
• 
Anaesthesia 
Visus: 
• 
Finger count 
•  Hand movements 
• 
• 
• 
Natural visus 
BCVA1) 
Light perception 
1.5/10 
0.5/10 
Natural visus: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
2/10 
5/10 
4/10 
1/10 
2/10 
0.5/10 
Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
6/10 
3/10 
5/10 
7/10 
HLSTM01 
(ITT; n=104) 
HLSTM02 
(n=29) 
11 (37.9%) 
15 (51.7%) 
3 (10.3%) 
17 (58.6%) 
7 (24.1%) 
4 (13.8%) 
1 (3.5%) 
15 (51.7%) 
8 (27.6%) 
4 (13.8%) 
2 (6.9%) 
8 (27.6%) 
4 (13.8%) 
4 (13.8%) 
8 (27.6%) 
6 (20.7%) 
66 (63.5%) 
35 (33.7%) 
20 (19.2%) 
14 (13.5%) 
1 (0.96%) 
3 (2.9%) 
78 (75.0%) 
23 (22.1%) 
3 (2.9%) 
72 (69.2%) 
29 (27.9%) 
3 (2.9%) 
41 (39.4%) 
59 (56.7%) 
4 (3.8%) 
44 (42.3%) 
37 (35.6%) 
11 (10.6%) 
9 (8.6%) 
10 (9.6%) 
1 (0.96%) 
1 (0.96%) 
5 (4.8%) 
1 (0.96%) 
1 (0.96%) 
1 (0.96%) 
2 (1.92%) 
2 (1.92%) 
1 (0.96%) 
1 (0.96%) 
1 (0.96%) 
2 (1.92%) 
Assessment report  
Page 35/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not executable 
CA examination: 
• 
• 
•  Missing information 
Executable 
Tonometry: 
• 
Executable 
Fornix regular 
Conjunctiva: 
• 
• 
• 
•  Missing information 
Fornix shortening 
Scarring 
Eyelid margins: 
• 
•  Malposition 
Normal position 
No 
Symblepharon: 
• 
• 
•  Missing information 
Yes 
Eye photo attached: 
• 
• 
Yes 
No 
HLSTM01 
(ITT; n=104) 
HLSTM02 
(n=29) 
48 (46.2%) 
55 (52.9%) 
1 (0.96%) 
6 (20.7%) 
22 (75.9%) 
1 (3.4%) 
104 (100.0%) 
21 (72.4%) 
24 (82.8%) 
3 (10.3%) 
1 (3.5%) 
1 (3.5%) 
28 (96.6%) 
1 (3.5%) 
19 (65.5%) 
7 (24.1%) 
3 (10.3%) 
84 (80.8%) 
13 (12.5%) 
7 (6.73%) 
89 (85.6%) 
15 (14.4%) 
104 (100.0%) 
29 (27.9%) 
75 (72.1%) 
The majority of patients (101, 97.1%) had a diagnosis of LSCD due to chemical or physical ocular burns which 
is the claimed target indication for Holoclar. Three patients were treated for LSCD due to one or more of the 
following: 
• 
contact lens-associated damage (1 patient), 
•  ocular infections (2 patients), 
• 
toxic pathology associated with medical drugs (1 patient), and 
•  post-surgery iatrogenic pathology (1 patient). 
Information regarding the nature of the chemical burn (i.e., acid or alkali) had not been collected 
retrospectively, but some preliminary data have been published showing that 80% of the thermal/ chemical 
injuries leading to LSCD were alkali burns (Rama 2010).  
The vast majority of patients experienced unilateral injuries; only one patients was treated in both eye with a 
gap of 3 years between surgeries.  
The time span from burn injury to Holoclar treatment was very wide, ranging from a few months to more than 
seven decades (see Table 4). 
Assessment report  
Page 36/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 – Time elapsed since injury 
Time since injury in months (years) 
Mean 
Median 
SD 
Range 
Missing 
HLSTM01 
(n=104) 
220.7 (18.4 yrs) 
123.0 (10.3 yrs) 
206.7 (17.2 yrs) 
HLSTM02 
(n=29) 
169.1 (14.1 yrs) 
107.5 (8.9 yrs) 
178.5 (14.9 yrs) 
7.0 - 866.0 (0.6 - 72.2 yrs) 
10.0 - 600.0 (0.8 - 50 yrs) 
1 
1 
Keratoplasty (40 patients, 38.5%), corneal transplant (39 patients, 37.5%) and conjunctival repair (30 
patients, 28.8%) were the most common surgical procedures conducted in the involved eye prior to Holoclar 
treatment. Previous medications were reported for 96 patients (92.3%), while all 104 patients had concomitant 
medications. Sensory organs drugs were the most common previous medication (96 patients, 92.3%): ofloxacin 
was the most common active drug (87 patients, 83.7%). Among the concomitant medications, sensory organs 
(96 patients, 92.3%), anti-infectives for systemic use (91 patients, 87.5%) and anti-inflammatory agents (88 
patients, 84.6%) were the most common drug classes. Dexamethasone was the most common active drug (79 
patients, 76.0%). 
Numbers analysed 
A  total  of  106  patients  underwent  at  least  one  ACLSC  graft  and  were  included  in  this  study.  Of  these,  94 
underwent only one graft procedure, 11 underwent two grafts, and one underwent three procedures, for a total 
of 119 ACLSCT performed. One patient had ACLSCT in both the left and the right eye (3 years after the left eye). 
Source  data  of  6  grafts  were  not  available  at  the  investigator  sites  (5  first  transplantations  and  1  second 
transplantation), and therefore they were not included in the study. As a result, a total of 113 transplantation 
cases were evaluated in this study. Of the 113 transplantation cases with recorded data, 106 had a complete 
post-transplantation visit 6 (Day 360 or Month 12). 
All  113  cases  received  the  transplantation  and,  therefore,  were  included  in  the  safety  population  (including 
7 cases with available records of repeated transplantations, for a final number of 106 patients).  
A total of 104 patients were included in the ITT population, i.e. underwent the ACLSCT and had a control visit at 
least 6 months after transplantation.  
Five (5) patients in the ITT population had major protocol violations and were excluded from the PP population, 
which thus included 99 patients. Major protocol violations consisted of active ocular inflammation in 3 patients, 
tear secretion deficiency in 1 patient and visit 6 outside of the specific range in 1 patient. 
Outcomes and estimation 
•  Primary endpoint: Success of transplantation 
Using  a  zero  imputation  method  for  handling  missing  values,  treatment  success,  based  on  the  composite 
efficacy endpoint of reduction in CNV and epithelial defects, was reported in 75 patients (72.1%) and failures 
were reported in 29 patients (27.9%), with an overall 95% confidence interval (CI) for success of 62.5 - 80.5% 
and a p-value<0.001. A sensitivity analysis performed for the observed cases only (i.e. without missing cases, 
n=99) confirmed these results. Furthermore, when analysing only patients with LSCD due to ocular burns, a 
success rate of 74.5% was observed, which is consistent with the ITT population. For patients with repeated 
Holoclar treatment, 91.7% of cases had a successful clinical outcome. 
Assessment report  
Page 37/81 
  
  
 
 
Table 5 – Primary efficacy analysis: successful transplantation at 12 months 
post-intervention (ITT and PP population) 
Table 6 and Table 7 depict the outcome of the evaluation for corneal neovascularisation (CNV) and epithelial 
defects, respectively, at baseline and month 12.  
Table 6 – Superficial Corneal Neovascularisation at Baseline versus Month 12 (ITT) 
Corneal Neovascularisation 
Corneal Neovascularisation at Month 12 
at Baseline 
None 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
Missing 
Total 
Moderate 
15 (14.4%) 
33 (31.7%) 
5 (4.8%) 
1 (1.0%) 
4 (3.8%) 
58 (55.8%) 
Severe 
Missing 
Total 
3 (2.9%) 
25 (24.0%) 
9 (8.7%) 
7 (6.7%) 
1 (1.0%) 
45 (43.3%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
18 (17.3%)  58 (55.7%)  14 (13.5%)  8 (7.7%)  6 (5.8%)  104 (100%) 
Seventy-six (73.1%) of the 104 patients showed an improvement from moderate or severe CNV at baseline to 
mild or none CNV at month 12 post-transplantation, and thus fulfilled the definition of success for this 
component of the primary efficacy endpoint. 
Table 7 – Epithelial Defect at Baseline versus Month 12 (ITT) 
Epithelial Defect at 
Baseline 
None 
Trace 
Mild 
Severe 
Missing 
Total 
Epithelial Defect at Month 12 
None 
Trace 
Mild 
Severe 
Missing 
Total 
33 (31.7%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (1.0%) 
0 
0 
36 (34.6%) 
33 (31.7%) 
19 (18.3%) 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
3 (2.9%) 
57 (54.8%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
6 (5.8%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.0%) 
5 (4.8%) 
0 
0 
70 (67.3%) 
23 (22.1%)  3 (2.9%) 
3 (2.9%) 
5 (4.8%) 
104 (100%) 
In the majority of patients (n=87; 83.6%), epithelial defects had remained as “none” or “trace” at 12 month 
post transplantation. In 6 patients (5.8%) with mild epithelial defects (dense coalescent fluorescein staining 
Assessment report  
Page 38/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
<2 mm) or severe EDs (dense coalescent fluorescein staining >2 mm) at baseline, the condition had improved 
to “none” or “trace” at month 12.  
Sixteen (16) patients treated with Holoclar who had no or only trace epithelial defects at baseline developed 
severe epithelial defects in the weeks following ACLSCT. This post-ACLSCT deterioration of corneal epithelial 
integrity  was  detected  within  the  first  month  post  treatment,  i.e.  at  Visit  2  (Day  14)  in  75%  and  at  Visit  3 
(Day 25) in 25%, respectively. In all but one case, the epithelial defects had resolved by one year post-ACLSCT. 
The  occurrence  of  early  severe  corneal  epithelial  defects  was  usually  associated  with  treatment  failure.  In 
9 (56.3%) of the 16 cases, the outcome of ACLSCT was deemed a failure at the Month 12 efficacy endpoint 
assessment, and in 6 (37.5%) of the 16 patients, the outcome was judged successful, with information lacking 
for 1 case (6.25%).  
•  Secondary endpoints: 
Symptoms  
The number of patients with ocular symptoms significantly (p<0.001) decreased from the pre-surgical visit (40 
patients; 38.5%) to the endpoint visit at 12 months post transplantation (12 patients; 11.5%). 
Table 8 – Ocular Symptoms: Pain, Burning, Photophobia at Baseline and Month 12 (ITT) 
Visit 6 (Month 12) 
No1) 
Yes2) 
Missing 
Pre-surgical visit 
52 (50.0%) 
30 (28.8%) 
3 (2.88%) 
4 (3.85%) 
5 (4.81%) 
8 (7.69%) 
2 (1.92%) 
0 (0%) 
0 (0%) 
Total 
85 (81.7%) 
12 (11.5%) 
7 (6.73%) 
No1) 
Yes2) 
Missing 
Total 
61 (58.7%) 
40 (38.5%) 
3 (2.88%) 
104 (100.0%) 
1): No symptoms (all 3 categories) 
2): Mild, moderate or severe symptoms in at least one category (pain, burning, or photophobia)  
Improvements  were  observed  with  respect  to  reductions  in  the  intensity  of  ocular  pain,  burning,  and 
photophobia. There were no reports of moderate or severe ocular pain at baseline. There were no reports of 
ocular pain after Holoclar transplantation.  
Table 9 – Ocular Symptoms by Severity (ITT) 
Pain 
Burning 
Photophobia 
Assessment report  
No 
Mild 
Moderate 
Missing information 
No 
Mild 
Moderate 
Missing information 
No 
Mild 
Moderate 
Pre-surgical visit 
Visit 6 (month 12) 
94 (90.4%) 
97 (93.3%) 
7 (6.7%) 
0 (0%) 
3 (2.9%) 
71 (68.3%) 
19 (18.3%) 
11 (10.6%) 
3 (2.9%) 
66 (63.5%) 
20 (19.2%) 
14 (13.5%) 
- 
- 
7 (6.7%) 
89 (85.6%) 
7 (6.7%) 
- 
8 (7.7%) 
89 (85.6%) 
8 (7.7%) 
- 
Page 39/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-surgical visit 
Visit 6 (month 12) 
Severe 
Missing information 
1 (< 1%) 
3 (2.9%) 
- 
7 (6.7%) 
Inflammation  
The number of patients with inflammation did not change from the pre-surgical visit (32 patients; 30.8%) to the 
endpoint visit at 12 months post-treatment (33 patients; 31.7%) (p=0.732).  
Two weeks after Holoclar transplantation, 3 patients without limbal hyperaemia at baseline showed moderate 
(n=2) or severe (n=1) limbal hyperaemia. The number increased to 4 patients with moderate and 1 patient with 
severe limbal hyperaemia 1 month post-transplantation.  
In addition, 2 weeks after Holoclar transplantation, 6 patients without bulbar hyperaemia at baseline showed 
moderate (n=5) or severe (n=1) bulbar hyperaemia. One month post-transplantation, 4 patients had moderate, 
and 1 patient had severe bulbar hyperaemia, respectively.  
The condition improved in all patients to no or only mild hyperaemia from Month 3 onwards.  
Superficial corneal neovascularisation (CNV) based on photographic evidence evaluated by an independent 
assessor  
Photographs  from  before  and/or  after  treatment  were  available  for  91  patients.  The  proportion  of  patients 
presenting any degree of superficial CNV decreased significantly (p<0.001) from baseline (93.8%; 95% CI: 
88.6-99.1%) to 12 months after treatment (63.9%; 95% CI: 52.8-75.0%). 
When testing the agreement between Investigator’s evaluation and assessor’s evaluation of photos regarding 
the grade of neovascularisation at the pre-surgical visit and at visit 6, several discrepancies between the clinical 
and  photographic  assessment  were  noted.  At  the  endpoint  visit,  the  Cohen’s  kappa  coefficient  was 
representative  of  a  moderate  agreement  between  the  investigator’s  evaluation  and  assessor’s  evaluation  of 
photographs  regarding  the  grade  of  neovascularization  (0.639;  95% CI:  0.497-0.781)  across  the  four  point 
scale for neovascularization. However, a sensitivity analysis for the composite primary endpoint performed in 
46 patients with both baseline and month 12 photographic assessment showed a good consistency between the 
two  assessments:  Following  photographic  assessment,  31 out  of  the  46  cases  (67.4%)  were  considered  a 
treatment success compared to 75 patients out of 104 (72.1%) in the overall ITT population, resulting in a 
difference of approximately 5% for the point estimate. 
Visual activity (VA) 
An improvement of visual acuity was noted in 51 (49%) of the 104 patients. The proportion of patients with VA 
improvement was higher among those without stromal scarring (15 out of 18 patients, 83.3%) compared to 
those with stromal scarring (36 out of 81 patients, 44.4%).  
Assessment report  
Page 40/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 10 – Proportion of Patients with an Improvement of at least 1 Line in VA (ITT) 
Upon request of the CAT/CHMP, additional analyses for the change in VA were provided:  
•  Patients with off-chart vision at baseline (irrespective of deep stromal scarring) 
A total of 92 patients out of 99 with baseline data (92.9%) had a pre-treatment VA below the limit measurable 
at the Snellen chart (off-chart). Of these, 47 improved after treatment according to the definition used in the 
secondary  study  endpoint,  corresponding  to  51.1%  of  all  cases  with  not-measurable  VA  (including  missing 
values). Moreover, 17 patients (16.4% including missing values) experienced a gain in vision sufficiently large 
to reach on-chart vision. 
•  Change of VA from baseline to month 12 
To better quantify the relative change in VA from baseline to Visit 6 (month 12), the number of lines of VA 
improvement on the Snellen chart was calculated. In order to quantify the VA of patients with non-measurable 
VA, their categorical value was transformed in LogMAR values (Finger Count = 1.9, Hand Movement = 2.3, and 
Light Perception = 2.7). A large proportion of patients experienced a VA improvement after treatment and in 
40 patients (38.5% including missing values) this improvement was more than 3 line equivalents. 
• 
Impact of keratoplasty on VA outcome 
A total of 5 patients had keratoplasty prior to the 12 months endpoint of the study. Of the 99 patients without 
cornea transplantation by month 12, 15 patients experienced a vision improvement from off-chart to on-chart 
vision (15.5% including missing values), which is in line with the findings in the ITT population.  
Furthermore,  in  the  group  of  56  patients  with  at  least  one  keratoplasty  after  the  one-year  follow-up  visit, 
32 patients (57.1% including missing values) had at least one line improvement in VA after the first keratoplasty 
while  18  patients  did  not  improve  (14  were  stable  and  only  4  had  a  worsening  in  VA).  Changes  of  3 
lines/categories or more were observed in 21 cases (corresponding to 65.6% of improvers and 37.5% of the 
overall group including missing values). In 6 patients, there was not sufficient data to assess change in VA.  
Number of previous limbal stem cell transplantations  
Of the 104 patients in the ITT population, 14 (13.5%) patients had one prior limbal cell transplantation and 
2 (1.9%) patients had 2 previous limbal cell transplantation. 
Assessment report  
Page 41/81 
  
  
 
 
 
Number of successful keratoplasties after limbal stem cell transplantation 
Overall,  57  patients  underwent  keratoplasty  subsequent  to  Holoclar  graft.  Successful  keratoplasty  following 
Holoclar treatment was achieved in 24 patients (42.1%). In 13 (50%) of 26 patients, who had at least one 
previously failed keratoplasty, cornea transplantation subsequent to Holoclar transplantation was successful.  
Table 11 – Proportion of Patients with Successful Keratoplasty after Holoclar treatment 
(ITT) 
Additional analyses were provided for the outcome of keratoplasty stratified by initial success of the ACLSCT 
(see Table 12). 
Table 12 - Clinical Outcome of the First Keratoplasty Stratified by Initial Success of the 
ACLSCT Procedure 
Assessment report  
Page 42/81 
  
  
 
 
 
Evaluation of impression cytology 
Relevant results are presented in section 2.4.  of this report. 
Ancillary analyses 
Time since burn injury 
Of the 101 patients with LSCD due to ocular burns, a total of 87 patients received Holoclar treatment ≥ 5 years 
after the injury occurred, while 14 patients had the injury within less than 5 years prior to ACLSCT. Upon request 
of the CHMP/CAT, the applicant analysed treatment success by time elapsed since burn injury. The results of this 
analysis  showed  a  transplantation  success  rate  of  75%  or  more  in  all  patient  groups  that  had  the  injury 
≥ 5 years before Holoclar transplantation (5-10 years, 10-20 years, 20-30 years and > 30 years) and 50% in 
patients who had the ACLSCT less than 5 years prior to Holoclar treatment. 
Follow-up and long-term efficacy 
Patients in study HLSTM01 were followed for up to 10 years. Most treatment cases were followed for 1 to 2 years 
(28.3 %) and 2 to 3 years (22.1%), respectively. Fourteen treatments (12.5%) were followed for 5 years or 
more.  
The follow-up time post transplantation was on average 3.6 years (median: 3.0 years), ranging from 1.4 to 9.9 
years. Data  were provided for the time points 2 and 3 years after Holoclar transplantation, and for the last 
available follow-up visit. At each of these time points, the transplantation success rate according to the primary 
endpoint was around 60-70% [37 of 60 patients (68.5%) with a visit at year 2; 22 of 41 patients (71.0%) with 
a visit at year 3; 46 of 89 patients (66.7%) at respective last available follow-up]. 
Treatment  success,  starting  from  year  1  post-transplantation,  reached  a  plateau  of  75%  until  year  5.  After 
year 5,  only  5  patients  had  long  term  follow-up,  of  which  4  were  reported  as  continued  treatment  success. 
However,  several  patients  underwent  subsequent  keratoplasty  within  the  time  period  of  2  or  3  years  after 
Holoclar transplantation.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
Due to the low number of paediatric patients and older patients, data are presented for both HLSTM01 and 02 
(see section 2.5.2.2. ). 
Assessment report  
Page 43/81 
  
  
 
Summary of main study(ies) 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk 
assessment (see later sections). 
Table 13 – Summary of efficacy for trial HLSTM01 
Title: Retrospective evaluation of the efficacy and safety of autologous cultivated limbal 
stem cells transplantation for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with limbal stem 
cell deficiency due to ocular burns 
Study identifier 
HLSTM01 
Design 
Retrospective, non-randomised, uncontrolled, case series-based observational 
study  
Hypothesis 
Treatments group 
12 months 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Exploratory: Proportion of patients with successful transplantation is at least 
50% (H0: π≤50%) 
Holoclar 
ACLSCT with Holoclar, 106 patients  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
ACLSCT 
success 
Secondary 
endpoint 1 
Secondary 
endpoint 2 
Symptoms 
Inflammation 
Secondary 
endpoint 3 
VA 
improvement 
Secondary 
endpoint 4 
Keratoplasty 
success 
Composite endpoint: Presence of a stable 
corneal epithelium without significant 
recurrence of superficial corneal 
neovascularisation, defined as no or only trace 
epithelial defects AND no or only mild 
superficial corneal neovascularisation, at 12 
months after Holoclar transplantation.   
Presence/degree of ocular symptoms  
(pain, burning, photophobia) at 12 months 
after Holoclar transplantation. 
Presence/degree of inflammation (limbal and 
bulbar conjunctival hyperaemia) at 12 months 
after Holoclar transplantation. 
Improvement of visual acuity (VA) by at least 
one line read without mistakes on the Snellen 
chart (or change of category in case of 
off-chart vision) at 12 months after Holoclar 
transplantation. 
Number of successful keratoplasties following 
ACLSCT, at 6 months after cornea 
transplantation. 
Database lock 
06/08/2010 (Study data were collected over the period of 1998 – 2010) 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
Intent to treat (ITT): 104 patients 
Primary endpoint and secondary endpoints 1-3: 12 months after ACLSCT 
Secondary endpoint 4: 6 months after keratoplasty 
Treatment group 
Holoclar  
p-value (month 12 
versus baseline) 
Assessment report  
Page 44/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
variability 
Number of subject 
Primary endpoint: ACLSCT 
success 
(rate %)  
95% exact CI  
Secondary endpoint 1: number of 
patients with symptoms at 
month 12 vs. baseline 
(percentage) 
Secondary endpoint 2: number of 
patients with inflammation at 
month 12 vs. baseline 
(percentage) 
Secondary endpoint 3: Number of 
patients with VA improvement 
(rate %) 
Secondary endpoint 4: Number of 
patients with successful 
keratoplasty out of all patients 
with keratoplasty (percentage) 
104 
75 (72.1% ) 
n/a 
62.5 – 80.5% 
12 (11.5%) vs. 40 
(38.5%) 
n/a 
p<0.001 
33 (31.7%) vs. 32 
(30.8%) 
p=0.732 
51 (49.0%) 
24 out of 57 
(42.1%) 
n/a 
n/a 
2.5.2.2.  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Paediatrics 
Five (5) paediatric patients were included in the two retrospective studies (n=3 in HLSTM01 and n=2 in 
HLSTM02, see section 2.5.2.3. ) and all were boys. Four of the 5 boys were older than 12 years, and one was 
8 years of age. In all 5 cases, LSCD was due to chemical or physical burns. In two children, the ACLSCT outcome 
was successful and accompanied by improvement in visual acuity and/or clinical symptoms (when present at 
baseline), while 3 paediatric patients (including the youngest 8-year-old boy) with severe corneal 
neovascularisation were considered as treatment failures.  
Elderly 
A total of 7 patients (6.7% of the ITT study population) with an age at baseline of > 65 years were included in 
the HLSTM01 study. For 5 (71%) of the 7 elderly patients, treatment with Holoclar was recorded as successful, 
whereas information was missing in the remaining 2 cases. Seven additional patients (24.1%) within this age 
range were included in HLSTM02 (see section 2.5.2.3. ). Treatment success was reported in 5 cases, failure in 
1 case, and information was missing for the remaining case. Although limited in terms of subject numbers, data 
from both studies show a success rate similar to that observed overall in treated patients. 
2.5.2.3.  Supportive study(ies) 
2.5.2.3.1.  Study HLSTM02 
Title: Retrospective evaluation of the safety of autologous cultivated limbal stem cells 
transplantation for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with limbal stem cell deficiency 
Methods 
Assessment report  
Page 45/81 
  
  
 
 
 
At the 7 sites included in HLSTM02, Holoclar transplantation was performed according to the same surgical 
protocol as used in the centres of HLSTM01. Therefore, the methods described for study HLSTM01 largely also 
apply to study HLSTM02 unless stated otherwise.  
Investigators in HLSTM02 followed local clinical practices for post-treatment patient management and follow-up. 
Study Participants  
Patients who refused to give their consent could not be enrolled. Patients enrolled in this trial had to be (i) Males 
or females (all ages) and (ii) have been transplanted with ex vivo expanded autologous limbal stem cells. 
Treatments 
No post-transplantation visit schedule was defined in the protocol due to the retrospective nature of the study 
and the heterogeneity distribution of the visits across participating centres. Furthermore, systemic and topical 
pharmacological treatment was applied according to the respective local practice in the clinical facility.  
Objectives 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the safety of the ACLSC transplantation both in terms of 
number of subjects that experienced adverse events (AEs) and of number of AEs. 
The secondary objectives of the present study were: 
•  To evaluate the outcome of the ACLSC transplantation in terms of success or failure; 
•  To evaluate the number of ACLSC transplantations performed in each patient; 
•  To evaluate the number of successful keratoplasties after ACLSC transplantation; 
•  To evaluate the relative content of corneal and conjunctival epithelial cells by impression cytology. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoints of the study were (i) the number of subjects experiencing adverse events (AEs) 
and (ii) the number of AEs. 
Secondary endpoints: 
•  Rate of ACLSC transplantation outcome recorded as “success” or “failure”, based on investigator’s 
judgement.  
The following definitions applied: Success: if no investigator judgement of transplantation outcome was 
reported as “failure” in any post transplantation visit at least 6 months after ACLSC transplantation; 
Failure: if at least one investigator judgement of transplantation outcome was reported as “failure” in 
any post transplantation visit at least 6 months after ACLSC transplantation; Missing: if no judgement 
was expressed in the source document at any visit occurred at least six months after transplantation. 
•  Number of ACLSC transplantations in each patient. 
•  Number of successful keratoplasties after ACLSC transplantation. The success/failure of a 
post-transplantation keratoplasty was defined based on the ACLSC transplantation outcome determined 
in the first available visit occurred ≥ 6 months after the keratoplasty. 
Assessment report  
Page 46/81 
  
  
 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was uncontrolled and no blinding was applied.  
Statistical methods 
The safety population included all patients who underwent the limbal biopsy collection. The demography, 
secondary efficacy and safety analysis were performed on the safety population.  
Secondary efficacy data were analysed as observed, without replacement for missing values. 
Results 
Recruitment and numbers analysed 
The applicant traced all centres in Italy where the product had been used and contacted the investigators to 
formally request the clinical data for inclusion in the retrospective studies. Data for 106 of these patients treated 
in two centres in Rome and Milan had already been included in the pivotal study HLSTM01. Of the remaining 19 
centres, only 7 agreed to participate in study HLSTM02 and to release patient data. From these 7 centres, data 
of all patients (31) receiving a Holoclar transplant up to 2007 were available including follow-up data until 2010. 
Data of the remaining 82 patients treated in the 12 centres refusing participation were not directly available to 
the applicant. However, two of the centres had published part of their data (see section 2.5.2.4. ). 
A total of 31 patients attended a pre-surgical visit. For 2 patients documentation of the biopsy and ACLSCT was 
missing and as a result 29 patients were included in the safety analysis. 
Baseline data 
The mean age was 45.8 ± 17.4 years (range 13.7-79.1). The study population included 22 males (75.9%) and 
7 females (22.1%). See Table 2 for an overview of the demographic profile of study HLMST02. Data regarding 
the particular ethnicity of patients were not collected. Patients were assumed to be Caucasian of Italian descent. 
The majority of patients (23, 79.3%) had a diagnosis of LSCD due to chemical or physical ocular burns which is 
the claimed target indication for Holoclar, while 6 patients were treated for LSCD due to one or more of the 
following reasons: contact lens-associated damage (1), ocular infections (3), radiation (1) toxic pathology 
associated with medical drugs (1), post-surgery iatrogenic pathology (2), or other (2). 
Deep stromal vascularisation was involved in 69.0% of the patients in study HLSTM02, and 75% of the patients 
had a severe loss in visual acuity (see also Table 3). A total of 75.9% of patients showed moderate (34.5%) or 
severe (41.4%) superficial CNV at baseline and 93% had corneal opacity.  Superficial CNV was absent or only 
mild in 6.95% and 17.2%, respectively. About one third of patients had no epithelial defects at baseline.  
The time span from burn injury to Holoclar treatment ranged from 10 months to 50 years (mean 14.1 years, see 
Table 4). 
Seventeen patients (58.6%) underwent at least one surgical procedure before inclusion. Keratoplasty 
(10 patients, 34.5%) and corneal operations (8 patients, 27.6%) were the most common surgical and medical 
procedures. All 29 patients had previous and/or concomitant medications. Sensory organs drugs were the most 
common previous medication (11 patients, 37.9%), with netilmicin as the most common active drug (6 patients, 
20.7%). 
Assessment report  
Page 47/81 
  
  
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Success of transplantation 
Success according to the subjective, overall clinical judgment of the investigator, was reported in 19 out of 
29 patients (65.5%) and failure in 6 patients (20.7%). Information was missing in 4 cases (13.8%). The 95% 
exact CI for the proportion of patients with successful transplantation was 48.2 to 82.8%. Analysis of patients 
with LSCD due to ocular burns only confirmed the results in the overall population. 
Number of previous limbal stem cell transplantations  
Only one patient (3.45%) had undergone an ACSLC transplantation before inclusion in the study. 
Number of successfull keratoplasties after limbal stem cell transplantation 
Six  patients  underwent  one  or  more  keratoplasty  interventions  after  ACLSC  transplantation.  In  4  of  them 
(66.7%) the intervention was successful in at least one attempt. Of the six patients, three had a history of one 
or more failed attempts before ACLSC graft; successful post-transplantation keratoplasty was reported in all 3 
cases.  
Evaluation of impression cytology 
Relevant results are presented in section 2.4.  of this report. 
Follow-up and long-term efficacy 
Long term efficacy data (>6 months) up to 8 years were available for 28 patients in study HLSTM02. Most of the 
subjects were followed for at least 1 year (24 patients, 82.8% of cases), with 5 patients (17.2%) followed for 
5 years or more. 
Of  the  patients  with  data  at  the  time  points  2  years  (14  patients)  and  3  years  (9  patients)  after  Holoclar 
transplantation, and for the last available follow-up visit (29 patients, mean time of observation 34.3±26.2), 
10 (71.4%), 5 (55.6%) and 21 (77.8%) were reported with a treatment success.  
2.5.2.3.2.  Study HLSTM04 
Title: Retrospective evaluation of the safety and efficacy of Autologous Cultivated Limbal Stem Cells 
Transplantation for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with Limbal Stem Cell Deficiency 
due to ocular burn. 
In  response  to  a  request  by  the  CHMP/CAT,  the  applicant  presented  the  results  of  an  ad-hoc  retrospective, 
observational clinical study including all patients who underwent ACLSCT after the period covered by studies 
HLSTM01 and HLSTM02. From 2008 (end of collection period for the previous HLSTM01 and HLSTM02 studies) 
to  2013,  15 patients  started  Holoclar  treatment  procedure  (i.e.  underwent  biopsy)  at  3  Italian  sites  and 
consented to the retrospective data collection. These centres accounted for 100% of the patients treated with 
Holoclar since 2008 in Italy and data were collected for all the patients treated. 
All patients were diagnosed with moderate to severe LSCD due to chemical or physical ocular burn. Diagnosis 
and severity grading of LSCD were based on clinical criteria as in study HLSTM01. 
Data for all available visits after Holoclar application were collected, with evaluation of efficacy mainly at two 
time points: i) 3 months after ACLSCT and ii) last available follow-up visit. The clinical outcome was assessed 
using the  same  composite  endpoint of  superficial  CNV  and  corneal  epithelium  integrity  as  in  HLSTM01.  The 
Assessment report  
Page 48/81 
  
  
 
definition of treatment success/failure as well as data collection particulars were modelled on study HLSTM01. 
Assessment of the presence/severity of inflammation and visual acuity was also aligned with study HLSTM01. 
Results 
Three-month data was available for all 15 patients including 14 males and 1 female (mean age: 46.5 years; 
range: 21-79 years). Follow-up duration and schedule varied by centre (median follow-up: 7.2 months; range: 
3-26 months).  
Twelve (80%) and 3 (20%) of the 15 patients included in study HLSTM04 were considered to have severe and 
moderate CNV at baseline, respectively. Most patient (13) had involvement of the central cornea and all but one 
of the patients had stromal scarring (deep corneal opacity). 
ACLSCT resulted in a positive clinical outcome in 9 (60%) of the 15 patients at month 3 post-transplantation. 
The  results  were  confirmed  when  using  the  last  post-transplantation  visit  as  endpoint.  Superficial  corneal 
neovascularization showed an improvement in 67% of the patients presenting either without CNV or with only 
1 quadrant involved at both post-transplantation visits. In particular, 40% of patients had no vessel penetration 
at  month  3  and  thereafter.  With  regard  to  corneal  epithelium  integrity,  the  proportion  of  patients  without 
epithelial defects increased from 40% (6) at the pre-surgical visit to 60% (9) at month 3, with a further increase 
to  73%  (11)  at  the  last  visit  post  transplantation.  Moreover,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  trace  defects 
decreased from 47% (7) to 20% (3) at month 3 and 13% (2) at the last visit post transplantation, respectively.  
Mild or moderate limbal hyperaemia was reported in 2 cases (13%) at the last visit post transplantation. These 
patients experienced blepharitis in conjunction with the inflammation. 
Visual acuity (VA) had improved in 40% (natural vision) and 33% (best corrected VA) of patients with stromal 
scarring  at  month  3  post  transplantation.  This  improvement  was  maintained  at  the  last  visit  post 
transplantation.  
2.5.2.4.  Literature 
Two publications were identified (Rama et al., Transplantations 2001 and Marchini et al., Clin Exper Ophthalmol 
2011) reporting on 28 patients treated at clinical sites in Venice and Verona, which did not participate in the 
Holoclar studies. 
Rama et al. (Transplantation 2001; 72: 1478-85) 
This publication reports the results of ACLSCT in 18 patients (mean age 48 ±12 years) with moderate or severe 
LSCD secondary to chemical burns. Twelve of the 18 patients were transplanted in Venice and were not included 
in  the  retrospective  studies.  The  remaining  6  patients  were  treated  at  the  site  in  Rome  included  in  study 
HLSTM01.  ACLSCT  was  successful  in  14  (77%)  of  the  18  patients  with  improvement  of  symptoms  and 
establishment of a transparent and stable corneal epithelium. Visual acuity was not significantly improved at 
1 year follow-up compared to the baseline value, mainly because of corneal stromal damage. In the subset of 
12 patients  transplanted  in  Venice  (and  excluded  from  the  HLSTM02  study),  ACLSCT  was  successful  in 
10 patients (83.3%). 
Marchini et al. (Clin Exper Ophthalmol 2011; 40: 255-267)  
This article reports results of a prospective, non-comparative, interventional case series including 16 patients 
(median age 47.5 years) suffering from LSCD due to chemical burn. Thirteen patients were from the Verona site. 
The other 3 patients were transplanted at the same site by the same investigator but could not be traced by the 
Assessment report  
Page 49/81 
  
  
 
applicant  due  to  a  change  in  the  location  of  the  manufacturing  site.  The  clinical  outcome  after  12  months 
follow-up was successful in 10 patients (62.6%). Ocular pain and photophobia resolved in all patients with a 
successful or partially successful outcome. Visual acuity improved in 4 patients (25.0%) before keratoplasty. 
Three patients received 2 limbal stem cell transplants onto the same eye with partially successful outcome in 
both patients.  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
To support the claim for efficacy of Holoclar in the intended indication of moderate to severe limbal stem cell 
deficiency (LSCD) due to ocular burns, the applicant submitted the results of two retrospective, uncontrolled and 
non-randomised  studies,  HLSTM01  and  HLSTM02,  involving  a  total  of  133  patients  and  142  transplantation 
events  (including  re-transplantations)  at  several  centres  in  Italy  during  the  period  from  1998  to  2007.  The 
efficacy evaluation relied primarily on the outcome of study HLSTM01. In comparison to HLSTM01, HLSTM02 
patients were more heterogeneous with respect to the underlying cause of LSCD, post-transplantation patient 
care and follow-up. Therefore, efficacy data from HLSTM02 were only considered supportive. In the course of 
the review of this application, additional supportive data were presented in a separate retrospective analysis 
(HLSTM04) covering all patients (15) treated from 2008 to 2013. Supportive data were furthermore available 
from publications in the scientific literature including in particular Rama et al., 2001 and Marchini et al., 2011.  
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
No dose-response studies have been conducted. This was considered acceptable by the CAT since the size of the 
graft is being measured by the size of the patient’s cornea and in light of the set specifications of the drug 
product regarding cell density and potency. These specifications were defined based on an analysis of clinical 
outcomes for product batches in study HLSTM01. However, the CAT noted that the minimum required proportion 
of LSC was rather low according to the specifications (0.4% to 10%). Therefore, future prospective data 
collection should further investigate the impact on efficacy of the amount of LSC in the final drug product. 
Considering the low incidence of the condition, the sample size of the retrospective analyses was considered 
adequate by the CAT. The CAT furthermore acknowledged that the available clinical experience arising from the 
use of Holoclar since 1998 was considerable and that the retrospective analyses provided valuable support for 
this application. However, retrospective studies rely on the completeness and accuracy of the available data and 
are prone to bias threatening the validity of the results. In particular, as only a subset of all patients treated with 
Holoclar during the observation period (133 out of 219) was involved in the analyses, it could not be excluded 
that bias were introduced due to patient selection. However, the incomplete dataset was explained by the lack 
of willingness of several clinical centres to participate in the studies and their refusal to release patient data. It 
is noteworthy that for all sites included in the Holoclar studies, data of all patients treated at each site was 
available, thereby eliminating concerns of patient selection at centre level. In this context, the definition of the 
ITT population in study HLSTM01, leading to exclusion of 2 patients from the efficacy analysis, was not agreed 
by the CAT, as all patients who received a transplant should have been included. Nevertheless, a sensitivity 
analysis confirmed that the impact of exclusion of the 2 patients on the primary endpoint was negligible. 
Additional reassurance on the validity of the data was also provided by two publications (Rama et al., 2001 and 
Marchini et al., 2011) reporting efficacy outcomes consistent with the results of HLSTM01 and HLSTM02 for 
28 patients treated at clinical sites not included in the Holoclar studies. Finally, the quality, integrity, and 
reliability of the data collection was verified in GCP inspections at selected study sites. The two centres involved 
in the pivotal study HLSTM01 applied a standard protocol for pre-treatment assessments, Holoclar treatment 
Assessment report  
Page 50/81 
  
  
 
and subsequent patient management, resulting in a harmonised dataset with a relatively low number of missing 
values suitable for research purposes. 
The fact that the studies were uncontrolled and not randomised further added to the uncertainties of the validity 
of the dataset, but was considered inevitable due to the lack of a suitable comparator considering that there is 
neither an approved treatment for LSCD nor an ubiquitous accepted standard of care. Since this condition would 
not heal spontaneously, the single arm, un-controlled design was considered acceptable by the CAT. The CAT 
furthermore noted that efforts have been made towards a more independent evaluation of the study outcome by 
performing a review in a blinded fashion using photographic evidence of neovascularisation. 
The main inclusion criterion for study HLSTM01 was moderate or severe LSCD (uni- or bilateral), secondary to 
ocular burns which is in line with the claimed indication for Holoclar treatment. Diagnosis of LSCD was based on 
medical history, i.e. ocular burns, as well as the main clinical signs, corneal neovascularisation and opacity, and 
the impairment in visual acuity. The severity of the ocular condition was graded based upon the clinically 
assessed degree of superficial corneal neovascularisation. Overall, the diagnostic and inclusion criteria were 
considered by the CAT to be adequate to define a patient population representative for the claimed indication. 
The CAT considered that all the diagnostic criteria for disease severity should be reflected in the indication, 
including central corneal involvement, and severely impaired visual acuity, which was not reflected in the initial 
proposal by the applicant. The indication was updated accordingly. 
To evaluate the effect of Holoclar treatment, a composite primary efficacy endpoint was used, consisting of two 
components, corneal epithelial integrity and absence of significant corneal neovascularisation. With regard to 
the first component, the CAT noted that the majority of the patients showed no or only trace epithelial defects 
at baseline and thus presented already pre-transplantation with a finding in accordance with a successful 
treatment outcome. However, considering that LSCD is a condition with impaired ability to maintain/restore an 
intact corneal epithelium, maintenance of no or only trace epithelial defects over the follow-up period was 
considered of clinical relevance. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The assessment of efficacy of Holoclar relied mainly on the outcome of study HLSTM01. Supportive data from 
HLSTM02, HLSTM04 and the scientific literature showed an efficacy of Holoclar of similar magnitude as that 
observed in the pivotal study HLSTM01. 
With regard to the composite primary efficacy endpoint in HLSTM01, 72.1% (75/104) of the patients had a 
successful ACLSCT 12 months post- transplantation. The success rate was significantly higher than the 
pre-defined minimum effect of 50%. Available long-term follow up data up to 10 years after ACLSCT, though 
limited, supported persistence of treatment success beyond 12 months. Additional long-term efficacy data will 
be collected in the margins of a post-authorisation safety study to confirm this outcome. The CAT furthermore 
noted that the time span from burn injury to Holoclar treatment was very wide, ranging from a few months to 
more than seven decades. This means that the study population included patients in different phases of the 
natural history of the disease, which may have had an impact on the treatment response. Exploratory analyses 
of the impact of time to burn injury, however, suggested that once the clinical situation is stabilised, the 
outcome of Holoclar treatment is largely independent from the time elapsed since injury. Therefore, sufficient 
time should be allowed for the eye to reach steady-state and treatment is not recommended in the immediate 
post-burn phase (i.e. in acute or sub-acute phase).  
Overall, 73.1% (76/104) of the patients showed an improvement of superficial corneal vascularisation from 
moderate or severe at baseline to mild or none. Evaluation based on photographic assessment showed 
acceptable consistency with the investigators’ assessments.  
Assessment report  
Page 51/81 
  
  
 
Maintenance of an epithelial condition or improvement of an epithelial defect to no or only trace defects was 
observed in 89.4% of the patients [36/104 patients (34.6%) with no defects and 45/104 (54.8%) with trace 
defects]. Impression cytology performed in a subset of patients provided supporting evidence that Holoclar 
grafting enables corneal type epithelialisation (see section 2.4.3. ). Occurrence of epithelial defects shortly after 
ACLSCT was observed in some patients and was considered a variable and highly individual phenomenon. From 
a pathophysiological perspective, it can be associated with the inflammation and temporary injury induced by 
the surgical procedure. In most of the cases, these epithelial defects reverted later, but the presence of early 
instability of the epithelium appeared to be associated with a greater probability of treatment failure.  
No improvement with regards to the proportion of patients with inflammation was observed. While patients with 
active ocular inflammation were excluded from study participation, 29 patients presented with a mild form of 
inflammation at baseline and the vast majority of these showed an improvement of superficial corneal 
neovascularization at 12 months post-transplantation. However, some patients without signs of inflammation at 
baseline developed clinically significant hyperaemia during the period of 2 weeks to 1 month after surgery, 
which coincided with the switch from systemic to topical corticosteroid treatment. Despite the fact that 
inflammation improved later on, 4 of the 5 patients who developed early significant limbal hyperaemia were 
treatment failures. While active, uncontrolled inflammation is generally considered a negative prognostic factor 
for the success of Holoclar treatment due to its detrimental effect on the engraftment of limbal stem cells at the 
corneal surface, a mild degree of inflammation has not been associated with a compromised clinical outcome 
and local inflammatory pathways are in fact believed to be required for the healing process. Considering that, 
besides the intended anti-inflammatory and anti-scarring effect, topical application of corticosteroids has also 
been shown to delay corneal epithelial and stromal healing, the challenge may lie in achieving adequate control 
of local inflammation, but avoiding potential interference with the re-epithelialisation process. 
The proportion of patients with ocular symptoms of pain, burning, or photophobia decreased significantly from 
38.5% (40/104) at baseline to 11.5% (12/104) 12 months post-treatment. Specific improvements were also 
noted with respect to reductions in intensity of the symptoms. 
Improvement  of  visual  acuity  was  noted  in  49%  (51/104)  of  the  patients,  with  a  higher  proportion  among 
patients  without  deep  stromal  scarring  (83.3%,  15/18)  compared  to  those  with  stromal  scarring  (44.4%, 
36/81). Post-hoc analyses showed that in a large proportion of the patients (38.5%, 40/104) vision improved to 
an equivalent of 3 lines on the vision chart. Furthermore, more than 50% (47/92) of patient with off-chart vision 
at baseline improved to on-chart vision after Holoclar treatment. 
Overall, the CAT considered that it was important to differentiate between two patients groups, patients with 
and without stromal scarring as a result of the ocular burn injury. To achieve vision improvement in the first 
group of patients, limbal stem cell transplantation has to be combined with subsequent keratoplasty, whereby 
the  success  of  the  limbal  stem  cell  transplantation  provides  the  foundation  for  the  subsequent  cornea 
transplantation, reduces the risk of corneal graft rejection and enhances the chance of survival of the corneal 
graft which contains progenitor cells that have only limited longevity and regenerative capacity. A beneficial 
effect of Holoclar in this sub-population was demonstrated by the finding of successful keratoplasties in 42.1% 
(24/57) of patients who had at least one keratoplasty after ACLSCT. Furthermore, keratoplasty after Holoclar 
succeeded in half of all patients who had a failed corneal transplantation prior to ACLSCT. Subgroup analyses 
showed that a successful ACLSCT outcome was associated with a higher probability of a successful keratoplasty. 
Furthermore, 57% (32/56) of patients with keratoplasty after one year following Holoclar treatment, had at 
least one line improvement in visual acuity after the first post-Holoclar corneal transplant and clinically relevant 
changes equivalent to 3 lines or more on a vision chart were observed in 37.5% (21/56) of the patients. 
Assessment report  
Page 52/81 
  
  
 
In patients with moderate LSCD severity and no stromal damage, the main objective of treatment would be 
improvement in symptoms, as a small improvement in corneal neovascularisation (e.g. from moderate to mild) 
alone was considered to be of limited clinical relevance. Most of the patients showed a stable clinical picture at 
baseline,  and  only  a  limited  number  had  ocular  symptoms  (pain,  photophobia,  burning,  bulbar,  or  limbal 
hyperaemia).  Treatment  with  Holoclar  maintained  the  stable  clinical  picture  or  resulted  in  an  improvement 
and/or resolution of manifestations, when present. The response appeared similar in the patient groups with 
moderate and severe CNV at baseline. 
Only few paediatric patients (5) and patients >65 years (14) were included in the retrospective analyses of 
HLSTM01 and HLSTM02. Available data were considered insufficient to draw final conclusions for the paediatric 
and  elderly  populations.  However,  at  least  in  the  elderly,  despite  limited  subject  numbers,  data  from  both 
studies showed a success rate similar to that observed in the overall population. Overall, the CAT considered 
that the adult population was a suitable target population and agreed that the indication should be restricted to 
adults. A specific commitment to acquire additional safety data in five patients between 3 and 17 years of age 
has been agreed in the approved Paediatric Investigation Plan. 
Additional efficacy data needed in the context of a conditional MA  
The evaluation of efficacy of Holoclar is based on retrospective analyses of a comparably large set of data given 
the rarity of the disease. Despite the disadvantages of such study design, overall, the data were considered by 
the CAT of sufficient quality to support establishment of a beneficial treatment effect, thereby enabling early 
availability to patients. Such early availability was considered by the CAT to be in the interest of public health 
given  that  LSCD  is  a  serious  debilitating  disease  for  which  no  authorised  treatment  exists  in  the  EU. 
Nevertheless, for a comprehensive clinical dataset, prospectively collected data are needed in order to confirm 
the treatment benefits observed in the retrospective analyses, in particular since it could not be excluded that 
bias have been introduced as a result of the retrospective study design. To this end, the applicant proposed to 
conduct a prospective, multinational, multicentre, open label, uncontrolled study in at least 65 patients (plus 
5 paediatric patients) with moderate to severe LSCD. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  CAT  considered  that  the  available data  provided  sufficient  evidence  to  demonstrate  a  clinically  relevant 
beneficial effect of Holoclar in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe LSCD. The data showed that 
Holoclar treatment enabled restoration of a stable, intact corneal epithelium with resolution of epithelial defects, 
regression of corneal vascularisation, and absence of conjunctivalisation in the majority of patients. Clinically 
relevant improvements in visual acuity were observed. Furthermore, ocular symptoms improved and the chance 
for subsequent successful keratoplasty in patients with deep stromal scarring increased. 
However, the CAT considers the following measures necessary to address the missing efficacy data in the 
context of a conditional MA: 
Multinational, multicentre, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled interventional study (HLSTM03) to assess the 
efficacy and safety of autologous cultivated limbal stem cells grafting for restoration of corneal epithelium in 
patients with limbal stem cell deficiency due to ocular burns. 
The CHMP endorses the CAT conclusion on clinical efficacy as described above.  
Assessment report  
Page 53/81 
  
  
 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety assessment mainly relied on data from studies HLSTM01 and HLSTM02. Additional supportive data 
were available from study HLSTM04. Safety was reviewed taking into the account the therapeutic procedure as 
a whole, including surgery and use of concomitant treatments. 
Further details on the methods applied are summarised in section 2.5.2.   
Patient exposure 
The clinical safety database used for safety assessment was based on 135 patients and 142 treatments, 
including  
-  106 patients with 113 treatments in study HLSTM01, and 
-  29 patients with 29 treatments in HLSTM02.   
In study HLSTM01, 94 patients were treated once, 11 patients were treated twice (22 total treatments for this 
patient set), and one patient underwent three treatments. Complete data for six treatments was not available, 
or was missing at the treating clinical centre (five data sets for first patient treatment, and one data set for a 
second patient treatment), and were therefore, not included in the analysis. Consequently, 113 evaluable 
patient data sets were available for study HLSTM01. In study HLSTM02, no patient received more than one 
Holoclar treatment and documentation of the biopsy and treatment was available for all 29 patients receiving a 
single treatment with Holoclar. 
Since several patients in HLSTM01 received multiple treatments with Holoclar, and each treatment event was 
considered to have a unique safety profile, the applicant presented safety analyses by treatments.  
Patient follow-up data were available for up to 10 years in study HLSTM01 and for up to 8 years in study 
HLSTM02. In study HLSTM01 timing of follow-up visits were pre-determined, while in study HLSTM02 follow-up 
visits were conducted according to clinical practice, which resulted in less frequent monitoring. One year 
follow-up data were available for 93.8% of patients in study HLSTM01 and for 82.7% of patients in study 
HLSTM02. Three year follow-up data were available for 65% of patients in study HLSTM01 and for 55.2% of 
patients in study HLSTM02. The mean duration of treatment follow-up was 36.8 ± 23.0 months (HLSTM01) and 
33.9 ± 25.9 months (HLSTM02). 
An  overview  of  the  surgical  history  as  well  as  preceding  and  concomitant  medical treatments is  provided  in 
sections 2.5.2.1.  (HLSTM01) and 2.5.2.3.1.  (HLSTM02). 
Additional supportive safety data were available from 15 patients analysed in study HLSTM04. 
Adverse events (AE) 
AEs prior to treatment with Holoclar  
Pre-treatment AEs were reported to have occurred at a low percentage.  
In  study  HLSTM01,  10  pre-treatment  AEs  were  reported  in  9  ACLSCD  treatments  (7.96%).  None  were 
considered  to  be  of  a  serious  or  severe  nature.  The  majority  of  pre-treatment  AEs  were  of  ocular  nature 
(8 events; 6.2%) including blepharitis (5 patients; 4.4%), cataract (1 patient; 0.9%) and glaucoma (2 patients; 
1.8%). One patient was diagnosed with both blepharitis and glaucoma prior to treatment. Additionally, one case 
of diabetes mellitus and one case of hypertension were recorded prior to treatment.  
Assessment report  
Page 54/81 
  
  
 
In HLSTM02, two adverse events were reported prior to treatment: mild viral flu and meibomitis of the right eye 
(1 patient, 3.4% each).  
Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) and ADRs 
An overview of all TEAEs, i.e. adverse events that started after Holoclar transplantation, is provided in Table 14. 
A total of 194 AEs were reported in association with 73 treatment events (64.6%) in study HLSTM01. A total of 
46  AEs  were  reported  in  association  with  19  treatment  procedures  (65.5%)  in  study  HLSTM02.  The  most 
commonly observed AEs were eye-related disorders, occurring in 57% of the safety population (see Table 15). 
The second most common AEs belonged to the MedDRA system organ class (SOC) of Immune System Disorders, 
occurring in 17.6% of the treatments, followed by Infections and Infestations in 8.5%.  
Table 14 - Summary of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events 
Amongst the cases of Immune System Disorders corneal graft rejection and transplant rejection occurred in 
13 and  9 treatments,  respectively.  The  rate  of  Immune  system  disorders  was  higher  in  patients  with  prior 
keratoplasty  and  the  incidence  of  transplant  rejection  (corneal  graft  rejection)  increased  with  subsequent 
transplantations, from 3.85% and 9.09% to 66.67% following first, second and third keratoplasty in HLSTM01. 
Overall, 12 patients were reported with infections, including keratitis herpetica, influenza and infections of the 
upper airway, and one case of corneal infection that was considered to be related to treatment.  
One  case  each  of  metaplasia,  subcutaneous  haemorrhage,  corneal  infection,  suture  rupture,  and  vasovagal 
syncope was reported and was considered causally related to treatment. 
Assessment report  
Page 55/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
AEs classified as severe occurred in a total of 9% of treatments in study HLSTM01 and in 20% of treatments in 
study HLSTM02. They consisted mainly in eye-related disorders including blepharitis (3), eye pain (2), corneal 
perforation  (2),  cornel  epithelium  defect,  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  eye  irritation,  optic  atrophy,  retinal 
detachment and ulcerative keratitis (1 AE each). 
One  third  of  all  AEs  were  experienced  more  than  1  year  after  treatment.  Blepharitis  and  corneal  epithelial 
defects occurred mainly in the first 3 months after transplantation. During this timeframe, events of blepharitis 
were reported in 10.5% of cases. They were judged to be related to treatment in a subset of cases. Seven cases 
of glaucoma were reported to occur within 3 months from Holoclar treatment, while the other cases of glaucoma 
(16  cases)  occurred  at  least  ninety  days  after  ACLSCT,  when  the  corticosteroid  treatment  was  suspended. 
Notably, the reporting of glaucoma included events of increased intraocular pressure. 
Assessment report  
Page 56/81 
  
  
 
Table 15 – Summary of eye-related TEAEs 
Assessment report  
Page 57/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs), i.e. AEs for which a relationship to Holoclar treatment (or associated procedures 
related to treatment) was judged as either possible, probable or definite, were reported in 20.4% of treatments 
(see Table 16).  
A greater number of ADRs were reported for study HLSTM02 (34.5%) as compared to HLSTM01 (16.8%). The 
majority of ADRs were associated with eye disorders, whereby the number of reported ocular ADRs was greater 
in HLSTM02 than in HLMST01 (34.5% versus 15.0%). The most commonly experienced ADRs were conjunctival 
haemorrhage (7 reported reactions), corneal epithelial defects consistent with treatment failure (7), pain (4), 
and blepharitis (4). Other ADRs not related to the SOC of Eye Disorders included 1 case each of metaplasia, 
subcutaneous haemorrhage, corneal infection, suture rupture, and vasovagal syncope. 
In principle, the relationship between an adverse drug reaction (ADR) with Holoclar and related procedures has 
been  considered  according  to  the  procedures  conducted  within  the  timeframe  from  the  biopsy  to  the  last 
administration of the topical corticosteroid treatment, which was 45 days (3 months) after Holoclar treatment. 
Additional adverse events considered at least possibly related to Holoclar, which occurred after 3 months of 
Holoclar  treatment,  were  conjunctival  adhesion,  corneal  oedema,  corneal  perforation,  corneal  infection, 
metaplasia and suture rupture with onset more than 3 months after treatment. With the exception of these 
cases, the cut-off date of 3 months was used for the adverse reaction frequency calculations based on crude 
incidences, resulting in the following rates for adverse reactions observed in this time frame: Syncope vasovagal 
(1 case, 0.7%), blepharitis (15 cases, 10.56%), conjunctival haemorrhage (7 cases, 4.9%), eye haemorrhage 
(4 cases, 2.8%), corneal epithelium  defect (5 cases, 3.52%), eye pain (4 cases, 2.8%), glaucoma (7 cases, 
4.9%),  ulcerative  keratitis  (2  cases,  1.4%),  conjunctival  hyperaemia  (1  case, 0.7%),  eye  irritation  (1  case, 
0.7%), photophobia (1 case, 0.7%), haemorrhage subcutaneous (1 case, 0.7%), and metaplasia of the implant 
(1 case, 0.7%). 
In HLSTM01, all ADRs were related to local complications associated with or attributable to: 
a) surgical aspects of treatment administration (i.e. haemorrhage and inflammation), 
b) administration of topical post-treatment agents (i.e. treatment of post-therapy emergent glaucoma), or 
c)  failure  of  the  treatment  procedure  (i.e.  epithelial  defect  or  metaplasia):  20  reports  of  eye  disorders  in 
association with 17 treatments (15.0%). 
No ADRs recorded were considered related to post-treatment prophylactic antibiotic administration performed 
up to one month post-treatment. AEs potentially related to post-treatment corticosteroid administration (i.e. 
occurring  post-treatment  in  patients  treated  with  corticosteroids  and  associated  with  known  potential  side 
effects of corticosteroids), reported up to 3 months after treatment, were recorded for 6 treatments (5.3%) 
including general eye disorders in 5 treatments (4.4%; all cases of glaucoma) and development of gastritis in 
the  case  of  1  treatment  (0.9%).  Only  1  of  these  cases  (0.9%,  glaucoma)  was  considered  an  ADR  by  the 
investigator. 
In HLSTM04, 9 out of the 15 patients experienced a total of 14 AEs, the most frequent being eye and nervous 
system disorders. One SAE was observed in a 79-year old patient who had a stroke. None of the AEs including 
the SAE were considered related to Holoclar.  
Assessment report  
Page 58/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 16 – Number of ADRs reported by Treatments  
Assessment report  
Page 59/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse event (SAE)/deaths/other significant events 
Overall the rate of serious ADRs was low. Out of a total of 11 SAEs, three were judged as related to 
administration of Holoclar (serious ADRs). All three (corneal perforation, ulcerative keratitis and vasovagal 
syncope) were reported in study HLSTM02. The case of vasovagal syncope occurred the same day of the surgical 
procedure and together with an episode of acute eye pain (judged as non-serious ADR), representing the most 
probable cause of the vasovagal reaction, and therefore was considered to be possibly related to Holoclar 
treatment procedure as a whole. The second case was a child experiencing 2 serious ADRs of ulcerative keratitis 
and corneal perforation 7 months post-treatment. A causal relationship was considered probable.  
The other SAEs included once case each of corneal oedema, corneal perforation, optic atrophy, retinal 
detachment and foot fracture.  
In addition, there were 3 cases of death all relating to malignancies (progression of gastric carcinoma, brain 
tumour and lung cancer) in patients aged 53, 53 and 62 years, all occurring in study HLSTM01. None of the 
mortalities were considered related to the treatment procedure. 
Laboratory findings 
Standard clinical laboratory evaluations were not performed as local treatment with Holoclar was not considered 
likely to cause abnormalities in laboratory parameters, unless there was a post-operative complication, such as 
infection or immune system disorder. However, data for pre-treatment viral infections were available for the 
majority of patients in studies HLSTM01 and HLSTM02. Of the evaluated patients, three patients were positive 
for hepatitis B surface antigen and one patient was positive with respect to hepatitis C virus. All tested patients 
were negative with respect to the presence of anti HIV-1/HIV-2 antibodies. 
Safety in special populations 
Paediatric population 
No AEs prior to treatment had been reported in the 5 paediatric patients included in the two retrospective 
studies. Post-treatment AEs were observed in two paediatric patients. One AE of glaucoma occurred in one 
patient in HLSTM01 and two AEs were observed in one patient in HLSTM02 (corneal perforation and ulcerative 
keratitis). Both boys were treatment failures. 
Elderly patients 
Fourteen patients (10.6% of the study population) were above 65 years of age and of these 2 were very elderly 
(75-84 years old). No AEs were reported in the elderly population prior to treatment in study HLSTM01. Two 
adverse events reported prior to treatment in HLSTM02 were detected in elderly patients. 
The incidence of AEs in elderly patients was in the same range as the incidence in the overall adult population 
(71% versus 65% overall in study HLSTM01, and 57% versus 65% overall in study HLSTM02). The percentage 
of patients above 65 years of age with eye-related ADRs was comparable to the overall population in study 
HLSTM01 (14 versus 15% overall) and was slightly higher in study HLSTM02 with 43% versus 34% overall.  
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
There is no data available on safety of use during pregnancy or breast-feeding. 
Assessment report  
Page 60/81 
  
  
 
Overdose / drug abuse 
Overdose and drug abuse of Holoclar was considered unlikely to occur due to the nature of the treatment. There 
was however a possibility of overdose and abuse of the concomitant anti-inflammatory and antibiotic medication 
administered systemically and topically after treatment. Reference is made to standard precautions for the use 
of the concomitant medications, as specified in the relevant product information. In addition, surgeons will 
receive training including a user manual. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Formal studies on drug-drug or drug-food interactions were not conducted. As Holoclar is administered and 
engrafted locally, no interactions with systemically administered drugs were expected. 
Holoclar treatment includes the use of concomitant anti-inflammatory and antibiotic medication administered 
systemically and topically after treatment. Surgeons will be appropriately trained to determine which treatment 
regimen is appropriate (see risk management plan, section 2.8. ). With regards to drug-drug and drug food 
interactions of these concomitant medications, standard conditions of use as specified in the respective product 
information apply.  
Finally,  preservative-free  eye  drops  were  used  in  the  study  and  thus  the  interaction  with  preservatives  in 
topically administered eye drops has not been studied.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Since there was no prospective intervention, there was no set study duration and therefore no definition for 
study withdrawal. For the purposes of the retrospective analyses, patients followed up for less than 6 months 
were  considered  study  withdrawals.  Patients  who  chose  not  to  attend  follow-up  visits  were  documented  as 
discontinuing the study. 
In  study  HLSTM01,  of  the  initial  113  treatments,  2  (1.8%)  treatments  resulted  in  study  withdrawals  and 
9 (8.0%) additional treatments resulted in discontinuation of follow-up after 6 months. In the case of HLSTM02, 
one of the 29 patients on study was considered to have withdrawn as the last recorded visit was 3 days following 
treatment. There were 2 patients who experienced an ADR (eye pain and subconjunctival haemorrhage) and 
subsequently  withdrew  or  discontinued.  None  of  the  patients  who  withdrew  or  discontinued,  except  for  the 
patients  who  died,  were  reported  to  have  experienced  a  SAE.  Overall,  the  number  of  withdrawals  and 
discontinuations was low, and did not raise concerns. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data were available. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The clinical safety database consisting of 135 patients and 142 treatments and including long-term follow-up 
data up to 10 years was considered by the CAT in principle sufficient to support the safety evaluation of Holoclar, 
taking into account the rarity of the target disease. There were only limited data available in paediatric patients 
and patients of 65 years of age and older and thus no definite conclusions could be drawn in these populations. 
However, no safety concerns arose from the available data in either population and the incidence of adverse 
Assessment report  
Page 61/81 
  
  
 
events in elderly patients was in the same range as the incidence in the overall adult population. Furthermore, 
additional long-term data beyond 2 years of follow-up after ACLSCT were considered necessary including data 
from routine clinical practice in order to confirm the safety profile of Holoclar. These data should be collected 
post-authorisation. 
Supportive safety data from study HLMST04 overall confirmed the safety profile observed in studies HLMST01 
and HLMST02. 
In general, the CAT agreed to the safety evaluations performed by the applicant. Consideration of the Holoclar 
treatment procedure as a whole including surgical intervention as well as the prophylactic anti-inflammatory and 
antibiotic  regimen  was  considered  adequate.  The  prophylactic  use  of  both  systemic  and  topical 
anti-inflammatory  and  antibiotic  therapies  was  essential  to  ensure  Holoclar  treatment  success,  as  surgical 
procedures are routinely associated with local ocular inflammatory sequelae or local infection, which may have 
a negative impact on the Holoclar graft.  
The CAT pointed out that the primary safety evaluations should be performed on all patients receiving their first 
treatment with the product up to the time of any subsequent intervention, whereas repeat ACLSCTs and other 
subsequent  surgical  procedures  should  be  assessed  separately.  Additional  analyses  were  performed  by  the 
applicant and overall did not give rise to new concerns.  
The absence of a control arm hampered the interpretation of the safety of the treatment. Comparison with other, 
though limited treatment options was difficult as outcome parameters varied between the studies reported in 
the scientific literature and due to the presence of various variables such as the underlying cause of LSCD, data 
collection,  different  study  designs  and  surgical  procedures  as  well  as  autologous  or  allogeneic  type  of  LSC. 
Nevertheless,  compared  to  allogeneic  treatment  options,  the  risk  of  graft  rejection could  be  expected  to  be 
reduced with Holoclar due to the autologous nature of Holoclar LSCs. Furthermore, ex vivo expansion should 
help to reduce the invasiveness of the biopsy and, thus, the risk of iatrogenic induction of LSCD in the fellow, 
donor eye. 
The majority of ADRs reported were related to eye disorders (conjunctival haemorrhage, eye haemorrhage, 
blepharitis,  corneal  epithelium  defect,  eye  pain,  glaucoma,  ulcerative  keratitis,  conjunctival  adhesion, 
conjunctival hyperaemia, corneal oedema, corneal perforation, eye irritation, and photophobia). Five additional 
ADRs were reported in other SOCs with one report each for corneal infection, vasovagal syncope, metaplasia of 
the implant, suture rupture, and subcutaneous haemorrhage. All ADRs have been listed in SmPC section 4.8. 
The overall rate of serious AEs observed was low. For most of the reported SAEs no relationship to Holoclar 
treatment was considered by the investigator and only 3 events, corneal perforation, ulcerative keratitis and 
vasovagal syncope, observed in 2 patients and treatments were considered treatment-related. 
Amongst the SAEs were 3 cases of death due to cancer. These cases were not considered causally related to 
treatment and although there was no evidence for an increased risk of tumorigenicity, neither from non-clinical 
nor from clinical data, the CAT requested that patients should be closely monitored to further elucidate a 
potential risk of tumour formation. 
When comparing the two studies HLSTM01 and HLSTM02, a discrepancy in the reporting rates was observed, 
whereby a greater number of ADRs were reported for study HLSTM02 (34.5%) as compared to HLSTM01 
(16.8%) and all three serious ADRs occurred in HLSTM02. An even higher rate of ADRs (50%) was reported in 
the publication by Marchini et al. (2011). This difference might have been partially due to chance in light of the 
smaller population size in HLSTM02 and Marchini et al. (2011). More importantly, however, the difference may 
be due to the limited experience with ACLSCT at the sites of HLSTM02 and Venezia and Verona (Marchini et al., 
Assessment report  
Page 62/81 
  
  
 
2011), who conducted far less procedures compared to HLSTM01 study centers. Therefore, appropriate risk 
minimisation measures will be put in place including approaches to ensure adequate and comparable levels of 
experience across the centres that perform the ACLSCT (see also section 2.8. ). 
The CAT furthermore noted that reports relating to corneal epithelial defects may be interlinked to treatment 
failure  of  Holoclar  as  epithelial  integrity  was  part  of  the  composite  primary  endpoint  of  study  HLSTM01. 
However, the incidence of corneal epithelial defect AEs was relatively low and did not necessarily compromise 
the clinical outcome. A clear distinction has to be made between stable or recurrent defects, which are usually 
also associated with other signs of chronic LSCD, and a single, self-limiting, temporary episode of epithelial 
defect, which could be due to a concomitant clinical condition or to a not yet stabilised epithelium after ACLSCT. 
There were also several reports of blepharitis and cataract, all of which occurred more frequently in older age 
range. None of these events has been judged as related to treatment. Thirty-three adverse events of blepharitis 
were reported after 142 ACLSC treatments. Blepharitis is in fact a common condition of mainly older adults. 
While  a  reactivation  of  blepharitis  due  to  surgery  may  be  conceivable  in  individual  cases,  an  induction  of 
blepharitis by the Holoclar graft itself was considered unlikely. Overall, the reported frequency of blepharitis was 
below that reported in the scientific literature in patients with eye disorders (34% versus 37-47%, Lemp et al., 
2009). Regarding the cases of cataract, these were mostly reported in patients of 65 years of age and older and 
a causal relationship to Holoclar product was considered unlikely. Although long-term use of corticosteroids is 
known to increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataract formation, a causal relationship was considered 
unlikely, since according to Jobling et al. (2002), posterior subcapsular cataract only develops after patients 
have been on high dose steroid treatment for longer than one year, whereas those on doses less than 10mg/day 
of prednisone or equivalent were unlikely to develop lenticular changes. The dosage of corticosteroid therapy as 
defined  in  the  Holoclar  treatment  protocol  was  a  maximum  of  0.5mg/kg  per  day  for  2  weeks  followed  by  a 
tapering of additional 2 weeks and thus has to be regarded as relatively low.  
With  regards  to  glaucoma,  the  reason  for  a  higher  prevalence  of  a  glaucoma  with  increased  age  could  be 
explained  by  structural  changes  affecting  the  outflow  of  aqueous  humour  as  well  as  vascular  alterations. 
Furthermore, older patients may be more sensitive to the influence of corticosteroid treatment. The frequency 
of glaucoma and increases in intraocular pressure (IOP) after corticosteroid treatment (7 out of 142 Holoclar 
treatments) was in line with literature reports (Armaly, 1965 and Becker, 1965). However, the risk of increased 
IOP and glaucoma associated with use of corticosteroid treatment was generally regarded to be rather low due 
to the limited exposure foreseen in the Holoclar treatment protocol, and provided no predispositions exist. While 
cases of increased IOP even have been described in the literature even for short-term use of corticosteroids, 
normally these are manageable and IOP returns to baseline after discontinuation of treatment. Surgery itself 
was  considered  unlikely  to  represent  an  additional  risk  factor,  but  it  was  noted  that  the  risk  to  experience 
glaucoma may be altered in patients suffering from an increased IOP due to the concomitant therapy following 
keratoplasty. Notably, in the retrospective studies, the term glaucoma was used inclusively, including in addition 
to glaucoma increased IOP. Future prospective data collection (prospective study HLSTM03 and registry) will 
distinguish between these two term and thus enable to investigate the risk for IOP increased and glaucoma. 
Regarding preceding keratoplasties, it could not be excluded that alloreactions and inflammatory conditions due 
to previous surgical procedures had an impact on the safety profile of Holoclar. In fact, more TEAEs associated 
with immune system disorders and transplant rejections were reported in patients with prior keratoplasty. As 
the transplanted cells in Holoclar are autologous, a possible allo-immunereaction would not be directed against 
the cells themselves. Due to the limited available information, a final judgement in view of the relation between 
the reported immune system disorders and Holoclar treatment could not be made. On the whole, a potential risk 
of antigenicity of the Holoclar draft was not supported by clinical findings, where repeated treatment of patients 
Assessment report  
Page 63/81 
  
  
 
did not lead to a subsequent rejection of the transplant and since the success rate of second or third transplants 
of the product was not worse than that of initial transplants. Furthermore, roughly half of the safety population 
had keratoplasties subsequent to Holoclar treatment. Rather than having been caused by a treatment failure of 
Holoclar, the need for corneal transplantation arose from deep stromal scarring in these patients and hence did 
not raise a safety concern.  
As for the antibiotic prophylaxis, a lower grade of successful transplantations has been observed in the subgroup 
of patients who received gentamycin. Corneatoxicity of gentamycin has been shown in tissue culture and in 
animal models. In view of the small patient number, no clear conclusion could be drawn regarding a possible 
detrimental effect of gentamycin on Holoclar treatment outcome. Generally, a recommendation to avoid use of 
cytotoxic agents has been added to the product information, as these may affect cell growth and damage the 
newly-regenerated corneal epithelium. This also includes eye drops containing benzalkonium chloride or other 
preservatives, albeit not studied. 
On the whole, side effects of the prophylaxis regimen were considered manageable. 
Additional safety data needed in the context of a conditional MA  
In  line  with  the  discussions  on  efficacy  aspects  in  section  2.5.3.  ,  for  a  comprehensive  clinical  dataset, 
prospectively  collected  data  are  required  to  confirm  the  safety  profile  of  Holoclar.  Centres  included  in  the 
retrospective  analyses  applied  different  methods  for  data  collection  and  in  particular post-treatment  patient 
management  and  follow-up  and  this  may  have  affected  the  safety  evaluation.  The  data  from  the  required 
prospective  trial  will  thus  address  some  of  the  deficiencies  of  the  safety  database  resulting  from  the 
retrospective study design and enrich the database both in size and with regard to long-term follow-up. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  safety  evaluation  was  based  on  a  comprehensive  analysis  covering  the  time  from  biopsy  procedure  for 
limbal stem cell harvest through transplantation of Holoclar up to the end of follow up, with particular attention 
to a possible relation of adverse events with concomitant anti-inflammatory and antibiotic medications. Adverse 
reactions  observed  were mainly  eye  related  and  generally  manageable.  From  the  data  submitted,  no major 
safety concerns emerged. 
Overall, the CAT was of the view that safety profile of Holoclar was acceptable.  
However, the CAT considers the following measures necessary to address the missing safety data in the context 
of a conditional MA: 
Multinational, multicentre, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled interventional study (HLSTM03) to assess the 
efficacy and safety of autologous cultivated limbal stem cells grafting for restoration of corneal epithelium in 
patients with limbal stem cell deficiency due to ocular burns. 
The CAT furthermore considered the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
• 
• 
Long-term  safety  and  efficacy  follow-up  after  autologous  cultivated  limbal  stem  cells  grafting  for 
restoration  of  corneal  epithelium  in  patients  with  limbal  stem  cell  deficiency  due  to  ocular  burns 
(HLSTM03-FU) 
Post-authorisation Registry entitled ‘Long-term safety after Holoclar implant for restoration of corneal 
epithelium in patients with limbal stem cell deficiency due to ocular burns: observational study of routine 
Assessment report  
Page 64/81 
  
  
 
clinical practice.’ The CHMP endorse the CAT conclusion on clinical safety as described above.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CAT  and  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
2.8.  Risk Management Plan 
The CAT received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 4 would be acceptable provided the applicant would 
amend the category of study HLSTM03FU in the summary table of PhV activitities (i.e. instead of category 2, the 
study should be category 3). PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report is annexed. 
The CAT endorsed this advice without changes. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and has submitted a updated RMP 
(version 6).  
The CAT endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 6 with the following content: 
Assessment report  
Page 65/81 
  
  
 
Safety concerns 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Study/activity Type, 
title and category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status (planned, 
started)  
Study HLSTM03 
To evaluate efficacy 
Multinational, 
and safety of one or 
multicentre, 
two 
Autologous 
prospective,  open 
Cultivated 
Limbal 
•  Missing 
Planned 
information 
(children 
data) 
limited 
label,  uncontrolled 
Stem 
Cell 
•  Glaucoma 
Date for submission of 
interim or final reports 
(planned or actual) 
December 2020 
clinical 
study 
to 
Implantation(s) 
evaluate 
the 
(ACLSCT) 
• 
in 
efficacy  and  safety 
restoring  a  normal 
of 
autologous 
corneal  epithelium 
cultivated 
limbal 
in patients suffering 
stem  cells  grafting 
from 
Lack  of  effect 
(corneal 
implant 
failure) 
•  Blepharitis 
• 
Long-term  safety 
and efficacy 
Assessment report  
Page 66/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity Type, 
title and category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status (planned, 
started)  
Date for submission of 
interim or final reports 
(planned or actual) 
for  restoration  of 
moderate-severe 
corneal  epithelium 
Limbal  Stem  Cell 
in  patients  with 
Deficiency 
(LSCD) 
limbal 
stem 
cell 
secondary  to  ocular 
deficiency  due 
to 
burns. 
ocular burns. 
Patients 
from  2 
years  of  age  and 
adults 
will 
be 
included 
in 
the 
study. 
(Category 2) 
Study HLSTM03FU 
All  patients 
from 
Long-term 
safety 
Study  HLSTM03will 
and 
efficacy 
be  rolled  over  into 
follow-up 
after 
this 
study 
to 
autologous 
evaluate  the  long 
cultivated 
limbal 
term 
safety  and 
stem  cells  grafting 
efficacy  (visit  every 
for  restoration  of 
6  months) 
and 
corneal  epithelium 
success 
after 
in  patients  with 
keratoplasty 
limbal 
stem 
cell 
(whenever  clinically 
deficiency  due 
to 
indicated) 
ocular burns 
(Category 3) 
Post-authorisation 
Registry 
entitled“Long-term 
after 
safety 
Holoclar® 
implant 
for  restoration  of 
corneal  epithelium 
in  patients  with 
cell 
limbal 
to 
deficiency  due 
ocular 
burns: 
observational  study 
of  routine  clinical 
practice.” 
(Category 3) 
stem 
Primary Objective 
To evaluate the 
long-term safety 
profile of patients 
treated with 
Holoclar® during a 
5-year follow-up 
period from first 
ocular implantation 
under routine 
clinical conditions, 
through the 
description of the 
occurrence of 
adverse events, 
adverse drug 
reactions, serious 
adverse events and 
adverse events of 
special interest. 
Adverse events of 
Long-term safety and 
efficacy 
Planned 
January 2023 
Final  report:  June 
2023 
Interim  reports  will 
be  provided  after 
each  year  of  the 
observation period. 
Identified Risks 
Planned 
Glaucoma 
Lack of effect 
manifesting as 
corneal epithelium 
defect 
Potential Risks 
Blepharitis 
Concomitant use of 
eye drops containing 
benzalkonium 
chloride 
Post-implant infection 
Medication errors 
(e.g. incorrect patient 
Assessment report  
Page 67/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity Type, 
title and category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status (planned, 
started)  
Date for submission of 
interim or final reports 
(planned or actual) 
receives product, 
patient receives 
incorrect product, 
incorrect surgical 
technique) 
Tumorigenicity 
Off label use in  
milder form of limbal 
stem cell deficiency 
than the proposed 
indication 
(moderate-severe). 
Off label use for other 
aetiologies of limbal 
stem cell deficiency 
e.g. radiotherapy, 
aniridia, Stevens 
Johnson Syndrome 
and neurotrophic 
keratitis. 
Off label use in 
patients under 18 
years. 
Missing Information 
Pregnancy and 
breast-feeding 
Children (limited 
data) 
Elderly (limited data) 
Re-administration of 
Holoclar 
Long term safety and 
efficacy follow up 
special interest will 
be solicited and 
carefully monitored. 
Secondary 
objectives 
To describe 
demographic and 
clinical 
characteristics of 
patients undergoing 
one or more 
Holoclar® implants 
including the 
occurrence of ocular 
grafts preceding the 
investigated 
implant. 
To describe the 
proportion of 
success, according 
to clinician’s 
opinion, one year 
after implant, 
among patients 
undergoing one or 
more Holoclar® 
implants. 
To describe visual 
acuity during a 
5-year follow-up 
from first implant. 
To describe quality 
of life, as measured 
by EuroQol-Five 
Dimensions 
(EQ-5D) and 
National Eye 
Institute 25-Item 
Visual Function 
Questionnaire (NEI 
VFQ-25), during a 
5-year follow-up 
from first implant.  
To describe the 
administered 
post-implant 
surgical treatment, 
including 
keratoplasty. 
Assessment report  
Page 68/81 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity Type, 
title and category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status (planned, 
started)  
Date for submission of 
interim or final reports 
(planned or actual) 
Evaluation of the 
effectiveness of the 
risk minimisation 
measures in 
compliance with the 
Risk Management 
Plan for Holoclar®. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
Page 69/81 
  
  
 
 
Assessment report  
Page 70/81 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
Page 71/81 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
Page 72/81 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
Page 73/81 
  
  
 
The CHMP endorsed the PRAC and CAT advice on the RMP with a minor clarification of the wording of the key 
elements of the additional risk minimisation measures.  
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
However, as there were clarifications unavailable regarding recruitment, time aspects, procedural aspects, 
Assessment report  
Page 74/81 
  
  
 
 
interview aspects, evaluation of responses, and data processing for the report submitted by the applicant and 
since the product information has been amended substantially during the assessment of this application, the 
applicant is recommended to submit the results of an additional abridged user consultation with target patient 
groups on the package leaflet (10 patients) that meets the criteria for readability within 6 months after approval. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The therapeutic approach of using autologous ex-vivo expanded limbal stem cells for treatment of LSCD offers 
several advantages compared to alternative methods for ocular surface reconstruction, such as limbal allografts 
with an associated risk of rejection requiring long-term systemic immunosuppression, or non-expanded limbal 
autografts from the healthy fellow eye which may lead to iatrogenic induction of LSCD in the donor eye. 
Successful reconstruction treatment is reflected by the restoration of a stable corneal epithelium with resolution 
of epithelial defects, regression of corneal vascularisation, and absence of conjunctivalisation.  
For Holoclar transplants, treatment success has been shown in retrospective analyses of a total of 133 patients 
receiving 142 transplantation during 1998 to 2007 with additional supportive data provided for 15 patients 
treated from 2008 to 2013. Overall, in the pivotal study HLSTM01, 72% (75/104) of all analysed patients were 
considered a treatment success based on achievement of a stable corneal epithelium without significant 
recurrence of neovascularisation 12 months after surgery. Long-term data up to 10 years, although limited, 
suggested persistence of the effect. Overall, this was a convincing outcome considering that LSCD would not be 
expected to improve spontaneously.  
Clinically meaningful outcomes for LSCD patients were furthermore the improvements of ocular symptoms and 
visual acuity. Most of the patients showed a stable clinical picture at baseline, and only a limited number had 
ocular symptoms (pain, photophobia, burning, bulbar or limbal hyperaemia). Treatment with Holoclar 
maintained the stable clinical picture or resulted in an improvement and/or resolution of manifestations as 
shown by a reduction of the number of patients with symptoms as well as a decrease in the intensity of ocular 
pain, burning, and photophobia. Furthermore, clinically relevant improvement of visual acuity of 3 lines on the 
vision chart was observed in 38.5% (40/104) of the patients and half of the patient with off-chart vision at 
baseline gained on-chart vision after Holoclar treatment.  
Unsurprisingly, improvements in vision were achieved in more patients without stromal scarring compared to 
those with deep stromal injury. However, within the latter group of patients, vision improved to a similar extend 
[3 line gain in 37.5% (21/56) of patients] after corneal transplantation. It was furthermore found that Holoclar 
treatment increased the chance for subsequent successful keratoplasty, which was another therapeutically 
meaningful achievement in the group of patients with deep stromal scarring. Post-Holoclar keratoplasty was 
successful in 42% (24/57) of patients as well as in half of all patients who had a failed corneal transplantation 
prior to Holoclar.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
With respect to the nature of the data provided in support of a beneficial effect of Holoclar, several uncertainties 
remained. Studies based on retrospective data collection are prone to numerous biases, including selection, 
Assessment report  
Page 75/81 
  
  
 
documentation and evaluation bias, thus weakening the evidence that can be obtained from such data. As the 
Holoclar studies did not enrol all patients treated with the product in the past, selection bias could not be 
excluded and may have contributed to an overestimation of the effect size. However, it was considered 
reassuring that those centres participating in the studies provided access to all available patient data and that 
additional data, collected retrospectively from 2008 to 2013 as well as from publications by two additional 
centres which did not participate in the Holoclar studies, confirmed the beneficial effects seen in the pivotal trial. 
Furthermore, an inspection of study sites confirmed the quality of the retrospective clinical data as being 
suitable for evaluation.  
The uncontrolled, non-randomised and open-label design aspects, although considered unavoidable due to the 
lack of a suitable control group, added further to the uncertainties of the validity of the study outcome. 
Uncertainty was also created by the limited size of the study population and the limited long-term data. Thus, 
due to the small number of paediatric and older patients treated, no final conclusions could be drawn for these 
populations.  
Available data in paediatric and elderly patients were considered insufficient to draw final conclusions in the 
populations. However, at least in the elderly, despite limited subject numbers, data from both studies showed a 
success rate similar to that observed in the overall population.  
Furthermore, soon after surgery some patients experienced clinically significant hyperaemia, which later 
resolved. The data suggested that patients developing early significant limbal hyperaemia and epithelial defects 
are at higher risk of treatment failure. At the same time, some level of inflammation is required to support the 
normal healing process. Altogether, it was recommended to defer treatment in patients with acute, uncontrolled 
inflammation.  
Finally, cell density and potency of the product were controlled by the specifications during the manufacturing 
process. However, the specifications for LSC were rather wide (0.4% to 10%) and the CAT considered that 
future prospective data collection should further investigate the impact on efficacy of the amount of LSC in the 
final drug product as well as explore new markers for the active substance. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Eye-related disorders were the most commonly observed adverse events occurring in 57% of the safety 
population. The most commonly experienced ADRs were conjunctival haemorrhage, corneal epithelial defects 
consistent with treatment failure, eye pain and haemorrhage, and blepharitis.  
The overall rate of serious ADRs with three cases in the entire study population was regarded as low. However, 
an imbalance in the reporting rates of adverse events and reactions was observed between studies. Far less 
adverse events occurred in study HLMST01, involving 2 experienced clinical sites, compared to other centres 
with less practice, analysed in study HLMST02 or reported by Marchini et al. (2011). Therefore, measures to 
ensure adequate and comparable levels of experience across treating centres were required. 
Several adverse effects were related to the surgical intervention including conjunctival haemorrhage. The risk of 
local ocular inflammation or infection was mitigated by a prophylactic anti-inflammatory and antibiotic regimen 
combining both topical non-cytotoxic and systemic treatments. However, these concomitant treatments may 
cause adverse reactions themselves. In this context, events of glaucoma occurred within 3 months of ACLSCT 
and were considered related to the use corticosteroids.  
Assessment report  
Page 76/81 
  
  
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Overall, the safety database, albeit limited due to the rarity of the target condition, was considered sufficient to 
assess the safety profile of Holoclar. However, no definite conclusions could be drawn with regards to the safety 
in children and patients of 65 years of age and older as too few data were available. Some information on the 
safety of Holoclar up to 10 years after ACLSCT were available, but additional data was needed to confirm the 
long-term safety profile. These data will be collected post-authorisation by means of a follow-up study of 
HLSTM03 as well as through a registry which will collect data from routine clinical practice. 
As Holoclar is a cell-based medicinal product, a risk of tumorigenicity due to neoplastic transformations of the 
cells could not be excluded. Therefore, and although no evidence of tumor formation due to Holoclar treatment 
could be derived from non-clinical or from clinical data, close monitoring of patients was recommended.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Holoclar treatment resulted in the majority of patients in a successful ocular surface reconstruction, maintaining 
a  stable  clinical  picture  or  resulting  in  an  improvement  and/or  resolution  of  LSCD  manifestations,  including 
symptoms and visual acuity. The improvement of ocular symptoms was a relevant clinical outcome in particular 
for patients with moderate LSCD, where a small structural improvement by itself would be of limited clinical 
relevance. Furthermore, clinically relevant vision gains were achieved in a subset of patients including regaining 
of  on-chart  vision,  which  is  of  relevance  in  a  population  where  the  majority  of  patients  are  legally  blind. 
Furthermore, Holoclar was shown to increase the likelihood for a successful subsequent keratoplasty in patients 
with  deep  stromal  scarring.  Albeit  data  were  collected  retrospectively  and  uncontrolled,  these  results  were 
highly  clinically  relevant  considering  that  moderate  to  severe  LSCD  is  a  condition  that  would  not  improve 
spontaneously. In this context, Holoclar addresses an unmet medical need considering that no treatments for 
LSCD had been approved for marketing in the EU at the time of this report. Furthermore, an ex-vivo expanded 
autologous  product  was  considered  advantageous  compared  to  alternative,  allogeneic  treatment  methods, 
requiring systemic immunosuppression.  
Eye-related disorders were the most commonly observed adverse events, with the most commonly experienced 
adverse  drug  reactions  comprising  conjunctival  haemorrhage,  corneal  epithelial  defects  consistent  with 
treatment  failure,  eye  pain  and  haemorrhage,  and  blepharitis.  The  majority  of  the  adverse  effects  were 
manageable and the overall safety profile of the Holoclar treatment procedure was regarded acceptable. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Treatment with Holoclar allowed successful ocular surface reconstruction with improvements in symptoms and 
visual  acuity  in  patients  with  moderate to  severe LSCD.  Clinically  relevant  outcomes  were  observed  both  in 
patients with and without deep stromal injury. These favourable effects were considered by the CAT to outweigh 
the risks of mainly ocular adverse reactions, which were generally manageable. By providing training to treating 
physicians including a detailed treatment protocol recommending effective anti-inflammatory and anti-infective 
prophylaxis, it is expected that risks of adverse reactions can be further reduced. 
In conclusion, the benefit-risk balance for Holoclar in the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe 
limbal stem cell deficiency (defined by the presence of superficial corneal  neovascularisation in at least  two 
corneal quadrants, with central corneal involvement, and severely impaired visual acuity), unilateral or bilateral, 
due to physical or chemical ocular burns and with a minimum of 1-2 mm2 of undamaged limbus for biopsy, is 
considered favourable. 
Assessment report  
Page 77/81 
  
  
 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The dataset provided in support of this application was considered unique and relatively large considering the 
rarity  of  the  target  condition.  Despite  the  inherent  disadvantages  of  a  retrospective,  uncontrolled  and 
non-randomised study design, the quality of the dataset was considered adequate and the study results were 
compelling in demonstrating a clinically relevant benefit, considering that LSCD is a condition that would not 
spontaneously improve. Nevertheless, for a comprehensive clinical dataset, the retrospective data need to be 
supplemented by a set of prospectively generated results to confirm the benefit observed in the retrospective 
analysis and to enrich the clinical database.  
Uncertainties also existed with regards to long-term safety and efficacy as well as in the paediatric population 
and patients of 65 years and older. However, no major concern arose from the available data in the paediatric 
and older patient groups, and for older patients similar effect sizes and safety profile compared to the overall 
population. Thus, use of Holoclar in adults patients is supported. Additional data for patients between 3 and 17 
years of age should be collected in a future study. 
The applicant applied for consideration of this application for a conditional marketing authorisation. Holoclar falls 
under the scope of conditional marketing authorisation as per Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 since 
Holoclar was granted an orphan designation in the claimed indication. Furthermore, moderate to severe forms 
of LSCD are serious debilitating if left untreated, leading to severe reduction or complete loss of vision. With 
regards to the acceptability of the request, the CAT considered the following points: 
• 
• 
The benefit-risk profile of Holoclar was judged positive. Despite uncertainties of the validity of the 
clinical data due to the retrospective design of the studies, the data were considered to be of sufficient 
quality to support establishment of a beneficial treatment effect as well as to conclude on an acceptable 
safety profile.  
It is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide comprehensive clinical data. For a 
comprehensive clinical dataset, prospectively collected data are needed in order to confirm the 
treatment benefits observed in the retrospective analyses. To this end, the applicant will conduct a 
prospective multinational, multicentre, open label, uncontrolled study in patients with moderate to 
severe LSCD secondary to ocular burns, which was considered acceptable by the CAT. Fourteen 
countries in the EU/EEA were identified and given the experience from previous clinical use, an 
enrolment period of 12 months was considered feasible. 
•  Unmet medical needs will be fulfilled. At the time of this report, there were no approved medicinal 
products available in the EU/EEA for treatment of LSCD. Furthermore, the Holoclar treatment procedure 
was considered advantageous to alternative treatment methods including penetrating keratoplasty, 
which by itself cannot resolve the LSC deficiency, or allogeneic grafts, which require chronic systemic 
immunosuppression. In addition, ex-vivo expansion allows reduction of the biopsy size, which in turn 
reduces the risk of damaging the healthy eye.  
• 
The benefit to public health of the immediate availability of Holoclar outweighs the risk inherent to the 
incomplete  dataset.  Holoclar  has  been  shown  to  enable  successful  ocular  surface  reconstruction, 
thereby maintaining a stable clinical picture as well as restoring vision and improving symptoms in a 
subset of patients. A spontaneous healing and functional improvements in moderate to severe LSCD 
would  not  be  expected  without  reconstruction  therapy,  leaving  patients  with  significant  clinical 
symptoms, such as pain, photophobia, and burning sensation, as well as impairment of visual function. 
At the time of this report, patients could not be treated with an approved product with an established 
favourable  benefit-risk  profile.  Thus,  despite  the  rarity  of  the  condition,  considering  the  serious 
Assessment report  
Page 78/81 
  
  
 
debilitation of patients with moderate to severe forms of LSCD, immediate availability of Holoclar was 
considered to benefit public health.  
In conclusion, the CAT considered that all requirements for a conditional approval were met. 
On the whole, the uncertainties, partially due to the need for additional data for a comprehensive clinical 
dataset, did not preclude a conclusion of a positive benefit-risk balance of Holoclar in the claimed indication. The 
applicant will perform a prospective clinical study suitable to confirm the benefit-risk profile and further address 
these uncertainties. The study will also further explore markers for the active substance and the relation 
between the amount of stem cells in the final drug product and treatment success. 
The CHMP endorse the CAT conclusion on the Benefit-Risk balance as described above.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CAT review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CAT considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of Holoclar in the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe limbal stem cell 
deficiency (defined by the presence of superficial corneal neovascularisation in at least two corneal quadrants, 
with central corneal involvement, and severely impaired visual acuity), unilateral or bilateral, due to physical or 
chemical ocular burns with a minimum of 1-2 mm2 of undamaged limbus is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the conditional marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions 
described below. 
Based on the draft CHMP opinion adopted by the CAT and the review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the 
CHMP considers by consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Holoclar in the treatment of adult patients with 
moderate to severe limbal stem cell deficiency (defined by the presence of superficial corneal neovascularisation 
in at least two corneal quadrants, with central corneal involvement, and severely impaired visual acuity), 
unilateral or bilateral, due to physical or chemical ocular burns with a minimum of 1-2 mm2 of undamaged 
limbus is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the conditional marketing authorisation subject 
to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety 
update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates 
(EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European 
medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
Page 79/81 
  
  
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
The following additional risk minimisation measures are necessary for the safe and effective use of the product:  
Educational material for healthcare professionals to provide training on the appropriate use of the product and 
to minimise risks, addressing the key elements of: 
-  Patient selection 
-  Traceability of patients and use of identifiers 
-  Biopsy, implant and follow up care 
-  Avoiding use of eye drops containing benzalkonium chloride  
-  Risk of glaucoma and blepharitis 
-  Encouraging enrolment in the registry 
-  Reporting suspected side effects 
The education material should also include both an Educational Manual and a training programme which will 
incorporate verification of physicians’ comprehension of the training provided.  
Educational material for patients and/or carers to address the following key elements: 
-  Avoiding use of eye drops containing benzalkonium chloride 
-  Side effects of post-transplant treatment with antibiotics and corticosteroids 
- 
Inform patients of the registry 
-  Reporting suspected side effects 
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the conditional marketing 
authorisation  
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14(7) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, 
the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Assessment report  
Page 80/81 
  
  
 
 
Description 
Due date 
Multinational, multicentre, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled interventional study 
Final CSR 
(HLSTM03) to assess the efficacy and safety of autologous cultivated limbal stem cells 
grafting for restoration of corneal epithelium in patients with limbal stem cell deficiency 
December 2020 
due to ocular burns 
The CHMP endorses the CAT conclusion on the specific obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for 
the conditional marketing authorisation as described above.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
The CHMP endorses the CAT conclusion on the conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use 
of the medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CAT review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CAT considers that ‘ex 
vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells containing stem cells’ is qualified as a new active 
substance. 
The CHMP endorses the CAT conclusion on the new active substance status claim.  
Assessment report  
Page 81/81 
  
  
 
 
 
