EMA/518630/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004429 
Hulio (adalimumab) 
An overview of Hulio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Hulio and what is it used for? 
Hulio is a medicine that acts on the immune system and is used to treat the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin with inflammation of the joints); 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints);  
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and when X-ray does not show disease but there are clear signs of inflammation; 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and active enthesitis-related arthritis (both rare diseases 
causing inflammation in the joints); 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut); 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut); 
•  hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa), a long-term skin disease that causes lumps, abscesses 
(collections of pus) and scarring on the skin; 
•  non-infectious uveitis (inflammation of the layer beneath the white of the eyeball). 
Hulio is mostly used in adults when their condition is severe, moderately severe or getting worse, or 
when patients cannot use other treatments. For more information on the use of Hulio in all conditions, 
including when it can be used in children, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Hulio contains the active substance adalimumab and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Hulio is 
highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the 
EU. The reference medicine for Hulio is Humira. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see 
here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Hulio used? 
Hulio is available as a solution for injection under the skin in a vial or pre-filled syringe or pen and is 
usually given every 2 weeks. The dose and frequency of injection depends on the condition to be 
treated and the dose for a child is usually calculated according to the child’s weight. After training, 
patients or their carers may inject Hulio if their doctor considers it appropriate. 
Hulio can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of the diseases for which Hulio is used. Eye specialists 
treating uveitis should also take advice from doctors who have experience of using adalimumab. 
For more information about using Hulio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Hulio work? 
The active substance in Hulio, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been 
designed to recognise and attach to a substance in the body called tumour necrosis factor (TNF). TNF 
is involved in causing inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that Hulio 
is used to treat. By attaching to TNF, adalimumab blocks its activity, thereby reducing inflammation 
and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Hulio have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Hulio with the reference medicine Humira have shown that the active 
substance in Hulio is highly similar to that in Humira in terms of structure, purity and biological 
activity. Studies have also shown that giving Hulio produces similar levels of the active substance in 
the body to giving Humira. 
In addition, Hulio was as effective as Humira in a study involving 730 patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
that was not adequately controlled with the medicine methotrexate. After 24 weeks, a 20% 
improvement in symptoms was seen in 74% of Hulio-treated patients (270 of 363) and 76% of Humira 
treated patients (271 of 358). 
Because Hulio is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of adalimumab carried 
out with Humira do not all need to be repeated for Hulio. 
What are the risks associated with Hulio? 
The most common side effects with adalimumab (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are infections 
(including in the nose, throat and sinuses), injection site reactions (redness, itching, bleeding, pain or 
swelling), headache and muscle and bone pain. 
Like other medicines of its class, Hulio may affect the ability of the immune system to fight off 
infections and cancer, and there have been some cases of serious infections and blood cancers in 
patients using adalimumab. 
Other rare serious side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) include failure of bone 
marrow to produce blood cells, disorder of the nerves, lupus and lupus-like conditions (where the 
immune system attacks the patient’s own tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage), and 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and painful rash affecting 
the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals). 
Hulio (adalimumab)  
EMA/518630/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Hulio must not be used in patients with active tuberculosis or other severe infections, or in patients 
with moderate to severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around the 
body). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Hulio, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Hulio authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Hulio has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Humira and is 
distributed in the body in the same way.  
In addition, a study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis has shown that the effects of the medicine are 
equivalent to those of Humira in this condition. All these data were considered sufficient to conclude 
that Hulio will behave in the same way as Humira in terms of effectiveness and safety in its approved 
uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Humira, the benefit of Hulio outweighs the 
identified risk and it can be authorised. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hulio? 
The company that markets Hulio must provide educational packs for doctors who prescribe the 
medicine. These packs will include information on the safety of the medicine. An alert card will also be 
given to patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Hulio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Hulio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Hulio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Hulio 
Hulio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 September 2018. 
Further information on Hulio can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2018. 
Hulio (adalimumab)  
EMA/518630/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
