SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 July 2004 For scientific information on procedures after this 
date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Humalog  (insulin  lispro)  is  an  analogue  protein  of  human  insulin  obtained  by  recombinant  DNA 
technology that have a reverse position of the aminoacids at positions 28 (lysine) and 29 (proline) on 
insulin’s  B  chain  when  compared  to  the  natural  sequence  of  the  human  insulin.  This  recombinant 
protein is synthesised in a special non-disease-producing laboratory strain of Escherichia coli bacteria 
that  has  been genetically modified  and  subsequently transformed  and  purified  in a series of steps  to 
yield zinc-insulin lispro crystals which are then formulated into the final drug product. 
The  main  disadvantages  associated  with  the  regular  marketed  insulin  preparations  in  controlling  the 
post-prandial  glucose  levels,  a  slow  onset  effect  and  a  long-lasting  hypoglycemic  activity,  can  be 
minimised  by  the  administration  of  insulin  lispro.  Thus,  after  insulin  lispro  subcutaneous 
administration  a  faster  absorption  from  the  administration  site  with  a  more  rapid  onset  and  shorter 
duration of hypoglycemic action has been observed when compared to regular insulin. 
The  application  contains  appropriate  pharmaceutical  data  as  well  as  pre-clinical  and  clinical 
information to meet the quality, safety and efficacy standards. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
Humalog, insulin lispro, is an analogue of human insulin of recombinant DNA origin. Insulin lispro is 
identical to human insulin in terms of its primary aminoacid sequence except for an inversion of the 
natural proline-lysine sequence on the B-chain at positions 28 and 29. The compound was selected as 
a rapid acting insulin based on its physicochemical characteristic of weak self-association in solution 
and on its monomeric properties. 
Insulin lispro is produced from a protein that is expressed by a gene incorporated into a plasmid. The 
plasmid  is  contained  within  the  K-12  strain  of  Escherichia  coli.  Material  extracted  from 
E coli is processed and purified at different steps by appropriate chromatographic extraction. 
Appropriate methods are implemented to ensure microbiological control during the different steps of 
insulin lispro processing. 
Several  methods  of  characterising  the  aminoacid  sequencing  of  insulin  lispro,  such  us  peptide 
mapping and X-ray crystallography has been satisfactory utilised. 
Some  questions  have  been  put  to  the  company  regarding  the  impurities  arising  from  the  expression 
system, fermentation and down stream processing and from degradation. A major question was raised 
because insulin lispro had not been produced at the commercial scale. The supporting data on process 
validation includes the removal of impurities during the purification process. The levels of materials 
such  as  tetracycline,  host  cell  proteins,  endotoxins,  enzymes  used  in  conversion  and  process 
intermediates have been considered in the drug substance or at points during down stream processing. 
The related substances arising from degradation have also been adequately investigated.  
The rationale of using m-Cresol as a preservative and a stabiliser agent has been properly justified and 
documented.  Other  excipients  include  tonicity  modifier  (glycerol),  buffering  agent  (dibasic  sodium 
phosphate), stabiliser (zinc oxide) and pH adjustment for the vehicle. 
The shelf life of the product is 24 months if stored between 2 and 8 ºC. 
Disposable Pens 
Humalog-Humaject:  HumaJect  pen  contains  a  non-reusable  3.0  ml  (100  U/ml)  Humalog  cartridge 
which is permanently sealed inside the device. It delivers up to 96 units per dose in increments of 2 
units. 
1/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humalog-Pen:  the  Pen  contains  a  non-reusable  3.0  ml  (100  U/ml)  Humalog  cartridge  which  is 
permanently sealed inside the device. It delivers up to 60 units per dose in increments of 1 unit. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacology 
The  total  glucodynamic  effects  of  insulin  lispro  were  indistinguishable  from  human  insulin  after 
subcutaneous  administration  in  rats,  dogs,  rabbits  and  pigs.  A  reduction  of  50%  on  the  glucose 
measurements has been found after administering subcutaneous doses in different animal species. 
Insulin  lispro  is  biologically  equivalent  to  insulin  in  several  in  vitro  tests  including  insulin  receptor 
binding  in  cultured  lymphocytes,  human  placenta  and  human  liver,  and  glucose  transport  in 
adipocytes.  Aspartate  B10  insulin  shown  about  a  4-5  fold  higher  binding  affinity  for  the  IGF-1 
receptor. 
In  cell  growth  assays  using  human  smooth  muscle  cells  and  human  mammary  epithelial  cells  and 
using  [3H]  thymidine  incorporation  or  increases  in  cell  number  as  an  index  of  cell  growth,  insulin 
lispro  was  shown  to  be  equipotent  to  human  insulin.  AspB10  insulin  was  about  3-fold  more  potent 
than human insulin and insulin lispro in mammary epithelial cells and in one of the two experiments 
using smooth muscle cells it was 14 times more potent than insulin.  
Studies  intended  to  investigate  potential  secondary  pharmacological  effects  revealed  no  unexpected 
effects, and changes on the EEG recording which were found in a cardiovascular experimental study 
carried out in anaesthetised dogs were considered to be due to the hypoglycaemia. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  developed  in  rats  and  dogs  and  included  pharmacokinetics,  tissue 
distribution and elimination studies.  
Toxicology 
No clinical signs or other effects were observed in the single toxicity studies that have been conducted 
in rats and in dogs by the intravascular and subcutaneous route of administration.  
Repeated toxicity studies of 1 month, 6 and 12 months duration in rats and of 1 month and 12 months 
duration in dogs were conducted after subcutaneous administration. No unexpected findings were seen 
in any of these studies.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  inducing  neutralising  antibodies  in  1  month  and  12  months  studies  with 
dogs. 
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in a battery of mutagenicity studies as recommended by 
the CPMP guidelines and conducted according to the GLP and contemporary standards. 
No  evidence  of  a  tumourigenic  effect  was  seen  in  a  12-  month  study  in  Fischer  344  rats.  Such  a 
finding,  however,  was  observed  in  another  12-  month  toxicological  study  carried  out  with  Sprague-
Dawley  rats  at  similar  doses  of  a  different  insulin  analogue  (Aspartate  B10  insulin).  Carcinogenic 
studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  insulin  lispro.  With  the  absence  of  mutagenic  or  clastogenic 
effects and no proliferative effect in chronic one year toxicity studies the experts consider that there is 
no  need  to  conduct  rodent  carcinogenicity  bioassays  on  the  basis  of  the  overall  toxicological 
information  currently  available.  Moreover,  the  company  was  requested  to  submit  new  additional  ‘in 
vitro  cell’  studies  to  assess  the  stimulation  on  DNA  synthesis  of  insulin  lispro  compared  to  human 
insulin  and  Aspartate  B  10  insulin  in  Hep  G2  human  hepatoma  cells  by  measuring  incorporation  of 
BrdU  and  [3H]-thymidine.  The  overall  results  of  all  replicates  did  not  demonstrate  any  mitogenic 
properties. 
As  far  as  the  reproductive  toxicity  information  is  concerned,  a  combined  fertility,  embryotoxicity, 
perinatal  and  postnatal  study  was  carried  out  in  female  and  male  rats  treated  during  the  two  weeks 
prior to mating and the mated females were treated throughout gestation and lactation. The fertility of 
male rats was also assessed during the 6-month chronic toxicity study following 5 months of treatment 
with insulin lispro. And finally an embryo-foetal toxicity study was conducted in rabbits. The overall 
2/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results show that there are no relevant adverse reproductive effects in the animal studies which could 
cause any concern to the prescribing physician.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties 
The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  carried  out  in  three  randomised  crossover 
open  studies  in  normal  volunteers  using  the  clamp  method  and  biostator  to  keep  the  glucose  blood 
level  as  close  to  fasting  as  possible.  Insulin  lispro  was  compared  to  regular  soluble  human  insulin 
(Humulin  R).  The  absolute  bioavailability  after  subcutaneous  administration  compared  to  the 
intravenous route has been studied. Insulin lispro also displays a linear kinetic behaviour up to dose of 
0.2 U/kg. A consistent pattern of kinetics with a shorter Tmax and half-life and with a higher Cmax 
was  observed  for  insulin  lispro  when  compared  to  the  comparative  insulin  preparation.  A  higher 
glucose infusion early after insulin lispro dosing was required but a lower total glucose was infused.  
No  kinetic  changes  were  observed  when  insulin  Ultralente  was  given  mixed  together  or  at  separate 
sites with insulin lispro. A small decrease in Cmax and a slight increase in Tmax values were the only 
changes  observed  in  the  kinetics  of  insulin  lispro  when  mixed  in  the  same  syringe  with  human 
isophane insulin. 
Data  obtained  from  one  study  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  suggest  that  there  are  no  differences 
between  insulin  lispro  and  the  comparator  on  the  counter  regulatory  hormone  responses  to 
hypoglycaemia measured as GH, adrenaline, nor-adrenaline, cortisol and symptoms. 
Some  additional  pharmacokinetic  information  was  obtained  from  three  studies  involving  diabetic 
patients. A great inter- and intra-varibility was observed for both insulin treatments. In line with the 
results  previously  obtained  with  normal  subjects,  the  insulin  lispro  showed  an  earlier  and  a  higher 
peak with a similar AUC, and showed less intra-subject variability. 
It  is  well  known  that  the  liver  clears  the  insulin  and  the  most  non-hepatic  clearance  is  by  the  renal 
route.  Previous  studies  have  shown  that  the  insulin  kinetics  is  altered  by  the  renal  impairment 
associated  with  diabetes.  There  was  no  difference  between  the  two  insulins  in  insulin  clearance  in 
renally impaired patients. This study showed that only slightly higher levels were observed in anephric 
patients.  Nonetheless,  this  population  could  not  be  extrapolated  to  the  diabetic  subgroup  of  patients 
with associated renal dysfunction.  
Clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  this  new  modified  recombinant  human  insulin  preparation  has  been  studied  in  eight 
clinical trials involving 2951 diabetic patients who were randomised to the experimental insulin lispro 
treatment or to Humulin R (Lilly soluble rDNA human insulin). 
In all studies one or two daily doses of long-acting insulin (NPH or Ultralente) were combined with 
the short acting insulin before each meal. While there were no clinical therapy studies carried out by 
using  the  intravascular  route,  pharmacokinetic  studies  demonstrated  no  differences  in  the  activity  of 
insulin lispro compared to human insulin when given intravenously. 
As  major  differences  exist  between  the  kinetic  behaviour  of  insulin  lispro  compared  to  the  regular 
insulin, an open design was considered to be more appropriate rather than using a double-blind one. 
Thus,  the  Humulin  R  should  be  given  30-45  minutes  before  a  meal  and  the  investigational  insulin 
should  be  injected  immediately.  The  double  dummy  technique  was  not  used  since  it  was  felt  that 
patients would not comply with two injections before each meal over a one year period. Nonetheless, 
it  has  been  recognised  that  many  patients  do  inject  the  regular  insulin  just  before  a  meal  without 
keeping the recommended preprandial optimal time. 
The criteria to define the population to be enrolled into the studies were very similar and four of them 
included  Type  I  and  the  other  four  Type  II  diabetes.  Six  studies  were  one  year  parallel  group 
comparisons;  of  these,  two  were  carried  out  in  new  diabetics  and  four  in  established  diabetics;  the 
comparator was insulin ultralente in two studies and under NPH insulin in the other four studies. The 
remaining two studies were performed following a crossover design keeping each insulin for a three 
3/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
months duration. A summarised description of the main features of the therapeutic clinical studies is 
shown in table 1. 
Table 1: Main features of the therapeutic clinical trials 
STUD
Y 
COD
E 
IOAA 
IOAB 
IOAC 
IOAD 
IOAE 
IOAF 
IOAG 
IOAH 
No. OF  
PATIENT
S 
Randomis
d  
Completed 
I-Lispro 
167 
153 
81 
145 
141 
72 
169 
169 
81 
150 
139 
73 
98 
88 
50 
375 
317 
186 
1008 
960d 
722 
684d 
AGE /MEAN 
years 
(%Fem/Male) 
TYPE  
OF  
DIABETE
S 
BASAL  
INSULIN 
DURATIO
N 
months 
(average) 
STUDY  
DESIG
N 
DURATION  
OF 
DIABETES  
years 
(mean) 
30.7  
(52.6/47.4) 
56.5  
(48.7/51.32) 
33.7  
(48.3/51.7) 
55.5  
(50.6/49.4) 
24.4  
(38.8/61.2) 
59.06  
(43.8/56.2) 
33.42  
(41.9/58.12) 
Type I 
Humulin Zna
Type II 
Humulin Zna
Type I 
Humulin Ib 
Type II 
Humulin Ib 
Type I 
Type II 
Type I 
New diabetic 
patientsc 
New diabetic 
patientsc 
Humulin Zna
Humulin Ib 
Humulin Zna
Humulin Ib 
58.6  
Type II 
(45.4/54.1) 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
6 
6 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
B 
B 
12.8 
11.6 
11.8 
12.7 
0.18 
7.83 
12.14 
12.55 
a) Ultralente basal insulin 
b) NPH insulin 
A) Randomised parallel controlled open-label 
design 
B) Randomised cross-over open-label design 
c) Treated with insulin preparation for < 2 months 
d) Patients who completed both treatments periods 
All trials investigated the same primary variables (HbA1c, fasting glucose and post-prandial control at 
1 and 2 hr for blood glucose and glucose excursions), and numerous secondary variables (% patients 
with 2 hr post-prandial glucose less than 8 mmol/L, % patients with 2 hr post-prandial glucose within 
20% of fasting, % patients with a 50% decline from baseline in 2 hr post-prandial glucose, % patients 
with  at  least  one  of  the  above,  incidence  and  rate  of  hypoglycaemia,  total  and  basal  insulin  dose, 
weight and lipid levels). All of the studies were well conducted and followed Good Clinical Practice 
recommendations. 
The overall results of the pivotal studies are summarised in table 2.  
4/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Main therapeutic outcome of the clinical studies 
Variable values expressed as mean on therapy, in each box the value above refers with Insulin lispro 
and the one below with the corresponding for Humulin R 
HbA1c 
(%) 
Postprandial 
Glucose (mmol/L) 
IOAA 
IOAB 
trend to 
lower 
levels 
lisproa 
nsdc 
IOAC 
nsdc 
IOAD 
nsdc 
IOAE 
IOAF 
IOAG 
nsdc 
nsdc 
nsdc 
IOAH 
nsdc 
1st 
hour 
  12.63
b 
  13.53 
  12.44
b 
  13.22
b 
  14.05 
  13.52
b 
  13.72
b 
  13.75
b 
  12.73 
  13.14 
  13.28 
  13.49 
  12.91
a 
  13.89 
  13.23
a 
  13.89 
Postprandial 
Excursions 
(mmol/L) 
1st 
hour 
  1.50a 
  3.25 
2nd 
hour 
  0.07a 
  2.92 
  2.07a
b 
  3.01
b 
  3.01 
  3.63 
  1.04a
b 
  2.49 
  1.99 
2.75 
Secondary Variables 
not relevant 
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Ld 
not relevant 
2nd 
hour 
  11.32a
b 
  13.29 
  11.41b 
  12.69b 
  13.06 
  12.76 
  12.32b 
  13.19b 
  3.12 
  3.39 
  1.74a 
  2.84 
not relevant 
  11.44 
  12.39 
  12.31 
  12.95 
  11.16a 
  12.87 
  2.59 
  3.53 
  3.37 
  3.38 
  1.24a 
  2.53 
  12.08a 
  13.14 
  2.59a 
  3.74 
  1.31 
  2.78 
  2.38 
  2.83 
  -
0.51a 
  1.52 
  1.40a 
  2.97 
not relevant 
not relevant 
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Le 
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Lf 
a  
p < 0.05 insulin lispro compared with Humulin R 
b
   p < 0.05 compared with baseline of each treatment
c  
nsd: no significant differences between groups 
d
  33.3% for insulin lispro vs 13.9% Humulin (p <0.05) 
e 
31.3% for insulin lispro vs 23.4% Humulin (p <0.05) 
f
   19.6% for insulin lispro vs 12.1% Humulin (p <0.05) 
There  were  no  statistical  differences  in  all  studies  between  both  treatment  groups  on  the  indices  of 
diabetic  control  based  on  the  HbA1C  and  the  fasting  glucose  levels.  Haemoglobin  A1c  at  endpoint 
was  significantly  lower  in  one  study  (IOAA)  for  insulin  lispro  but  the  observed  differences  are  too 
small and less than the differences between groups at baseline. The post-prandial diabetic control was 
investigated by giving the usual standard breakfast after an overnight fast. In most studies the glucose 
levels were significantly lower on insulin lispro but this difference was not always significant. Both of 
the crossover studies (IOAG and IOAH) showed a significant advantage for insulin lispro in one and 
at two  hours  glucose  levels and excursions. The long-term studies indicated that levels decreased  in 
the first month in both treatment arms but tended to increase again over the later part of the study. The 
glucose  excursions  at  one  hour  and  at  two  hours  were  lower  with  insulin  lispro  although  statistical 
differences were not achieved in 4/8 studies at one hour and in 2/8 studies for the 2 hour levels. The 
5/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incidence  of  hypoglycaemias  was  similar  in  both  groups,  however  the  rate  of  hypoglycaemia  was 
lower in the insulin lispro groups, especially in the Type I patients. No effect on weight, lipid levels 
and dose of insulin were found. 
Although an attempt was made to quantify the impact on the quality of life the open-label design as 
well  as  the  complex  questionnaire  used  precluded  concise  conclusions.  The  results  obtained  from 
patient  preference  measurements  indicated  that  patients  preferred  to  remain  on  therapy  with  insulin 
lispro at the conclusion of studies IOAA and IOAH. 
Two  clinical  trials  (IOCF,  IOBJ)  were  performed  in  order  to  support  the  indication  Use  in  children 
below  12  years  of  age.  IOCF  study  involved  60  children  aged  2.9  to  11.4  years  in  which  three 
therapeutic strategies were compared (insulin lispro before meals, insulin lispro after meals, Humulin 
R before  meals): efficacy in controlling  glucose profile in prepubertal children with Type I diabetes 
and  safety  were  monitored.  IOBJ  study  involved  463  adolescents  aged  9-18  years:  the  primary 
objective was to compare insulin lispro to Humulin R with respect to glucose excursion in adolescents 
with Type I diabetes. Efficacy and safety data from these trials did not present any cause for concern 
and the approval for this indication has been granted. 
Insulin  lispro  has  been  granted  approval  for  occasional  postprandial  administration,  following 
evaluation of the data from two clinical trials: IODQ compared administration of insulin lispro 20, 0 
minutes before or 15 minutes after a meal with standard administration regimens of Humulin R (40 - 
20  -  0  minutes  before  a  meal);  IOCF  study  has  been  described  previously  (see  indication  for 
administration to children). 
Clinical safety 
The evaluation of the clinical safety entails 2247 patients who were exposed to the insulin lispro and 
2265 patients who received Humulin R. About 311 (13.6%) of the patients were treated with insulin 
lispro for one-year period and 961 (42.2%) were under treatment for 6 to 12 months. 
Five patients died under insulin lispro treatment and 7 under Humulin R. The majority of deaths were 
caused by myocardical infarction and cardiovascular related conditions (4 for insulin lispro and 3 for 
Humulin  R),  cancer  (2  for  Humulin  R  and  1  for  insulin  lispro),  hyperglycaemia  and  severe  ketosis 
(both for Humulin R). None of these deaths seemed to be related to the insulin type. 
The withdrawal rate from the studies was very low. Twenty patients on each treatment arm withdrew 
due to adverse events. Of them, 11 were unintended pregnancy and most of the remainder were due to 
intercurrent illness. One patient on Humulin R was withdrawn because of insulin allergy. 
There were 15 serious or unexpected events reported. Five on Humulin and 10 on insulin lispro. Many 
of these were cardiovascular events or hyperglycaemia, and were usually associated with infection.  
The most common adverse events were headache, pharyngitis, rhinitis, flu and infection. There were 
no  differences  between  both  treatment  groups.  Of  the  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  the 
hyperglycaemia appeared to be higher on insulin lispro ( 37 episodes) rather than on the Humulin R 
treatment (22 episodes). This adverse event occurred in the early stages of the study and it has been 
attributed to the shorter duration of the action of the insulin lispro. 
Adverse events in the elderly population had a higher incidence of urinary tract infections for Humulin 
R (5.8%) compared to insulin lispro (1.8 %). Hyperglycaemia was reported in 1.5% of patients in each 
group. 
The hypoglycaemic episodes were analysed in a comprehensive manner sorting out the symptomatic 
and asymptomatic (blood sugar below 3.5 mmol/L) in the same group. Eighteen serious hypoglycemic 
episodes  were  reported  (17  in  Type  I  patients).  Three  of  the  18  events  were  associated  with 
hypoglycemic comas and occurred in Type I patients treated with Humulin R. The rate (episodes/30 
days) of hypoglycaemia  was  significantly reduced  in Type I patients on insulin lispro.  Reduction  of 
hypoglycaemia in Type II patients receiving insulin lispro did not achieve statistical significance in all 
studies. 
Most patients were able to self treat over 95% of the hypoglycaemic episodes. Less than 1% required 
glucagon or iv glucose administration and there were no difference between groups o when compared 
6/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
each group with the corresponding baseline period. No differences between groups were seen in those 
patients who reported coma (less than 1%). 
Additional information on safety using insulin lispro has been obtained from the open 1 year extension 
of the four parallel studies. This on-going study involves 272 patients and at the 4-months follow-up 
no differences in the pattern of the adverse events have been observed. Another similar study involves 
680 patients  who will be followed during 1 year extension after they completed the crossover trials. 
Data  at  4  months  are  available  and  there  are  no  differences  in  the  pattern  of  the  adverse  events 
reported. 
No  clinically  relevant  immunogenicity  has  been  found  on  the  intensive  monitoring  of  the  immune 
response in the clinical trials. Specific antibodies increased slightly in both groups from baseline but 
no differences were found between them. 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  first  PSUR,  although  no  increased  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  seemed 
associated to insulin lispro compared to other insulins, a driving warning and warning about the risks 
of hypo- and hyperglicaemia are being included in the SPC and PIL in order to harmonise the product 
information with other centrally authorised insulins on the market. 
Conclusion 
Humalog insulin lispro is an analog of human insulin. It is created when the amino acids at positions 
28  and  29  on  insulin’s  B  chain  are  reversed.  At  physiologic  concentrations  insulin  lispro  exists  in 
solution  as  a  monomer  which  allows  a  higher  rate  of  absorption  from  the  subcutaneous  sites  of 
injection in relation to regular human insulin. 
is  synthesised  in  a  special  non-disease-producing  laboratory  strain  of  Escherichia  coli 
Humalog
bacteria that has been genetically modified and is subsequently transformed and purified in a series of 
steps  to  yield  zinc-insulin  lispro  crystals.  These  crystals  are  then  formulated  into  the  final  drug 
product. The potential for viral contamination due to material of biological origin and the removal of 
impurities during all main processing steps have been adequately assessed. 
The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin lispro on blood glucose control and on binding both insulin 
and IGF-1 receptors have been adequately assessed. No relevant findings have been observed during 
the toxicity studies after single dose and at 1 month and 12 months repeated administration. There was 
no  evidence  of  effects  on  the  fertility, development-toxicity  and  teratogenicity in  the  animal  species 
studied. As the result of the mutagenic potential assessed through several series of tests was uniformly 
negative,  and  no  proliferative  effect  has  been  observed,  there  was  no  need  to  conduct  conventional 
carcinogenicity data. 
Based on the overall clinical data submitted, the insulin lispro appears to display efficacy and safety 
profiles  comparable  to  those  of  existing  human  insulin.  Most  studies  demonstrate  reduced  post-
prandial  glucose  elevations,  despite  an  insulin  lispro  injection  time  just  before  meals.  Two  large 
studies  with  diabetic  patients  demonstrate  a  reduced  rate  of  hypoglycaemia  in  insulin  lispro  treated 
patients, without worsening of metabolic control (HbA1c). 
Consequently,  a  favourable  opinion  for  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  is  recommended  for  the 
following indication: 
For the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the maintenance of normal 
glucose  homeostasis.  Humalog  is  also  indicated  for  the  initial  stabilisation  of  diabetes  mellitus. 
Humalog is a short acting insulin and may be used in conjunction with a longer acting human insulin. 
5. 
Post marketing experience 
Use in children  
New  data  on  the  use  of  insulin  lispro  in  adolescents  and  children  was  presented.  The  efficacy  and 
safety data from the clinical trials in children and adolescents did not present any cause for concern 
about  the  use  of  insulin  lispro  in  these  age  groups.  Clinical  trials  were  performed  in  children  (61 
patients  aged  2  to  11)  and  children  and  adolescents  (481  patients  aged  9  to  19  years),  comparing 
insulin lispro to human soluble insulin.  The pharmacodynamic profile of insulin lispro in children is 
7/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar to that seen in adults. Sections 4.1, 4.4 and 5.1 of the SPC and relevant sections of the PL were 
updated to reflect this information. 
Information on postprandial dosing  
The MAH has submitted data about occasional postprandial injection of insulin lispro. The statement 
“when necessary Humalog can be given soon after meals” was added to Section 4.2 of the SPC. 
CE marked pen injection systems  
The instructions for use and handling of cartridges were updated with a statement specifying that 1.5 
and 3.0 ml cartridges are to be used in conjunction with compatible CE marked pen injection systems.  
Warning on driving and operating machinery  
Following the evaluation of the first PSUR, the CPMP identified the need of an improvement in the 
driving and  operating machinery warning in Humalog SPC and PL, harmonised with other centrally 
authorised  insulins.  The  patient’s  ability  to  concentrate  and  react  may  be  impaired  as  a  result  of 
hypoglycaemia, and therefore, a warning on driving and operating machinery was inserted on Section 
4.7 of the SPC and relevant section of the PL. 
Administration of Humalog with subcutaneous infusion pumps  
Section  4.2  and  6.6d  of  the  SPC  were  updated  with  information  on  the  administration  of  Humalog 
with  subcutaneous  infusion  pumps.  It  was  highlighted  that  only  certain  Minimed  and  Disetronic 
insulin infusion pumps may be used to infuse insulin lispro. 
Risk of ketoacidosis and hyperglycaemia  
Following a request from the CPMP, a warning was inserted in section 4.4 of the SPC, concerning the 
potential risk of ketoacidosis and hyperglycaemia in the event of an under dosage of insulin lispro.  
Update on renal and hepatic impairment  
Eli Lilly made a commitment to provide a final study report of Humalog pharmacokinetics in patients 
with renal and hepatic impairment.  The assessment of the results of clinical trials with patients with 
renal/hepatic  impairment  demonstrated  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Humalog  and  Humulin  R  were 
independent  from  renal  function.    Humalog  maintained  more  rapid  aborption  and  elimination  when 
compared to Humulin R in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Sections 4.4, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SPC were updated with this information. 
Additional route of administration (intravenous)  
The MAH submitted an application to include a new route of administration (intravenous use). Until 
that moment, the authorised route of administration for Humalog was subcutaneous use. 
The Applicant submitted two studies to support the intravenous use of Humalog solution for injection 
(vial,  cartridge  and  pen).  The  data  submitted  suggested  that  Humalog,  given  intravenously  in 
circumstances as acute illness or during and after surgery, might be effective and safe in controlling 
hyperglycaemia in diabetic patients. Sections 4.2 and 6.6 of the SPC and  the PL were updated with 
this information. 
Use of Humalog with sulphonylurea drugs  
Combination  therapy  with  insulin  and  sulphonylurea  drugs  is  often  used  in  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes.  The  MAH  applied  for  a  variation  to  update  sections  4.2  and  5.1  of  the  SPC  with  current 
information regarding the use of Humalog with sulphonylurea drugs; providing data from two studies 
indicating  that  Humalog  is  effective  and  safe  when  combined  with  sulphonylurea  agents.  Both 
sections of the SPC were updated. 
The effect of various injection sites on insulin absorption  
The  MAH  provided  the  results  of  a  pharmacodynamic  study  where  insulin  lispro  showed  a  greater 
maximum  infusion  rate,  at  an  earlier  time  regardless  of  the  injection  site  (deltoid,  femoral  or 
abdominal) compared to soluble human insulin. Section 4.2 of the SPC was updated accordingly, as 
well as relevant section of the PL. 
8/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduction of postprandial hyperglycaemia  
The  MAH  applied  for  a  variation  to  update  section  5.1  of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics 
(SPC)  regarding  data  on  the  reduction  of  postprandial  hyperglycaemia  with  insulin  lispro  and  lispro 
Mix25 compared to  soluble  human insulin and  human insulin Mix30/70 respectively. To  support its 
claim  the  MAH  provided  data  from  five  published  clinical  studies  comparing  postprandial  glucose 
control with Humalog (insulin lispro) and regular human insulin.  
The following wording was added to section 5.1 of the SPC for Humalog: “Clinical trials in patients 
with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes have demonstrated reduced postprandial hyperglycaemia with insulin 
lispro compared to soluble human insulin. For fast acting insulins, any patient also on a basal insulin 
must optimise dosage of both insulins to obtain improved glucose control across the whole day” and 
the  following  sentence  was  added  for  Humalog  Mix25:  “Clinical  trials  in  patients  with  Type  1  and 
Type  2  diabetes  have  demonstrated  reduced  postprandial  hyperglycaemia  with  Humalog  Mix25 
compared  to  human  insulin  mixture  30/70.  In  one  clinical  study  there  was  a  small  (0.38mmol/l) 
increase in blood glucose levels at night (3.a.m)”. 
Data on reduction of nocturnal hypoglycaemia  
The MAH requested a variation to include data on reduction of nocturnal hypoglycaemia. To support 
its claim the MAH provided data from seven clinical studies in patients with Type 1 diabetes, and 2 
clinical studies in patients with Type 2 diabetes. On the basis of these studies results, it was concluded 
that the use of insulin lispro in Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes leads to less nocturnal hypoglycaemia than 
regular insulin. However, in some studies, reduction of nocturnal hypoglycaemia was associated with 
increased  episodes  of  daytime  hypoglycaemia.  This  information  was  included  in  section  5.1  of  the 
SPC. 
New data from animal studies  
The  MAH  applied  for  a  variation  to  update  the  SPC  regarding  data  from  animal  studies  on  fertility 
impairment, embryotoxicity or teratogenicit. The MAH provided a review of some studies included in 
the original dossier aiming to evaluate the overall reproductive performance in animals.  The studies 
showed  that  insulin  lispro  did  not  induced  fertility  impairment,  embryotoxicity  or  teratogenicity  in 
animals.  
Use of Humalog in pregnancy   
The  MAH applied to  amend the SPC regarding clinical experience with insulin lispro in pregnancy. 
This claim was based on data from three sources (study F3Z-MC-IONS, Pharmacovigilance data and 
published literature). The statement  “data on a large number of exposed pregnancies do not indicate 
an adverse effect of insulin lispro on pregnancy or on the health of the foetus/newborn”, was included 
in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Update of incompatibilities and instruction for use section of SPC and PL  
The  MAH  applied  for  a  variation  to  update  sections  6.2  and  6.6  of  the  SPC  and  the  corresponding 
sections  in  the  PL  to  add  a  warning  stating  that  Humalog  should  not  be  mixed  with  other  insulin 
products.  
The equipotency of insulin lispro to human insulin 
The MAH applied to include the following sentence in section 5.1 of the SPC:  
“Insulin  lispro  has  been  shown  to  be  equipotent  to  human  insulin  on  a  molar  basis  but  its  effect  is 
more rapid and a shorter duration.” 
Previously submitted data from the IMAC study was referred by the MAH to support this claim. Data 
from  IMAC  study  demonstrated  that  at  different  doses,  insulin  lispro  and  regular  human  insulin 
showed almost identical pharmacokinetics and glucodynamics. 
Concomitant use of Humalog and monoamine oxidase inhibitors  
The  reference  that  certain  antidepressants  might  reduce  insulin  requirements  was  updated  with 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors in section 4.5 of the SPC and PL. Three published papers were cited by 
the MAH as supporting evidence.  
9/9 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
