17 February 2011 
EMA/227628/2011  
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation  
Assessment report for 
Humira 
Common name: adalimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000481/II/00081-G 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
About the product 
Adalimumab  is  a  recombinant  human  immunoglobulin  monoclonal  antibody  containing  only  human 
peptide sequences. Adalimumab binds specifically to tumour necrosis factor (TNF) and neutralizes the 
biological function of TNF by blocking its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
TNF is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in normal inflammatory and immune responses. 
Humira is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis when response to 
Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) is inadequate or in severe, active, and progressive 
RA  in  adults  no  previously  treated  with  methotrexate  (in  combination  with  methotrexate  or  as 
monotherapy), polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in adolescents aged 13 to 17 years, active and 
progressive  psoriatic  arthritis,  active  ankylosing  spondylitis,  and  severe  active  Crohn’s  disease,  and 
moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. 
The  recommended  dose  of  Humira  for  patients  with  polyarticular  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis  (JIA), 
aged  13  years  and  above  is  40  mg  adalimumab  administered  every  other  week  as  a  single  dose  via 
subcutaneous injection. 
Scope of the variation  
When the use of adalimumab in the JIA indication was initially approved (EMEA/H/C/000481/H/C/39 in 
August  2008),  the  CHMP  concluded  that  there  was  a  lack  of  an  appropriate  presentation  to  allow 
adequate dosing in children below 13 years of age. Thus, approval was only granted from the age of 
13 years, where the fixed dose of 40 mg was considered appropriate. In the present submission, the 
MAH  has  developed  a  possibility  to  deliver  an  adequate  dose  for  children  below  13  years  of  age.  No 
new controlled clinical study data have been submitted in this application. Thus, the clinical data have 
been  reviewed  previously,  and  the  assessment  presented  below  is  mainly  based  on  the  CHMP 
assessment report of the data submitted in the previous application.  
In this variation the MAH applies for a dosing by Body Surface Area (BSA) i.e. a flexible dosing with a 
single-use vial (“partial use”) in JIA patients aged 4- 12 years. The product is still presented as 40 mg 
per  0.8  ml  vial  but  only  some  of  the  contents  of  the  vial  may  be  used  as  it  is  dedicated  to  the  JIA 
paediatric indication only. The existing registered vial presentation is amended to reflect “partial use” 
to  support  paediatric  BSA  dosing.  The  product  name  is  amended  as  follows:  “Humira  40 mg/0.8 ml 
Solution for injection paediatric vial”. 
In the above the “concentration (mg/ml)” is expressed as opposed to the “quantity (mg)”, to aid the 
prescriber  with  BSA  dosing.  There  is  no  change  in the  strength  but  in  the  expression  of  the  strength 
(i.e. the contents of the vial have not changed). The qualifier “Paediatric vial” is added to the product 
name  because  only  the  vial  fully  supports  the  paediatric  dosing.  The  other  existing  presentations  of 
pen and pre-filled syringe support only total-use, i.e. administration of the full 40 mg single dose, and 
therefore are not suitable to support the BSA dosing.  
A number of quality changes support the “partial-use” vial. These changes have been grouped with the 
clinical extension of the indication. The following variation applications are grouped in this submission: 
Clinical: 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 2/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Quality: 
See section 1.2 below. 
Available safety data up to at least 2 years are also assessed within the current variation.  
Product information changes: 
The  SmPC  for  the  vial  is  amended  to  reflect  only  the  JIA  paediatric  indication.  The  other  indications, 
which are adult indications requiring 40 mg single-dose, have been removed from the vial presentation 
SmPC. The vial presentation will support the paediatric dosing only whereas the existing presentation 
of pen and pre-filled syringe will only support the adult dose posology, i.e. total use 40 mg single-dose. 
The vial is therefore the only presentation that supports “partial-use”, i.e. is the presentation that will 
fully  support  the  paediatric  JIA  indication.  The  SmPC  for  the  vial  contains  the  full  safety  information 
within sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 as applicable to all the indications. 
The MAH took the opportunity to correct typographical errors throughout the PI and also to remove the 
Patient Alert Card section from the annex III A. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 1901/2006 as amended, the application included an EMA 
decision (P/102/2010) on a paediatric investigation plan with a deferral.  
The following conditions are covered in the paediatric investigation plan: 
  Rheumatoid arthritis 
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
  Crohn’s Disease 
 
 
Psoriasis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
  Ankylosing spondylitis 
The PIP is not yet completed.  
1.2.  Quality aspects 
1.2.1.  Drug substance 
N/A 
1.2.2.  Drug Product 
As  already  mentioned  above,  Humira  40  mg  -  vial  is  currently  approved  for  marketing  in  Europe. 
However,  in  order  to  enable  appropriate  dosing  out  of  the  “partial-use”  vial,  the  MAH  proposes  to 
introduce  the  use  of  the  following  dose  administration  devices  (accessories):  a  vial  adapter,  a  1  mL 
graduated syringe and an injection needle. Furthermore, to assure the delivery of the maximum dose 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 3/24
 
 
 
 
 
(0.8 mL adalimumab solution for injection) from the vial using the provided accessories, it was found 
that the vial fill volume needs to be increased. 
In  conjunction  with  the  introduction  of  the  “partial-use”  vial,  Abbott  proposes  to  transfer  the  site  of 
manufacture for the 0.8 mL/40 mg bulk vial dosage form/presentation. Consequential changes to the 
change in manufacturing site of the bulk vials include:  
1)  changes  to  the  vial  manufacturing  process  (and  batch  size)  to  align  the  process  with  that 
approved for the bulk pre-filled syringe dosage/presentation;  
2)  a change to the rubber vial stopper; and 
3) 
increase in shelf-life  
The current variation application does not include any changes to the sections in the approved Humira 
dossier referring to drug substance. 
Transfer  of  the  manufacture  and  the  introduction  of  changes  to  manufacturing  process  to  align  the 
process with that approved for the bulk pre-filled syringe dosage/presentation 
The  Manufacturing  site  performing  the  commercial  scale  qualification  and  validation  of  the 
manufacturing process for adalimumab solution for injection in vials has been changed.   
The validated manufacturing process for adalimumab 50 mg/mL solution for injection in 40 mg/0.8 mL 
vials was transferred to the proposed facility. The manufacturing of the bulk drug product solution for 
filling the vial presentation was qualified at the new facility using the same basic process as validated 
at  the  previous  facility  and  the  manufacturing  process  was  also  harmonized  with  the  approved  bulk 
drug  product  solution  manufacturing  process  used  for  filling  pre-filled  syringes.  The  thawing,  pooling 
and compounding steps,  as well as the equipment used in these steps, are  identical for the pre-filled 
syringe and vial manufacturing processes. 
Discussion: 
Data  on  three  process  validation  runs  are  provided  supporting  adequate  performance  of  the 
adalimumab  manufacturing  process  to  fill  40  mg/0.8  mL  vials  at  the  site.  The  bulk  solution 
manufacturing  process  was  identical  to  that  already  validated  previously  for  manufacture  of 
adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 mL pre-filled syringes. Vials for these first three process validation runs were 
filled to a target volume per vial, and drug product from all three batches conformed to specifications 
and  acceptance  criteria.  Although  the  MAH  did  not  challenged  the  maximum  batch  size  proposed  in 
these studies, the data reported are considered satisfactory to support the transfer of production to the 
new  site,  taking  into  consideration  that  the  thawing,  pooling  and  compounding  steps,  and  equipment 
are identical for the pre-filled syringe and vial, and that production of syringes in a batch size proposed  
is approved. 
Change to the rubber vial stopper 
Upon  transferring  the  bulk  vial  manufacturing  process,  the  same  2R  glass  vial  quality  has  been 
preserved, and the vial rubber stopper is still coated on the product contact side with teflon, although 
the original rubber stopper elastomer has been changed. In order to support this change, as well as to 
develop  supporting  data  to  register  an  alternate  adalimumab  pre-filled  syringe  primary  packaging 
system, a forced extraction studies were done with syringe plunger stoppers made of the same rubber 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 4/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  the  same  coating  (on  the  product  contact  side  of  the  syringe  plunger  stopper)  as  for  the  vial 
rubber stoppers used to manufacture bulk pre-filled vials. 
Forced  extraction  studies  of  the  coated  syringe  plunger  stoppers,  utilizing  solvents  in  a  range  of 
polarities, were performed to determine which extractables from the stoppers could potentially migrate 
into  the  final  product  during  storage.  The  rubber  stoppers  were  extracted  independently  with  three 
different  solvents  using  reflux  conditions.  The  extracts  were  evaluated  using  high  performance  liquid 
chromatography and other analytical methods. 
A  risk-based  approach  was  employed  to  select  a  subset  of  the  extractable  substances  detected  after 
forced  extraction  for  method  validation  and  potentially  leachable  impurities  evaluation  in  actual  (pre-
filled  syringe)  product  samples.  This  risk  assessment  utilised  a  ranking  system  for  each  extractable 
compound  based  on  the  relevance  of  the  solvent  in  which  it  was  extracted,  the  amount  of  the 
extractable  detected,  and  the  relative  toxicological  properties  of  the  compound  as  indicated  by  its 
acceptable daily intake (ADI) value. 
The  methods  used  to  detect  the  extractable  substances  were  validated  according  to  ICH  Q2  (R1) 
guidelines  so  that  these  compounds  could  be  tracked  as  potentially  leachable  impurities  in  the  drug 
product during real-time storage. Additional compounds and metal ions were included in the validation 
of the methods.  
Samples  from  pre-filled  syringe  batches  with  29  G  x  ½  inch  needles  which  were  filled  using  the 
proposed, coated plunger stoppers and stored at the recommended storage temperature of 2° to 8°C, 
were  evaluated  for  the  detection  of  any  leachables  at  timepoints  ranging  from  Time  0  through  18 
months. All results indicated that there was no change to the potentially leachable impurities from the 
initial timepoint to the 18 month timepoint. All results were below the method detection limits or the 
method quantitation limits. 
A  separate  stability  study  was  performed  to  evaluate  the  potential  impact  of  extractables  from  the 
proposed  coated  plunger  stoppers  and  the  (thermoplastic  elastomer  –  TPE)  soft  needle  shield  on 
adalimumab drug product. The extractables/leachables profile for a combined extract of this pre-filled 
syringe  stopper  and  soft  needle  shield  formulation  could  be  considered  a  worst  case  surrogate  for 
extractables/leachables  that  might  be  present  in  the  vial  rubber  stopper  only.  Solutions  containing 
forced  extracts  from  the  stoppers  and  soft  needle  shields  were  used  to  prepare  adalimumab  drug 
product  solution  which  was  filled  into  syringes  and  placed  on  stability  at  the  recommended  storage 
temperature  (2°  to  8°C)  for  24  months  and  at  short  term  accelerated  conditions  (25°C/60%RH  and 
40°C/75%RH,  respectively)  for  6  months.  The  stability  testing  results  indicated  that  the  extractables 
from  the  coated  plunger  stoppers  and  soft  needle  shields  had  no  adverse  effects  on  the  adalimumab 
shelf life stability. 
Discussion: 
Studies reported from the control for leachables are satisfactory supporting the change of stoppers. 
Increase in the nominal fill volume for the bulk vial 
To  enable  appropriate  dosing  out  of  the  vial  for  administering  the  product  to  juvenile  patients,  the 
following  dose  administration  devices  (accessories)  are  provided:  a  vial  adapter,  a  1  mL  graduated 
syringe and an injection needle. To assure delivery of the maximum dose (0.8 mL adalimumab solution 
for injection) from the vial using the provided accessories, the vial fill volume needs to be greater than 
the vial fill volume used for the first three process validation batches manufactured. Laboratory studies 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 5/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated  that  the  increased  target  fill  volume  assures  that  the  maximum  prescribed  dose  of 
0.8 mL  can  be  withdrawn  from  the  vial  and  administered  using  the  provided  dose  administration 
accessories.  To  demonstrate  that  the  vial  filling  process  is  able  to  fill  vials  with  to  the  increased 
nominal  fill  volume,  a  fourth  process  validation  run  following  the  same  study  protocol  as  the  three 
earlier runs, was performed at the target fill volume. Vials from this additional process validation run 
conformed to specifications and acceptance criteria.  
Discussion: 
Considering  the  marginal  difference  in  volume,  production  of  only  one  additional  validation  batch  is 
considered sufficient to support the increase in fill volume. 
Increase in shelf-life 
Supporting the proposed extension of the shelf-life for product in vials, the following documentation is 
presented: 
  Stability testing results through 36 months storage for primary vial stability batches results for 
the process validation batches  
  Stability  data  through  three  months  for  the  three  process  validation  lots  of  adalimumab  50 
mg/mL solution for injection, 40 mg/0.8 mL vial  
  Supportive  stability  data  for  two  pre-filled  syringe  batches  manufactured  using  the  same 
rubber, coated stopper material that will be used for all vial batches filled  
  Results  of  stability  studies  on  the  Extraction  Stress  Testing  of  Stability  results  include  data 
from  pre-filled  syringe  batches  that  were  spiked  with  extractables  from  the  coated  stoppers 
and needle guard and the controls. 
The available real time data of the stability studies for the primary vial batches the process validation 
vial batches, the process validation vial as well as for the supportive pre-filled syringe batches with the 
new grey rubber stopper composition (still coated on the product contact side) support the conclusion 
that adalimumab 40 mg solution for injection 0.8 mL is stable for at least 24 months when stored at 2 
to  8°C  in  2R  glass  vials  (or  syringes)  with  a  stopper  enclosure  of  rubber  elastomer,  coated  on  the 
product contact side of the stopper. 
This conclusion is supported by the statistical analyses of data. 
The results of these stability studies also reveal that the storage position of the vials (stored upright or 
upside down) is not relevant as to stability. 
Discussion: 
A  comprehensive  data  package  is  submitted  supporting  stability  of  product  in  the  paediatric  vial. 
Although  the  individual  studies  do  not  fulfil  all  requirements,  being  either  conducted  on  batches 
produced at another site, equipped with the “old” stoppers, representative of the syringe presentation 
or covering too short time in storage, the studies together provide a satisfactory base for conclusion on 
the  shelf-life.  The  production  of  drug  product  has  adhered  to  basically  the  same  procedure  since 
obtaining  license  for  Humira  on  the  EU-market,  and  the  early  production  date  of  the  batches  is 
therefore  not  considered  critical.  As  refers  to  the  change  in  stoppers,  both  the  new  and  the  old  were 
Teflon  coated.  Furthermore,  the  stability  studies  performed  on  the  syringe  can  be  considered 
representative “worst case” conditions.  
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 6/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  stability  data  as  tabulated  in  the  reports  and  subjected  to  statistical  evaluation,  reveal  no 
significant  differences  between  batches,  irrespectively  of  whether  they  have  been  stoppered  with  the 
old or new stoppers, the vials were stored upright or upside down, or presented as a vial or a syringe. 
Conclusion 
The proposed extension of the pre-filled vial shelf life is acceptable. 
The  ongoing  stability  studies  will  continue,  and  stability  data  for  subsequent  time  points  will  be 
submitted if any trends toward divergence from previous results are observed. 
Suitability of Dose Administration Devices (Accessories) 
The  adalimumab  drug  product  solution  contained  in  the  pre-filled  vial  dosage  presentation  will  be 
transferred  and  administered  using  three  CE-marked  and  510(k)  cleared  dose  administration  devices 
(accessories),  which  will  be  included  for  the  patient/caregiver  in  the  commercially  distributed 
procedure  pack  (kit);  each  accessory  component  will  be  individually  packaged  to  protect  sterility  and 
inserted, along with the pre-filled vial, into the procedure pack (kit) carton for each dose. 
Various  vial  adapter  designs  from  different  suppliers  were  evaluated.  The  vial  adapter  was  selected 
based on criteria that included residual volume in the vial after aspiration, force to penetrate the vial 
stopper and the potential to maintain sterility during user handling due to the blister package design. 
The  vial  adapter  is  made  of  polycarbonate  and  consists  of  a  spike  that  is  siliconized  to  facilitate 
penetration through the rubber stopper of the vial. The vial adapter design enables gripping over the 
neck of the vial and also has a female Luer Lock hub that is designed to be compatible with male Luer 
Lock  syringes  designed  to  the  ISO  594-1  and  ISO  594-2  standards.  Biocompatibility  of  materials  of 
construction meets ISO 10993 standards. 
Drug  volume  delivery  results  were  evaluated  for  adalimumab  50  mg/ml,  solution  for  injection  in  2R 
glass vials. 
Also  evaluated  were  adalimumab  drug  product  content  (extractable  volume)  and  uniformity  (mass 
variation)  for  variable  dosing.  Solution  was  aspirated  and  dispensed  using  the  accessories  for 
adalimumab drug product when filled, stoppered and capped into a glass vial. In this study, vials filled 
from the fourth process validation run were used. The extractable volume results confirm that 0.8 mL 
(maximum  dose)  can  be  delivered,  using  the  accessories,  from  vials  filled  with  a  target  fill  volume. 
Uniformity of dosage was also evaluated at using the 1mL BD syringe and needle accessories with the 
same vials from process  validation batch. Each target dosage volume was expelled into a tared glass 
vial  for  mass  determination.  The  uniformity  of  dosage  was  calculated  as  described  in  Ph.  Eur.  2.9.40 
and results met the Ph. Eur. acceptance criteria. 
A short-term stability study was performed to assess adalimumab drug product stability and adsorption 
“in-use”,  upon  exposure  to  the  accessory  components  at  room  temperature.  Drug  product  from 
representative adalimumab vials was drawn into the 1 mL disposable graduated plastic syringe, using 
the vial adapter, to approximately 0.8 mL. After attaching the needle, the filled syringe was exposed to 
the  elevated  room  temperature.  The  sample  showed  essentially  no  change  in  adalimumab 
characteristics.  The  change  observed  for  the  sample  followed  the  typical  adalimumab  degradation 
kinetics,  with  approximately  0.5%  reduced  adalimumab  purity  in  terms  of  sum  of  lysine  variants  per 
cation  exchange  HPLC,  which  was  comparable  to  the  corresponding  control.  These  results  indicated 
that  the  observed  change  is  mainly  due  to  the  temperature  effect  but  not  the  accessory  device. 
Changes  observed  have  no  significant  impact  on  product  quality.  In  addition,  no  significant  protein 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 7/24
 
 
 
 
 
adsorption  was  observed  upon  short  term  exposure  to  the  dose  administration  device  components  at 
an accelerated temperature storage condition. 
Discussion: 
The suitability of dose administration devices has been satisfactorily supported. 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  proposed  re-labelling  of  the  currently  approved  vial  presentation,  and  the  changes  introduced  in 
conjunction with the transfer of the production are satisfactorily supported. The proposed extension of 
the shelf-life for the vial presentation is acceptable. The suitability of dose administration devices has 
been satisfactorily supported. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
General Comments on Compliance with GCP  
The  Clinical  trial  submitted  in  support  of  this  variation  was  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP. 
Furthermore, the applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside 
the community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
1.3.1.  Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  and  immunogenicity  data  of  adalimumab  were  evaluated  in  paediatric  (4  –  17 
years) subjects with polyarticular JIA in study DE038 (for details of the studies referred in this section, 
please see section Clinical efficacy). Subjects were dosed based on BSA during the first three phases of 
the  study,  and  received  a  fixed  dose  based  on  body  weight  in  the  fourth  phase.  Samples  for 
pharmacokinetic analysis and immunogenicity assessment were taken during the first 48 weeks of the 
study (open-label lead-in [OL LI] and double-blind [DB] phases) during which subjects received a BSA-
based dose. The pharmacokinetics of adalimumab were also evaluated during the first 16 weeks of the 
open-label  extension  fixed  dose  (OLE  FD)  phase,  but  only  in  subjects  who  had  their  dose  changed 
(increased  or  decreased)  when  switched  to  the  FD  regimen.  No  new  pharmacokinetic  data  were 
collected after Week 16 of the OLE FD phase. 
In the 16-week OL LI phase and the 32-week DB phase the dosing regimen was 24 mg per m2 (max 40 
mg)  subcutaneously  eow,  with  or  without  concomitant  methotrexate  (MTX).  The  OLE  comprised  the 
same dosing based on BSA (OLE BSA) and a period with fixed dosing (OLE FD) treatment (20 mg for 
subjects with body weights < 30 kg and 40 mg for subjects with body weights >30 kg). 
Pharmacokinetics during open-label lead-in and double-blind phases 
The pharmacokinetics of adalimumab were evaluated in 171 pediatric subjects with polyarticular JIA in 
the  OL  LI  and  DB  phases  of  Study  DE038.  Steady-state  serum  adalimumab  concentrations  were 
achieved  by  Week  20  for  subjects  who  received  adalimumab  during  both  the  OL  LI  and  DB  phases. 
Mean  (±  SD)  steady-state  serum  adalimumab  trough  concentrations  of  10.9  ±  5.2 μg/mL  and  5.5  ± 
5.6  μg/mL  were  observed  in  subjects  on  concomitant  MTX  and  in  subjects  not  on  concomitant  MTX, 
respectively.  The  inter-individual  variability  was  very  large,  in  particular  in  patients  without 
concomitant  MTX  treatment.  These  systemic  exposures  were  in  the  range  of  steady-state  serum 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 8/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adalimumab  trough  concentrations  previously  observed  in  adult  subjects,  both  during  monotherapy 
and  concomitant  MTX  treatment.  There  was  a  tendency  for  a  higher  inter-individual  variability  and 
higher  immunogenicity  rate  in  juvenile  subjects.  During  concomitant  MTX  treatment  the  serum  levels 
were on average higher and the variability was lower. 
Serum adalimumab concentration data from the OL LI and DB phases of Study DE038 were combined 
with data from the Phase 2 Study DE009 (MTX) and Phase 3 Study DE011 (non-MTX) in adult subjects 
with RA and modeled using population pharmacokinetic modeling. The purpose of the analysis was to 
compare  adalimumab  pharmacokinetics  in  adults  to  those  in  pediatric  subjects  with  JIA.  A  one-
compartment model with exponential inter-individual random effect terms on apparent clearance (CL/F) 
and  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (V/F),  with  significant  covariates  of  body  weight,  MTX,  and 
rheumatoid  factor  (RF)  on  CL/F  and  body  weight  on  V/F,  and  a  combined  residual  error  model,  was 
identified  as  the  final  population  pharmacokinetic  model.  The  results  of  the  analysis  showed  body 
weight normalized CL/F and V/F values to similar levels between juvenile and adult subjects. 
Pharmacokinetics during the open-label extension fixed dose phase 
There  were  106  subjects  who  entered  the  OLE  FD  phase  of  Study  DE038.  Of  these  subjects,  56 
subjects had a change in their dose upon entering the OLE FD phase and 50 did not have a change in 
their dose. 
Serum adalimumab trough concentrations were measured only in subjects who had a change in dose 
upon switching to the FD regimen (N = 56). Of these 56 subjects, 53 subjects had an increase in dose 
and  3  subjects  had  a  decrease  in  dose.  Serum  adalimumab  trough  concentrations  were  near  steady 
state  by  Week  12  of  the  OLE  FD  phase  in  subjects  who  increased  dose.  The  average  steady  state 
trough  concentrations  with  the  FD  regimen  were  calculated  as  the  arithmetic  mean  of  pre-dose 
concentrations  from  both  Week  12  and  Week  16  of  the  OLE  FD  phase.  For  subjects  who  had  dose 
increases  in  the  OLE  FD  phase,  serum  adalimumab  trough  concentrations  increased  correspondingly. 
The  increase  in  serum  adalimumab  trough  concentrations  was  modest,  at  about  20%  for  the  MTX 
stratum  and  30%  for  the  non-MTX  stratum.  However,  these  concentrations  are  still  in  the  range 
observed previously in adalimumab-treated adults with RA, AS, PsA, and CD. In subjects who had dose 
decreases, 1 subject had serum adalimumab concentrations increase by Week 16 of the OLE FD phase 
and 2 subjects had serum concentrations that did not change. 
Serum  adalimumab  trough  concentrations  were  also  examined  stratified  by  weight-adjusted  dose 
quartiles  for  subjects  in  the  OLE  FD  phase  compared  to  subjects  in  the  OL  LI  and  DB  phases.  The 
subjects  who  entered  the  OL  LI  phase  received  adalimumab  doses  (normalized  by  body  weight) 
ranging from 0.4 mg/kg to 1.11 mg/kg (median – 0.78 mg/kg). By comparison, subjects who entered 
the OLE FD phase received adalimumab doses (normalized by body weight) ranging from 0.37 mg/kg 
to  1.31  mg/kg  (median  –  0.78  mg/kg).  These  data  demonstrate  that  the  dose  range  for  subjects 
receiving the FD in the OLE FD phase was fairly comparable to that of the subjects receiving the BSA-
based dose in the OL LI phase. The serum adalimumab trough concentrations analyzed by normalized 
dose quartiles are also fairly comparable for the two regimens. 
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Overall,  following  the  BSA-based  dosing  in  juvenile  subjects  (24  mg/m2  with  a  maximum  dose  of 
40 mg eow) steady-state serum concentrations obtained in subjects with JIA appeared to be within the 
range  of  those  previously  observed  in  adult  subjects  (40  mg  eow  in  RA,  AS  and  PsA  patients),  both 
during  monotherapy  and  concomitant  MTX  treatment.  There  was  a  tendency  for  a  higher  inter-
individual  variability  in  juvenile  subjects  compared  with  adults.  An  initial  approach  to  support  a  fixed 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 9/24
 
 
 
 
 
dose  regimen  on  the  basis  of  data  from  study  DE038  PK  modelling  was  previously  not  considered 
appropriate  due  to  deficiencies  in  the  model  building  and  also  in  assessing  how  well  the  model 
simulates data.  
Therefore, under the assumption of similar exposure-response relationships, with respect to safety and 
efficacy,  for  children,  adolescents  and  adults  the  available  pharmacokinetic  data  support  the  studied 
dosing based on BSA, since the systemic exposure is in the same range as that observed in adults.  
Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The  available  pharmacokinetic  data  suggest  that  the  systemic  exposure  in  children  of  the  age  of  4 
years, and adolescents using a dosing based on body surface area is similar to the obtained in adults 
following treatment with adalimumab. 
1.3.2.  Clinical efficacy 
Main study 
Study  DE038  was  the  pivotal  clinical  study  to  evaluate  efficacy  and  safety  with  adalimumab  for 
pediatric  subjects  with  polyarticular  JRA,  who  were  either  MTX-naïve,  inadequate  responders  or 
intolerant to MTX.   
Methods 
Study  DE038  was  a  multicentre,  phase  III,  randomised  withdrawal,  double-blind,  stratified,  parallel-
group  study  in  children  and  adolescents  (4  to  17  years  old)  with  polyarticular  JIA.  Stratification  into 
two groups, MTX-treated or non-MTX-treated, was made prior to study enrolment. Subjects in the MTX 
stratum  were  treated  concomitantly  with  MTX  during  the  study  and  the  current  dose  of  MTX  was  to 
have been stable for at least 3 months prior to screening. Subjects who were in the non-MTX stratum 
were  either  naïve  to  MTX  or  had  been  withdrawn  from  MTX  at  least  two  weeks  prior  to  study  drug 
administration and were not treated concomitantly with MTX during the study.  
The  study  had  four  phases.  During  the  first  three  of  these,  adalimumab  was  given  at  a  dose  of 
24 mg/m2 of BSA (up to a maximum total body dose of 40 mg) sc eow. The phases are listed below: 
1.  a 16-week open-label lead-in (OL LI) phase, (24 mg/m2 BSA eow sc. N: 171) 
2.  a 32-week double blind (DB) phase, (24 mg/m2 BSA eow sc – or – placebo. N: 133) 
3.  an open-label extension BSA dose (OLE BSA) phase. (24 mg/m2 BSA eow sc. N: 128).  
4.  an open label extension fixed dose (OLE FD) phase in which subjects had their dose changed 
from a regimen based on BSA to a fixed dose regimen. (20 mg or 40 mg FD eow sc. N: 106). 
The randomised withdrawal from study drug occurred at week 16 of the OL LI phase. Patients with a 
PedACR301  response  were  randomised  within  their  stratum  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  placebo  or  adalimumab 
during  the  32-week  DB  phase  of  the  study.  Subjects,  who  experienced  disease  flare  during  the  DB 
phase, and those who completed, were eligible to immediately enrol into the open label extension BSA 
(OLE BSA) phase.  
1  PedACR30  (American  College  of  Rheumatology  Paediatric  30)  is  a  standardised  outcome  measure  to  assess  relative  efficacy  in 
clinical trials, i.e., a measure of disease activity in JIA. It is defined as a 30% improvement in a minimum of three variables in the 
core set  with  worsening  of one  variable by  no more  than  30%. The  ACR Paediatric  20,  ACR Paediatric  50,  ACR Paediatric  70,  and 
ACR  Paediatric  90  measures  are  also  used  as  outcome  measures  in  paediatric  trials,  and  are  defined  as  20%,  50%,  70%,  90% 
improvement respectively in a minimum of three variables in the core set with worsening of one variable by no more than 30%. 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 10/24
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Subjects in the OLE BSA phase at the time of approval of the OLE FD protocol amendment were eligible 
to  receive  a  fixed  dose  of  either  20  mg  or  40  mg  eow  adalimumab  based  on  their  body  weight. 
Duration of participation in the OLE BSA phase varied for each subject.  
The  OLE  FD  phase  was  implemented  to  gather  safety  and  efficacy  data  on  a  fixed  dosing  regimen 
based  on  body  weight.  In  this  phase,  subjects  with  a  body  weight  below  30  kg  received  20  mg 
adalimumab eow and subjects with a body weight equal or above 30 kg received 40 mg adalimumab 
eow. Subjects could continue the OLE FD phase for a maximum of five years or up to sixty days post 
marketing approval of the JIA indication in their respective country. 
The CHMP considered the design of the pivotal study as acceptable, although complicated. For ethical 
reasons,  a  withdrawal  design  is  acceptable  and  has  also  been  previously  recognised  in  JIA  trials. 
Inclusion  of  both  MTX-  and  a  non-MTX  strata,  allows  for  a  comparison  of  monotherapy  and 
combination therapy with MTX; which is of clinical value. The CHMP noted that the efficacy evaluation 
was  undertaken  when  subjects  were  treated  with  the  BSA  dose  regimen,  based  on  body  weight.  The 
fixed dose was only studied during a 16 weeks open phase. 
Subject Population 
The  main  inclusion  criteria  were  subjects  between  4  and  17  years  with  a  diagnosis  of  polyarticular 
course JIA as defined by the ACR criteria. Subjects were to have had continuing active disease defined 
as ≥ 5 swollen joints and ≥ 3 joints with limitation of passive motion joint count (LOM). Disease onset 
may have been systemic, polyarrticular, or pauciarticular. If the disease was systemic onset, subjects 
were  to  be  free  of  any  systemic  JIA  manifestations  for  at  least  three  months  before  the  time  of 
qualification.  Subjects  were  to  have  been  either  naïve  to  MTX,  inadequate  responders  to  MTX,  or 
intolerant  to  MTX.  Subjects  who  were  refractory  to  MTX  after  3  months  of  treatment  were  to  have 
active  disease  after  3  months  prior  to  enrolment.  The  duration  of  disease  was  to  have  been  at  least 
long enough for a subject to be given an adequate test of NSAIDs. Subjects were not to have received 
other  DMARDs  for  at least  four  weeks  prior  to  receiving  the  1st  dose  of  study  drug  and  were  to  have 
demonstrated  active  disease  prior  to  a  minimum  four  weeks  (28  days)  washout  of  all  DMARDs. 
Subjects  were  not  to  have  received  an  intra-articular  glucocorticoid  injection  within  four  weeks  (28 
days)  prior  to  enrolment  into  the  study.  Overall,  the  CHMP  considered  the  inclusion  and  exclusion 
criteria as acceptable.  
Efficacy Variables 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  adalimumab-treated  subjects  in  the  non-MTX 
stratum  who  experienced  disease  flare  in  the  DB  phase.  The  criteria  for  disease  flare  were  both  a 
≥30% worsening in at least 3 out of 6 JIA core set criteria and also a minimum of two active joints and 
≥30% improvement in not more than one of the six JIA core set criteria. The DB baseline was used as 
the reference point for the disease flare calculation.  
The following JIA core set of variables were used to determine disease flare:  
 
 
Physician's Global Assessment of subject's disease severity by VAS (Visual analog scales) 
Parent's Global Assessment of subject's overall well-being by VAS 
  Number of active joints (joints with swelling not due to deformity or joints with LOM and with pain, 
tenderness or both) 
  Number of joints with LOM 
  DICHAQ (disability Index of the Childhood Health Assessment Questionnaire) 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 11/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CRP (C-reactive protein) - Change in CRP from baseline was evaluated for clinical improvement or 
worsening only if at least one of the CRP values, baseline value, or the visit value was outside the 
normal reference range.  
Among  secondary  efficacy  variables,  there  were  a  number  related  to  disease  flare,  as  well  as 
assessment of PedACR30/50/70/90 responses. The PedACR30 response in OL LI phase and DB phase 
was defined as ≥30% improvement in at least 3 of the JIA core set of criteria and ≥30% worsening in 
not more than one of the JIA core set. The PedACR50/70/90 in the DB phase were defined similarly to 
the  PedACR30  using  improvement  percentages  of  50,  70,  and  90,  respectively,  while  the  worsening 
percentage criteria was kept unchanged at 30%. 
Statistical Methods 
The  efficacy  analyses  were  performed  on  an  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population.  The  ITT  population  was 
defined as all subjects who received at least one dose of study drug in the OL LI phase. 
The four analysis sets that were used for different phases in this study report are mentioned below: 
 
 
 
 
The OL LI phase includes any ITT subject that received at least one dose of adalimumab in the 
OL LI period of the trial (initial 16 weeks) 
The DB phase includes any ITT subject that received at least one dose of DB medication (32-
week period) 
The OLE BSA phase includes any ITT subject that received at least one OLE dose of 
adalimumab (32 to 136 weeks) 
The OLE FD phase includes any ITT subject that received at least one dose of adalimumab at a 
FD of 20 mg or 40 mg (176 weeks) 
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects in the non-MTX stratum who experienced 
disease flare in the DB phase. 
The analyses of the PedACR response from all four phases of the study were used to demonstrate the 
efficacy of adalimumab treatment. Data from the OLE BSA phase were used to demonstrate the safety 
and efficacy of long-term adalimumab dosing with the BSA dosing regimen, and data from the OLE FD 
phase  were  used  to  support  the  efficacy  of  the  FD  adalimumab  regimen.  For  the  OLE  FD  phase,  this 
report includes data from Week 0 through Week 176 visits. 
For  categorical  efficacy  data,  Pearson's  Chi-square  test  was  used  or,  in  instances  where  at  least  one 
cell  had  the  expected  value  of  cell  count  <  5,  Fisher's  exact  test  was  used.  Continuous  efficacy 
variables  were  summarized  using  n  (sample  size),  mean,  standard  deviation,  minimum,  1st  quartile, 
median,  3rd  quartile,  and  maximum  for  continuous  variables.  For  continuous  variables,  comparisons 
between groups were conducted using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), with the OL LI Baseline as 
the covariate. 
Overall the statistical methods used were considered as appropriate.  
Results 
Patient flow 
Table 2 presents the number of subjects in each phase of the study. 
Table 2 
Number of subjects in each respective phase of the study  
Disposition of patients in Study DE038 
Open label lead in phase (171 enrolled) 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 12/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MTX :  85 
Non-MTX :  86 
83 completed 
77 completed 
58 continued 
75 continued 
Double-blind withdrawal phase ( 133 =  58 + 75 enrolled) 
Non-MTX/Ada 
30 
29 completed 
Non-MTX/Pl 
28 
28 completed 
MTX/Ada 
38 
35 completed 
MTX/Pl 
37 
36 completed 
Open label BSA (128 = 57 + 71 enrolled) 
29 
24 completed 
28 
23 completed 
35 
31 completed 
36 
28 completed 
Open label Fixed Dose 
106 enrolled 
Baseline disease characteristics  
In  the  OL  LI  and  the  OLE  BSA  phases,  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  baseline 
disease characteristics between treatment groups or within the respective strata. Different ages were 
reasonably  well  represented  in  the  two  groups.  For  all  parameters  describing  disease  activity,  there 
was  a  tendency  towards  more  active  disease  in  the  non-MTX  treated  group.  This  was  not  found 
surprising  as  a  non-treated  population  is  more  likely  to  have  more  active  disease  than  a  population 
with active disease despite MTX. 
Main efficacy endpoints  
Open label lead in phase (OLE LI)  
 A  total  of  171  subjects  enrolled  in  the  OL  LI  phase:  86  subjects  in  the  non-MTX  stratum  and  85 
subjects in the MTX stratum. Response was measured at selected time points during the 16 week OL LI 
phase  and  subjects  who  achieved  a  PedACR30  response  were  eligible  to  enroll  in  the  DB  phase.  At 
Week  16,  144  of  171  (84.2%)  subjects  were  PedACR30  responders.  A  greater  proportion  of  subjects 
(94.1%)  in  the  MTX  stratum  achieved  a  PedACR30  response  compared  to  the  non-MTX  stratum 
(74.4%). Six patients in the non-MTX stratum discontinued treatment due to lack of efficacy, but none 
in the MTX group. Of those who completed the OLE LI, 8 (9%) from the MTX group and 19 (22%) from 
the  non-MTX  group  did  not  continue  into  the  DB  phase.  This  indicates  that  monotherapy  was 
insufficient  to  achieve  adequate  response  in  certain  individuals.    Of  the  144  subjects  who  achieved  a 
PedACR30 response, 133 subjects continued on to the DB phase of the study. 
Double blind phase  
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  adalimumab-treated  subjects  in  the  non-MTX 
stratum with disease flare during the DB phase, Week 16 to Week 48, compared to the proportion of 
placebo-treated subjects in the non-MTX stratum with disease flare. 
Adalimumab treatment significantly decreased the proportion of subjects with disease flares compared 
to placebo treatment (P = 0.031) in the non-MTX stratum at Week 48. Disease flare was experienced 
by  43.3%  of  subjects  in  the  adalimumab  treatment  group  and  by  71.4%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo 
treatment group. In addition, adalimumab monotherapy demonstrated a significant delay (P = 0.029) 
in time to disease flare compared to placebo treatment. Median time to flare in the placebo group was 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 13/24
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
~14  weeks  from  the  first  dose  of  blinded  treatment  compared  to  >  32  weeks  for  the  adalimumab 
group. 
Significant differences in the proportion of subjects (36.8% adalimumab-treated subjects and 64.9% of 
placebo-treated subjects) with disease flare by Week 48 were also seen for subjects treated in the MTX 
stratum (P = 0.015). Adalimumab was also superior in delaying the onset of disease flare compared to 
placebo in the MTX stratum (P = 0.031). Median time to disease flare in the MTX stratum from the first 
dose of DB treatment was > 32 weeks for subjects receiving adalimumab and ~20 weeks for subjects 
receiving placebo. 
Additional secondary analyses of PedACR30/50/70/90 response at the end of the DB phase (imputing 
subjects with flare as non-responders) demonstrated that: 
 
In  combined  strata,  subjects  treated  with  adalimumab  demonstrated  statistically  significant 
different  (P  =  0.048)  proportions  of  PedACR30  responses  as  early  as  Week  36.  PedACR30 
responses were achieved by 64.7% of adalimumab-treated subjects versus 47.7% of placebo-
treated subjects. 
  A  greater  proportion  of  placebo-treated  subjects  in  the  non-MTX  stratum  lost  their  PedACR70 
response  compared  to  adalimumab-treated  subjects.  Specifically  at  Week  48,  46.7%  of 
adalimumab-treated  subjects  were  PedACR70  responders  versus  60.0%  at  Week  16.  For  the 
placebo-treated subjects 28.6% were PedACR70 responders at Week 48 versus 71.4% at Week 
16. The difference between treatment groups was not statistically significant. 
 
In the MTX stratum, adalimumab treatment was statistically superior to placebo in achieving 
PedACR30/50/70 responses (P = 0.028; P = 0.028, and P = 0.002, respectively) at Week 48. 
Among  patients  with  no  flare  during  the  DB  phase,  a  tendency  towards  more  injection  site  reactions 
was found, but also a lower number of infections. These data are however, very limited due to a low 
number  of  patients.  More  knowledge  on  the  risks  and/or  loss  of  efficacy  in  patients  who  interrupt 
treatment  and  restart  again  was  considered  important  and  should  be  collected  in  e.g.  the  registry. 
Clarifications that data from week 36 to week 48 in the adalimumab arm were not based on LOCF were 
provided. 
Open-Label Extension Data 
The continued benefit of adalimumab treatment was assessed during the OLE phases of the study. At 
the time of flare during the DB phase, subjects were immediately eligible to enter the OLE BSA phase. 
Subjects who completed the DB phase were also eligible to enter the OLE BSA phase.  
The  results  demonstrate  that  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  a  PedACR30/50/70/90  response 
significantly increased by Week 8 of the OLE BSA phase (100% of subjects were PedACR30 responders) 
from the last value of the DB phase in those subjects who received placebo during the DB phase, and 
the high response rate was maintained during the OLE BSA phase. 
In those subjects who received adalimumab during the DB phase, the proportion of subjects achieving 
a PedACR30 response by Week 8 of the OLE BSA phase was similar to the response at the last value of 
the DB phase, and was maintained during the OLE BSA phase. 
Long-term efficacy  
All  subjects  who  completed  32  weeks  of  DB  phase  or  experienced  a  flare  were  eligible  to  receive  OL 
adalimumab  during  the  OLE  BSA  phase.  Due  to  the  study  design,  subjects  had  different  durations  of 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 14/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure  during  the  OLE BSA  phase. There  were  only  five  subjects  with  exposure  of  136  weeks.  The 
CHMP  noted  this  limited  amount  of  data  following  longer  term  treatment,  and  that  the  numbers  of 
treated patients decreased over time in the open BSA phase, partly due to recruitment of patients into 
the FD regimen.  
The OLE FD phase includes any ITT subject who received at least one dose of adalimumab at a fixed 
dose of 20 mg or 40 mg, and could continue for up to 240-weeks. In total 106 entered this phase. The 
number of subjects with efficacy results reported by week 176 was 38, and by week 102, 6 subjects. 
In  these  subjects,  vast  majority  still  responded.  The  overall  long-term  efficacy  in  this  study  remains 
limited.  
Immunogenicity 
Only samples with low adalimumab concentrations (<2 microg/ml) were analysed for anti-adalimumab 
antibodies (AAA). Positive values were defined as an apparent antibody concentration >20 ng/ml, with 
<50%  suppression  of  antibody  concentrations  by  normal  human  serum  and  that  developed  within  30 
days of the preceding dose of adalimumab.  
In Study DE038, 27 of 171 subjects (15.8%) had at least one anti-adalimumab antibody (AAA) positive 
sample during the OL LI and DB phases. The percentages of AAA positive subjects were 5.9% (5/85) in 
the MTX stratum and 25.6% (22/86) in the non-MTX stratum. The overall rate of AAA positive subjects 
was  higher  than  seen  in  clinical  trials  in  adults  with  RA  while  there  was  no  obvious  difference  in  the 
antibody  incidence  between  juvenile  and  adult  subjects  on  concomitant  MTX.  No  subjects  developed 
AAA for the first time upon switching to the FD regimen during the OLE FD phase. 
The overall proportion of subjects achieving a PedACR302 response at Week 16 in the OL LI phase was 
lower  in  subjects  who  were  AAA  positive  (12  of  19,  63.2%)  compared  to  subjects  who  were  AAA 
negative  (132  of  152,  86.8%).  Similarly,  at  Week  48  of  the  DB  phase,  the  overall  proportion  of 
subjects achieving a PedACR30 response was lower in subjects who were AAA positive (6 of 14, 42.9%) 
compared  to  subjects  who  were  AAA  negative  (35  of  54,  64.8%).  Although  the  response  rate  was 
lower  in  AAA-positive  subjects,  a  substantial  proportion  of  these  subjects  were  responders.  Reduced 
efficacy in the presence of AAAs has also been observed in adults with RA; however, the development 
of  AAAs  in  this  patient  population  does  not  appear  to  impact  efficacy  to  the  same  extent  as  in  adult 
subjects with RA. 
16 of the 30 (53%) subjects in the OLE FD phase were AAA positive at some point in time during the 
previous  phases  of  the  study.  Despite  their  antibody  status,  these  subjects  remained  in  the  study 
through  the  OLE  FD  phase  and  had  PedACR  responses  during  the  OLE  BSA  and  OLE  FD  phases  that 
were fairly comparable to AAA negative subjects. At Week 16 of the OLE FD phase, 12 of 17 (70.6%) 
of  AAA  positive  subjects  achieved  a  PedACR30  response  compared  to  79  of  89  (88.8%)  of  AAA 
negative subjects. Although the response rate was slightly lower in AAA positive subjects, a substantial 
proportion of these subjects were responders. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
One  pivotal  trial  was  performed  to  study  efficacy  and  safety  in  children  aged  4-17  years,  with 
polyarticular JIA. An open initial phase study design, including two strata (non-MTX and MTX), followed 
2 PedACR30 (American College of Rheumatology Paediatric 30) is a standardised outcome measure to assess relative efficacy in 
clinical trials, i.e., a measure of disease activity in JIA. It is defined as a 30% improvement in a minimum of three variables in the 
core set with worsening of one variable by no more than 30%. The ACR Paediatric 20, ACR Paediatric 50, ACR Paediatric 70, and 
ACR Paediatric 90 measures are also used as outcome measures in paediatric trials, and are defined as 20%, 50%, 70%, 90% 
improvement respectively in a minimum of three variables in the core set with worsening of one variable by no more than 30%. 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 15/24
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
by  a  double-blind  withdrawal  phase  was  chosen  mainly  from  the  ethical  point  of  view.  The  study 
population was adequate as well as the chosen clinical endpoints. 
In  the  open  initial  phase  of  the  study,  the  response  rate,  according  to  the  predefined  30% 
improvement  criteria,  was  94%  with  MTX  +  adalimumab  and  74%  in  the  group  given  adalimumab 
without MTX. There were more responders among the patients with "active disease despite MTX" (i.e. 
the group given combination therapy) compared with patients without MTX, and more patients without 
MTX discontinued the open phase, which indicates an increased efficacy with combination therapy.  
The primary endpoint, proportion of subjects with disease flare in the non-MTX stratum during the DB 
phase, was statistically significantly in favour of adalimumab. The same result was shown in the MTX 
stratum.  The  low  threshold  for  flare  and  the  use  of  imputation  have  to  be  taken  into  account  when 
analysing the results of the primary efficacy. It was considered that in the DB phase, a proportion of 
patients who were in the placebo arm may improve, also after a flare. The imputation assumes there 
will be no further improvement and could weaken the control arm. Because more patients drop out of 
the  placebo  condition  than  the  adalimumab  arm,  imputation  (particularly  LOCF)  results  in  a  bias  in 
favour  of  the  alternative  hypothesis.  Overall,  it  can  be  concluded  that  adalimumab  prevents  disease 
flares  compared  to  placebo  but  due  to  the  complex  trial  design,  the  superiority  of  adalimumab  over 
placebo in the treatment of JIA may be overestimated. Appropriate wording in section 4.2 of the SmPC 
was  added  in  the  framework  of  EMEA/H/C/000481/H/C/39.  It  reduces  the  risk  of  patients  not 
responding  to  receive  continued  treatment:  “Available  data  suggest  that  clinical  response  is  usually 
achieved  within  12  weeks  of  treatment.    Continued  therapy  should  be  carefully  reconsidered  in  a 
patient not responding within this time period”. 
In addition, it was considered of importance to collect efficacy data in “real-world” practice. The MAH 
agreed to set up a registry in JIA patients in the framework of EMEA/H/C/000481/H/C/39. A first report 
from this study was assessed recently (FUM 046 in December  2010). The secondary objective of this 
registry  will  be  to  evaluate  the  long-term  effectiveness  of  Humira  in  JIA  patients  who  are  treated  as 
recommended  in  the  approved  product  information.  Patients  treated  with  MTX  will  be  considered  a 
reference group. Conclusion on the first report informed that there is only very limited data available at 
the time of the report, and thus no firm conclusions can be drawn.  (see clinical safety section).  
The MAH now applies with dosing instructions to allow for dosing according to the BSA posology used 
in the clinical study for children younger than 13 years. The reason is that only BSA dosing has been 
adequately  documented  for  those  children.  Thus,  with  this  new  option,  it is  possible  to  administer  an 
appropriate dose also to the age range from 4-12 years.   
There  were  tendencies  of  better  efficacy  in  the  combination  group  compared  with  the  group  given 
adalimumab monotherapy. In the initial open LI phase a higher percentage of responders were found 
in  the  MTX-group,  94  %,  versus  74%  in  non-MTX  group.  In  addition,  the  number  of  discontinuations 
was  higher  in  the  non-MTX  during  the  initial  phase,  and  there  was  a  higher  number  of  responders 
achieving the more stricter Ped ARC50/70 criteria in the combination group.  
Anti-adalimumab antibodies developed in a higher number in the non-MTX group, 25.6% versus 5.9%, 
which also raised concerns regarding long term efficacy. Further, the pharmacokinetic data indicate a 
higher  adalimumab  plasma  level  in  the  combination  group.  Overall,  these  data  support  combination 
therapy  with  MTX,  and  therefore  combination  therapy  is  the  primary  recommendation  for  this 
indication. 
1.3.3.  Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  adalimumab  was  determined  through  evaluation  of  AEs  (adverse  events),  clinical 
laboratory evaluations, physical examinations, and vital signs. In addition, TNF − inhibitor related AEs 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 16/24
 
 
 
of  interest  were  evaluated:  infections,  serious  infections,  malignancies,  opportunistic  infections, 
tuberculosis  (TB),  demyelinating  disorders,  lupus  −  like  syndrome,  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF), 
allergic reactions, injection site reactions, haematologic events, and hepatic events.  
Patient exposure 
In the OL LI phase and the DB phase, there were 55 subjects exposed to adalimumab, corresponding 
the  44  patients  years  (PYs).  During  the  subsequent  open  label  phases,  exposure  corresponded  to 
118 PYs.  
Adverse events 
An  overview  of  treatment  emergent  AEs  in  the  three  phases  of  the  study  where  patients  received  a 
dose based upon BSA (OL LI, DB and OLE BSA) is shown in tables 3-5 below. 
Table 3  Overview of treatment emergent adverse events (ITT population, open label lead 
in phase) 
Adverse event 
Any adverse event 
Serious adverse event 
Severe adverse event 
Leading to discontinuation of study drug 
At least possibly related to drug  
Infections  
Serious infections 
Malignancies 
Injection site reactions 
Immunologic 
Opportunistic infections including TB 
Death 
MTX 
N=85 
74 (87.1) 
3 (3.5) 
5 (5.9) 
2 (2.4) 
53 (62.4) 
37 (43.5) 
0 
0 
35 (41.2) 
7 (8.2) 
0 
0 
non-MTX 
N=86 
n(%) 
71 (82.6) 
5 (5.8) 
4 (4.7) 
7 (8.1) 
55 (64.0) 
39 (45.3) 
2 (2.3) 
0 
37 (43.0) 
5 (5.8) 
0 
0 
Total 
N=171 
145 (84.8) 
8 (4.7) 
9 (5.3) 
9 (5.3) 
108 (63.2) 
76 (44.4) 
2 (1.2) 
0 
72 (42.1) 
12 (7.0) 
0 
0 
Table 4  Overview  of  treatment  emergent  adverse  events  (ITT  population,  double  blind 
phase) 
Adverse event 
Any adverse event 
Serious adverse 
event 
Severe adverse 
event 
Leading to 
discontinuation of 
study drug 
At least possibly 
related to drug  
Infections  
Serious infections 
Malignancies 
Injection site 
reactions 
Immunologic 
Opportunistic 
MTX 
placebo 
N=37 
n (%) 
27 (73.0)  32 (84.2) 
adalimumab 
N=38 
non-MTX 
placebo 
N=28 
adalimum 
N=30 
21 (75.0)  28 (93.3) 
2 (5.4) 
3 (7.9) 
0 
0 
2 (5.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (3.3) 
1 (3.3) 
0 
15 (40.5)  22 (57.9) 
9 (32.1) 
16 (53.3) 
19 (51.4)  22 (57.9) 
11 (39.3)  19 (63.3) 
0 
0 
9 (24.3) 
1 (2.6) 
0 
14 (36.8) 
0 
0 
4 (14.3) 
1 (3.3) 
0 
11 (36.7) 
0 
0 
2 (5.3) 
0 
0 
0 
3 (10.0) 
0 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Overall 
placebo 
N=65 
48 
(73.8) 
2 (3.1) 
0 
0 
24 
(36.9) 
30 
(46.2) 
0 
0 
13 
(20.0) 
0 
0 
adalimumab 
N=68 
60 (88.2) 
4 (5.9) 
3 (4.4) 
0 
38 (55.9) 
41 (60.3) 
2 (2.9) 
0 
25 (36.8) 
5 (7.4) 
0 
Page 17/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections including 
TB 
Death 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  any  AE  was  higher  (88.2%)  in  the  adalimumab  group  versus  the 
placebo group (73.8%). Few subjects reported SAEs; 5 in the MTX stratum (2 placebo-treated subjects 
and  3  adalimumab-treated  subjects)  and  1  treated  with  adalimumab  in  the  non-MTX  stratum.  The 
proportion  of  subjects  presenting  with  infections,  AEs  at  least  possibly  related  to  study  drug,  and 
injection site reactions was 
Table 5  Overview of treatment emergent adverse events (ITT population, OLE BSA phase) 
MTX 
Adalimumab 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=36 
n (%) 
34 (94.4) 
non-MTX 
Overall 
adalimumab  Adalimumab 
adalimumab  Adalimumab 
adalimumab 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=28 
N=29 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=64 
N=64 
N=35 
33 (94.3) 
27 (96.4) 
25 (86.2) 
61 (95.3)  58 (90.6) 
20 (55.6) 
18 (51.4) 
18 (64.3) 
18 (62.1) 
38 (59.4)  36 (56.3) 
6 (16.7) 
3 (8.6) 
0 
2 (6.9) 
6 (9.4) 
5 (7.8) 
7 (19.4) 
6 (17.1) 
3 (10.7) 
5 (17.2) 
10 (15.6)  11 (17.2) 
0 
0 
1 (2.9) 
1 (3.6) 
0 
1 (1.6) 
1 (1.6) 
5 (14.3) 
0 
2 (6.9) 
0 
7 (10.9) 
27 (75.0) 
1 (2.8) 
29 (82.9) 
3 (8.6) 
21 (75.0) 
0 
20 (69.0) 
2 (6.9) 
48 (75.0)  49 (76.6) 
1 (1.6) 
5 (7.8) 
0 
11 (30.6) 
0 
9 (25.7) 
0 
10 (35.7) 
0 
8 (27.6) 
0 
21 (32.8)  17 (26.6) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (5.6) 
4 (11.4) 
1 (3.6) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3 (4.7) 
4 (6.3) 
Adverse event 
Any adverse 
event 
At least 
possibly 
related to drug  
Severe 
adverse event 
Serious 
adverse event 
Leading to 
discontinuation 
of study drug 
At least 
possibly 
related to drug 
SAE 
Infections  
Serious 
infections 
Malignancies 
Injection site 
reactions 
Opportunistic 
infections  
Congestive 
heart failure 
related 
Demyelinating 
disease 
Hepatic related 
adverse event 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 18/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MTX 
Adalimumab 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=36 
n (%) 
0 
non-MTX 
Overall 
adalimumab  Adalimumab 
adalimumab  Adalimumab 
adalimumab 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=28 
N=29 
(placebo 
during  DB 
phase) 
N=64 
N=64 
N=35 
1 (2.9) 
1 (3.6) 
Adverse event 
Allergic 
reaction 
related 
Lupus-like 
syndrome 
Hematologic 
related 
Serious blood 
dyscrasias 
Non-serious 
blood 
dyscrasias 
Fatal adverse 
event 
Deaths 
0 
0 
1 (2.8) 
1 (2.9) 
0 
0 
2 (5.6) 
1 (2.9) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.6) 
  1 (1.6) 
0 
0 
1 (1.6) 
1 (1.6) 
0 
0 
2 (3.1) 
1 (1.6) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
The percentage of subjects with any AE was similar (58 [90.6%]) in the adalimumab group versus the 
placebo (61 [95.3%]). The proportion of subjects with any AE in the adalimumab group (58 [90.6%]) 
was  comparable  to  the  proportion  in  the  placebo  group  (61  [95.3%]).  Similarly,  the  proportions  of 
subjects experiencing specific types of AEs (e.g., serious, severe, infections) were comparable for the 
subjects  previously  treated  with  placebo  versus  adalimumab.  The  only  notable  difference  was  the 
incidence  rate  of  infections  reported  for  the  adalimumab-treated  subjects  in  the  MTX  stratum 
compared  to  adalimumab-treated  subjects  in  the  non-MTX  stratum  (29  [82.9%]  versus  20  [69.0%], 
respectively). In this case, the concomitant use of MTX with adalimumab may have resulted in a higher 
frequency of infectious AEs compared to adalimumab treatment without concomitant MTX. There were 
no deaths, opportunistic infections, malignancies, lymphomas, non-melanoma skin cancer, congestive 
heart  failure  (CHF),  CNS  demyelinating  disease,  lupus-like  syndromes,  or  serious  blood  dyscrasias 
reported in the OLE BSA phase of this study. In addition, no cases of TB were found in this study phase. 
Most common adverse events 
The most common AEs across the trial included injection site reactions (injection site pain and injection 
site  reactions),  viral  infections,  upper  respiratory  infections,  and  nasopharyngitis.  This  pattern  is 
consistent with that reported in adult RA studies. 
Adverse Events At Least Possibly Related to Study Drug 
The most common AEs at least possibly related to study drug across all phases of the study included 
injection site reactions (injection site pain, injection site reactions) and upper respiratory infections. 
Serious adverse events, deaths and other events of interest 
No deaths were reported in any phase of this study.  
A total of 48 subjects reported SAEs. Most were mild to moderate in severity. Four subjects had SAEs 
that  were  reported  as  severe  and  at  least  possibly  related  to  study  drug.  A  larger  proportion  of 
subjects  reporting  severe  SAEs  were  in  the  MTX  stratum  (9  of  15  subjects).  The  most  frequently 
reported severe SAEs were juvenile arthritis (4 subjects) and appendicitis (3 subjects). Pneumonia was 
reported during the OL LI phase and bronchopneumonia was reported during the OLE BSA phase; both 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 19/24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events  were  reported  for  subjects  in  the  non-  MTX  stratum.  The  third  event,  herpes  zoster  was 
reported for a subject in the MTX stratum during the OLE BSA phase. These events were resolved and 
the subjects continued in the study. 
With  regard  to  special  AEs  of  interest,  no  events  of  CHF,  CNS  demyelination,  lymphomas,  non-
melanoma  skin  cancer,  drug-induced  lupus,  or  malignancies  were  reported  during  the  trial.  Serious 
infectious AEs were reported in 11 subjects 
Adverse events leading to discontinuation of study drug 
During  the  4  phases  of  the  trial,  16  treatment-emergent  AEs  led  to  study  drug  discontinuation;  
9  occurred  during  the  OL  LI  phase  or  the  post-OL  LI  phase.  The  most  common  event  (in  10  of  
16  subjects)  was  disease  flare.  One  had  leucopenia,  two  infections  (pneumoniae),  one  dizziness,  one 
abortion, one arthralgia. The majority of subjects with AEs leading to study drug discontinuation were 
in the non-MTX stratum (all but 5 subjects). 
Laboratory findings 
No  new  safety  signals  were  found  from  changes  in  laboratory  parameters  during  the  phases  of  the 
study.  
Immunogenicity 
The  overall  percentage  of  adverse  events  was  slightly  lower  in  AAA-negative  subjects  than  AAA-
positive  subjects,  while  the  percentage  of  adverse  events  with  and  without  MTX  treatment  for  AAA 
positive  (both  100%)  and  AAA  negative  (86.4% vs.  78.9%)  subjects  was  similar.  The  rate  of  serious 
adverse  events,  severe  adverse  events,  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study  drug,  and 
serious  infectious  adverse  events  was  less  than  10%  in  both  AAA  negative  and  positive  groups.  The 
rates  of  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study  drug  and  infectious  adverse  events  were 
lower  in  the  AAA-positive  than  AAA-negative  subjects.  Injection  site  reactions  reported  as  adverse 
events  were  similar  among  the  groups.  There  were  no  reported  adverse  events  of  malignant 
neoplasms, opportunistic infection (including TB), or death during the OL LI phase. 
In the DB phase the overall percentage of adverse events was slightly lower in AAA-negative subjects 
in  the  adalimumab  group  without  MTX  treatment  compared  to  the  AAA-positive  subjects  in  the  same 
treatment  group.  The  rate  of  serious  adverse  events,  severe  adverse  events,  and  serious  infectious 
adverse events was less than 10% in both AAA-negative and positive groups. There were no reported 
adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study  drug,  adverse  events  of  malignant  neoplasms, 
opportunistic infection (including TB), or death during the DB phase. 
In  the  OLE  FD  phase,  the  percentage  of  adverse  events  with  and  without  MTX  treatment  for  AAA 
positive (80% vs. 83.3%) and AAA negative (57.4% vs. 45.7%) subjects was similar. Only one subject 
discontinued study drug due to an adverse event, and this subject was AAA negative. There were no 
reported  adverse  events  of  malignant  neoplasms,  opportunistic  infection,  or  death  during  the  first  16 
weeks of the OLE FD phase. In the OLE FD phase, the percentages of adverse events were higher for 
AAA  positive  subjects  compared  to  AAA  negative  subjects  in  both  MTX  (80%  for  AAA  positive  vs. 
57.4% for AAA negative) and non-MTX groups (83.3% for AAA positive vs. 45.7% for AAA negative). 
However,  the  number  of  AAA  positive  subjects  in  each  group  (MTX  or  Non-MTX)  was  too  small  to 
enable a meaningful assessment. 
Overall  no  increased  safety  risk  was  observed  in  subjects  who  were  AAA  positive  versus  those  who 
were AAA negative. 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 20/24
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources for safety data  
Within the recently circulated FUM 46 (registry in JIA patients) the first report from the ongoing long-
term  registry  follow  up in  this indication  was  assessed.  This  registry  (Study  P10-262)  is  a  long-term, 
multi-center,  longitudinal  post-marketing,  observational  registry  to  assess  long  term  safety  and 
effectiveness  of  Humira  (adalimumab)  in  children  with  moderate  to  severe  active  polyarticular  or 
polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) – STRIVE 
The  primary  objective  of  this  registry  is  to  evaluate  the  long-term  safety  of  adalimumab  in  patients 
with moderate to severe active polyarticular or polyarticular course JIA who are prescribed and treated 
in accordance with the local adalimumab product label under the conditions of a routine clinical setting. 
The  secondary  objective  of  this  registry  is  to  evaluate  the  long-term  effectiveness  of  adalimumab  in 
patients  with  moderate  to  severe  active  polyarticular  or  polyarticular  course  JIA  who  are  prescribed 
and  treated  in  accordance  with  the  local  adalimumab  product  label  under  the  conditions  of  routine 
clinical  setting.  Patients  being  prescribed  and  treated  with  MTX  per  the  local  product  label  will  be 
considered a reference group for both, the primary and secondary objective of the registry. 
The registry was established in 2008, and the first subject was recruited in June 2008. Approximately 
800  patients  with  JIA  will  be  enrolled  in  the  US,  EU  and  Australia.  Approximately  500  patients  will 
receive adalimumab (alone or in combination with MTX) and be followed and 300 patients will receive 
MTX  without  concomitant  adalimumab  and  be  followed.  Recruitment  is  estimated  to  be  complete  by 
June 2011. Study progress through 01 June 2010 was presented in this first interim report. A total of 
202 patients have been enrolled. 
At  this  early  point  of  the  registry,  due  to  the  small  number  of  patients  and  the  limited  observation 
period for most of the enrolled patients, a thorough discussion is limited. However, no trends of clinical 
concern  have  been  established  with  regard  to  the  incidence  of  SAEs  or  AEs  of  interest,  and  no  new 
safety  signals  have  been  observed.  Safety  data  are  comparable  to  those  observed  in  previous 
adalimumab trials 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  there  were  no  new  safety  signals  in  the  treated  children/adolescents 
compared  with  the  already  well  known  safety  profile  in  adults.  Infections  were  the  most  common 
events, as for adults. No cases of death, malignancies, CHF, CNS demyelinating diseases, opportunistic 
infections, serious blood dyscrasias, or lupus-like reactions were reported. However, it is noted that the 
database is small, and long-term safety cannot be assessed. In this regard, the main concerns are the 
development of malignancies.  
The MAH provided some further comparisons on the safety profile in patients with or without disease 
flare  during  the  double-blind  phase.  There  was  a  tendency  towards  more  injection  site  reactions  in 
subjects  without  flare,  but  also  a  lower  number  of  infections.  These  data  are  very  limited.  More 
knowledge on risks and/or loss of efficacy from patients who interrupt treatment and restart again is of 
importance,  and  is  followed  in  the  ongoing  registry.  Within  the  recently  circulated  FUM  46,  the  first 
report  from  the  ongoing  long-term  registry  follow  up  in  this  indication  was  assessed.  Currently, 
experience is limited. However, there were no signals of unexpected safety findings so far. Continued 
monitoring within this study is of importance. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a new version of the RMP. The following are the main changes made: Version 8.0 
has  added  information  regarding  the  spondyloarthritis  (SpA),  paediatric  enthesitis-related  arthritis 
(pedERA), hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), and uveitis indications under development.  
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 21/24
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  proposed  to  add  in  addition  to  the  existing  educational  programme  an  educational 
programme  for  the  paediatric  vial.  The  CHMP  did  not  consider  that  there  was  a  need  for  additional 
pharmacovigilance  or  risk  minimisation  activities,  beyond  those  already  in  place.  Thus,  it  is  not 
considered that this additional education activity should be part of the required risk minimisation plan 
or  the  already  agreed  education  programme.  The  current  education  activities  are  sufficient  to  cover 
main issues of the safety profile.   
Furthermore,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  harmonize  the  important  identified  and  important 
potential  risk  definition  applied  in  previous  procedures.  Important  AEs  with  adequate  evidence  of  an 
association with adalimumab treatment are categorized as important identified risks. Important AEs for 
which  there  is  some  basis  for  suspicion  of  an  association  with  adalimumab  or  other  TNF-antagonists 
treatment, but where association has not been confirmed, are categorized as important potential risks. 
The following has been changed:  
 
Pulmonary embolism, melanoma, erythema multiforme, and sarcoidosis were newly added to the 
important identified risks.  
  Stevens  Johnson  Syndrome  (SJS),  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF),  reactivation  of  hepatitis  B, 
interstitial  lung  disease  (ILD),  intestinal  stricture  in  CD,  and  pancreatitis  were  moved  from  the 
important potential risks to the important identified risks 
 
The  risk  category  for  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  demyelinating  disorders  was  broadened  to 
demyelinating disorders, including both peripheral and central demyelinating disorders. 
 
The  risk  for  elevated  Alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  was  expanded  to  cover  all  indications 
instead of PsA only. 
 
The important identified risk of vasculitis was specified as cutaneous vasculitis; 
  Vasculitis  (non-cutaneous);  medication  errors  with  paediatric  vial;  progressive  multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy;  reversible  posterior  leukoencephalopathy  syndrome;  off-label  use;  and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) will be added as important potential risks. 
These changes and updates are endorsed by the CHMP.  
Change to the Product information 
Further to the assessment of the proposals of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to amend the Product 
Information and in the light of the assessment of the submitted data, the following sections of the 
SmPC were amended: sections 1, 4.1, 4.2, 5.1, 5.2, 6.3, 6.5. 
The  expression  of  the  product  name  is  amended  to  reflect  the  new  paediatric  vial  in  section  1.  The 
extended  therapeutic  indication  in  JIA  and  corresponding  posology  and  method  of  administration  are 
reflected in section 4.1 and 4.2 respectively. Section 5.1 and 5.2 are amended to reflect the results of 
study conducted in JIA patients.  Section 5.1 is also amended to bring it in line with the QRD template. 
Section  6.3  reflects  the  updated  shelf-life.  Section  6.5  is  amended  to  reflect  the  updated  nature  and 
contents  of  container.  Minor  editorial  corrections  are  also  made  throughout  the  SmPC.  Annex  II  is 
updated to reflect the last version of the RMP. The PL was updated in accordance with the changes of 
the SmPC. The labelling is also updated to reflect changes to this presentation. The MAH also took the 
opportunity  to  remove  the  alert  card  from  the  labelling.  Details  on  the  amendment  of  the  PI  can  be 
found in Attachment 1.  
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 22/24
 
 
 
 
 
User consultation 
The applicant presented a bridging to a full user test carried out on the product Humira Pre-filled Pen 
40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen (Adalimumab), which was assessed and accepted in 2006. 
The results showed that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline 
on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
1.3.4.  BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
One  pivotal  study  was  performed  with  adalimumab  in  children/adolescents  aged  4-17  years  with 
polyarticular  JIA.  Subjects  were  stratified  according  to  MTX  use  or  no  MTX  (either  naïve,  inadequate 
responders  or  intolerant).  Following  an  open  label  lead-in  phase  where  all  patients  received 
adalimumab, 24 mg/m2 BSA, responders were at week 16 randomised into a double-blind withdrawal 
phase  of  32 weeks,  where  the  primary  endpoint  (the  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  non-MTX  stratum 
with a disease flare) was assessed. In this phase, 58 subjects were enrolled into the non-MTX stratum 
and 75 into the MTX-stratum. The design was chosen from ethical reasons. The study population and 
clinical endpoints were adequate. 
After  the  blinded  phase,  patients  could  continue  on  open  label  BSA  dosing.  Thereafter,  patients  were 
switched to open label fixed dosing of 20 mg (subjects up to 30 kg body weight) or 40 mg (> 30 kg) 
eow. The data presented allowed fixed dose of 40 mg from the age of 13 years. For younger children, 
dosing based on BSA was recommended. The MAH has now developed a presentation which allows for 
the accurate dosing according to BSA.  
Benefit  
In  the  open  initial  phase,  the  response  rate,  according  to  the  predefined  30%  improvement  criteria, 
was 94% with MTX + adalimumab and 74% in the adalimimab monotherapy group. There were more 
responders  among  the  patients  with  "active  disease  despite  MTX"  (i.e.  the  group  given  combination 
therapy) compared with patients without MTX, and more patients without MTX discontinued the open 
phase, which indicate an increased efficacy with combination therapy. Therefore it was considered that 
combination  therapy  is  the  primary  recommendation,  but  in  case  of  MTX  intolerance,  monotherapy 
might be an option.  
During the blinded withdrawal phase, the primary endpoint, proportion of subjects with disease flare in 
the non-MTX stratum, as well as the same endpoint in the MTX stratum, was statistically significantly 
in favour of adalimumab. The low threshold for flare and the use of imputation have to be taken into 
account  when  analysing  the  results  of  the  primary  efficacy.  Overall,  it  is  accepted  that  adalimumab 
prevents  disease  flares  compared  to  placebo  but  due  to  the  complex  trial  design,  the  superiority  of 
adalimumab  over  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  JIA  may  be  overestimated.  Appropriate  wording  in  the 
SmPC  reduces  the  risk  of  patients  not  responding  to  receive  continued  treatment:  the  product 
information advises caution if a patient does not respond within 12 weeks of treatment; furthermore, a 
registry  aiming  to  collect  more  data  in  this  regard  has  been  set  up  following  the  previous  procedure 
(EMEA/H/C/000481/H/C/39).  It  was  considered  of  importance  to  collect  efficacy  data  in  the  registry 
setting, which the MAH agreed to undertake. The registry is ongoing.  
In addition to the higher percentage of responders in the lead-in phase, the number of discontinuations 
was  higher  in  the  non-MTX  during  the  initial  phase,  and  there  was  a  higher  number  of  responders 
achieving  the  more  stricter  Ped  ARC50/70  criteria  in  the  combination  group.  Anti-adalimumab 
antibodies  developed  in  a  higher  number  in  the  non-MTX  group,  25.6%  versus  5.9%,  which  justifies 
follow-up on the long term efficacy (registry ongoing) also raises concerns regarding long term efficacy. 
Finally, the pharmacokinetic data indicate a higher adalimumab plasma level in the combination group. 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 23/24
 
 
 
Overall,  these  data  support  combination  therapy  with  MTX.  Combination  therapy  is  the  primary 
recommendation in the indication. 
Risks  
The safety profile of an anti-TNF agent is well established, with infections as one main concern. No new 
safety signals were found in the performed study. The three most frequently reported AEs by MedDRA 
preferred term included upper respiratory tract infection, viral infection, and injection site reactions. No 
cases of death, malignancies, CHF, CNS demyelinating diseases, opportunistic infections, serious blood 
dyscrasias, or lupus-like reactions were reported. To further assess the long-term safety, for which at 
present  the  database  is  limited,  a  registry  has  been  set  up,  which  also  monitors  the  development  of 
malignancies.  Safety  data  obtained  during  the  OL  LI,  DB,  and  OLE  BSA  phases,  during  which  dosing 
was based on BSA (24 mg/m2 up to a total dose of 40 mg eow), were comparable to the safety data 
obtained during the OLE FD phase. No apparent difference in type or rate of AEs was observed in those 
subjects who were determined to be AAA positive compared to those that were AAA negative. Overall, 
safety  data  obtained  in  this  adalimumab  trial  in  pediatric  JIA  subjects  are  consistent  with  those 
expected in the adult RA population.  
The  RMP  is  acceptable,  the  proposed  Paediatric  vial  educational  programme  has  not  considered 
necessary  for  inclusion  in  the  RMP.  The  MAH  has  a  registry  ongoing  where  both  safety  and 
effectiveness data are collected. The MAH will follow subjects for 5 years for all events specified in the 
Registry protocol and additional 5-years on an annual basis to collect events of CHF and Malignancies.  
The  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  remove  the  Alert  Card  from  the  annexe  III-A.  This is  acceptable  as 
the Alert Card is not part of the pack and is not included in the carton. Nevertheless the patient alert 
card must remain in use and is part of the RMP.  
Benefit-risk balance 
The MAH applies with dosing instructions to allow for dosing according to the BSA posology used in the 
clinical  study  for  children  younger  than  13  years.  The  reason  is  that  only  BSA  dosing  has  been 
adequately  documented  for  those  children.  Thus,  with  this  new  option,  it is  possible  to  administer  an 
appropriate dose also to this age group.   
Efficacy has been sufficiently demonstrated with the body surface area dosing of 24 mg/m2. There are 
tendencies  of  better  efficacy  with  a  combination  of  adalimumab  and  MTX.  The  indication  was  revised 
and  combination  therapy  with  MTX  is  the  primary  option.  A  fixed  dose  of  40  mg  from  the  age  of 
13 years was agreed. With the availability of an option to use BSA dosing in the younger children, also 
adequate dosing of children aged 4-12 years is ensured.  
The  safety  profile  demonstrated  in  the  study  shows  no  unexpected  findings,  but  long-term  safety 
remains a concern to be followed in the ongoing registry. To conclude, the benefit / risk balance for the 
treatment of subjects aged 4-12 years, with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who have 
inadequate response to one or more DMARDs, is positive.  
2.  Conclusion 
On 17 February 2010 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report for Humira 
EMA/227628/2011  
Page 24/24
 
 
 
