European Medicines Agency 
London, 15 November 2007 
Product name: Humira 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/481/II/38 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human immunoglobulin (IgG1) monoclonal antibody containing human 
peptide  sequences  that  binds  to  human  Tumor  Necrosis  Factor  (TNF)  alpha  and  neutralises  the 
biological  function  of  TNFα  by  blocking  its  interaction  with  the  p55  and  p75  cell  surface  TNFα 
receptors. 
Adalimumab  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA),  psoriatic  arthritis 
(PsA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and Crohn’s disease (CD).  
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) applied for an extension of indication for adalimumab in 
the treatment of plaque psoriasis (Ps) in adult patients. The MAH presented the results of the psoriasis 
development program to demonstrate adalimumab’s safety and efficacy in the treatment of moderate 
to severe chronic Ps. 
Psoriasis is a chronic immunologic disease, characterised by marked inflammation and thickening of 
the  epidermis  resulting  in  thick,  scaly  plaques  involving  the  skin.  It  affects  1  to  3%  of  the  general 
population,  with  the  highest  disease  prevalence  in  North America  and  Europe.  Affecting  men  and 
women  equally,  psoriasis  is  a  life-long  disease  often  diagnosed  early  in  life.  Genetic  factors  may 
predispose a person to psoriasis, and it may be induced or exacerbated by exogenous triggers such as 
physical trauma, medications, infections, and emotional stress. 
Psoriasis may be classified as plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis, generalised 
pustular and localised pustular psoriasis, and inverse or intertriginous psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the 
most common form seen in 75 to 80% of psoriasis patients. Approximately 6% up to 40% of patients 
may have associated PsA.  
The MAH proposed to amend the text of the summary of product characteristics (SPC) sections 4.1, 
4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2, and to update the package leaflet (PL) accordingly.  
Clinical aspects 
To support this application the MAH presented the following study programme: 
• 
• 
• 
three  pivotal  studies  with  the  respective  extension  studies:  M02 − 528  +  M02 − 529,  M03 − 656, 
M04 − 716 
an additional study to evaluate time to relapse with the respective extension studies M02 − 538 + 
M03 − 596. 
an  open-label  extension  study,  Study  M03 − 658,  for  subjects  who  show  a  clinical  benefit  and 
tolerate the treatment in Studies M02 − 529, M03 − 656, M04 − 716, M02 − 538, M03 − 596. 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics1 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  adalimumab  as  monotherapy  were  evaluated  in  subjects  with  moderate  to 
severe  chronic  plaque  psoriasis  during  a  12-week  study  (Study M02-528,  N = 95)  and  a  52- week 
study (Study M03-656, N = 840).  
Two  dosing  regimens  were  studied  in  Study  M02-528:  Regimen A  (an  initial  dose  of  adalimumab 
80 mg  administered  subcutaneously  (SC)  at  week 0,  followed  by  40 mg  every  other  week  (eow) 
starting  at  week 1)  and  Regimen B  (two  initial  doses  of  adalimumab  80 mg  administered  SC  at 
weeks 0  and 1  followed  by  40 mg  weekly  starting  at  week 2).  Serum  adalimumab  concentrations 
reached  steady  state  in  subjects  given  Regimen A  by  at  least  week 8,  and  the  mean  steady-state 
adalimumab  trough  concentration  was  6.0 µg/ml.  The  mean  concentrations  achieved  after  the  initial 
80 mg dose (6.0 µg/ml and 8.8 µg/ml at weeks 1 and 2, respectively) were slightly (within 28%) and 
1 For details of the studies referred in this section, please see section Clinical efficacy 
Page 2 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
temporarily  higher  than  the  steady-state  concentrations  during  40  mg  eow  dosing  (6.0 µg/ml  and 
6.9 µg/ml at weeks 11 and 12, respectively).  
In  Study  M03-656,  the  mean  steady-state  trough  concentration  was  5.2 µg/ml  during  treatment  with 
adalimumab  at  an  initial  dose  of  80 mg  at  week 0,  followed  by  40 mg  eow  starting  at  week 1.  The 
mean steady-state trough concentration in subjects with psoriasis (5.3 µg/ml, combining results from 
M02 - 528 and M03 - 656) was within the range of those observed in subjects with RA (5 µg/ml), AS 
(6 to 7 µg/ml),  and  PsA  (6 to 10 µg/mL)  during  treatment  with  SC  adalimumab  40 mg eow  as 
monotherapy.   
Effect of weight on efficacy 
Because  weight  was  a  statistically  significant  covariate  for  adalimumab  pharmacokinetics,  the 
potential effect of weight on PASI (psoriasis area and severity index) at week 16 was analysed using 
the data from two studies, M03 − 656 Period A and M04 − 716.  
The results showed that at week 16 the PASI 75 response rate (subjects achieving ≥ 75% improvement 
in  PASI  score)  was  slightly  lower  in  subjects  with  higher  body  weights  in  the  adalimumab  group. 
However, the percentage of PASI 75 responders in the fourth weight quartile was only 15% less than 
that in the first weight quartile (62% vs. 77%), even though the weight increased about three fold from 
the first to the fourth weight quartile. Weight, as a univariate predictor, accounted for less than 2% of 
the  overall  variability  in  adalimumab  efficacy.  Thus,  a  fixed  dosing  regimen  was  applied  for.  The 
CHMP  agreed  that  the  influence  of  weight  was  rather  limited  and  the  variability  in  overall  efficacy 
was low, and therefore accepted the use of a fixed dose.  
Immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity  of  adalimumab  was  assessed  in  Study M02−528  over  a  12  weeks  treatment  period 
and in Study M03−656 over a 52 weeks treatment period. Overall, the immunogenicity of adalimumab 
in  subjects  with  psoriasis  was  8.4%;  77 of 920  subjects  for  the  combined  40 mg  eow  and  weekly 
regimens (after one or two initial 80 mg doses) which is in the range of those observed in subjects with 
RA (12%; 54/434), AS (8.6%; 16/185), and PsA (13.5%; 24/178) during adalimumab  monotherapy. 
For CD, the overall immunogenicity rate (7 subjects among 269 receiving longer term treatment; all 
monotherapy) appeared to be lower than those for other indications. 
In Study M02-528, none of the four AAA+ (anti-adalimumab antibodies positive) subjects achieved a 
PASI 75 response. In Study M03-656, AAA+ subjects had a statistically significantly lower PASI75 
response  rate  than  AAA-subjects  at  week 16  (11%  vs.  76%;  p  <  0.001);  thus  that  presence  of  AAA 
reduces  adalimumab’s  efficacy.  There  was  no  indication  that  the  development  of  AAA  increased 
safety problems in adalimumab - treated subjects. The CHMP noted that anti-adalimumab antibodies 
were found in similar frequencies as in other indications and that they were associated with a lower 
number  of  responders,  as  expected.  As  seen  in  previous  indications,  presence  of  antibodies  did  not 
appear  to  be  associated  with  safety  problems.  The  MAH  will  continue  to  follow  on  how  the 
development  of  AAA  may  affect  long  term  efficacy  and  safety.  Section  5.1  was  revised  to  address 
adequately the current data on immunogenicity.  
Page 3 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
The populations analysed in the psoriasis program is showed in Figure 1 below. 
Placebo (n=503) 
M02-528:  n=52 
M04-716:  n=53 
M03-656:  n=398 
Adalimumab (n=966)
M02-528:  n=45 
M04-716:  n=107 
M03-656:  n=814 
All Adalimumab (n=1696)
M02-528/529:  n=142 
M04-716:  n=247 
M03-656:  n=1159 
M02-538/596: n=148 
Placebo-Controlled Study Set (n=1469) 
All Adalimumab Treatment Set (n=1696) 
EOW Treatment Set (n=1403)
M02-528/529:  n=92 
M04-716:  n=152 
M03-656:  n=1159 
Dose Escalation 
Set (n=188) 
M02-528/529:  n=30
M03-658:  n=158 
M03-656/M03-658 
Integrated Analysis
Set 
n=814 
Methods 
Subject Population 
Subjects  enrolled  in  the  psoriasis  program  were  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  psoriasis.  In  the 
placebo-controlled study set, the mean duration of psoriasis since diagnosis was greater than 18 years, 
and  >  50%  of  subjects  reported  a  family  history  of  psoriasis.  The  majority  of  subjects  were  white, 
male, and younger than 65 years of age. The majority (66%) of subjects presented with baseline mean 
PASI scores of 12-20, a PGA (physicians global assessment) of moderate (52%) or severe/very severe 
(42%/6%).  There  was  57%  of  subjects  with  a  BSA  (body  surface  area)  involvement  >  20%.  The 
majority of subjects previously received topical therapy, phototherapy, and/or non-biologic systemic 
therapies.  
The  study  populations  in  Studies  M02-528,  M03-656,  and  M04-716  were  similar  and  generally 
comparable,  with  the  exceptions  that  subjects  in  Study  M02-528  had  on  average  more  moderate 
disease at baseline (lower PASI scores) as a consequence of the different inclusion criteria of the study 
and  in  M04-716  subjects  were  to  be  naïve  to  systemic  therapy.  No  clinically  important  differences 
were  observed  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  placebo-controlled  studies  with  respect  to 
demographics or baseline characteristics for psoriasis. No remarkable differences in the other analysis 
sets  compared  with  the  Placebo-Controlled  Study  Set  regarding  demographic  and  baseline 
characteristics were noted.  
Efficacy Variables 
The  PASI75  response  rate  (i.e.,  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  a  75%  reduction  in  PASI)  was  the 
primary efficacy variable in all pivotal studies. In Study M03-656, an additional primary endpoint was 
a comparison of the proportion of subjects losing an adequate response (i.e., achieving an event). An 
"event" was defined as a PASI score after week 33 that resulted in a < PASI50 response relative to the 
baseline PASI score and at least a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to the week 33 PASI score. 
The PGA response of "Clear or Minimal" was the principal secondary endpoint in all pivotal studies. 
PGA was determined using the 6-point static scale. Additional secondary efficacy endpoints of clinical 
response included PASI50, PASI90, and PASI100 response rates, as well as endpoints based on PASI 
and PGA responses: time to PASI50/75/90/100 response, change and percent change from baseline in 
PASI response, and the improvement from baseline in PGA. 
Patient-reported  outcomes  (PROs)  were  the  Dermatology  Life  Quality  Index  (DLQI)  and  the  Short 
Form  36  Health  Survey  (SF-36).  Additional  PROs  included  the  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  a 
Patient's  Global  Assessment  of  psoriasis  severity  (4-point  scale);  psoriasis  and/or  psoriatic  arthritis 
(Ps/PsA)  pain  (visual  analog  scale  [VAS]);  the  degree  of  pruritus  related  to  psoriasis;  the  EuroQoL 
Health  Questionnaire  (EQ-5D);  and  the  Work  Productivity  and  Activity  Impairment  Questionnaire-
Page 4 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific Health Problem (WPAI-SHP). The CHMP agreed that the chosen endpoints were acceptable, 
and validated for assessment of efficacy.   
Statistical Methods 
The  statistical  methods  in  general  were  considered  acceptable.  The  MAH  undertook  sensitivity 
analysis  (last  observation  carried  forward  [LOCF])  of  the  PASI75  response  rates  at  week  16  of  the 
Placebo − Controlled Study Set. The CHMP questioned the use of LOCF statistical analyses for the 
evaluation  of  chronic  diseases,  such  as  chronic  Ps.  The  MAH  clarified  that  the  LOCF  statistical 
method  was  only  used  as  a  supportive  sensitivity  analysis.  The  CHMP  considered  this  approach 
acceptable, as long as no information from such analyses was included in the SPC.  
Dose selection  
The adult psoriasis maintenance dose, which was similar to that approved for RA, was selected based 
on PK, efficacy, and safety data from Study M02-528 and Study M03-656 in subjects with psoriasis 
and on data from the RA development program. However, an initial single dose of 80 mg was given in 
the  psoriasis  studies.  The  CHMP  noted  that  the  adalimumab  concentration  at  steady-state  achieved 
with the 80 mg initial dose was only slightly higher than the steady-state concentrations achieved with 
the 40 mg eow dose regimen. Considering that the main aim of psoriasis treatment is maintenance of 
efficacy  and  not  a  very  rapid  onset  of  effect,  and  in  view  of  the  safety  profile  of  adalimumab,  the 
MAH was asked to discuss the need for a 80 mg initial dose and the clinical data supporting it in terms 
of efficacy and safety. The MAH explained that the 80 mg starting dose was selected to induce a rapid 
response,  including  on  the  patients’  quality  of  life.  This  explanation  was  accepted,  and  the  dose 
recommendations accepted.  
Main clinical studies  
Study M02-528 
In this 12-week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study, adult subjects with 
moderate  to  severe  chronic  Ps  (defined  by  ≥  5%  BSA  at  screening  and  baseline)  were  included. 
Stratification was made by weight (< 70 kg, 70 kg − 100 kg, > 100 kg). All subjects enrolled in this 
study who completed at least 12 weeks of active treatment were eligible to roll over into the extension 
study (M02-529), for continued treatment. 
Subjects  in  both  active  treatment  groups  received  an  initial  dose  of  adalimumab  80  mg  at  week  0. 
Subjects assigned to the first arm then received 40 mg eow starting at week 1. Subjects assigned to the 
second arm received 80 mg at week 1 and thereafter received adalimumab 40 mg weekly, starting at 
week 2.  
Approximately 150 subjects were planned for enrolment. The primary efficacy analyses included 148 
subjects.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  achieved  a  ≥  PASI  75 
response at week 12. Other endpoints were PGA and quality of life (QoL) assessments.  
The CHMP noted that subjects in this study had on average more moderate disease at baseline (lower 
PASI scores) due to different inclusion criteria of the study, compared with the other trials. The value 
of this study to evaluate efficacy was considered limited, and therefore not justified to include in the 
SPC. 
Study M03-656 (REVEAL) 
This  study  included  adult  subjects  with  moderate  to  severe  chronic  Ps  (baseline  ≥  10%  BSA 
involvement,  a  PASI  score  of  ≥  12,  and  a  PGA  of  at  least  moderate  disease).  It  consisted  of  three 
phases, namely:  
Period  A:  Adalimumab  vs.  placebo  was  evaluated  in  a  16-week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled 
treatment period in which subjects were randomised to receive either:  
•  80 mg adalimumab week 0, followed by 40 mg adalimumab eow from week 1 to week 15, or  
Page 5 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Two placebo injections week 0, followed by one placebo injection eow from week 1 to week 
15.  
In  Period  A,  the  primary  efficacy  variable  was  at  least  a  75%  reduction  in  PASI  score  (≥  PASI  75 
response) at week 16 relative to the baseline (week 0) PASI score. 
Period B: a 17-week, open-label treatment period in which all subjects who achieved at least a PASI 
75  response  at  week  16,  defined  as  a  PASI  score  improvement  of  at  least  75%  relative  to  baseline, 
received 40 mg adalimumab eow from week 17 to week 31.  
Period  C:  Subjects  who  maintained  at  least  a  PASI  75  response  at  week  33  entered  the  19-week, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period as follows: 
•  Subjects  who  were  randomised  to  adalimumab  in  Period  A  were  re-randomised  to  receive 
40 mg  adalimumab  eow  or  placebo  injections  from  week  33  to  an  'event'  (i.e.,  loss  of  an 
adequate  response;  see  definition  above),  early  termination,  or  the  week  52  visit,  whichever 
came first.  
•  Subjects who were originally randomised to placebo in Period A were to continue to receive 
40 mg adalimumab eow in a blinded fashion from week 33 to an 'event', early termination, or 
the end of the study, whichever came first. 
In Period C, the primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects experiencing an 'event' after 
week 33 and on or before week 52. 
Approximately 1200 subjects were planned for enrollment, and 1212 subjects (ITT (intention-to-treat) 
Analysis  Set)  were  evaluated  for  efficacy  in  the  placebo-controlled  Period  A.  In  Period  B  and 
Period C, 606 and 490 subjects, respectively, were evaluated for efficacy in the ITT Analysis Set. 
The  CHMP  considered  this  trial  as  pivotal  for  demonstration  of  efficacy.  The  CHMP  nevertheless 
noted that in study M03-656, only patients who showed clinical efficacy in the previous phase were 
admitted  into  the  following  phase,  and  that  consequently,  patients  in  periods  B  and  C  were  highly 
selected. 
Study M04-716 (CHAMPION) 
Study  M04-716  was  a  16-week,  multicentre,  double-blind,  double-dummy  study,  studying 
adalimumab 40 mg eow vs. placebo and vs. MTX (methotrexate) in adult subjects with chronic plaque 
psoriasis  (≥ 10%  BSA  involvement  and  PASI  score  of  ≥  10  at  baseline).  The  study  aimed  to  show 
superiority  of  adalimumab  vs.  placebo  for  clinical  efficacy  and  non-inferiority  of  adalimumab  vs. 
MTX,  if  the  superiority  of  adalimumab  vs.  placebo  was  established.  An  MTX  and  anti-TNF  naïve 
population was selected for this study. The following treatment regimens were given: 
Regimen  A:  Adalimumab:  80  mg  adalimumab  (two  40  mg  injections)  week  0,  followed  by  40  mg 
eow, week 1 to week 15. Placebo capsule(s) orally once weekly from week 0 to week 15. 
Regimen  B:  MTX:  Two  subcutaneous  placebo  injections  week  0,  followed  by  one  sc.  placebo 
injection week 1 to week 15. MTX (7.5-25 mg) capsule(s) orally once weekly from week 0 to week 15 
Regimen C: Placebo: Two sc. placebo injections week 0, followed by one sc. placebo injection week 1 
to week 15. Placebo capsule(s) orally once weekly from week 0 to week 15.  
The dose of MTX was 7.5 mg week 0 and 1, 10 mg week 2 and 3, and 15 mg from week 4 to 15. It 
was to be adjusted to AST (aspartate aminotransferase), ALT (alanine aminotransferase), white blood 
cell  count,  platelet  count,  and  serum  creatinine  from  week  2  to  week  15.  The  MTX  dose  was  to  be 
increased to 20 mg at week 8 and 25 mg at week 12 if PASI 50 response was not achieved and if there 
was  no  safety  concern.  When  PASI  ≥50  was  achieved,  the  dose  of  MTX  was  not  increased  and  the 
dose was kept unchanged for the remaining part of the study.  
Page 6 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP  noted that in M04-716, a high initial starting dose followed by a stable dose of Humira 
was compared with MTX, with the need for step-wise titration and slow onset of effect. The outcome 
of  the  study  confirmed  that  a  continuous  increase  of  the  MTX  dose  was  necessary,  and  in  many 
patients for up to week 12. Further, it has not been shown that the optimal dose and maximum efficacy 
of MTX was reached at the study endpoint of 16 weeks. Nevertheless, the CHMP acknowledged that 
MTX  was  an  appropriate  comparator  and  that  the  MTX  dose  increase  was  performed  according  to 
clinical practice.  
The  duration  of  the  comparison  was  questioned.  In  response  to  that,  an  estimation  submitted  by  the 
MAH suggested that no efficacy plateau was reached at week 16 for MTX. The CHMP acknowledged 
that  a  placebo  comparison  might  be  unethical  for  more  than  3  months,  but  a  longer  study  period 
comparing  adalimumab  with  MTX,  without  placebo,  would  have  been  possible.  The  CHMP 
questioned the value of the efficacy comparison of MTX and adalimumab in this 16 week study.  
Continuation Studies 
Study M02-529 (continuation trial of M02-528). 
Subjects  who  previously  received  placebo  in  Study  M02-528  received  80  mg  adalimumab  on 
week 0 and then 40 mg eow from week 1. Subjects who received adalimumab 40 mg eow or weekly in 
Study  M02-528  could  continued  to  receive  their  previously  assigned  M02-528  dose  of  adalimumab 
(40  mg  eow  or  40  mg  weekly).  Study  medication  administration  remained  blinded  until  all  subjects 
completed week 12. Thereafter, a 36-week open-label treatment period followed.  
On or after week 12, subjects with ≥ PASI 50 response relative to the Study M02-528 baseline PASI 
score continued their current therapy for up to an additional 36 weeks. At any time on or after week 
12, subjects with < PASI 50 response were eligible to receive open-label, weekly adalimumab. If, after 
at least eight weeks of weekly therapy, the subject did not achieve ≥ PASI 50 response relative to the 
Study  M02-528  baseline  score,  the  subject  was  discontinued.  The primary  efficacy  variable  was  the 
proportion of subjects who achieved clinical response as defined by a ≥ PASI 75 response relative to 
the baseline value of Study M02-528 at week 12. 
Study M03-658 
Study  M03-658  was  a  multicentre,  open-label  continuation  study  in  subjects  who  previously 
participated in studies M02-529, M02-538, M03- 596, or studies M03-656 and M04-716. 
Subjects  were  evaluated  for  entry  into  Study  M03-658  at  the  final  visit  of  the  most  recent  psoriasis 
study  in  which  they  participated.  All  subjects  received  open-label  40  mg  adalimumab  eow  at  Study 
entry (week 0). The maximum duration of enrollment for any subject was an open-label period of at 
least 2 years and a follow-up telephone call 70 days after the final dose, addressing safety. 
Dose  escalation:  Efficacy  was  determined  by  the  PASI  response  and  the  PGA  measured  every 
12 weeks. If, at any time on or after week 24, a subject did not maintain or achieve a ≥ PASI 50 from 
his/her week 0 score in the original study, a dose escalation to 40 mg weekly was possible. 
Subjects whose dose was escalated continued on 40 mg weekly dosing until a ≥ PASI 75 response was 
achieved, then resumed 40 mg eow dosing. If the subject's PASI response fell back to less than 50% 
from his/her week 0 score in the original psoriasis study after resuming 40 mg eow treatment, a second 
dose escalation to 40 mg weekly was permitted. If the subject dose escalated a second time, the subject 
had to remain on 40 mg weekly dosing for the remainder of the study regardless of the PASI response 
achieved. 
Other Studies 
Study M02-538 
This was a 76-week, phase 2, multicentre, exploratory efficacy and safety study to evaluate the time to 
relapse after adalimumab 40 mg weekly withdrawal (placebo treatment) or dose decrease (adalimumab 
40 mg  eow  treatment)  in  subjects  with  moderate  to  severe  chronic  Ps  following  the  receipt  of 
12 weeks of adalimumab 40 mg weekly therapy (open-label).  
Page 7 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  subjects  received  2  loading  doses  of  open-label  adalimumab  80  mg  followed  by  40  mg  weekly 
(weeks  2-11).  At  week  12,  responders, defined  as  ≥  PASI  50,  were  to  be  randomised  to  one  of  two 
blinded treatment arms: adalimumab 40 mg eow or placebo eow.  
Results 
Main efficacy endpoints  
All three pivotal studies (M03 − 656 Period A, M04 − 716, M02 − 528) met their primary endpoint by 
demonstrating statistically significantly higher PASI75 response rates for adalimumab treated patients 
compared with placebo − treated ones. Similarly, the principal secondary endpoint, PGA-response of 
"Clear or Minimal" for Studies M03 − 656 (Period A) and M04 − 716 and PGA response of "Clear or 
Almost Clear" for Study M02  − 528, also showed  a statistically  significant response in adalimumab 
groups when compared to placebo groups. The CHMP also noted that for the more stringent efficacy 
criteria (PASI100 or PASI90), representing full or almost full clearance of skin disease, adalimumab 
showed a significant response in a subset of subjects. The table below shows an overview of the key 
efficacy results from the placebo-controlled studies.  
Comparison of the Key Efficacy Results from the Placebo- Controlled Studies in the Adalimumab 
Psoriasis Development Program 
ADA  =  adalimumab;  ADA/ADA/PBO  =  subjects  who  were  randomised  to  withdraw  from  adalimumab  treatment; 
ADA/ADA/ADA = subjects who were randomised to continue on adalimumab treatment eow = every other week; MTX = 
methotrexate; PBO = placebo -- = Not determined;  N/A = not applicable.  
Note: Response rates calculated following imputation of missing values as non-responders. 
a. Difference between the proportion (%) of adalimumab treated subjects having a PASI 75 or a PGA of "Clear" or "Almost 
Clear" response in Study M02-528 compared to that of placebo treated subjects. The 95% CI is adjusted for weight category 
in Study M02-528. b. Difference between the proportion (%) of adalimumab treated subjects having a PASI 75 or a PGA of 
"Clear or Minimal" response in Study M03-656 compared to that of placebo treated subjects. c. Difference between treatment 
groups  (%)  based  on  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  (CMH)  test  Statistic.  Based  on  the  normal  approximation  of  the  binomial 
distribution for PGA "Clear or Minimal" in Study M04-716. d. The p-value is from the CMH test adjusted for Baseline body 
Page 8 of 19 
 
 
 
 
weight.  e.  Based  on  CMH  test  stratified  by  centre.  f.  Two  sided  CMH  test  stratified  by  country.  g.  Fisher's  Exact  test  for 
studies M03-656 and M04-716. 
Study M03-656 was the largest study and considered as pivotal. Sufficient efficacy was shown 
compared with placebo in Phase A at 16 weeks (see table below).  
Efficacy Results at 16 weeks:  Study M03 −  656, Period A 
Endpoint 
PASI75 
PASI100 
PGA:  Clear/Minimal 
Placebo 
(N=398) N (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
(N=814) N (%)% 
578 (70.9)a 
163 (20.0) a 
506 (62.2) a 
a. p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo  
Note: Subjects with missing responses at week 16 were imputed as not achieving PASI75/100 response and as not 
achieving PGA of clear/minimal; PASI75 response rates were calculated as centre-adjusted rate;  
In the following 17-week open phase of the study, where all PASI 75 responders at week 16, received 
40 mg adalimumab eow, the response rate was similar.  
In  phase  C  of  study  M03-656,  where  patients  were  re-randomised  to  either  placebo  or  adalimumab 
40 mg  eow,  the  majority  of  patients  did  not  lose  adequate  response,  72%  on  placebo  and  95%  on 
adalimumab, during the 19 weeks period. During the assessment procedure, the MAH provided some 
additional data from this treatment interruption of 19 weeks. It is evident that more subjects did not 
regain  response  after  period  C  among  those  who  lost  response  during  the  19  weeks  period  off 
treatment (36 /66 patients; 54.5%) compared to those who did not loose response during this period 
(135/161 patients; 83.94%).   
The CHMP considered that information regarding on demand treatment is of importance and agreed 
with the MAH’s proposal to gather further data from the post marketing setting, including the planned 
registry.  
In study M02-528, subjects had on average more moderate disease at Baseline (lower PASI scores), 
due to different inclusion criteria in this study. The CHMP therefore considered the value of this study 
to evaluate efficacy as limited, and did not find it justified to include information on this study in the 
SPC. 
Long-term efficacy  
The  MAH  had  presented  support  for  long-term  efficacy  based  on  combined  analyses  of  Studies 
M02-528,  M02-529,  M03-656,  M03-658  and  M04-716.  However,  the  data  presentation  was 
considered misleading to assess persistence of efficacy. The number of patients at each visit decreased, 
both due to non-responders, other reasons for discontinuation and possibly also due to the fact that not 
all patients yet have reached the latter time-points. To be able to evaluate efficacy over time, the MAH 
was  asked  to  present  and  further  discuss  available  data.  It  is  evident  that  due  to  the  design  of  the 
psoriasis clinical trials, it is not possible to provide accurate information about responder rates at one 
year  by  the  number  of  subjects  initially  started  on  treatment.  The  MAH  submitted  an  estimation  of 
efficacy  at  one  year,  which  approximates  PASI>75  responders  to  56%.  Although  these  data  do  not 
warrant inclusion in the SPC, they provide support for efficacy up to 1 year. Still, long-term benefit, 
beyond 1 year, including the impact on efficacy of antibody development is unknown. 
Dose escalation  
In  an  open-label  extension  study,  for  patients  who  dose  escalated  from  40  mg  every  other  week  to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 and were evaluated at 12 weeks after dose escalation, 
59/243 (24.3%) of patients regained PASI 75 response. 
Dermatology -specific and general health - related quality of life. 
Subjects  who  received  adalimumab  40  mg  eow  compared  with  placebo  following  12  weeks  or 
16 weeks  treatment  showed  statistically  significant  improvements  in  DLQI  and  in  SF36  compared 
with placebo. 
Page 9 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical data were submitted on efficacy in special populations. Among the 1469 patients included 
in the placebo-controlled study set, 98 subjects were > or equal to 65 years of age. No children were 
included.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Overall, adalimumab has been evaluated in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis with sufficient 
disease  activity  to  be  candidates  for  systemic  therapy.  In  one  pivotal  placebo-controlled  study  in 
psoriasis  (M03  656),  efficacy  superior  to  placebo  was  shown  in  the  short-term  of  16  weeks.  The 
primary  endpoint,  PASI75,  was  obtained  in  approximately  71%  of  the  patients  on  adalimumab 
compared  with  6.5%  on  placebo.  A  similar  response  rate  for  adalimumab  (80%)  was  seen  in  study 
M04-716 while the placebo response in this trial was higher (19%). There are no controlled data for 
1 year.  However,  results  from  M03-656  support  that  a  proportion  of  subjects,  although  an  exact 
estimation cannot be made, maintained adequate response during a 1 year treatment period. There are 
however  still  uncertainties  regarding  longer-term  efficacy  beyond  1  year,  including  impact  of 
antibodies.  
The  first  line  indication  proposed  by  the  MAH  was  not  agreed  with  due  to  the  safety  profile  of 
adalimumab  (see  the  section  Overall  discussion  and  benefit/risk  assessment).  However,  subgroup 
analysis  in  the  second  line  target  population  (moderate  to  severe  chronic  Ps  in  adult  patients  who 
failed  to  respond  to  or  who  have  a  contraindication  to,  or  are  intolerant  top  other  systemic  therapy 
including cyclosporine, MTX or PUVA) were submitted. It can be concluded that convincing short-
term efficacy has been demonstrated and that the study programme and efficacy results up to one year 
are sufficient to support a second line indication in moderate to severe chronic Ps. The proposed dose 
regimen with an initial 80 mg dose followed by 40 mg eow was agreed.  
The relevance of the data from the comparative study with MTX, was questioned, as the dose increase 
of MTX was stopped before the primary endpoint level, PASI 75, was reached and due to the limited 
study  duration  of  16  weeks.  Optimal  efficacy  with  MTX  was  likely  not  reached  during  that  time 
period, which also was supported by efficacy estimations provided by the MAH. 
Data  from  study  M02-528  were  not  justified  for  inclusion  in  the  SPC,  since  the  population  studied 
included  subjects  less  severe  disease,  and  the  rather  low  number  of  patients  treated  with  the 
recommended dose.  
Limited  data  have  been  obtained  on  whether  loss  of  adequate  response  occurs  when  maintenance 
therapy  is  stopped.  In  study  M03-656  (period  C),  a  substantial  number  of  patients  (72%  on  placebo 
and 95% on adalimumab), did not lose adequate response during the drug-free phase of 19 weeks. It is 
acknowledged  that  the  efficacy  of  maintenance  therapy  in  the  long  run  likely  will  be  superior  to  on 
demand treatment. Nevertheless, it remains to be proven that the risk/benefit of maintenance is non-
inferior  to  on  demand  treatment.  The  MAH  provided  further  data  from  study  M03-656,  which 
suggested a lower probability for subjects who lost response to regain effect, than those who did not 
loose  response  during  the  19 weeks  period  off  treatment.  Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the 
MAH  commitment  to  collect  additional  data  regarding  treatment  interruptions  and  on  demand 
treatment in the post marketing setting, including through the planned registry.  
Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  adalimumab  was  determined  through  evaluation  of  AEs  (adverse  events),  clinical 
laboratory  evaluations,  physical  examinations,  and  vital  signs.  In  addition,  TNF  −  inhibitor  related 
AEs of interest were evaluated: infections, serious infections, malignancies, opportunistic infections, 
tuberculosis  (TB),  demyelinating  disorders,  lupus−like  syndrome,  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF), 
allergic reactions, injection site reactions, hematologic events, and hepatic events.   
Page 10 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
The adalimumab development program in psoriasis includes safety experience on 1696 subjects who 
received at least one dose of adalimumab for cumulative exposure of 1684 patient years (PY), through 
29 June  2006.  The  table  below  presents  the  analysis  sets  for  the  safety  analysis  in  the  placebo  – 
controlled study set (Duration and Extent of Treatment (placebo – controlled study set)) 
Adverse events 
The  table  below  shows  an  overview  of  treatment  emergent  AEs  and  treatment  emergent  AEs  per 
100 patient years of exposure in the placebo controlled study set.  
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Two subjects experienced a treatment–emergent AE leading to death: a cerebrovascular accident and a 
suicide. Both events were considered by the Investigator to be unrelated to study drug.  
Page 11 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall incidence of SAEs was 5.2% of all adalimumab − treated subjects, with an event rate of 
6.6/100  PY.  In  the  Placebo  −  Controlled  Study  Set,  the  incidence  of  SAEs  was  comparable  in  the 
adalimumab (1.6%) and placebo (1.9%) groups. Individual SAEs were all uncommon, with the most 
frequently  reported  SAEs  being  coronary  artery  disease,  which  occurred  in  six  subjects  (0.4%; 
0.4/100 PY),  followed  by  cellulitis  (5  subjects,  0.3%;  0.3/100  PY)  and  myocardial  infarction 
(4 subjects,  0.2%;  0.2/100  PY).    The  serious  cardiovascular  events  occurred  in  subjects  who  had 
pre-existing cardiovascular risk factors. 
Discontinuation  
The  overall  incidence  (5.1%)  and  exposure-adjusted  rate  (6.8/100  PY)  of  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation of study drug were also relatively low, with no single AE leading to discontinuation 
occurring  in  more  than  four  subjects.  In  the  Placebo  −  Controlled  Study  Set,  the  incidence  of  AEs 
leading to discontinuation was comparable in the adalimumab (1.8%) and placebo (2.2%) groups.   
Other  SAEs  and  AEs  that  led  to  premature  discontinuation  were  consistent  with  those  in  other 
populations studied with adalimumab. 
Rebound  
Rebound,  defined  as  the  development  of  new  generalised  erythrodermic  or  pustular  psoriasis  or 
achievement of a PASI score > 125% of Baseline within 3 months of discontinuation of adalimumab, 
was not observed among any of the subjects who underwent protocol − mandated discontinuation of 
adalimumab in Study M02 − 538 or in Study M03 − 656. 
Adverse events of special interest 
Infections 
Infectious AEs most frequently reported among subjects in the All Adalimumab Treatment Set were 
nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, bronchitis, and influenza. The table below 
shows the number (%) of subjects with treatment emergent infections occurring in > 1% of subject in 
the placebo controlled study set.  
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  infectious  AEs  was  1.2%,  1.4/100  PY,  with  the  most  frequently 
reported  serious  infections  being cellulitis  in  four  subjects.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  there  was  no 
new safety signal related to infections, beyond comments on TB given below.  
Tuberculosis  
Subjects  with  latent  tuberculosis  (TB)  were  eligible  for  Study  M04-716  only  if  they  consented  to 
receive  TB  prophylaxis  for  nine  months,  as  tolerated.  Subjects  with  latent  TB  were  included  in  the 
Page 12 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study  because  of  the  scientific  interest  in  collecting  data  in  Ps  subjects  who  were  purified  protein 
derivative  (PPD)  positive,  received  TB  prophylaxis,  and  were  treated  with  study  drug  in  order  to 
evaluate how this subgroup of subjects compared to the others with regard to potential hepatic toxicity. 
Three subjects were diagnosed with active TB, one subject having a normal chest X-ray and a negative 
PPD  tuberculin  skin  test  at  screening.  As  a  consequence,  this  subject  appears  as  a  newly  developed 
case. Two other subjects had latent disease and developed TB in spite of prophylaxis (one of these two 
subjects  was  noncompliant  with  TB  prophylaxis).  Overall,  within  the  psoriasis  program  there  were 
89 subjects  diagnosed  with  latent  TB  who  received  anti-TB  prophylaxis,  representing  a  TB  rate  of 
2.2 % (2/89) in subjects where prophylactic treatment for latent TB was undertaken. The risk for TB in 
association  with  adalimumab  treatment  remains  an  important  factor  for  the  overall  benefit/risk 
balance.  The  wording  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  was  revised  to  reflect  the  currently  available 
information.  
Malignancy  
The  incidence  of  malignancies  overall,  was  higher  in  the  adalimumab  group  (7  cases  =2.4/100PY) 
compared  with  placebo  (2  cases=  1.4/100PY).  No  lymphomas  were  reported.  Other  malignancies 
reported included one case of malignant melanoma in a patient on adalimumab for 29 days and one 
breast cancer found after 11 days on adalimumab. 
In the placebo-controlled study periods there were 6 reports on non-melanoma skin cancers, whereof 
5 on adalimumab. Among those, 3 were basal cell carcinoma and one unspecified skin neoplasm. One 
squamous cell carcinoma occurred at day 15.  
In  the  All-adalimumab  treatment  set,  twelve  (12)  adalimumab–treated  subjects  reported  a  total  of 
15 individual non-melanoma skin cancers. Basal cell carcinoma were reported in 8 and squamous cell 
cancer in 5 individuals. Six of the 12 subjects had a history of keratoacanthoma or non-melanoma skin 
cancer.  Eight  individuals  had  been  treated  with  phototherapy  (PUVA  or  other  UV-light  therapy), 
2 MTX and 2 Cyclosporine and 3 biologics. Duration of psoriasis was from 13-65 years.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  numbers  of  reported  malignancies  were  higher  in  the  adalimumab  group 
compared  with  placebo,  but  that  it  is  difficult  to  interpret  due  to  the  relatively  short  exposure  time. 
Among the non-melanoma skin cancer cases, the majority had a very long lasting psoriasis with other 
risk factors including light therapy, but also previous skin malignancies in some cases. It is of note that 
some  malignancies  are  reported  within  a  short  time  from  the  start  of  adalimumab  treatment.  As 
previously discussed, this might be due to an activation of a pre-existing malignancy. The MAH stated 
that the educational program which will be extended to dermatologists will emphasise the importance 
of  screening  all  patients,  irrespective  of  which  indication  the  patient  is  being  treated,  for  the  risk 
factors  for  non-melanoma  skin  cancers  before  initiating  and  during  treatment  with  adalimumab. 
Additional wording was also proposed for section 4.4 and the PL. Overall, the CHMP considered these 
actions  as  appropriate.  The  risk  for  malignancies  remains  an  important  factor  for  the  overall 
benefit/risk balance.  
Lupus-like syndrome 
One subject in the All Adalimumab Treatment Set developed lupus-like syndrome. 
Allergic Reactions 
Three  adalimumab  −  treated  subjects  (0.2%,  0.2/100  PY)  reported  treatment  −  emergent  allergic 
reactions (hypersensitivity [2], anaphylactoid reaction [1]), which were considered unrelated to study 
drug and none of which led to premature discontinuation from the study.  
Demyelinating Disease 
There were no cases.  
Congestive heart failure (CHF) 
One subject (1%, 0.1/100 PY) reported congestive heart failure, which developed early in the course 
of treatment with adalimumab (27 days after first dose) and did not lead to discontinuation from the 
study. 
Page 13 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection Site Reaction 
Overall,  159  adalimumab  −  treated  subjects  (9.4%,  18.2/100  PY)  reported  injection  site  reactions. 
Injection site reactions occurred at a higher incidence in adalimumab − treated (7.0%, 29.9/100 PY) 
vs.  placebo  subjects  (5.0%,  26.4/100 PY).  Most  events  were  mild  in  severity.    Two  subjects  (0.1%) 
treated with adalimumab discontinued due to an injection site reaction.   
Haematologic Events 
A total of three haematological events (0.2%, 0.2/100 PY) occurred in adalimumab − treated subjects 
(thrombocytopenia [2], leucopenia [1]).  
Hepatic Events 
Overall,  58  adalimumab  −  treated  subjects  (3.4%,  4.9/100  PY)  reported  hepatic  events;  the  most 
commonly  reported  events  were  alanine  aminotransferase  increased,  aspartate  aminotransferase 
increased,  and  hepatic  enzyme  increased.  Hepatic  events  were  serious  in  two  subjects  (one 
cholecystitis  and  one  cholelithiasis)  and  led  to  discontinuation  in  seven  subjects.  Hepatitis  was 
reported in two subjects. The overall incidence of treatment-emergent hepatic events was lower among 
adalimumab − treated subjects (1.8%) than placebo − treated subjects (2.6%).  
Laboratory findings 
In  the  MTX-controlled  study  M04-716,  higher  percentages  of  subjects  in  the  adalimumab  group 
compared  with  the  placebo  and  MTX  groups  had  shifts  in  total  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  from 
normal at Baseline to high at the final visit. These results have been seen previously with adalimumab 
and may be associated with the anti-inflammatory effect of adalimumab. Percentages of adalimumab-
treated subjects with shifts in LFTs (alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, and gamma GT) 
from normal at Baseline to high at the final visit were comparable or lower than those in the placebo 
and MTX treatment groups. A noticeably higher percentage of subjects in the MTX treatment group 
shifted  to high  ALT  values  compared  with  the  adalimumab  treatment  group. In  the  overall  placebo-
controlled  treatment  set,  ALT  elevations  from  normal  to  high  occurred  in  6.3%  with  placebo  and 
7.8% with adalimumab. 
Vital Signs 
No clinically relevant changes in vital sign values among adalimumab − treated subjects in any of the 
analyses sets were observed.  
Safety in special populations 
There seems to be no specific major sex related difference in AEs. Adalimumab has not been studied 
in  the  paediatric  psoriasis  population.  The  number  of  patients  above  the  age  of  65  in  the  psoriasis 
studies was rather limited (approx. 6%). 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  adalimumab  development  program  in  psoriasis  included  safety  exposure  on  1696  subjects  who 
received at least one dose of adalimumab, for a cumulative exposure of 1684 patient − years, through 
29  June  2006.  The  safety  profile  of  adalimumab  in  psoriasis  was  similar  to  that  observed  in 
populations  previously  studied,  including  AEs  of  special  interest.  An  increase  of  non-serious 
infections  was  observed  in  the  adalimumab  groups  compared  with  the  placebo  groups.  Cases  of  TB 
also occurred at a rate similar to that seen in other patient populations treated with adalimumab. These 
cases  emphasise  the  importance  of  screening  and  prophylaxis  for  TB  in  subjects  treated  with 
adalimumab,  which  should  be  further  discussed.  The  numbers  of  non-melanoma  skin  cancers  are  of 
concern  and  should  be  further  monitored.  Patients  with  psoriasis  are  often  at  a  higher  risk  for  skin 
cancers  due  to  previous  therapy  with  e.g.  phototherapy.  To  continuously  follow  malignancies  is  of 
importance.  It  is  also  necessary  to  further  emphasise  the  importance  of  thorough  screening  and 
examination of the skin before start of, and continuously, during treatment in psoriasis.  
Page 14 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted a revised risk management plan (RMP), which covered all approved indications 
as well as indications which are under investigation or have been submitted to the CHMP.  
A  summary  of  the  RMP  for  adalimumab  highlighting  the  safety  concerns  with  adalimumab  is 
presented below:  
Safety Concern 
Important Identified Risks 
Infections including 
opportunistic 
infections and TB 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance with use 
of specialised questionnaires to 
identify the results of screening, 
medical history, administration of 
prophylaxis, outcomes, and special 
reporting in PSURs of cases by 
geographic region of origin. 
Lymphoma 
Non  melanoma  skin 
cancer (NMSC) 
Immune 
reactions 
(including  lupus-like 
reactions  and  allergic 
reactions) 
Central Nervous 
System (CNS) 
demyelinating 
disorders 
Haematological 
disorders 
Vasculitis 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
with particular interest in 
identification of hepatosplenic 
lymphoma cases. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Meta-analysis across three TNF 
inhibitors. 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
and special reporting in PSURs. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries.  
Meta-analysis across three TNF 
inhibitors 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
with specialised questionnaire for 
lupus-like reactions. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance with 
specialised questionnaires for events 
such as ALS (amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis), PML (progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy), 
and multiple sclerosis and special 
reporting in PSURs. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Page 15 of 19 
Activities (routine and additional) 
infections 
Contraindications  for  active  TB  or 
other severe infections such as sepsis, 
and opportunistic infections, warning 
regarding  infections  in  section  4.4 
and 
in 
information  on 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Risk  Minimisation  actions  in  the 
form  of  an  educational  programme 
followed 
and 
communication of its effectiveness is 
planned 
in 
Warning  regarding 
section  4.4  and  information  on  rates 
from 
and  post-
marketing are included in section 4.8 
of the SPC. 
Educational Program. 
by  measurement 
lymphoma 
clinical 
trials 
Rates  for  NMSC  from  clinical  trials 
and  post-marketing  are  included  in 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Educational Program. 
Warnings  regarding  serious  allergic 
reactions and lupus-like reactions are 
included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Anaphylaxis  is  also  listed  as  an 
undesirable  event  identified  in  post-
marketing surveillance in section 4.8 
of the SPC. 
Warning  on  CNS  demyelinating 
disorders is included in section 4.4 of 
the SPC. 
Educational Program. 
Warning 
regarding  haematologic 
reactions is included in section 4.4 of 
the SPC. 
Listed  as  post-marketing  event  in 
section 4.8 of the SPC 
 
 
 
 
Elevated  ALT  levels 
in PsA 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
with specialised questionnaires for 
additional information on 
confounding factors and outcome. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical study in PsA. 
The  risk  of  elevated  ALT  levels  in 
PsA  patients  is  addressed  in  section 
4.8 of the SPC. 
Important Potential Risks 
Other Malignancies 
(except 
and NMSC) 
lymphoma 
Congestive 
failure (CHF) 
heart 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Meta-analysis across three TNF 
inhibitors. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Reactivation 
chronic hepatitis B 
of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Interstitial 
disease 
lung 
Hepatosplenic T-cell 
Lymphoma 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
Intestinal  stricture  in 
CD 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through long-term 
clinical studies and registries. 
trials 
clinical 
Warning regarding malignancies in 
section 4.4 and information on rates 
from 
and  post-
marketing are included in section 4.8 
of the SPC. 
Educational Program. 
Contraindication  in  section  4.3  for 
moderate 
to  severe  heart  failure 
(NYHA  class  III/IV)  and  warning 
regarding  mild  heart  failure  (NYHA 
class  (I/II) included in section 4.4 of 
the  SPC  with  instructions  to  stop 
adalimumab  is  symptoms  become 
worse in these patients. 
Educational Program. 
Warning 
regarding  hepatitis  B 
reactivation is included in section 4.4 
the  SPC,  and  reactivation  of 
of 
hepatitis  B 
listed  as  an 
is  also 
undesirable  event  identified  in  post-
marketing surveillance in section 4.8 
of the SPC. 
Interstitial lung disease is listed as an 
undesirable  event  identified  in  post-
marketing surveillance in section 4.8 
of the SPC. 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma is a 
specific  form  of 
lymphoma  and 
risk  minimisation 
therefore  any 
activities implemented for lymphoma 
will cover also this specific form. No 
specific  risk  minimisation  activities 
for  Hepatosplenic  T-cell  lymphoma 
are necessary. 
Warning 
small  bowel 
obstruction  and  intestinal  stricture  is 
included  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities 
are adequate to detect any increase in 
the severity or frequency of intestinal 
strictures from spontaneous reporting 
sources  and  ongoing  clinical  trials 
associated with adalimumab therapy. 
regarding 
Important Missing Information 
Subjects 
with 
immunocompromised 
conditions; 
subjects 
with  a  history  of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through registries. 
Warnings  regarding  patients  with 
immunocompromised  conditions  are 
included  in  several  places  in  section 
4.4 of the SPC.  
Page 16 of 19 
clinically  significant 
drug or alcohol abuse 
Subjects  with  poorly 
controlled  medical 
conditions  such  as 
uncontrolled  diabetes 
with 
documented 
history  of  recurrent 
unstable 
infections, 
heart 
ischemic 
disease,  CHF,  recent 
cerebrovascular 
accidents 
Subjects  with  history 
of  listeriosis,  history 
of 
histoplasmosis, 
active  TB,  persistent 
active 
or 
chronic 
requiring 
infections 
treatment 
with 
antibiotics,  antivirals, 
antifungals, 
or 
previous  diagnosis  of 
HIV 
Subjects  with  history 
of cancer, lymphoma, 
leukemia, 
or 
lymphoproliferative 
disease; subjects with 
history  of  neurologic 
symptoms  suggestive 
of 
CNS 
demyelinating 
disorders. 
Children  <  18  years 
of  age  for  PsA,  AS, 
Ps, 
CD 
and 
indications 
Pregnant or lactating 
women 
Subjects with renal or 
hepatic impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through registries. 
Warnings  regarding  patients  with  a 
history  of  recurring  infections  and 
mild  heart  failure  are  included  in 
section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Contraindication  for  moderate 
to 
severe heart failure included in SPC. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
No additional activities since this 
population is contraindicated. 
Contraindications  for  active  TB  or 
other severe infections such as sepsis, 
and opportunistic infections, warning 
regarding infections in section 4.4. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
No additional activities since caution 
statement included in the product 
information. 
Warnings  regarding  patients  with  a 
history  of  malignancy  and  pre-
existing 
recent-onset  CNS 
demyelinating  disorders  are  included 
in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
or 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
and assessment of AE profiles of 
patients by age and paediatric 
indications, when approved. 
Incidence of PsA and AS in children 
is low; therefore, no additional 
activities and studies are planned. 
Studies in children with Ps and CD 
are under development. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Adalimumab is not foreseen to be 
used in pregnant and lactating 
women. 
A pregnancy exposure registry 
(Study M03-604) was set up by 
Abbott to monitor planned and 
unplanned pregnancies in women 
exposed to adalimumab. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Monitoring through registries. 
Page 17 of 19 
However 
Section 4.2 of the SPC addresses the 
lack  of  information  in  paediatric 
patients. 
the 
completion  of  paediatric  trials  for 
JIA,  CD,  and  Ps,  this  information 
will  be  communicated  and  the  SPC 
changes  made  according 
the 
findings 
with 
to 
Section  4.6  currently  addresses  the 
risks  to  women  who  may  become 
pregnant or are lactating while being 
treated  with  adalimumab.  It  also 
addresses  the  risk  to  infants  who  are 
exposed in utero or via breast milk. 
Section 4.2 of the SPC indicates that 
adalimumab  has  not  been  studied  in 
this patient populations and that there 
are  no  specific  recommendations 
Patients taking 
concomitant biologic 
therapy. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
No additional activities as it is 
anticipated that inclusion of these 
medications would seriously 
jeopardize the safety. 
Long-term RA data 
beyond 5 years 
Long-term PsA data 
Long-term AS data 
Long-term CD data 
Episodic treatment in 
CD data 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
10-year long-term studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
3-year long-term study 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
5-year long-term studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
5-year registry 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
5-year registry 
Long-term Ps data 
Episodic  treatment  in 
Ps data 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
5-year registry 
Continuation of Study M03-658 for 2 
years; patients will then be offered to 
be rolled-over into the registry. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
5-year registry 
Page 18 of 19 
the  use  of 
about 
the  dose  or 
adalimumab in these patients. 
Warning  regarding  concomitant  use 
with  Anakinra  is  included  in  section 
4.4 of the SPC. 
Combinations  with  other  biologics 
are  not  specifically  addressed  in  the 
SPC, 
on 
available 
combinations  with  other  DMARDs 
are described in section 4.2 and 5.1. 
Information on clinical data available 
for  5  years  duration  is  included  in 
section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Information on clinical data available 
is included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
data 
but 
Information on clinical data available 
is included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
registry 
Information on clinical data available 
is proposed to be included in section 
5.1 of the SPC 
Episodic  treatment  is  not  foreseen 
according  to  the  approved  SPC.  An 
ongoing 
for  CD  will 
complement  the  safety  experience 
especially  on  episodic 
treatment 
spontaneous  post-
gained 
from 
marketing  AE 
for  all 
reporting 
adalimumab.  This 
patients 
protocol 
to  collect 
information  on  patients  for  at  least 
five  years.  Safety  findings  will  be 
communicated  in  future  PSURs  and 
updates  will  be  made  to  the  CCDS 
and SPC as necessary. 
Information on clinical data available 
is proposed to be included in section 
5.1 of the SPC. 
on 
is  designed 
the 
complement 
Episodic treatment is not proposed in 
the  SPC.  An  ongoing  registry  for  Ps 
safety 
will 
experience  especially  on  episodic 
treatment  gained  from  spontaneous 
postmarketing  AE  reporting  for  all 
adalimumab.  This 
patients 
protocol 
to  collect 
information  on  patients  for  at  least 
five  years.  Safety  findings  will  be 
communicated  in  future  PSURs  and 
updates  will  be  made  to  the  CCDS 
and SPC as necessary. 
on 
is  designed 
 
The annex II was updated to reflect the information on the educational plan which is to be extended to 
dermatologists.  
Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Psoriasis  is  a  chronic  immunologic  disease,  affecting  men  and  women  equally,  and  is  a  life-long 
disease often diagnosed early in life.  
The MAH applied for an extension of indication in the treatment of chronic Ps. The decision about the 
treatment  position  of  a  new  drug  (e.g.,  first  line  v.s.  second  line  treatment  option)  is  the  result  of  a 
combination  of  efficacy  and  safety  data  in  a  given  disease  context.  This  consideration  particularly 
applies  to  a  chronic  disease  like  psoriasis  where  multiple  treatment  options  are  already  available, 
disease  suppression  usually  ceases  after  treatment  withdrawal,  and  safety  issues  play  an  important 
role, given the benign nature of the disease itself, without obvious subsequent morbidities.  
Although efficacy was demonstrated, the benefit/risk balance for first line therapy was not considered 
positive, due to the safety profile and safety concerns of adalimumab. The increased risk for serious 
infections, which may have fatal outcome, and for non-melanoma skin cancers and remaining doubts 
whether  other  malignancies  are  activated,  seriously  question  adalimumab  as  a  first  line  option  in 
severe  psoriasis.  The  second  line  indication  proposed  by  the  MAH  was  supported  by  subgroup 
analyses of the efficacy results in the second line target population (moderate to severe chronic plaque 
psoriasis in adult patients who failed to respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant 
to other systemic therapy including cyclosporine, MTX or PUVA.). The proposed dose regimen with 
an initial 80 mg dose followed by 40 mg eow was accepted.  
Limited  data  have  been  obtained  on  whether  loss  of  adequate  response  occurs  when  maintenance 
therapy  is  stopped.  In  study  M03-656  (period  C),  a  substantial  number  of  patients  (72%  on  placebo 
and 95% on adalimumab), did not lose adequate response during the drug-free phase of 19 weeks. It is 
acknowledged  that  the  efficacy  of  maintenance  therapy  in  the  long  run  likely  will  be  superior  to  on 
demand treatment. Nevertheless, it remains to be proven that the risk/benefit of maintenance is non-
inferior to on demand treatment. The MAH has provided some further data from this M03-656, which 
suggest a lower probability for subjects who lost response to regain effect, than for those who did not 
lose response during the 19 weeks period off treatment. It is considered acceptable that additional data 
regarding treatment interruptions and on demand treatment is collected in the post marketing setting, 
including the planned registry.  
The  safety  profile  in  the  studies  in  patients  with  psoriasis  was  similar  to  the  previously  approved 
indications  with  an  identified  risk  for  serious  infections,  including  opportunistic  infections  and  TB. 
Non-melanoma  skin  cancers  have  been  reported  in  a  higher  number  of  patients  on  adalimumab 
compared with placebo. The CHMP agreed that the MAH will, in the educational program, emphasise 
the  need  for  screening  of  all  patients  for  the  risk  for  non-melanoma  skin  cancers  before  and  during 
treatment with adalimumab. Malignancies should continue to be followed as well as other events of 
interest,  following  the  evaluation  of  the  PSURs.  Furthermore,  an  additional  warning  was  added  to 
section 4.4 of the SPC, and information was also included in the PL.  
The  revised  RMP  submitted  was  agreed  with,  although  some  updates  were  recommended.  The  risk 
minimisation  activities  in  place  were  agreed,  as  the  MAH  has  proposed  to  expand  the  educational 
programs to involve dermatologists and to implement a registry.  
Conclusion 
On 15 November 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the SPC, annex II and PL. 
Page 19 of 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
