25 June 2015 
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name: Humira 
International non-proprietary name: adalimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000481/II/0137 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): AbbVie Ltd. 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 8 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics .............................................................................................. 9 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 14 
2.3.4. PK/PD modelling ............................................................................................. 14 
2.3.5. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 18 
2.3.6. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 19 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 20 
2.4.1. Dose response study........................................................................................ 26 
2.4.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 37 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 83 
2.4.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 89 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 89 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 116 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety .......................................................................... 119 
2.5.3. PSUR cycle ................................................................................................... 119 
2.6. Risk management plan ..................................................................................... 119 
2.7. Update of the Product information ...................................................................... 119 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 120 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 123 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 2/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
AAA 
AE  
AESI 
AN  
ANCOVA  
ANOVA   
BID  
BL  
BMI  
CMH  
CRP  
CSR  
CXR  
DB  
DLQI  
DMARD  
ECG  
eow  
EU  
ew  
GCP  
HiSCR    
HS  
HS QoL  
hsCRP    
ICH  
ISE  
ITT  
IXRS  
LOCF    
LOR  
LS  
MCID    
MMRM   
MTX  
NRI  
NRS  
OC  
OL  
OLE  
pbo  
PGA  
PP  
PPD  
SAE  
SAP  
SC  
TNF  
TSQM    
US  
Wk  
WOAI    
WPAI:SHP  
Anti-adalimumab antibody 
Adverse event 
Adverse event of special interest 
Abscess and inflammatory nodule 
Analysis of covariance 
Analysis of variance 
Twice a day 
Baseline 
Body mass index 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
C-reactive protein 
Clinical study report 
Chest x-ray 
Double-blind 
Dermatology Life Quality Index 
Disease-modifying antirheumatic drug 
Electrocardiogram 
Every other week 
European Union 
Weekly  
Good Clinical Practice 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa Quality of Life 
High sensitivity C-reactive protein 
International Conference on Harmonization 
Integrated Summary of Efficacy 
Intent-to treat 
Interactive Voice Response System/Interactive Web Response System 
Last observation carried forward 
Loss of response 
Least squares 
Minimal clinically important difference 
Mixed-effects model repeated measurement 
Methotrexate 
Non-responder imputation 
Numeric rating scale 
Observed case 
Open-label 
Open-label extension 
Placebo 
Physician's Global Assessment 
Per protocol 
Purified protein derivative 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan 
Subcutaneous 
Tumour necrosis factor 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication 
United States 
Week 
Worsening or absence of improvement 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire: Specific Health Problem 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 3/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, AbbVie Ltd. submitted to the European 
Medicines Agency on 11 November 2014 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Centrally authorised Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name  
For presentations: See Annex A 
Humira 
adalimumab 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
The Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) applied for a new indication for the treatment of active moderate 
to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in adult patients, including treatment of inflammatory 
lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas. Consequently, the MAH proposed the 
update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be 
updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0121/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P0121/2013 was not yet completed as some measures 
were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the MAH did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The MAH received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 18 November 2010 and 19 May 2011. The Scientific 
Advices pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 4/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Kristina Dunder  
Co-Rapporteur:  
Daniela Melchiorri 
Timetable 
Actual dates 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
19 January 2015 
Co-Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
14 January 2015 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on: 
20 February 2015 
Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable adopted by 
the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s responses 
circulated on: 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s responses 
circulated on: 
26 February 2015 
26 April 2015 
26 May 2015 
18 June 2015 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC: 
11 June 2015 
CHMP opinion: 
26 June 2015 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Adalimumab  is  a  recombinant,  fully  human  immunoglobulin  (IgG1)  monoclonal  antibody  that  binds 
specifically  to  the  soluble  and  transmembrane  forms  of  tumor  necrosis  factor  (TNF)-α  and  inhibits  the 
binding of TNF-α to its receptors. 
Adalimumab is approved for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, active and progressive psoriatic arthritis, severe ankylosing spondylitis, moderate to 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis (in adults), severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 
4 years of age, moderate to severe Crohn's disease, and moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (UC). 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a serious, chronic, inflammatory, recurrent, debilitating skin disease that 
usually presents with painful, deep-seated, inflamed lesions in the apocrine gland-bearing areas of the body, 
most commonly the axillary, inguinal, and anogenital regions.  
Disease onset is typically after puberty and affects women 2 to 5 times more commonly than men. Various 
factors including genetics, cigarette smoking, and obesity may predispose a person to HS. The disease is 
characterized by recurrent inflamed nodules and abscesses, which may rupture to form fistulas and ooze 
purulent drainage and cause subsequent scarring. HS is also associated with several complications (e.g. the 
development of anal, urethral and rectal strictures and fistulas). The excessive scarring and fibrosis 
produced by HS lesions can lead to contractures and limitations in limb mobility, especially in the axilla. In 
addition, inflammation and scarring in the genitofemoral region may predispose to anal, urethral, and rectal 
strictures. Other comorbidities associated with HS include anaemia, secondary infection, malignancies (such 
as non-melanoma skin cancer; NMSC), metabolic syndrome, spondyloarthritis, depression and anxiety. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 5/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
The 1-year prevalence of symptomatic HS, including mild to severe disease, has been estimated to be 
0.97% in France and 1.0% in Copenhagen County, Denmark. Two recent studies suggest that the diagnosed 
prevalence of HS in the US is approximately 0.05%. 
The diagnosis of HS is established by the characteristic clinical presentation, without the need for a 
confirmatory skin biopsy. HS is described clinically using the Hurley Stages classification, first proposed in 
1989, which represent the levels of severity of HS disease. The stages are based on the extent of 
cicatrisation and sinus tract involvement, as follows: 
•  Hurley Stage I: Abscess formation (single or multiple) without sinus tracts and cicatrisation 
•  Hurley Stage II: One or more widely separated recurrent abscesses with tract formation and scars 
•  Hurley Stage III: Multiple interconnected tracts and abscesses throughout an entire area 
Hurley Stage I patients are typically treated with topical or systemic antibiotics. Patients who fail these 
treatments generally receive retinoid therapy, short-term corticosteroid treatments, or cryotherapy. Hurley 
Stage II and III disease often requires long-term immunosuppression or surgical intervention. HS may be a 
progressive disease in some patients and risk factors that predispose patients to progression include 
smoking and obesity. 
The Sartorius scale is also often used to grade severity of HS and a modified version (MSS) is commonly 
used.  
Table 1.  Modified Sartorius Scale (MSS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 6/124 
 
 
  
  
HS has a severely negative effect on patients' quality of life. Patients who suffer from moderate to severe HS 
have substantial and often persistent morbidity due to pain and sequelae from uncontrolled inflammation. 
Compared to other skin diseases, the impact of HS on health-related quality of life is worse. The baseline 
mean Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) scores (which range from 0 for no impairment to 30 for 
maximal impairment) were 14 for moderate to severe HS patients in a Phase 2 HS trial compared to 11 for 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients in a Phase 3 psoriasis trial. 
A diverse range of symptoms are associated with HS, with skin pain being the most frequently reported and 
bothersome. Adults with HS experience considerable impact on activities of daily living, work/school 
attendance, physical activities, and emotional states. The impairment that HS patients suffer is often greater 
than the impairment experienced by patients with other dermatologic conditions, including chronic urticaria, 
psoriasis, atopic dermatitis and neurofibromatosis. Patients with HS, especially those with moderately to 
severely active disease, often have poor work productivity. 
Patients with HS often have needs of frequent healthcare contacts. Over a 3-year period, approximately 1 in 
4 patients (27%) with HS were admitted to the emergency room and 16% were hospitalized.   
Current treatment options 
Understanding of the pathogenesis of HS has progressed rapidly in the last years. The inflammation in HS is 
associated with increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and TNF-α. Most experts 
believe that bacterial infection is a secondary event in the disease process, and that antibiotics do not cure 
the disease but may relieve symptoms through either an antibacterial or an anti-inflammatory effect. 
There are no approved medicinal products for the treatment of HS and there are few randomized, controlled 
trials of medical therapies, or surgical or laser interventions in the treatment of HS. So far, the only 
randomized placebo-controlled study of HS demonstrating efficacy was with the use of topical clindamycin. 
This was a single-centre, small (N = 30 patients) study that demonstrated a mean reduction of 1.3 
inflammatory nodules after 3 months of therapy.  
Since there are no robust data and no approved products for HS, treatments vary widely and are not well 
characterised. These include medical treatments (e.g. systemic combination therapy with clindamycin and 
rifampicin, tetracyclines including doxycycline and minocycline, intralesional triamcinolone, systemic 
cyclosporine, anti-androgen treatment in women, systemic dapsone, systemic retinoids, and metformin), 
surgical treatments (radical excision, marsupialization and deroofing) and laser treatment (CO2 laser and 
Nd:YAG laser). Their use is described in open-label, frequently retrospective case series and case reports, 
with typically short-term follow-up and varying eligibility criteria and surgical techniques. Retrospective 
studies of oral clindamycin and rifampicin have not provided definitive evidence to establish the optimal 
duration of therapy, however, a range of 2 to 4 months has been mentioned. 
There is an unmet medical need in this condition, given that (a) the abscesses and inflammatory nodules of 
HS are malodorous, cause pain and may culminate in scar formation; (b) there are no approved medical 
therapies for the abscesses and inflammatory nodules of HS; and (c) surgical and laser therapies can be 
associated with significant post-procedure morbidity and uncertain long-term disease control. 
The MAH has submitted a type II variation application to add a new indication for Humira for the:” treatment 
of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in adult patients, including treatment 
of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas”. 
The application is based on data from Studies M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 in adult subjects 
with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS). 
The proposed dose for adult patients with moderate to severe HS is an initial dose of 160 mg at Week 0, 80 
mg at Week 2, and 40 mg every week (ew) starting at Week 4. 
There is no European guideline available for the clinical development of products for the treatment of 
hidradenitis suppurativa. CHMP Scientific Advice (EMEA/H/SA/127/8/2010/II) and Follow-up Scientific 
Advice (EMEA/H/SA/127/8/FU/1/2011/II) for the development of Humira in HS were received by the MAH 
and were taken into consideration when designing the phase 3 clinical programme.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 7/124 
 
  
  
In the first CHMP advice, issues were raised regarding the target population (e.g. disease severity, previous 
and ongoing antibiotic use) and the proposed primary efficacy end-point AN50 (a 50% reduction in abscess 
and/or nodule count), which was not considered sufficient to address a clinically relevant effect. The choice 
of dose, study duration and size of the safety data base were also addressed. 
In the follow-up advice, the MAH had revised the proposed inclusion criteria in order to include a sufficiently 
severe HS population. They had also developed a new composite end-point, the Hidradenitis Suppurativa 
Clinical Response (HiSCR), that requires a 50% or more reduction in total count of abscess and inflammatory 
nodule count with no increase in abscess count or draining fistula count vs. baseline. This was deemed a 
more relevant end-point by the CHMP, however, the need for validation was stressed. The importance of 
relevant secondary efficacy end-points to capture other aspects of HS was emphasized. Issues related to 
previous and ongoing antibiotic treatment were further discussed and it was recommended to perform 
sub-group analyses with respect to smoking status and obesity (BMI) as these factors are known to affect 
HS. 
The MAH has in general followed the CHMP Scientific advice in the clinical development of Humira in HS.  
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by the 
CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. 
The MAH has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 8/124 
 
  
  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Study No. 
No. Patients 
Enrolled 
M10-467 
154 
Location 
USA, NLD, 
DNK, DEU 
Study Design/ 
Duration 
Key Efficacy Variables 
Status 
Phase 2, randomized, 
Proportion of subjects 
Completed 
DB, 
placebo-controlled 
period followed by an 
OL period/ 52 weeks 
achieving HS-PGA of 
clear, minimal, or mild 
with at least 2 grades 
improvement 
(reduction) from 
Baseline at Week 16 
(primary) 
Proportion of subjects 
achieving HiSCR at Week 
12 (primary); AN count 
of 0/1/2, NRS30, 
modified Sartorius score 
(ranked secondaries) 
Completed 
M11-810 
326 
AUS, CAN, 
DNK, FRA, 
GRC, NLD, 
SWE, CHE, 
TUR, USA 
Phase 3, randomized, 
DB, 
placebo-controlled, 
2-period/36 weeks 
M11-313 
307 
AUS, CAN, 
Phase 3, randomized, 
Proportion of subjects 
Completed 
M12-555 
497a 
CZE, DEU, 
HUN, USA 
DB, 
placebo-controlled, 
2-period/36 weeks 
OL extension/ 
at least 60 weeks 
CAN, AUS, 
DEU, CZE, 
FRA, CHE, 
DNK, GRC, 
HUN, NLD, 
SWE, USA 
achieving HiSCR at Week 
12 (primary); AN count 
of 0/1/2, NRS30, 
modified Sartorius score 
(ranked secondaries) 
HiSCR, AN count, 
modified Sartorius 
score, NRS30 
Ongoing 
ada = adalimumab; AN = abscess and inflammatory nodule; AUS = Australia; CAN = Canada; CHE = Switzerland; CZE = 
Czech Republic; DB = double-blind; DEU = Germany; DNK = Denmark; eow = every other week;  
ew = every week; FRA = France; GRC = Greece; HiSCR = Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response; 
 HS = hidradenitis suppurativa; HS-PGA = HS physician's global assessment; HUN = Hungary; NLD = Netherlands; 
NRS30 = at least a 30% reduction and at least 1 unit reduction from baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain 
– at worst –among subjects with baseline numeric rating scale (NRS) ≥ 3; pbo = placebo; PK = pharmacokinetics; SWE 
= Sweden; TUR = Turkey; USA = United States of America 
a.  Enrollment is complete and study is ongoing. Results are presented from an interim analysis of data through 29 April 
2014. 
Note:  AN count is the total abscess and inflammatory nodule count. HiSCR is defined as at least a 50% reduction in the 
AN count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count relative to Baseline. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic properties of adalimumab have been characterized previously in healthy subjects and 
in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Crohn's disease (CD), active ulcerative colitis (UC) and chronic 
plaque psoriasis (Ps).  
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab was 
slow, with Tmax of about 5 days. The average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab is estimated to 64%. 
After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, concentrations were dose proportional, and 
clearances (CL) were typically under 12 ml/hour. The distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 4.7 to 6.0 litres. 
The mean terminal phase half-life was approximately two weeks.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 9/124 
 
 
  
  
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of Humira every other week to patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis, accumulation of adalimumab was predictable based on the half-life, with mean steady-state 
concentrations of approximately 5 ug/ml (without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 ug/ml (with 
concomitant methotrexate), respectively. Methotrexate reduces adalimumab apparent clearance by 
approximately 40%. 
The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased approximately proportionally with dose 
following 20, 40 and 80 mg every other week and every week subcutaneous dosing. In long-term studies 
with dosing more than two years, there was no evidence of changes in clearance over time. 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1200 patients revealed a trend toward higher 
apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight and in the presence of anti adalimumab 
antibodies. After adjustment for weight differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on 
adalimumab clearance.  
To support the current application the pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of adalimumab were evaluated 
in subjects with moderate to severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS) in a Phase 2 study (Study M10-467) and 
two Phase 3 studies (Studies M11-313 and M11-810). The population pharmacokinetics of adalimumab was 
also evaluated for HS subjects using a non-linear mixed effects modeling approach. The impact of covariates 
on adalimumab pharmacokinetics was assessed. Exposure-response analyses were conducted to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of adalimumab in Phase 3 studies in the withdrawal phase. 
The pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity results in subjects with HS were compared with results from 
previous studies in subjects with active CD (Study M02-403), UC (Study M06-827) and Ps (Study M02-528). 
Analytical methods 
The human serum samples were analysed by using a validated ELISA method over an analytical range of 
3.125 ng/mL to 50.0 ng/mL. The minimum required dilution was 1:10 in sample buffer (-). Therefore, the 
LLOQ was 31.25 ng/mL in human serum. Inter-assay precision and bias for calibration standards were 
adequate.  
Immunogenicity of adalimumab in the HS population was assessed in Studies M10-467, M11-313 and 
M11-810 using a double antigen sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. A sample 
was classified as AAA+ if the anti-adalimumab antibody (AAA) concentration in serum was >20 ng/mL and 
the serum sample was collected within 30 days after an adalimumab dose. 
Pharmacokinetic data analysis 
Descriptive statistics of adalimumab concentrations were presented for within and between study 
comparisons. In addition, a population pharmacokinetic (PPK) analysis has been performed. Subjects with 
moderate to severe HS in Studies M10-467, M11-313 and M11-810 who had adalimumab treatment and 
with at least one measurable adalimumab concentration were included in the population PK analyses 
(n=600). In study M10-467 blood samples for the measurement of serum adalimumab concentrations were 
obtained at Baseline, Weeks 4, 8, 16, 28, 31, 39, 45 and Week 52, and at ET visit if the subject discontinued 
prior to Week 52. Blood samples for the measurement of AAA were also obtained at Baseline, Weeks 4, 8, 
16, 28, 31, 39, 45 and Week 52/ET. In studies M11-313 and M11-810 pre-dose blood samples for the 
measurement of serum adalimumab concentrations were obtained at Baseline, Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 14, 16, 
20, 24, 32, 36, and at the ET visit if the subject discontinued prior to Week 36. Blood samples for 
measurement of AAA were obtained at Baseline, Weeks 4, 12, 16, 24 and Week 36/ET. 
For the PPK analysis, adalimumab concentration values below LLOQ during active treatment were set to 
LLOQ/2. Both population PK and exposure-response models were built using nonlinear mixed effect 
modeling based on NONMEM 7.3 compiled with the GNU Fortran compiler. The PK model was fit to the data 
using the first-order conditional estimation method with INTERACTION within NONMEM. Inter-individual 
variability in PK parameters was modeled using an exponential error model. During the process of model 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 10/124 
 
  
  
development standard graphical as well as numerical/statistical methods (including the likelihood ratio test 
to discriminate among alternative nested models) were employed to assess model goodness-of-fit. 
Inter-individual and residual variability were described and correlations between parameters were 
investigated. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
The population PK model included a one-compartment model with correlated exponential terms for 
inter-individual variability on CL/F and V2/F, a combined residual error model, and covariates on CL/F and 
V2/F.  
The estimated PK parameter values, the effects of covariates on these parameters and their associated 
variability for the final adalimumab PK model are listed in Table 2. The model fit is illustrated in Figure 1 
and Figure 2. 
Table 2.  Parameter estimates for the final PPK model 
Figure 1.  Individual (Upper Left) and Population Predicted (Upper Right) Versus Observed 
Concentrations and Conditional Weighted Residuals Versus Predicted Concentrations (Lower 
Left) and Versus Time (Lower Right) for Final Population Pharmacokinetic Model 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 11/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 2. Visual Predictive Checks for Final Population Pharmacokinetic Model 
Special populations 
Impact of covariates 
There was ~116% increase in median CL/F from subjects with the lowest weight quartile of 43 – 78 kg to 
subjects with the highest weight quartile of 110 – 221 kg. CL/F doubled from subjects with the lowest 
baseline CRP quartile of 0.1 – 3.875 mg/L to subjects with the highest CRP quartile of 20.9 – 189 mL/h.  
There was a significant impact on CL/F in AAA+ patients. Median CL/F was about 6-fold higher in the AAA+ 
subjects compared to the AAA– subjects. The frequency of AAA+ in the three studies is reported in Table 3. 
The impacts of AAA status and baseline CRP on CL/F, as well as baseline body weight on CL/F and V2/F are 
further illustrated in Figure 3. 
Table 3. AAA positive rates (Phase III studies M11-313 and M11-810) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 12/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 3. Impact of Covariates on Pharmacokinetic Parameters: Final Model 
Comparison of PK across indications 
The proposed dosing regimen for subjects with moderate to severe HS consisted of an initial dosing regimen 
(adalimumab 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2) and a maintenance dosing regimen (adalimumab 40 
mg ew). Pharmacokinetic data obtained from Phase 3 studies in HS (Studies M11-313 and M11-810) were 
combined and compared with results from previous studies in other indications for these two regimens.  
The same initial dosing regimen was tested in subjects with CD (Study M02 -403) and UC (Study M06-827). 
Adalimumab concentrations were lower in subjects with HS (approximately 7.5 μg/mL) compared to 
subjects with CD and UC (approximately 12 μg/mL) following the initial doses of 160 mg/80 mg 
administered at Week 0/Week 2. Similarly adalimumab concentrations following 40 mg ew treatment were 
lower in subjects with HS (8.8 μg/mL at Week 12) compared to those observed in subjects with Ps (17.6 
μg/mL at Week 11) (Study M02-528).  
Simulations to support alternative dosing 
Patients in Studies M11-313 and M11-810 received 160 mg adalimumab at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2. 
The 160 mg dose requires 4 injections of 40 mg each on a single day, which may be inconvenient and difficult 
for subjects to tolerate. Thus an alternative initial dosing regimen was evaluated using the established PPK 
model of adalimumab in HS: the current regimen (Current),  in which 160 mg of adalimumab was 
administered on Day 0, and 80 mg on Day 14. The simulated alternative regimen (Alternative) split the 160 
mg dose over 2 days as shown in Table 4Error! Reference source not found. The simulated serum 
adalimumab concentrations following the administration of initial doses are shown in  
Figure 4. 
Table 4.  Simulated dosing regimens 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 13/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 4. Comparison of Simulated Serum Adalimumab Concentrations of 160 mg Adalimumab 
Given Over 1 or 2 Days 
2.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab is a recombinant, fully human immunoglobulin (IgG1) monoclonal antibody that binds 
specifically to the soluble and transmembrane forms of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and inhibits the 
binding of TNF- α to its receptors. 
Primary and secondary pharmacology 
No new data have been submitted within the scope of this variation which was considered acceptable by the 
CHMP. 
The histopathologic characteristics of HS include a dense inflammatory cell infiltrate of neutrophils, 
lymphocytes, and histiocytes (Layton 2006). TNF-á, which induces other pro-inflammatory cytokines and 
activates neutrophils and lymphocytes, is believed to have a pathogenic role in HS, based on the evident 
over-expression of TNF in HS lesions (van der Zee 2011). 
2.3.4.  PK/PD modelling 
At the end of Period A (Week 12) in the Phase 3 studies, subjects were evaluated for the primary efficacy 
endpoint of HiSCR. In subjects that received adalimumab 40 mg ew, HiSCR responders had slightly higher 
adalimumab concentrations compared to non-responders (8 – 11 μg/mL versus 6 – 7 μg/mL) in both Phase 
3 studies (Figure 5). In addition, graphical exploration of the the observed loss of response (LOR) and HS 
as an adverse event in the withdrawal phase of Phase 3 studies (Figure 6) suggested a drug effect; the 
placebo group showing apparently higher LOR compared to the active treatment groups.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 14/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 5. Mean (SD) Serum Adalimumab Concentrations Versus Time in Subjects with HS in 
Period A by HiSCR Response at Week 12 (Studies M11-313 and M11 –810) 
Figure 6.  Kaplan-Meier Plot for Observed Loss of Response in the Withdrawal Phase Stratified 
by Treatment Group in Period B 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 15/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 7. Kaplan-Meier Plot of First HS adverse event in the Withdrawal Phase Stratified by 
Treatment Group in Period B 
For the exposure-response modeling of efficacy and safety of adalimumab during the withdrawal phase of 
Phase 3 studies, parametric time-to-event (TTE) models were developed to explore potential effects of 
adalimumab treatment frequency on these endpoints. For efficacy, Loss of response (LOR) in responders 
and worsening or absence of improvement (WOAI) in non-responders were evaluated. For safety, HS as an 
AE and infection AEs were evaluated. The exposure-response models were fit to the data using the Laplacian 
Conditional Estimation method within NONMEM. The following covariates were investigated: AN count at 
baseline (AN_BL), AN count at Week 12 (AN_W12), draining fistula at Week 12 (DRFI_W12), CRP at Week 
12 (CRP_W12), Sartorius scale at Week 12 (SART_W12), Hurley Stage at baseline (HUST_BL), tobacco use, 
body weight (WTKG), SEX, AGE, and antibiotics use at baseline (BANTIB). 
Model of Loss of response 
The Hazard function for Loss of Response (LOR) was fixed to zero for Period A to analyze the withdrawal 
phase in Period B only. The Visual Predictive Checks (VPCs) were performed using Perl Speaks NONMEM 
4.2.0 and are shown as Kaplan-Meier plots in Figure 8. The observed LOR together with 95% prediction 
intervals were plotted separately for each treatment arm. The results indicated that the model appropriately 
describes the LOR over time for the different treatment arm. No covariates significantly improved the model.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 16/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 8. Visual Predictive Checks for LOR Stratified by Treatment (Final Model) 
Model of absence of improvement 
There was no significant correlation between adalimumab concentration and WOAI. Higher CRP values 
resulted in a more likely WOAI. There were no additional significant covariates identified. Model run12 was 
chosen as the final model.  
Figure 9.  Visual Predictive Checks for WOAI Stratified by Treatment (Final Model) 
Model for HS as an Adverse Event  
None of the tested covariates significantly improved the fit which is illustrated in Figure 10. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 17/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 10. Visual Predictive Checks for First HS AE Stratified by Treatment (Final Model) 
2.3.5.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Descriptive statistics of adalimumab concentrations at steady state have been presented for the three 
studies, however, the PPK model is considered the primary analysis. The PPK model has been developed 
according to current standard practices.  
The VPCs could have been made more illustrative and easy to interpret by stratifying into separate plots 
according to covariate status. However, the presented plots suggested that the model adequately describes 
the data and the model is fit for purpose.  
The alternative dosing causes only a small and transient difference in exposure. The proposed alternative 
dosing is endorsed by the CHMP. 
No specific pharmacodynamic data have been submitted to support the use of adalimumab in HS. However, 
elevated TNF-á levels are implicated in several pathologic autoimmune conditions, including HS, based on 
observations of over-expression of TNF in HS lesions. 
High initial loading doses and weekly 40 mg maintenance doses have been chosen for this indication, which 
are higher in comparison with most other indications already approved for Humira. No clear 
pharmacodynamic rationale for the need for high adalimumab concentrations in the treatment of HS has 
been presented. However, it is acknowledged that the recommended posology differs across indications for 
Humira, and in the phase 2 dose ranging study M10-467, both a high and low dose level regimen were 
investigated. In addition, HS patients were found to have a lower exposure compared to CD and Ps patients 
at the same doses. The lower exposure supports the need for a relatively high dose in this population. 
The VPCs of the pharmacodynamics models presented suggest a considerable uncertainty in the 
exposure-response correlation (for LOR and HS) as well as for the correlation between CRP at week 12 and 
WOAI. However, the general conclusions regarding the statistical associations are endorsed.  
In summary, the TTE modeling suggested that serum adalimumab concentration was a statistically 
significant predictor for LOR in Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR) responders (p-values = 
0.015) and for HS as AE (p-values = 0.008). Higher adalimumab concentrations were associated with less 
probability for LOR or developing HS as an AE.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 18/124 
 
 
  
  
There was no apparent relationship between adalimumab concentration and WOAI, or between adalimumab 
concentration and infection AE in the exposure-response analyses. CRP at Week 12 was identified as a 
statistically significant covariate for WOAI (higher CRP values resulting in more likely WOAI). No covariate 
was identified for infection AEs. 
Given the identified correlation between anti-adalimumab antibody formation and reduced efficacy, it 
appears likely that AAA+ HS patients are at risk of LOR as described in the SmPC (Section 5.1, 
Immunogenicity). 
Available data indicate that in the initial treatment (Period A) a relationship exists between ADA levels and 
response. Taking into account that baseline CRP has a marked effect on the drug clearance, it is expected 
that CL/F baseline CRP levels may influence the clinical response. At CHMP’s request, the MAH analyses the 
potential influence of baseline CRP levels on clinical response at week 2, 4, 8 and 12. The results suggested 
that baseline CRP levels affect the response rate, particularly in subjects with Hurley Stage III. In this group, 
the difference vs. placebo in response rates was 42.3% and 19.7%, in the sub-groups with lower (<8.4 mg/L) 
and higher (>8.4 mg/L) baseline CRP levels, respectively. The MAH argued that because the randomization 
was not stratified by baseline CRP levels, differences in response to treatment in the 2 CRP subgroups could 
be confounded by other factors. Given this and the small sample size, a multivariate approach that takes 
multiple factors into account and evaluates all time points simultaneously was considered to be more 
appropriate. For these reasons the Markov Chain Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modeling 
analysis was conducted and analysing VPC it could be concluded that the model adequately describe the 
observed data across treatment groups. The results of the PK/PD modelling analysis showed that none of the 
tested covariates was a significant predictor of treatment response. This indicates that, although higher 
disease markers may reduce placebo response to active treatment due to higher disease burden, they do not 
appear to affect response in subjects receiving adalimumab. Importantly, results of the performed analysis 
indicate that even in the subgroup in which the influence of baseline CRP levels was more evident (i.e., 
Hurley Stage III subjects with higher baseline CRP level), adalimumab was superior to placebo. Therefore, 
the provided data supports the conclusion that CRP levels are not very significant predictors of response per 
se and that baseline CRP levels do not influence clinical response. 
2.3.6.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The PK properties of adalimumab have been characterized previously in healthy subjects and in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Crohn's disease (CD), active ulcerative colitis (UC) and chronic plaque psoriasis 
(Ps). The PK of adalimumab in patients with HS were evaluated in three clinical studies. Weight, CRP and 
AAA+ were identified as significant covariates of adalimumab CL/F. Particularly AAA+ had a significant 
impact on adalimumab exposure.  
HS patients were found to have a lower exposure compared to CD and Ps patients at the same doses. This 
finding may be explained by the covariate effects described. The HS population had a mean weight >90 kg 
and the CRP appears also to be high in this group. The lower exposure supports the need for a relatively high 
dose in this population. 
Simulations using the established PPK model suggest that splitting the 160 mg initial dose into two 80 mg 
doses administered over 2 days has only a small, transient impact on the exposure profile and should not 
alter the efficacy in subjects with HS compared to administering the 160 mg initial dose on a single day. 
No specific pharmacodynamic data have been submitted to support the use of adalimumab in HS. However, 
elevated TNF-α levels are implicated in several pathologic autoimmune conditions, including HS, based on 
observations of over-expression of TNF in HS lesions. 
High initial loading doses and weekly 40 mg maintenance doses have been chosen for this indication, which 
are higher in comparison with most other indications already approved for Humira. No clear 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 19/124 
 
  
  
pharmacodynamic rationale for the need for high adalimumab concentrations in the treatment of HS has 
been presented. However, it is acknowledged that the recommended posology differs across indications for 
Humira, and in the phase 2 dose ranging study M10-467, both a high and low dose level regimen were 
investigated.   
In summary, the TTE modelling showed that serum adalimumab concentration was a statistically significant 
predictor for LOR in Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR) responders and for HS as AE. Higher 
adalimumab concentrations were associated with less probability for LOR or developing HS as an AE. There 
was no apparent relationship between adalimumab concentration and WOAI, or between adalimumab 
concentration and infection AE in the exposure-response analyses. CRP at Week 12 was identified as a 
statistically significant covariate for WOAI (higher CRP values resulting in more likely WOAI). No covariate 
was identified for infection AEs. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
The end-point chosen for phase 3 was the “Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response”, HiSCR, defined as at 
least a 50% reduction in the AN count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula 
count, at Week 12 relative to baseline.  
The psychometric performance and interpretability of HiSCR scores are based on data from Phase 2 Study 
M10-467 and one stand-alone, observational study. The application included a “HiSCR Measurement Report”, 
which is summarized and assessed below: 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response, HiSCR 
The aim of the measurement report was to provide evidence supporting the HiSCR as an appropriate 
endpoint to evaluate efficacy for adalimumab for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe 
hidradenitis suppurativa (HS). The primary signs and symptoms of HS are abscesses, inflammatory nodules 
or draining fistulas and these are assessed by the HiSCR. The measurement of skin pain and other impacts 
of HS were addressed via other end-points. 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR) definition 
HiSCR is defined by the status of three-criteria lesions, including the sum of abscesses, the sum of 
inflammatory nodules (which are added for the total AN count) and the number of draining fistulas.  
The definition of a HiSCR achiever is: (1) at least a 50% reduction in AN count, (2) with no increase in the 
number of abscesses, and (3) no increase in the number of draining fistulas. 
The lesions are counted by the clinician in 12 different anatomical regions of the subject´s body, as detailed 
in a worksheet. Investigators were trained on the use of the HS Lesion and Degree of Erythema Assessments 
worksheet, including how to assess and record lesion counts. Every effort was made to have the same 
assessor perform the lesion count assessment at every study visit. Lesion counts were completed during 
Period A (Screening, Baseline Day 1, Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12) and Period B (Weeks 14, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, and 
36 or Premature Discontinuation visit).  
Content validity  
The content validity of the HiSCR is supported by literature, which documents that inflammatory lesions 
(abscesses, inflammatory nodules, and draining fistulas) are important and relevant aspects of HS. HS 
patients experience impacts relating to interpersonal contact due to smell and appearance of skin resulting 
from the lesions. Emotional impacts (e.g. shame, irritation, feelings of lack of control, fear of stigmatization) 
and the possibility of isolation are other impacts experienced. The location of the lesions and the number of 
skin areas involved in HS lesions were major factors affecting the QoL of HS patients. The location of lesions 
could lead to being socially embarrassed and the failure to seek medical treatment. Specifically, the 
anogenital location of lesions has been shown to have a psychological impact as well as to result in physical 
impairment (pain, tenderness, flows, odor, or limited movements). It has been found that the clinical stage 
of disease activity was the most important factor related to QoL impairment in HS. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 20/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Psychometric evaluation and score interpretation 
Psychometric evaluation of the HiSCR was performed using data from a Phase 2 clinical study and an 
observational study, to support the HiSCR’s reliability (intra- and inter-rater reliability), validity (construct 
and predictive validity) and ability to detect change.  
week, double
blind, placebo
Study M10-467 (assessed below) included a 16
followed by a 36
label period (Period 2). During Period 1, patients were randomized in a 1:1:1 
week, open
ratio to adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week or placebo. Pooled Period 1 
data from all treatment arms were used for evaluating HiSCR (Baseline and Week 16 abscess, inflammatory 
nodule, and draining fistula counts were used to determine subject HiSCR responder status). Patients with 
AN count <3 at Baseline were excluded to eliminate the possibility that a one
could lead to HiSCR response. 
controlled period (Period 1) 
unit reduction in AN count 
‐ 
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
rated HS disease severity measures were used as criteria measures for HiSCR validation: 
Three physician
Hurley Stage, MSS (modified Sartorius score) and HS
instruments were also used to demonstrate the association between HiSCR and PRO results: the Visual 
Analogue Scale for HS skin pain (Pain
Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire: Specific Health Problem (WPAI
VAS), the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and the Work 
reported outcome (PRO) 
PGA. Three patient
SHP). 
‐
‐
‐
‐
A total of 138 subjects with AN count ≥3 at Baseline were included for analyses. The majority were female, 
white and current smokers, with a mean age of 37 years. The mean disease duration was 12 years, with an 
average AN count of 13.1 at Baseline. The mean Baseline MSS was 125. The average DLQI score was 15.6, 
indicating that the disease had a large effect on patients. More than half of patients (54%) had Hurley Stage 
II, while 31% had Hurley Stage III lesions. The rationale for including 21 patients (15%) with Hurley Stage 
I was to provide evidence that the HiSCR performed throughout the spectrum of HS disease severities.  
‐
Construct
related validity 
‐
related validity is concluded when the associations between concepts measured by a specified 
‐
Construct
instrument and concepts measured by other instruments are as expected. Construct
typically assessed via a correlation coefficient, which can range from –1.0 (a perfectly negative relationship) 
to 1.0 (a perfectly positive relationship), with 0.0 indicative of no relationship among the evaluated variables. 
There are no universally accepted rules for the interpretation of correlation coefficients (r); however, the 
following guidelines were considered based on the absolute value of r: negligible relationship, r=0.0-0.09, 
small relationship, r=0.1-0.29; medium relationship, r=0.30-0.49; and strong relationship, r=0.50 or 
larger.  
related validity is 
‐
Spearman´s rank
Stage, MSS, HS
calculated separately for two subscores of the WPAI
‐
PGA, Pain
‐
‐
‐
order correlations between HiSCR and the six existing ClinRO and PRO measures (Hurley 
SHP) were assessed at Week 16. Correlations with HiSCR were 
VAS, DLQI, WPAI
SHP (WPAI-TWI and WPAI-TAI ). 
‐
HiSCR converged well with criteria measures, correlating significantly with all ClinRO and PRO assessments 
(Spearman’s rho ranging between −0.64 and −0.38, all p<0.001) (Table ). The highest correlations with 
HiSCR were observed with the HS
VAS, and MSS (Spearman’s rho=−0.64, −0.53, and −0.51, 
respectively). 
PGA, Pain
‐
‐
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 21/124 
 
 
  
  
Table 5. Convergent validity: Spearman’s correlation between HiSCR and criteria measures at 
Week 16 
The predictive validity of the HiSCR was assessed using logistic regression to examine how well Week 16 
HiSCR achievement predicted three dichotomized outcomes at Week 52: a) HiSCR achievement (yes/no); b) 
being “clear” or “minimal” with HS lesions based on HS-PGA (versus “mild”/“moderate”/“severe”/“very 
severe”); and c) having “no effect” (score of 0-1) or “small effect” (score of 2-5) based on DLQI scores 
(versus “moderate effect”/“large effect”/“very large effect”).  
Baseline characteristics, including age, gender, race (white/non
mass index, and employment status (yes/no), along with a dichotomized variable indicating dose escalation 
during Period 2, were used in the regression models for predictive validity. 
white), current smoker (yes/no), body 
‐
A total of 125 patients had AN counts at both Week 16 and Week 52 or their respective early termination 
visit. Logistic regression models showed that HiSCR responders at Week 16 were 4.7 times more likely to be 
responders at Week 52 when compared to non
dose escalation. These patients were 5.1 times more likely than the non-responders to have HS
‐
assessed as “clean” or “minimal” with HS lesions at Week 52. They were also 2.8 times more likely to report 
the skin disease had no effect or a small effect, based on DLQI scores. 
responders, after adjusting for patient characteristics and 
PGA 
‐
Responsiveness (ability to detect change) 
The responsiveness of HiSCR was evaluated by examining the difference in the mean changes of ClinRO and 
responders) at Week 16 and 
PRO measures between HiSCR achievers (responders) and non
at Week 52. The mean changes from Baseline to Week 16 in ClinRO and PRO measures were compared 
between the groups using Wilcoxon rank
sum tests. The patient distribution across three Hurley Stages 
between the groups was compared using the Cochran
‐
standardized response mean (SRM) was computed for HiSCR responders and non
outcomes of interest. 
Haenszel statistic test. In addition, the 
responders on each of the 
achievers (non
Mantel
‐ 
‐
‐
‐
‐
Table  presents the changes in ClinRO and PRO outcomes by HiSCR status at Week 16 and Week 52. A very 
PGA and MSS) and moderately large to 
large effect was observed by Week 16 on both ClinRO measures (HS
large effects were observed on all PROs among HiSCR responders. Among HiSCR non
responders, a small 
effect was observed on the DLQI and WPAI
responsiveness among HiSCR responders. The extent of the improvements in score changes were all greater 
than the minimally importance difference of the respective PRO assessments, which include 10
VAS), 5.0 (DLQI) and 7% (WPAI).  
TAI. At Week 52, most assessments had a greater extent of 
14 (Pain
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
By Week 16, significantly more responders were in Hurley Stage I than in Hurley Stage II or III, (responders 
by Hurley Stage I, II, III: 61%, 35%, 4%; non
responders: 17%, 49%, 35%, p<0.001). 
‐
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 22/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 6.  Mean change in ClinRO and PRO measures by responder status Change From Baseline 
(mean±SD) SRM* Change From Baseline (mean±SD) 
Assessment of Clinical meaningfulness to patients  
To test whether a 50% reduction in AN count was the appropriate threshold for defining HiSCR achievement, 
mean changes from Baseline to Week 16 in PROs were calculated using alternative thresholds for the 
percentage changes in AN count. Patients were still required to have no worsening in abscess count and no 
worsening in draining fistula count.  
Patients with worsening disease or minimal improvement in AN count (<30% reduction) did not have a 
meaningful improvement on the DLQI (Figure 11). They also reported worsening pain (Figure 11) and 
exhibited some improvement in WPAI
benefits were observed on PRO assessments beyond the AN count reduction threshold for HiSCR. 
TAI (Figure 12). However, no substantial incremental 
TWI and WPAI
‐
‐
Figure 11.  Mean changes from Baseline to Week 16 in Pain‐VAS and DLQI using alternative 
thresholds for the percentage changes in AN count 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 23/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 12.  Mean changes from Baseline to Week 16 in WPAI using alternative thresholds for the 
percentage changes in AN count 
Among HiSCR responders at Week 16, the impact on PROs of sustaining versus losing HiSCR achievement by 
Week 52 (or the last available observation after Week 16) was assessed using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests. 
Similarly, the Week 52 impact of achieving versus not achieving HiSCR response was compared among 
patients without HiSCR at Week 16. The majority of the HiSCR responders at Week 16 sustained the 
response to Week 52 (n=36/48). These patients experienced continued improvement between Week 16 and 
Week 52 (change of −7.9, −1.9, −3.8 for Pain‐VAS, DLQI, and WPAI‐TAI, respectively), with only WPAI‐
TWI being numerically worse (change of 2.7). Those Week 16 responders who lost HiSCR response at Week 
52 experienced worse outcomes (change of 8.3, 2.1, 5.2, and 12.5 for Pain‐VAS, DLQI, WPAI‐TWI, and 
WPAI‐TAI, respectively). Patients who did not achieve HiSCR at Week 16 but achieved HiSCR at Week 52 
experienced significant improvements (change of −29.0, −5.0, −25.6 and −17.8 for Pain‐VAS, DLQI, 
WPAI‐TWI, and WPAI‐TAI, respectively) compared to those who remained non-responders at Week 52. 
Reliability assessment (Non-interventional study) 
Reliability of the HiSCR was evaluated in a stand-alone, multi-center, prospective, non-interventional 
observational study. This study involved 22 clinically-confirmed HS subjects at two sites in the US, with two 
clinicians (dermatologists) participating at each site. These 4 clinicians had been treating patients with HS 
for over five years and they were all currently treating five to six HS patients per month on average. The 
subjects were to be between 18 to 65 years of age; have a diagnosis of HS for at least one year; and their 
HS was to have been stable for two months prior to screening as determined by the investigator through 
subject interview and review of the medical history.  
Eligible subjects who provided consent to participate in the study had an in-office visit (Timepoint 1) to 
confirm eligibility and complete assessments. Two clinicians at the site evaluated the subjects using the HS 
Lesion Count Tool. At Timepoint 2, 7 days after Timepoint 1, subjects returned to the clinician’s office to 
complete the Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C). Additionally, at Timepoint 2, the subjects were 
assessed by the same two clinicians using the HS Lesion Count Tool.  
Among the 22 subjects that completed the study, most were female (n=19) and Caucasian (n=18). The 
mean age was 34 years. The self-reported HS severity of the patients was well distributed between mild, 
moderate and severe. Most of the patients reported use of antibacterial soaps, topical medications and 
antibiotics for treatment of their HS. The majority of patients were diagnosed with HS within the last one to 
two years. On average, almost 60% of patients used four or more treatments to control their HS.  
As an indicator of reproducibility and consistency, score reliability (both inter- and intra-rater) for the HS 
Lesion Count Tool was evaluated. The inter-rater reliability of lesion counts was assessed by examining the 
intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) of lesion counts between pairs of clinicians.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 24/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Inter-rater reliability 
Inter-rater reliability examined the degree to which two or more independent raters agree on the rating of 
the same subject. Inter-rater reliability was calculated between the first set of clinicians (i.e. combined data 
from Clinician 1 from Site 1 and Clinician 3 from Site 2) and the second set of clinicians (i.e. combined data 
from Clinician 2 from Site 1 and Clinician 4 from Site 2). These statistics were computed separately at 
Timepoints 1 and 2. The inter-rater reliability using ICC (1,1) for total draining fistula count, total 
inflammatory nodule count and total abscess/inflammatory nodule count was ≥0.61 for Timepoint 1 and 
Timepoint 2. The ICC for total abscess count was 0.38 and 0.67 for Timepoint 1 and Timepoint 2, driven 
primarily by a frequent rating of 0 abscesses by one clinician at Timepoint 1. 
Due to the sensitivity of the inter-rater reliability statistics to the limited sample size at each timepoint, an 
exploratory model was proposed that combined both timepoints into the same model. This approach was 
based on a general linear model with subject, clinician and time as independent variables and the ICC 
computed as the proportion of variance attributable to clinician out of overall variance. Using this approach, 
the ICCs for each of the examined HS lesion counts were ≥0.68.  
Table 7.  Exploratory inter-rater reliability (N=88) 
Intra-rater reliability 
Intra-rater reliability (also known as test-retest reliability) is the degree to which an instrument yields 
similar scores at different time points in stable subjects (i.e. when no change is expected in the underlying 
concept). 
Test-retest reliability was computed between Timepoints 1 and 2 using the sample combined across study 
site. As there was no treatment intervention, all subjects were assumed to be “stable” on scores between the 
first and the second assessment. This approach was based on a general linear model with subject, clinician, 
and time as independent variables and the ICC computed as the proportion of variance attributable to time 
out of overall variance. The intra-rater reliability using ICC (1,1) for total abscess count, total draining fistula 
count, total inflammatory nodule count, and total abscess/inflammatory nodule count was ≥0.70, showing 
an acceptable test-retest reliability.  
Table 8. Intra-rater reliability (N=88) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 25/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2.4.1.  Dose response study 
Study M10-467: Phase 2 Multicenter Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Adalimumab in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Chronic Hidradenitis Suppurativa 
Methods 
This was a Phase 2, double-blind (DB), placebo-controlled, randomized study with an open-label (OL) phase 
conducted in the US and Europe in subjects with moderate to severe chronic HS. The study consisted of 2 
periods: a 16-week DB placebo-controlled period assessed adalimumab at 2 dosing regimens. In the 
36-week OL period, all subjects received adalimumab 40 mg eow and those who failed to achieve HS-PGA < 
3 were permitted to dose escalate at Week 28 or Week 31 to 40 mg ew through Week 51. 
Figure 13. Study Design Schematic 
• Study participants  
Key inclusion and exclusion criteria are outlined below: 
Inclusion criteria 
–  Male and female subjects ≥ 18 years of age. 
–  Subjects must have had a diagnosis of HS for ≥ 6 months prior to Baseline that involved ≥ 2 distinct 
anatomic areas (e.g., left and right axilla or left axilla and left inguinal-crural fold). 
–  Subjects must have been unresponsive or intolerant, as determined by the investigator, to oral 
antibiotics for treatment of their HS. 
–  Subjects must have had stable HS for ≥ 2 months before Screening and also at Baseline as 
determined by subject interview of his/her medical history. 
–  Subjects must have had a PGA of at least moderate disease (score of ≥ 3) at Baseline. 
– 
If female, subject was either not of childbearing potential or was practicing an approved method of 
birth control throughout the study and for 150 days after last dose of study drug 
–  Subjects must have had a negative PPD test (or equivalent) and CXR (posterior-anterior [PA] and 
lateral view) at Screening. If the subject had a positive PPD test (or equivalent), had a past 
ulcerative reaction to PPD placement, and/or a CXR consistent with prior tuberculosis (TB) exposure, 
the subject must have initiated, or have documented completion of a course of anti-TB therapy. 
–  Subjects must have been judged to be in good general health, as determined by the investigator. 
Exclusion criteria 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 26/124 
 
 
  
  
–  Subjects must not have had prior treatment with adalimumab or other anti-TNF therapy (e.g., 
infliximab or etanercept), or participation in an adalimumab trial. 
–  Subjects must not have had any other active skin disease or condition (e.g., bacterial, fungal, or 
viral infection) that may have interfered with assessment of HS. 
–  Subjects must not have been on allowable oral and/or topical antibiotic treatment for HS who had 
not been on a stable dose for ≥ 4 weeks prior to Baseline 
–  Subjects must not have received systemic non-biologic therapies with potential therapeutic impact 
for HS < 4 weeks prior to Baseline visit (other than oral and/or topical antibiotics). 
–  Subjects must not have received ultraviolet B (UVB) phototherapy within 2 weeks of Baseline or 
ultraviolet A and psoralen (PUVA) phototherapy within 4 weeks of Baseline. 
Concomitant use of permitted oral and/or topical antibiotic therapy for treatment of HS was allowed provided 
the dosing regimen had been stable for ≥ 4 consecutive weeks prior to Baseline. The dosing regimen was to 
remain stable through study participation. Permitted concomitant antibiotics included: Topical: Clindamycin 
twice per day at a 1% concentration (weight/volume); Oral: Tetracycline (at a dose of up to 500 mg by 
mouth twice a day), Doxycycline (at a dose of up to 100 mg po bid) or Minocycline (at a dose of up to 100 
mg po bid). Several medications were prohibited during the study, e.g. phototherapy (PUVA and/or UVB), 
biologic therapy including other anti-TNFs, other systemic drug therapies for HS, including MTX, 
cyclosporine, retinoids, and fumaric acid esters, live vaccines and oral or injectable corticosteroids. 
• Treatments 
Period 1 was a 16-week DB placebo-controlled period. Adalimumab was administered at 2 dosing regimens: 
–  40 mg ew starting at Week 4 after a 160 mg dose at Week 0 and an 80 mg dose at Week 2 or  
–  40 mg eow starting at Week 1 after an 80 mg dose at Week 0 
Subjects randomized to placebo received placebo injections at Baseline (Day 1), Week 1 (Day 8), Week 2 
(Day 15) and ew from Week 3 (Day 22) through Week 15. 
In the 36-week OL period, all subjects received adalimumab 40 mg eow and those who failed to achieve 
HS-PGA < 3 were permitted to dose escalate at Week 28 or Week 31 to 40 mg ew through Week 51.   
• Objectives 
The primary objective was to determine the efficacy and safety of adalimumab in subjects with moderate to 
severe chronic HS after 16 weeks of treatment. 
The secondary objective was to determine maintenance of efficacy and continued safety of adalimumab 40 
mg for an additional 36 weeks. The PK and immunogenicity of adalimumab following subcutaneous (SC) 
injection were also assessed. 
• Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy variable  
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects achieving clinical response, defined as achieving 
a PGA of clear, minimal, or mild, with a minimum of 2 grades improvement (reduction) from Baseline on the 
PGA at Week 16. Thus, a subject who entered with PGA of 3 must have achieved PGA of 0 or 1, and a subject 
who entered with PGA of 4 or 5 must have achieved PGA of 0, 1, or 2. 
Secondary efficacy variables (ITT population) included: 
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved a clinical response at each visit (other than at Week 16) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 27/124 
 
  
  
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved at each visit: a PGA of clear or minimal; a PGA of clear, minimal, 
or mild; a PGA of clear; ≥ 1 grade of improvement in PGA relative to Baseline. 
–  Proportion of subjects achieving complete clearance of abscesses and complete elimination of 
draining fistulas at each visit, among subjects who had any abscesses or draining fistula at Baseline 
–  Absolute and percent change at each visit from Baseline in numbers of different lesions, e.g. 
non-inflammatory and inflammatory nodules, total number of nodules, number of abscesses, 
number of draining and non-draining fistulas 
–  Change from Baseline in Sartorius scale at Week 16 and Week 52 
–  DLQI (0 at each visit, 0 or 1 at each visit, change from Baseline in DLQI) 
–  Change from Baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of skin pain at each visit, PHQ-9 at Week 16 
and Week 52 and EQ-5D scores at Week 16 and Week 52 
• Sample size 
Approximately 150 subjects were planned to be enrolled. The study was designed to detect a clinically 
relevant difference between active treatment and placebo treatment groups with 80% power. The sample 
size was based on the hypothesis tests for primary efficacy endpoint. The expected clinical response rate for 
placebo treatment was 10%, and 35% for active treatment.  
• Randomisation 
The randomization schedules were generated at AbbVie and were provided to the IVR/IWR vendor. At Week 
0 eligible subjects were randomized centrally, stratified  by Hurley Stage (Stage III vs. Stage I or II) in a 
1:1:1 ratio to either adalimumab ew, adalimumab eow, or placebo. The proportion of enrolled subjects with 
Hurley stage III was not to exceed 50% of the total study population. 
• Blinding (masking) 
The MAH’s team responsible for the conduct of the study, the investigator, site study personnel, and the 
subject remained blinded to each subject's randomized treatment group throughout the course of the study. 
All subjects who completed Period 1 were eligible to participate in Period 2. Subjects from the placebo arm 
in Period 1 received a blinded dose of 80 mg adalimumab at Week 16. To maintain the blind of Period 1, 
54subjects from Arm C (placebo) received two injections of adalimumab (80 mg) at Week 16 while subjects 
from the active treatment groups, Arm A and B, received 2 placebo injections. 
Starting at Week 17 and through Week 28, all subjects received one injection of 40 mg adalimumab SC eow.   
• Statistical methods 
All statistical tests were 2-tailed with a significance level of 0.05.  
The Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population in each Period was used for analyses of efficacy with the ITT Population 
in Period 1 (ITT-1) defined as all subjects who were randomised at Week 0. The ITT Population in Period 2 
(ITT-2) included all subjects who received ≥1 dose of study drug in Period 2. For subjects who were dose 
escalated, all evaluations after dose escalation were excluded. In addition, the ITT Population for integrated 
analysis across Period 1 and Period 2 (ITT-Int) included subjects who were randomized to adalimumab 40 
mg ew or eow at Week 0. The ITT-Int population was used for evaluation of the 2 dosing strategies, 
adalimumab ew/eow (step-down) versus continued adalimumab 40 mg eow dosing. The ITT-Int population 
was analysed in 2 ways, with and without the option of dose escalation.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 28/124 
 
  
  
In period 1 pairwise comparisons of each adalimumab dose arm versus placebo were performed. In period 
2 adalimumab eow/eow versus adalimumab ew/eow was compared to evaluate the long-term dosing 
strategy.  
The primary analysis was the comparison of each adalimumab treatment group versus the placebo 
treatment group. An initial overall comparison across the 3 treatment groups was performed. If statistically 
significant, pairwise comparisons of each adalimumab dose group versus placebo were to be performed. A 
global test controls the overall type I error and is, with three treatment arms including a placebo considered 
sufficient for control regarding also each pairwise comparison.     
The analysis of the primary endpoint, the proportion of subjects achieving clinical response at Week 16, was 
based on a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test with factors of treatment and baseline Hurley Stage, hence 
taking the stratification factor into account. A non-responder imputation was used as primary approach to 
impute missing values with sensitivity analyses planned using Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF). The 
primary non-responder imputation is agreed with. Additional sensitivity analyses could be performed on the 
per-protocol (PP) population, which, if defined, were to exclude subjects with major protocol deviations. No 
PP analyses were however performed. 
Analyses of secondary efficacy endpoints were performed using the CMH test, analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA), and stratified Log-rank test with factors of treatment and Hurley Stage as appropriate. 
Three analysis populations were defined for analyses of safety, the Safety population, the All Adalimumab 
population and the Eow population. The Safety Population included all subject in the ITT population who 
received at least one dose of study drug. 
Results  
• Participant flow  
A total of 154 subjects who met entry criteria were enrolled and almost all of the subjects (93%) in the ITT-1 
population completed Period 1.  
Table 9.  Disposition of Subjects in Period 1 (ITT-1 Population) 
A total of 143 subjects completed Period 1 and 142 subjects entered Period 2. The majority (72.5%) of the 
ITT-2 population completed Period 2. The most common primary reasons for premature discontinuation 
from the study in the ITT-2 population were "withdrew consent" (7.7%) and "lack of efficacy" (7.7%).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 29/124 
 
 
  
  
Eighty-nine subjects dose escalated in Period 2 at Week 28 or Week 31. Of these, 75.3% completed Period 
2. The most common reason for premature discontinuation from the study among subjects who dose 
escalated was "lack of efficacy" (10%). 
• Recruitment 
A total of 154 subjects with HS were randomized across 26 sites in the US, Netherlands, Denmark, and 
Germany. The first subject's first visit occurred on 22 April 2009 and the last subject's last visit occurred on 
09 November 2010. 
• Conduct of the study 
The original protocol had 2 amendments. The protocol changes described in the amendments and 
administrative changes did not affect the interpretation of the results in the study. The option for dose 
escalation in period 2 was included in the second amendment. 
A total of 34 (22%) subjects had major protocol deviations. Three subjects had received major 
protocol-prohibited treatment for HS and their efficacy assessments after the prohibited treatment were 
excluded from efficacy analyses. The subjects were counted as non-responders in the NRI analysis and had 
their last assessments prior to the start of prohibited medications carried forward in the LOCF analysis. None 
of the major protocol deviations were deemed to have impacted the analysis or interpretation of the efficacy 
and safety results of the study. 
Subjects in the ITT-1 population had an overall mean compliance of >97% across treatment groups and the 
compliance was similarly high (>96%) in the ITT-2 population. 
• Baseline data 
Table 10. Demographic Characteristics (ITT-1 Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 30/124 
 
 
  
  
About 55% of the total population were current nicotine users, 30% were non-users and 15% ex-users. With 
respect to alcohol consumption, 60% were drinkers and 36% non-drinkers. 
No statistically significant differences were observed in demographic characteristics across treatment groups 
in the ITT-1 population. The demographics for the other populations (ITT-2, ITT-Int, All Adalimumab 
treated, eow, and Dose Escalation populations) were generally similar to the ITT-1 population. 
With respect to disease history, the mean duration of HS was 11.9 years and approximately 28% of subjects 
reported a family history of HS in the ITT-1 population with no statistically significant differences observed 
across treatment groups. 
Table 11. Hurley Stage and Sartorius Scale Assessments (ITT-1 Population) 
Table 12.  Physician's Global Assessment and Patient's Global Assessment (ITT-1) 
Disease Activity Assessment 
Physician's Global Assessment  (n [%]) 
  Clear 
  Minimal 
  Mild 
  Moderate 
  Severe 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Adalimumab 
Placebo 
N = 51 
eow 
N = 52 
ew 
N = 51 
Total 
N = 154 
0 
1 (2.0) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.9) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
33 (64.7) 
35 (67.3) 
35 (68.6) 
103 (66.9) 
5 (9.8) 
5 (9.6) 
5 (9.8) 
15 (9.7) 
P value 
0.998a 
  Very severe 
12 (23.5) 
11 (21.2) 
11 (21.6) 
34 (22.1) 
Patient's Global Assessment  (n [%]) 
  Complete disease control 
0 
1 (1.9) 
0 
  Good disease control 
4 (7.8) 
6 (11.5) 
4 (7.8) 
1 (0.6) 
14 (9.1) 
0.598a 
  Limited disease control 
15 (29.4) 
17 (32.7) 
22 (43.1) 
54 (35.1) 
  Uncontrolled disease 
32 (62.7) 
28 (53.8) 
25 (49.0) 
85 (55.2) 
The majority of subjects in the ITT-1 population had a PGA of moderate disease at Baseline. Subjects in the 
3 treatment groups had similar HS severity at Baseline as judged also by the similarity in their individual PGA 
components. 
The most frequently reported conditions/diagnosis  were hypertension, depression, and obesity.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 31/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
A majority (82%) of all subjects had been on some type of medication (not specifically for HS) prior to 
enrolment into the study. The most frequently reported prior medications were ibuprofen, minocycline, 
clindamycin, and doxycycline. Prior medications taken for treatment of HS were common and consisted of 
both topical and systemic treatments (corticosteroids, retinoids, antibiotics). Prior treatment, either topical 
or systemic, was generally ineffective and unsatisfactory response was a common reason for discontinuation 
of previous treatment.  
Almost all subjects (93.5%) used concomitant medication during the study. The most frequently reported 
concomitant medications were ibuprofen (20%), paracetamol (16%), triamcinolone (10%) and  minocycline 
(7%).  
• Numbers analysed 
Seven populations were used to analyse the data from this study. 
The ITT population in Period 1 (ITT-1) included all subjects who were randomised at Week 0 (N = 154; 
placebo n=51, adalimumab eow n=52, adalimumab ew n=51).  
The ITT population in Period 2 (ITT-2) included all subjects who received ≥1 dose of study drug in Period 2 
(N = 142; placebo/eow n=46, adalimumab eow/eow n=51, adalimumab ew/eow n=45).  
The ITT population for integrated analysis across Period 1 and Period 2 (ITT-Int) included all subjects who 
were randomised to adalimumab eow or ew at Week 0 (N = 103; adalimumab eow/eow n=52, adalimumab 
ew/eow n=51). 
The Safety population for each period was the same as the ITT population in each period (Period 1 N = 154, 
Period 2 N = 142). The Safety population for the integrated analysis across Period 1 and Period 2 included all 
subjects who were in the ITT-Int population and received ≥ 1 dose of study drug in the study (N = 103). 
Since all randomised subjects received at 1 dose of study drug, the Safety population was the same as the 
ITT population in each period and ITT-Int. 
The All Adalimumab treated population included all subjects who received ≥1 dose of adalimumab in the 
study (N = 149). 
The Dose Escalation population included all subjects who dose escalated from adalimumab 40 mg eow to 40 
mg ew (N = 89). 
The eow population (N = 98) included subjects who received adalimumab 40 mg eow in Period 1 (n=52) and 
who switched from placebo in Period 1 to adalimumab 40 mg eow in Period 2 (n=46). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 32/124 
 
  
  
• Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Efficacy Variable 
Table 13. Proportion of Subjects Achieving Clinical Response at Week 16 (NRI and LOCF, ITT-1 
Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 33/124 
 
 
  
  
Secondary Efficacy Variables 
Table 14. Proportion of Subjects Achieving Clinical Response at each Visit in Period 1 (NRI, 
ITT-1 Population) 
Table 15. Proportion of Subjects Achieving PGA Scores of Clear, Minimal, and/or Mild and 
Improvement in PGA at each Visit in Period 1 (NRI, ITT-1 Population) 
With respect to proportions of subjects achieving complete clearance or elimination of abscesses, draining 
fistulas and inflammatory nodules, the differences across groups were overall small. For complete clearance 
of abscesses, a slightly higher proportion of subjects achieved complete clearance at Week 16 in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 34/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
adalimumab ew (50%) and eow (48%) groups compared with the placebo group (45%). At Week 16, a 
higher proportion of subjects receiving adalimumab ew had complete clearance of draining fistulas (43%) 
vs. eow (25%) or placebo (27%) as well as complete clearance of inflammatory nodules (20% for ew vs. 
21% for eow versus 8% for placebo). These differences were not statistically significant. 
The Percent Change from Baseline in Lesion Counts (nodules, abscesses and draining fistulas) in subjects 
with ≥ 1 such lesion at Baseline was generally numerically higher for the adalimumab groups vs. placebo, 
although statistical significance could not be shown for all comparisons across different time points. Fewer 
than 10% of subjects in each treatment group had incision and drainage of lesions or intralesional injection 
of corticosteroids during Period 1. 
The proportion of subjects achieving AN50, defined as a ≥50% reduction in total AN count relative to 
Baseline, at each visit is shown in Table  for subjects with > 2 AN and ≤20 draining fistulas at Baseline. 
Table 16. Proportion of Subjects Achieving AN50 Response at each Visit in Period 1 Among 
Subjects with Baseline AN > 2 and Draining Fistulas ≤ 20 (NRI, ITT-1 Population) 
Mean change from Baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of skin pain score was assessed. Skin pain scores 
decreased (indicating reduced pain levels) in all treatment groups at Week 16, with the largest mean change 
from Baseline in the adalimumab ew group (–12.68), followed by the adalimumab eow group (–6.11) and 
the placebo group (–3.75).  
Period 2 results 
Loss of response during Period 2 was observed in many subjects who had achieved a favourable clinical 
response in Period 1. Among those subjects who achieved a PGA < 3 during Period 1, 64% of those treated 
with adalimumab eow in Period 1 and 63% of those treated ew with adalimumab in Period 1 were unable to 
maintain this level of response throughout Period 2 while receiving adalimumab eow. Among those subjects 
who had achieved a PGA < 3 while receiving placebo in Period 1, 25% lost their response while receiving 
adalimumab eow in Period 2. 
Overall, 89 subjects dose escalated from adalimumab 40 mg eow to ew in Period 2. Among these subjects, 
68 provided Week 52 PGA assessments and 13 of them achieved clinical response (NRI: 13/89, 15%; as 
observed: 13/68, 19%) at Week 52. All but 1 of these subjects was Hurley Stage I/II at Baseline. 
The proportion of subjects achieving clinical response (PGA score of 0/1/2 and ≥2 grades of reduction in PGA 
score relative to Baseline) was low at Week 52, regardless of whether subjects had initiated therapy with 
eow dosing or ew dosing. At Week 52, the highest proportion of clinical responders (20%) was observed 
among those subjects who had been randomized to the adalimumab ew group during Period 1 and had dose 
escalated back to ew dosing during Period 2. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 35/124 
 
 
  
  
Table 17. Proportion of Subjects Achieving Clinical Response at each Visit Including and 
Excluding Dose Escalation Data (NRI, ITT-INT Population) 
Post-hoc results for mITT population 
The purpose of the revision to the Phase 2 study report was to examine efficacy endpoints in the modified 
ITT population in Period 1 (mITT-1 population), which was similar to the population in the Phase 3 studies 
(Studies M11-810 and M11-313). The mITT-1 population included subjects in the ITT-1 Population who met 
all of the following criteria: 
–  Baseline total abscess and inflammatory nodule (AN) count was ≥ 3; 
–  Baseline draining fistula count was ≤ 20; 
–  Hurley Stage II or III at Baseline. 
The additional analyses included: 
–  Proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR, defined as at least a 50% reduction in the AN count with no 
increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count relative to Baseline. 
–  Proportion of subjects achieving an AN count of 0, 1, 2 among subjects with Hurley Stage II at 
Baseline. 
–  Proportion of subjects achieving at least a 30% reduction and at least a 10 mm reduction in skin pain 
(VAS), among subjects who had a Baseline pain assessment ≥ 30 mm. This corresponds to the 
proportion of subjects achieving at least a 30% reduction and at least 1 unit reduction from Baseline 
in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain Numeric Rating Scale (NRS30), which was evaluated in 
the Phase 3 program. 
–  Change from Baseline in modified Sartorius scale. 
A total of 111 subjects were included in the mITT-1 population, 37 in the placebo group, 38 in the 
adalimumab eow group, and 36 in the adalimumab ew group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 36/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 18. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR at Week 12 (NRI) (mITT-1 Population) 
Table 19. Statistical Results for Post Hoc Analyses Corresponding to Ranked Secondary 
Endpoints in Studies M11-810 and M11-313 (mITT-1 population) 
2.4.2.  Main studies 
Title of Study 
The phase 3 studies performed to support the use of Humira in HS were M11-313 and M11-810.    
Since the pivotal studies had an almost identical design, the methods are not described for each study 
separately. Differences are indicated, where relevant. The efficacy results are presented for each study 
separately (for Part A of the studies for most end-points) and results from integrated analyses are presented 
in the paragraph Analysis performed across trials below. 
Study M11-313: A Phase 3 Multicenter Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Adalimumab in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa – PIONEER I 
Study M11-810: Phase 3 Multicenter Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Adalimumab in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa – PIONEER II 
Methods 
Studies M11-313 and M11-810 were both multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
2-period studies with the aim to determine the clinical safety and efficacy of adalimumab compared to 
placebo in subjects with moderate to severe HS. 
• 
Study participants  
The phase 3 studies were performed in the US, Europe, Australia and Canada.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 37/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Main inclusion criteria: 
•  Male and female subjects ≥18 years of age; 
•  Subject had a diagnosis of HS for at least 1 year prior to Baseline; 
•  HS lesions were present in at least 2 distinct anatomic areas (e.g., left and right axilla; or left axilla 
and left inguino-crural fold), one of which was Hurley Stage II or Hurley Stage III.  
•  Subject had an inadequate response to at least a 3-month (90 days) trial of oral antibiotics for 
treatment of HS (or demonstrated intolerance to, or had a contraindication to, oral antibiotics for 
treatment of their HS).  
•  Subject had stable HS for at least 2 months (60 days) prior to Screening and also at the Baseline visit 
as determined by the investigator through subject interview and review of the medical history; 
•  Subject had a total AN count of greater than or equal to 3 at the Baseline visit;  
• 
If female, subject was either not of childbearing potential, defined as postmenopausal for at least 1 
year or surgically sterile (bilateral tubal ligation, bilateral oophorectomy and/or hysterectomy) or of 
childbearing potential and practicing an approved method of birth control throughout the study and 
for 150 days after last dose of study drug. The results of the serum pregnancy test performed during 
the Screening period and urine pregnancy test performed at the Baseline visit must have been 
negative. 
•  Subject must have agreed to daily use (throughout the entirety of the study) of 1 of the following 
over-the-counter topical antiseptics on their body areas affected with HS lesions: chlorhexidine 
gluconate, triclosan, benzoyl peroxide, or dilute bleach in bathwater; 
•  Subject had a negative TB screening assessment (including a PPD test or QuantiFERON-TB Gold test, 
or equivalent) and negative CXR (posterior-anterior and lateral view) at Screening. If the subject 
had evidence of a latent TB infection, the subject must have initiated and completed a minimum of 
4 weeks of anti-TB therapy, or have documented completion of a course of anti-TB therapy, prior to 
Baseline; 
•  Subject was judged to be in good general health, as determined by the Principal Investigator based 
upon the results of a medical history, physical examination, laboratory profile, CXR and a 12-lead 
ECG performed during the Screening period and confirmed at Baseline; 
•  Subject must have been able and willing to self-administer SC injections or had a qualified person(s) 
who could reliably administer SC injections; 
•  Subject must have been able and willing to provide written informed consent and comply with the 
requirements of the study protocol. 
Definition of inadequate response to antibiotics 
An adequate trial of oral antibiotic therapy was considered to be at least 90 days in duration. If, after at least 
90 days of oral antibiotic therapy, any of the following has occurred, subject was considered to have had 
inadequate response, or loss of response, to oral antibiotics: 
  Progression of Hurley Stage (i.e., the Hurley Stage of at least one affected anatomic region 
progressed from I→II, II→III, or I→III); 
  Subject required at least one intervention (e.g., incision and drainage or intralesional injection of 
corticosteroid); 
  Subject experienced pain interfering with activities of daily living, with unsatisfactory relief from 
over-the-counter analgesics (e.g., ibuprofen or acetaminophen); 
  Subject experienced pain requiring opioids, including tramadol; 
  Subject experienced drainage interfering with activities of daily living (e.g., requires multiple 
dressing changes and/or changes of clothes daily); 
  Subject experienced an increase in the number of anatomic regions affected by HS; 
  Subject experienced at least one new abscess or one new draining fistula. 
Definition of intolerance to antibiotics  
A subject was defined as intolerant to oral antibiotic when oral antibiotic therapy had been discontinued by 
a physician as a result of a significant adverse reaction to oral antibiotic administration. A reaction was 
considered significant if the adverse reaction was at least moderately severe (i.e., the adverse event causes 
the subject discomfort and interrupts the subject's usual activities or function).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 38/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Main exclusion criteria: 
• 
Prior treatment with adalimumab or other anti-TNF therapy (e.g., infliximab, etanercept), or 
participation in an adalimumab trial; 
•  Any other active skin disease or condition (e.g., bacterial, fungal or viral infection) that could have 
interfered with assessment of HS; 
•  Study M11-313 only: Subject received any oral antibiotic treatment for HS within 28 days prior to 
the Baseline visit; 
•  Study M11-810 only: Subjects on permitted oral antibiotic treatment (doxycycline or minocycline 
only) for HS who had not been on a stable dose for at least 28 days prior to the baseline visit; 
•  Subject received prescription topical therapies for the treatment of HS within 14 days prior to the 
Baseline visit; 
•  Subject received systemic non-biologic therapies with potential therapeutic impact for HS < 28 days 
prior to Baseline visit; 
•  Subject received oral concomitant analgesics (including opioids) for HS-related pain within 14 days 
prior to the Baseline visit; 
• 
If entering the study on concomitant oral analgesics for non-HS-related pain:  
–  Subject was on opioid analgesics within 14 days prior to Baseline visit; 
–  Subject was not on a stable dose of non-opioid oral analgesics for at least 14 days prior to the 
Baseline visit ("as needed" [PRN] was not considered a stable dose). 
•  Subject required or was expected to require, opioid analgesics for any reason (excluding tramadol); 
•  Subject had a draining fistula count of greater than 20 at the Baseline visit; 
•  Subject had been treated with any investigational drug of chemical or biologic nature within a 
minimum of 30 days or 5 half-lives (whichever was longer) of the drug prior to the Baseline visit; 
• 
Prior exposure to biologics that had a potential or known association with progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML; i.e. natalizumab; Tysabri, rituximab; Rituxan or efalizumab; Raptiva); 
•  Subject had had infections that required treatment with intravenous anti-infectives (antibiotics, 
antivirals, antifungals) within 30 days prior to Baseline or oral anti-infectives (antibiotics, antivirals, 
antifungals) within 14 days prior to Baseline, except as required as part of an anti-TB regimen; 
•  History of moderate to severe congestive heart failure (New York Health Association class III or IV), 
recent cerebrovascular accident and any other condition which, in the opinion of the investigator 
would put the subject at risk by participation in the protocol; 
•  History of demyelinating disease (including myelitis) or neurologic symptoms suggestive of 
demyelinating disease; 
•  History of invasive infection (e.g., listeriosis, histoplasmosis), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV);  
•  Subject had an active systemic viral infection or any active viral infection that, based on the 
investigator's clinical assessment, made the subject an unsuitable candidate for the study; 
•  Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive (+) or detected sensitivity on the hepatitis B virus 
(HBV)-DNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) qualitative test for hepatitis B core antibody 
(HBcAb)/hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb) positive subjects; 
•  Chronic recurring infections or active TB; 
• 
• 
Positive pregnancy test at Screening or Baseline; 
Female subjects who were breastfeeding or considering becoming pregnant during the study; 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 39/124 
 
 
  
  
• 
Evidence of dysplasia or history of malignancy (including lymphoma and leukaemia) other than a 
successfully treated non-metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma or 
localized carcinoma in situ of the cervix; 
•  Clinically significant abnormal screening laboratory results as evaluated by the investigator; 
Wound care  
Concomitant use of wound care dressings on HS wounds was allowed, with options limited to alginates, 
hydrocolloids and hydrogels. 
Analgesic use 
Most subjects were required to washout of all analgesics for 14 days prior to Baseline. If a subject's pain 
(HS-related or non-HS-related) worsened after Baseline, the subject was allowed to initiate analgesic 
therapy at any time; for HS-related pain, permitted analgesics were limited to Ibuprofen (at a dose of up to 
800 mg by mouth every 6 hours) not to exceed 3.2 grams/24 hours; AND/OR Acetaminophen as per local 
labelling; AND/OR if HS-related pain was uncontrolled with ibuprofen or acetaminophen at the above dosing 
regimens after the Baseline visit, subjects could be prescribed tramadol (at a dose of up to 100 mg po every 
4 hours), not to exceed 400 mg/24 hours.  
Dose adjustments of ibuprofen, acetaminophen, or tramadol, and use of these analgesics on a PRN basis for 
HS-related pain up to the maximum permitted dose and frequency, were allowed during the study. From 
screening through Week 12, subjects were to complete a daily diary of their analgesic use. 
For Non-HS-related pain opioid analgesics were prohibited but all other analgesics (including tramadol) were 
allowed at the recommended or prescribed dose. 
Lesion Intervention 
In the event that an acutely painful lesion occurred that required an immediate intervention, physicians had 
the option to perform protocol-allowed interventions. Only 2 types of interventions were allowed: injection 
with intralesional triamcinolone acetonide suspension and incision and drainage. If incision and drainage was 
performed, the required over-the-counter antiseptic wash was to continue to be used. New systemic and 
topical therapies following incision and drainage (including antibiotics), were prohibited. 
A total of 2 protocol-allowed interventions were permissible during Period A. If a subject required more than 
2 interventions within the first 12 weeks, then that subject was to be discontinued from the study. Similarly, 
during Period B, maximally 2 interventions every 4 weeks were permitted. 
Prohibited Therapy 
A number of treatments were prohibited for all subjects during the study, e.g. phototherapy (psoralen plus 
ultraviolet A and/or ultraviolet B), all biologic therapy with a potential therapeutic impact on the disease 
being studied, any other systemic drug therapies for HS, including but not limited to 
antibiotics (except as allowed for rescue in study M11-313 and as allowed for concomitant treatment in 
study M11-810, see below), methotrexate (MTX), cyclosporine, retinoids, and fumaric acid esters, live 
vaccines (during the study and for 70 days after the last dose of study drug), oral or injectable 
corticosteroids (except as allowed for rescue; intralesional triamcinolone acetonide), oral analgesics for HS 
not listed in the protocol, oral opioid analgesics, new prescription topical therapies for HS, over-the-counter 
topical antiseptic washes, creams, soaps, ointments, gels and liquids containing antibacterial agents to treat 
HS not listed in the protocol, surgical or laser intervention for an HS lesion except as outlined in the protocol. 
Antibiotic Rescue Therapy (Study M11-313) 
At Week 4 or Week 8, if a subject experienced an increase in their AN count such that the total count was 
greater-than-or equal-to 150% of their Baseline AN count, antibiotic rescue medication could be initiated. 
Subjects who qualified could initiate treatment with minocycline or doxycycline up to 100 mg bid. The dosing 
regimen was to remain stable throughout study participation. Otherwise, concomitant use of oral antibiotic 
therapy for treatment of HS was not allowed. Rescue antibiotic therapy was to be captured in the source and 
on the appropriate eCRF. The proportion of subjects who started oral antibiotic rescue therapy was defined 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 40/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
as a secondary efficacy endpoint and was also to be taken into account in a sensitivity analysis of the primary 
endpoint.  
Antibiotic Therapy (Study M11-810) 
Concomitant use of permitted oral antibiotic therapy for treatment of HS was allowed provided the dosing 
regimen (dose and frequency) had been stable for at least 4 consecutive weeks prior to Baseline. The dosing 
regimen was to remain stable throughout study participation. Permitted oral concomitant antibiotics 
included: 
–  doxycycline (at a dose up to 100 mg by mouth [p.o.] twice-a-day [b.i.d.]) 
–  minocycline (at a dose up to 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.) 
• 
Treatments and study procedures 
Both studies included a 30-day screening period, an initial 12-week double-blind treatment period (Period 
A), and a subsequent 24-week double-blind treatment period (Period B), plus a Day 70 follow-up phone call 
approximately 70 days after the last dose of study drug administration. The week numbers provided are 
defined relative to the first dose of study drug in the study. 
The study designs are depicted below. 
Figure 14. Study Design Schematic (Study M11-313) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 41/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 15. Study Design Schematic (Study M11-810) 
Period A (M11-313): A 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period during which subjects 
were randomized at Day 1, in a 1:1 ratio to receive blinded adalimumab 160 mg at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 
2, and 40 mg ew or matching placebo starting at Week 4 for an evaluation of safety and efficacy. The 
randomization was to be stratified by Baseline Hurley Stage (II versus III). A subject's Hurley Stage was 
determined by the worst Hurley Stage across all affected anatomic regions. 
Subjects randomized to Arm 1 were to receive: 
–  160 mg adalimumab at Baseline (Day 1) administered as four 40 mg injections SC 
–  80 mg adalimumab at Week 2 administered as two 40 mg injections SC 
–  40 mg adalimumab ew from Week 4 through Week 11 administered as one 40 mg injection SC 
Subjects randomized to Arm 2 were to receive: 
–  Four 0.8 mL placebo injections at Baseline (Day 1) 
–  Two 0.8 mL placebo injections at Week 2 
–  One 0.8 mL placebo injection ew from Week 4 through Week 11 
Period A (M11-810): A 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period during which subjects 
were randomized at Day 1, in a 1:1 ratio, to receive blinded adalimumab 40 mg ew (following loading doses 
of 160 and 80 mg at weeks 0 and 2) or matching placebo for an evaluation of safety and efficacy. The dosing 
schedule was the same as in Study M11-313.  
Period B (M11-313): A 24-week double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period. All subjects who 
continued to Period B, regardless of the treatment in Period A, were to be re-randomized at Week 12 to 
maintain the blind. Subjects randomized to adalimumab in Period A were re-randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to 
receive adalimumab 40 mg ew, adalimumab 40 mg eow, or matching placebo. Subjects randomized to 
placebo in Period A were assigned (using re-randomization numbers) to receive adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
All subjects enrolled in this study who completed Period A were eligible to participate in Period B. At Week 
12, subjects from the adalimumab arm in Period A (Arm 1) were to be re-randomized 1:1:1 to 1 of 3 blinded 
treatment groups:  
–  adalimumab 40 mg ew,  
–  adalimumab 40 mg eow,  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 42/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
–  or placebo from Week 12 to Week 35.  
The re-randomization was to be stratified by Week 12 Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR) 
response (responder versus non-responder) and by Baseline Hurley Stage (II versus III). At Weeks 12 
through 15, these subjects were to receive matching placebo to blind the loading doses administered to 
subjects who had been randomized to placebo in Period A (Arm 2). 
Subjects from the placebo arm in Period A (Arm 2) were to receive adalimumab 160 mg at Week 12, 80 mg 
at Week 14, matching placebo at Week 13 and Week 15, and adalimumab 40 mg ew from Week 16 to Week 
35. 
•  All subjects (Arm 1 and Arm 2) who achieved HiSCR at Week 12 were to continue in Period B through 
Week 36. Subjects who experienced a loss of response (LOR) in Period B, defined as an abscess and 
inflammatory nodule (AN) count that was greater than the average of AN counts at Baseline and 
Week 12, were to be discontinued from the study and had the opportunity to enter the open-label 
extension (OLE) Study M12-555 to receive open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
•  All subjects (Arm 1 and Arm 2) who did not achieve HiSCR at Week 12 were to continue in Period B 
through Week 36. Starting at or after Week 16, subjects who experienced a Worsening or Absence 
of Improvement, defined as an AN count that was greater than or equal to the AN count at Baseline 
on 2 consecutive visits (excluding Week 12) that occurred at least 14 days apart, were to be 
discontinued from the study and had the opportunity to enter the OLE Study M12-555 to receive 
open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
Starting at Week 4 or Week 8, if AN counts were greater-than-or equal-to 150% of Baseline AN counts, 
antibiotic rescue medication was permitted. 
Period B (M11-810): A 24-week double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period, largely similar to 
Study M11-313. All subjects who continued to Period B, regardless of the treatment in Period A, were 
re-randomized at Week 12 to maintain the blind. Subjects randomized to adalimumab in Period A (Arm 1) 
were re-randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive adalimumab 40 mg ew, adalimumab 40 mg eow or matching 
placebo. Subjects randomized to placebo in Period A were assigned (using re-randomization numbers) to 
continue on placebo. All subjects enrolled in this study who completed Period A were eligible to participate in 
Period B. The re-randomization was to be stratified by Week 12 HiSCR (responder vs. non-responder) and by 
baseline Hurley Stage (II vs. III). 
Subjects from the placebo group in Period A (Arm 2) were to continue on blinded placebo from Week 12 to 
Week 35. 
Similar to Study M11-313, all subjects (Arm 1 and Arm 2) who achieved HiSCR at Week 12 were to continue 
in Period B through Week 36 and those who experienced loss of response (defined as in study M11-313) 
were to be discontinued from the study and had the opportunity to enter the open-label extension Study 
M12-555 to receive open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew. All subjects (Arm 1 and Arm 2) who did not achieve 
HiSCR at Week 12 were to continue in Period B through Week 36. Starting at or after Week 16, subjects who 
experienced a worsening or absence of improvement were to be discontinued from the study and had the 
opportunity to enter the OLE Study M12-555 to receive open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
In both studies, at Week 36, all subjects had the opportunity to enter in the OLE Study M12-555 where they 
were to receive adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
• 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the pivotal studies was to determine the clinical safety and efficacy of adalimumab 
compared to placebo in subjects with moderate to severe HS after 12 weeks of treatment.  
A secondary objective was to evaluate safety and explore efficacy for continuous weekly dosing versus dose 
reduction versus maintenance of response off-therapy from Week 12 to Week 36.  
The pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of adalimumab following subcutaneous (SC) injection were also 
assessed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 43/124 
 
  
  
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy variable  
The primary efficacy variable in both studies was the proportion of subjects who achieved HiSCR, defined as 
at least a 50% reduction in AN count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula 
count relative to Baseline, at Week 12. 
Ranked Secondary Efficacy Variables (for both studies) 
1.  Proportion of subjects who achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 at Week 12, among subjects with Hurley 
Stage II at Baseline. 
2.  Proportion of subjects who achieved at least 30% reduction and at least 1 unit reduction from 
Baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain (NRS30) – at worst at Week 12 among subjects 
with Baseline NRS ≥ 3. 
3.  Change in modified Sartorius score from Baseline to Week 12. 
Other Secondary Efficacy Variables in Period A 
Other secondary efficacy variables were analysed at each scheduled visit in Period A. Primary and ranked 
secondary variables were also analysed at visits other than Week 12. These variables were similar for the 
two studies with a few exceptions (indicated below). 
–  Proportions of subjects who achieved HiSCR; AN count of 0, 1, or 2, among subjects with Hurley 
Stage II at Baseline; NRS30 – at worst and on average, among subjects with Baseline Patient's 
Global Assessment of Skin Pain (NRS) ≥ 3 
–  Change in modified Sartorius score from Baseline 
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved complete elimination of abscesses at each visit and percentage 
change from Baseline in number of abscesses, among subjects who had any abscess at Baseline 
–  Change from Baseline in number of abscesses 
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved complete elimination of draining fistulas at each visit and 
percentage change from Baseline in number of draining fistulas, among subjects who had any 
draining fistulas at Baseline 
–  Change from Baseline in number of draining fistulas 
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved complete elimination of inflammatory nodules at each visit and 
percentage change from Baseline in number of inflammatory nodules, among subjects who had at 
least 1 inflammatory nodule at Baseline 
–  Change from Baseline in number of inflammatory nodules 
–  Number of interventions during Period A 
–  Proportion of subjects with DLQI = 0, DLQI = 0 or 1 and change from Baseline in DLQI 
–  Change from Baseline in WPAI:SHP (Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire: 
Specific Health Problem) 
–  Percentage change from Baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain NRS – at worst and on 
average, among subjects who had Baseline (NRS) ≥ 3 
–  Change from Baseline in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain NRS – at worst and on average 
–  Proportions of subjects who achieved at least 50%, 75% and 100% reductions in the AN count 
relative to Baseline (AN50, AN75, AN100) 
–  Absolute and percentage change from Baseline in AN count 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 44/124 
 
  
  
–  Proportion of subjects who achieved erythema score of 1 or 0 in all affected anatomic regions among 
subjects who had erythema score of 2 or more in at least 1 anatomic region at Baseline 
–  Proportion of subjects who experienced worsening or improvement by at least one Hurley Stage in 
at least 1 affected anatomic region 
–  Absolute and percentage change from Baseline in SF-36 (Short Form 36) (only Study M11-313) 
–  Change from Baseline in HADS (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) (only Study M11-313) and 
TSQM (Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication) (both studies) 
–  Change from Baseline in EQ-5D index and change from Baseline in EQ-5D visual analog scale (Study 
M11-810) 
–  Change from Baseline in Proportion of subjects who experienced flare, defined by at least a 25% 
increase in AN counts with a minimum increase of 2 relative to Baseline; number of days on flare 
–  Proportion of subjects who experienced at least 25% increase in abscess counts with a minimum 
increase of 2 relative to Baseline 
–  Proportion of subjects who experienced at least 25% increase in inflammatory nodule counts with a 
minimum increase of 2 relative to Baseline 
–  Proportion of subjects who experienced at least 25% increase in draining fistula counts with a 
minimum increase of 2 relative to Baseline 
–  Proportion of subjects who started oral antibiotic rescue therapy (only Study M11-313) 
–  Change from Baseline in CRP and percentage change from Baseline in CRP 
In addition, the progression of lesions denoted as representative (3-6 per patient) was evaluated.  
Other Secondary Efficacy Variables for Period B 
Efficacy was explored for Period B.  
–  The secondary efficacy variables listed above were summarized for each subpopulation in the 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population in Period B (ITT_B). The treatment comparisons were performed in 
ITT_B subjects who were randomized to adalimumab in Period A and were Week 12 HiSCR 
responders (ITT_B_R Population). In addition, change from re-randomization was analyzed for 
continuous variables for ITT_B_R Population. 
–  Time to LOR (loss of response) was analyzed for the ITT_B_R Population. 
–  Time to the second incidence of the two-consecutive visits with AN count ≥ Baseline AN count was 
summarized for the ITT_B subjects who were randomized to adalimumab in Period A and were Week 
12 HiSCR non-responders (ITT_B_NR). 
In addition, for safety evaluation, adverse events, laboratory data, physical examinations and vital signs 
were collected, monitored, assessed and recorded at the designated study visits. Blood samples for 
adalimumab and anti-adalimumab antibody (AAA) assays were collected by venipuncture at designated 
study visits. 
• 
Sample size 
Approximately 300 subjects were planned to be enrolled in Study M11-313 and M11-810 respectively, in 
order to provide adequate information to characterize the adalimumab safety profile as well to have 
sufficient power for the primary efficacy endpoint. For the primary efficacy endpoint, the power calculation 
was based on the response rates observed in the phase 2 Study M10-467 where HiSCR response rates at 
Week 12 were 61% and 16% in the adalimumab ew group and placebo group, respectively. With a sample 
size of 150 per group each study had more than 90% power to detect the  treatment difference with a 
2-sided alpha level of 0.05.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 45/124 
 
  
  
Period B was considered for exploratory purposes and no power calculation was performed.  
• 
Randomisation 
Randomization schedules were generated at AbbVie and were provided to the Interactive Voice Response 
System/Interactive Web Response System vendor. In both Study M11-313 and Study M11-810, subjects 
were randomized at Week 0 in a 1:1 ratio to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week (ew) or matching 
placebo. Randomisation was stratified by Baseline Hurley Stage (II versus III). The number of subjects in 
Hurley Stage III were to be limited to 150 (50% of the total planned number of subjects). 
In study M11-810 randomisation was also stratified by Baseline concomitant antibiotic use (Yes versus No) 
where the number of subjects on baseline concomitant antibiotics were to be limited to 90 (30% of the total 
planned number of subjects). In addition and concerning both studies, the number of subjects with an AN 
count of 3 or 4, were to be limited to 60 (20% of the total planned number of subjects). 
All subjects who completed Period A were eligible for Period B and those who continued to Period B, were to 
be re-randomized at Week 12 to maintain the blind. Subjects randomized to adalimumab in Period A were to 
be re-randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive adalimumab 40 mg ew, adalimumab 40 mg eow, or matching 
placebo.  
Among subjects from the adalimumab arm of Period A, the re-randomization was stratified by Week 12 
Hidradenitis Suppurative Clinical Response (HiSCR) (responder versus non-responder) and by baseline 
Hurley Stage (II versus III). 
For subjects receiving placebo in Period A, the Period B treatment in the 2 studies differed. In Study M11-313 
subjects receiving placebo in Period A were assigned (using re-randomized numbers to adalimumab 40 mg 
ew). In Study M11-810 subjects receiving placebo in Period A were assigned (using re-randomization 
numbers) to continue to receive placebo.  
• 
Blinding (masking) 
All AbbVie personnel with direct oversight of the conduct and management of the trial (with exception of the 
Drug Supply Management Team), the investigator, study site personnel and the subject remained blinded to 
each subject's treatment (adalimumab or placebo) throughout the blinded periods of the study.  
Masking of treatments was to be achieved by matching placebo to adalimumab dosing regimen in both 
period A and B. During Period A, all subjects were to receive 4 injections at Week 0, 2 injections at Week 2 
and 1 injection weekly from Week 4 through Week 11. In Period B, all subjects were to receive 1 injection 
weekly from Week 12 through Week 35. 
In order to maintain blinding during Period A (Week 0 to Week 11), all subjects were to receive 4 injections 
of study drug (40 mg each) or placebo at Week 0, 2 injections at Week 2 and 1 injection weekly from Week 
4 through Week 11. In Period B, all subjects were to receive 4 injections at Week 12, 1 injection at Week 13, 
2 injections at Week 14 and 1 injection weekly from Week 15 through Week 35. 
• 
Statistical methods 
The Intent-to-Treat Population in each Period was used for analyses of efficacy with the ITT Population in 
Period A (ITT_A) defined as all subjects who were randomized at Baseline (Week 0). 
In period A the primary analysis was the comparison of adalimumab versus placebo in the proportion of 
subjects who achieved HiSCR at Week 12. The number and percentage of subjects who achieved HiSCR was 
computed for each treatment arm and the difference in response rates was compared using a 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test, stratified by Baseline Hurley Stage (II versus III) and, in Study 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 46/124 
 
  
  
M11-810 also Baseline concomitant use of oral antibiotics (Y/N). In the primary analysis a non-responder 
imputation (NRI) approach was used. Several sensitivity analyses were planned including modification of the 
NRI approach, e.g. counting all subjects with any add-on antibiotics or with dose increase on baseline 
concomitant antibiotics (Study M11-810 only) prior to Week 12 as non-responders, the use of LOCF and 
multiple imputation. 
In addition, analyses of the primary efficacy endpoint and ranked secondary efficacy endpoints were 
repeated based on the Per-protocol population defined for Period A.  
Regarding handling of multiplicity, the analyses of the primary efficacy variable and the ranked secondary 
variables were performed in a hierarchical order and using a step-down procedure with each comparison 
tested at a significance level of 0.05. A statistically significant result for the comparison in the higher rank 
(primary, then ranked secondary variables) was required for testing of the next comparison in the lower 
rank.  
In Period B, the analyses of each adalimumab arm versus placebo, and between the 2 adalimumab arms, 
were performed for the ITT Population in Period B including all subjects who were re-randomized at the entry 
of Period B. Three subpopulations were also defined based on whether a subject was randomised to 
adalimumab or placebo in period A and, if a HiSCR responder or non-responder at re-randomisation, i.e. 
week 12. ITT_B_R (randomized to adalimumab in Period A/HiSCR responder), ITT_B_NR (randomized to 
adalimumab in Period A/HiSCR non-responders) and ITT_B_EW (randomized to placebo in Period A).  
Safety analyses were carried out using the safety population in each period and the All Adalimumab Treated 
Population. No interim analysis was planned nor performed in any of the studies. Safety data, the primary 
efficacy endpoints and ranked secondary endpoints were in both studies however periodically reviewed by 
the IDMC. 
Results 
• 
Participant flow 
The following figure depicts the subject disposition for Studies M11-810, M11-313 and also includes study 
M12-555, the open-label extension study. 
Figure 16.  Flow Chart of Phase 3 Studies (All Randomized Subjects) 
Study M11-810
Study M11-313
Period A
pbo
N =163
Completed 
Period A = 151
ew
N = 163
Completed 
Period A = 155
pbo
N = 154
Completed 
Period A = 145
ew
N =153
Completed 
Period A = 145
Period B
pbo
N =151
Completed 
Period B = 40
pbo
N = 51
Completed 
Period B = 23
eow
N = 53
Completed 
Period B = 25
ew
N = 51
Completed 
Period B = 28
ew
N = 145
Completed 
Period B = 93
pbo
N = 49
Completed 
Period B = 22 
eow
N = 48
Completed 
Period B = 27
ew
N = 48
Completed 
Period B = 28
Entered M12-555a
pbo = 51
eow = 53
ew = 51
Entered M12-555a
pbo = 49
eow = 48
ew = 48
Study M12-555
ew/ew/ew
N = 84
Ongoing = 62b
ew/eow/ew
N = 90
Ongoing = 68b
ew/pbo/ew
N = 91
Ongoing = 66b
pbo/ew/ew
N = 115
Ongoing = 85b
pbo/pbo/ew
N = 117
Ongoing = 87b
eow = adalimumab every other week; ew = adalimumab every week; pbo = placebo 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 47/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
a. Subjects who achieved HiSCR at Week 12 continued in Period B through Week 36, or until loss of response (LOR), defined as an AN 
count that was greater than the average AN counts at Baseline and Week 12. Subjects with LOR were discontinued from Studies 
M11-810 and M11-313 and were eligible to enter the OLE Study M12-555 to receive open-label (OL) adalimumab 40 mg ew. Subjects 
who did not achieve HiSCR at Week 12 were to continue in Period B through at least Week 16 (and up to Week 36). 
At or after Week 16, subjects who experienced a worsening or absence of improvement (WOAI), defined as an AN count that was 
greater than or equal to the Baseline AN count at 2 consecutive visits (excluding Week 12) occurring at least 14 days apart, were 
discontinued from the study and were eligible to enter the OLE Study M12-555 to receive OL adalimumab 40 mg ew. At Week 36, all 
subjects were eligible to enroll in the OLE Study M12-555 to receive OL adalimumab 40 mg ew. 
b. Ongoing as of 29 April 2014. 
Study M11-313 
Table 20. Overall Subject Disposition in Period A (ITT_A Population) Study M11-313 
Ew = every week 
a. One subject was randomized but discontinued without taking any study drug due to protocol violation. One subject was randomized but 
discontinued without taking any study drug due to withdrawal of consent. 
Note: Percentage is calculated based on number of subjects randomized. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 48/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 5. Overall Subject Disposition in Period B (ITT_B Population) Study M11-313 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; HiSCR = hidradenitis suppurativa clinical response; LOR = loss of response; WOAI = worsening 
or absence of improvement 
a. Subjects meeting criteria of LOR or WOAI were requested by the IXRS system to discontinue from the study and enter the open-label 
extension, Study M12-555. 
Note: Percentages based on the number of subjects who were re-randomized. 
Study M11-810 
Table 22. Overall Subject Disposition in Period A (ITT_A Population) Study M11-810 
ew = every week. Note: Percentage is based on the number of subjects randomized. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 49/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 23. Overall Subject Disposition in Period B (ITT_B Population) Study M11-810 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; OLE = open-label extension; IXRS = interactive voice response system/interactive web 
response system 
a. Subjects meeting criteria of LOR or WOAI were requested by the IXRS system to discontinue from the study and enter the OLE, Study 
M12-555. Note: Percentage is based on the number of subjects re-randomized. 
• 
Recruitment 
In study M11-313, the first subject's first visit occurred on 29 November 2011 and the last subject's last visit 
was 28 January 2014. A total of 307 subjects at 48 study sites were randomized in Period A.  
In study M11-810, the first subject's first visit occurred on 28 December 2011 and the last subject's last visit 
was 28 April 2014. A total of 326 subjects at 53 sites were randomized in Period A.  
The number of subjects in Hurley Stage III was not to exceed 150 (50% of the total planned number of 
subjects) and the number of subjects who were on baseline concomitant antibiotics was not to exceed 90 
(30% of the total planned number of subjects). These percent limits were not exceeded. 
Table 24. Number of Subjects by Hurley Stage and Antibiotic Use, Study M11-810 
• 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol amendments 
For study M11-313, the original protocol (dated 24 August 2011) had 2 amendments and 4 administrative 
changes. One hundred six subjects were enrolled under the original protocol, 199 subjects were enrolled 
under Amendment No. 1, and 2 subjects under Amendment No. 2.  
Amendment No. 1 included addition of lesion count assessments at unscheduled visits after Week 12, 
provided clarification of TB testing at the screening and revised recommendation related to anti-TB therapy, 
added collection of NRS pain and analgesic use using an electronic device and increased baseline 
requirement for subject inclusion from baseline NRS ≥ 1 to baseline NRS ≥ 3 for assessment of NRS30. 
Amendment No. 2 included addition of new Safety Monitoring language (related to a FDA-requested TNF 
inhibitor class wide exploration of appearance of malignancy in patients ≤ 30 years of age), added prohibited 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 50/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
therapy (recently approved biologics), update to antibiotic rescue therapy and added changes from Baseline 
in CRP.  
For study M11-810, the original protocol (dated 25 August 2011) had 3 amendments and 4 administrative 
changes. One hundred and eight subjects were enrolled under the original protocol, 20 subjects were 
enrolled under Amendment No. 1, and 198 subjects under Amendment No. 2. The amendments covered 
largely the same aspects as for study M11-313. 
Protocol deviations 
Table 25. Protocol Deviations (ITT_A Population), Study M11-313 
Table 26. Protocol Deviations (ITT_A Population), Study M11-810 
Compliance  
The subject or a qualified designee was to administer all doses of study drug when not at the site. 
Appropriate site staff were to supervise the subject's administration of the study drug at required in-office 
study visits to ensure proper injection technique. In order to document compliance with the treatment 
regimen, the subject was given a dosing sheet to record all injection dates and times. 
Compliance with study drug administration was high in both periods in both studies, with a mean compliance 
above 96% for all treatment groups across Periods A and B. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 51/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
•  •  Baseline data 
Study M11-313 
Table 27. Demographic Characteristics (ITT_A Population) Study M11-313 
BMI = body mass index; ew = every week 
a. P value for differences between treatment groups from Fisher's exact test for sex, race, ethnicity, nicotine use, and alcohol use; 
chi-square test for age and BMI categories; and one-way ANOVA for age, weight, height, and BMI.Non-white races were combined for 
analysis of race. 
b. Adalimumab ew N = 152. 
Note: A subject may be a user of 1 type of tobacco (or nicotine-containing product), an ex-user of another type of nicotine and a non-user 
of another type of nicotine. A subject was counted in the category closest to user.  
Percentages were calculated on non-missing values. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 52/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 28. Baseline Disease Characteristics (ITT_A Population) Study M11-313 
ADA = adalimumab; AN = abscess and inflammatory nodule; eow = every other week; ew = every week; 
HS = hidradenitis suppurativa; NRS = numeric rating scale of skin pain due to HS in the past 24 hours; PBO = placebo; 
SD = standard deviation 
a. Hurley Stage presented in the demographic tables may differ from the Hurley Stage stratum used for the purposes of the efficacy 
analyses. Hurley Stage stratum used for efficacy analyses was determined at the time of randomization. Subsequent updates to a subject's 
Hurley Stage did not affect the stratum, but are reflected in the demographic tables. 
b. placebo N = 146; adalimumab ew N = 151. 
Note: * denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 53/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-810 
Table 29. Demographic Characteristics (ITT_A Population) Study M11-810 
BMI = body mass index; ew = every week; SD = standard deviation 
a P value for differences between treatment groups from Fisher's exact test for sex, race, ethnicity, nicotine use, and alcohol use. 
P value for differences between treatment groups from 1-way ANOVA for age, weight, height, and BMI. 
b Non-white races were combined for analysis of race. 
c Placebo group N = 161. 
Notes: Ex-users and non-users of nicotine were combined for analysis of nicotine and ex-users and non-users of alcohol were combined for 
analysis of alcohol.  
Percentages were calculated on non-missing values. 
* denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 54/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 30. Baseline Disease Characteristics (ITT_A Population) Study M11-810 
AN = abscess and inflammatory nodule; ew = every week; HS = hidradenitis suppurativa; NRS = numeric rating scale; 
SD = standard deviation 
a. Hurley Stage presented in the baseline characteristics tables may differ from the Hurley Stage stratum used for the purposes of the 
efficacy analyses. Hurley Stage stratum used for efficacy analyses was determined at the time of randomization. Subsequent updates to a 
subject's Hurley Stage did not affect the stratum, but are reflected in the baseline disease characteristics tables. 
b. N = 155 (placebo), 159 (adalimumab ew), and 314 (total). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 55/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Medical history  
In Study M11-313, the most frequently reported (≥ 10% of all subjects) medical history findings at baseline 
were hypertension, surgery in another body system, depression, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
and musculoskeletal surgery. These medical history findings were generally balanced across the 
adalimumab and placebo treatment groups. 
No subjects in Period A had any signs of active TB at screening. Overall, 10 subjects (7 adalimumab ew and 
3 placebo) enrolled in Period A while receiving TB prophylaxis for signs of latent TB. 
In Study M11-810, the most frequently reported co-morbidities in this HS population were surgery of the 
skin and other body systems, depression, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. The findings were generally 
balanced across the adalimumab and placebo treatment groups. 
The majority of subjects tested negative for TB; 21 subjects (10 in the placebo group and 11 in the 
adalimumab ew group) tested positive for TB. All subjects with a positive or indeterminant test result 
enrolled in the TB prophylaxis program. No subjects had any signs or symptoms of active TB. 
Prior and concomitant medications 
In Study M11-313, all subjects reported prior antibiotic use for treatment of HS, doxycycline and 
clindamycin being the most commonly used prior oral antibiotics. Approximately 1/3 of the subjects reported 
prior use of both topical and systemic therapies to treat HS. The majority of subjects discontinued use due 
to inadequate response (overall about 80%). 
In Study M11-810, nearly all subjects reported prior antibiotic use for treatment of HS, which had been 
discontinued for various reasons. Doxycycline and clindamycin were the most frequently reported prior oral 
antibiotics. The majority of subjects discontinued use of prior antibiotic therapy because of inadequate 
response (>80%). 
All subjects in both studies received concomitant medications, including the protocol-required antiseptic 
wash, during the study. The most common medications were ibuprofen, chlorhexidine, paracetamol, 
corticosteroids and retinoids for treatment of acne. 
In Study M11-810, a total of 38 subjects (12%) had doxycycline as a concomitant medication and 27 
subjects (8.3%) received minocycline (the two allowed antibiotics). These treatments were fairly well 
balanced between the adalimumab and placebo groups.  
• 
Numbers analysed 
Study M11-313 
The ITT population in Period A (ITT_A) included all subjects who were randomised at Week 0 (N=307; 
placebo n=154, adalimumab ew n=153). 
The Safety population in period A (Safety_A) included all subjects who received at least 1 dose of study drug. 
Two subjects randomised to placebo did not receive study drug and were excluded in the safety analyses 
(N=305; placebo n=152, adalimumab ew n=153). 
The PP Population in Period A (PP_A) included a total of 280 subjects (placebo n=136, adalimumab ew 
n=144). 
The ITT population in Period B (ITT_B) included all subjects who were re-randomized (received a 
re-randomization number) at entry to Period B (N = 290; placebo/ew n=145, adalimumab ew/placebo 
n=49, adalimumab ew/eow n=48, adalimumab ew/ew n=48). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 56/124 
 
 
  
  
The ITT_B_R population (period B) included all subjects randomised to adalimumab ew in period A and was 
re-randomised in period B as HiSCR responders (adalimumab ew/placebo n=22, adalimumab ew/eow n=20, 
adalimumab ew/ew n=21). 
The ITT_B_NR population (period B) included all subjects randomised to adalimumab ew in period A and was 
re-randomised in period B as HiSCR non-responders (adalimumab ew/placebo n=27, adalimumab ew/eow 
n=28, adalimumab ew/ew n=27). 
The Safety_B population included all subjects who received at least 1 dose of study drug in period B and was 
the same as the ITT_B population (N=290).  
Study M11-810 
The ITT population in Period A (ITT_A) included all subjects who were randomised at Week 0 (N=326; 
placebo n=163, adalimumab ew n=163). 
The Safety population in period A (Safety_A) included all subjects who received at least 1 dose of study drug 
and was the same as the ITT_A population (N=326). 
The PP Population in Period A (PP_A) included a total of 302 subjects (placebo n=151, adalimumab n=151). 
The ITT population in Period B (ITT_B) included all subjects who were re-randomized (received a 
re-randomization number) at entry to Period B (N = 306; placebo/placebo n=151, adalimumab ew/placebo 
n=51, adalimumab ew/eow n=53, adalimumab ew/ew n=51). 
The ITT_B_R population (period B) included all subjects randomised to adalimumab ew in period A and was 
re-randomised in period B as HiSCR responders (adalimumab ew/placebo n=31, adalimumab ew/eow n=32, 
adalimumab ew/ew n=31). 
The ITT_B_NR population (period B) included all subjects randomised to adalimumab ew in period A and was 
re-randomised in period B as HiSCR non-responders (adalimumab ew/placebo n=20, adalimumab ew/eow 
n=21, adalimumab ew/ew n=20). 
The Safety_B population included all subjects who received at least 1 dose of study drug in period B and was 
the same as the ITT_B population (N=306).  
• 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary end-point 
HiSCR 
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR, defined as at least a 50% 
reduction in AN count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count relative to 
Baseline, at Week 12. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 57/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-313 
Table 31. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR at Week 12 (NRI) (ITT_A Population), Study 
M11-313 
CI = confidence interval; ew = every week; NRI = non-responder imputation 
a. Across all strata, 95% CI for adjusted difference was calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic for the comparison 
of 2 treatment groups; within each stratum of baseline Hurley Stage, 95% CI for difference was calculated based on normal approximation 
to the binomial distribution. 
b. Across all strata, P value was calculated from the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test adjusted for strata; within each stratum of Baseline 
Hurley Stage, P value was calculated based on chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test if ≥ 20% of the cells have expected cell count < 5). 
Note: * denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Results were consistent for the following analyses: LOCF, modified NRI (mNRI), which counted all subjects 
with any add-on antibiotics prior to Week 12, regardless the reason for use, as non-responders and for 
multiple imputation (MI). The treatment difference was also similar between the ITT and PP populations.  
Study M11-810 
Table 32. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR at Week 12 (NRI) (ITT_A Population), Study 
M11-810 
a.  CI = confidence interval; HiSCR = Hidradenitis suppurativa clinical response; NRI = nonresponder imputation a. 95% CI for adjusted 
difference was calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage (II/III) and baseline 
antibiotic use (Y/N); for each stratum of baseline Hurley Stage, 95% CI for adjusted difference was calculated according to the 
extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline antibiotics use (Y/N). 
P value was calculated from the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage (II/III) and baseline antibiotic use 
(Y/N); for each stratum of baseline Hurley Stage, P value was calculated from the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test adjusted for baseline 
antibiotics use (Y/N). 
Note: * denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
b. 
Results from different sensitivity analyses were consistent with the results from the primary analysis using 
NRI. The treatment difference was also similar between the ITT and PP populations. 
LOCF, modified NRI_1 (mNRI1), counting all subjects with any add-on antibiotics (any antibiotics other than 
those used at Baseline) or with dose increase in baseline concomitant antibiotics prior to Week 12, 
regardless of the reason for use, as non-responders, modified NRI_2 (mNRI2): Among all subjects in the 
strata of non-concomitant antibiotics of the ITT Population in Period A, counting all subjects that have an 
add-on antibiotics prior to Week 12, regardless of the reason for use, as non-responders. If any subject was 
randomized according to a wrong stratum, a sensitivity analysis was performed for the primary endpoint 
based on the subjects' actual baseline Hurley Stage and actual baseline concomitant use of antibiotics with 
NRI as the imputation method. Multiple imputation (MI) was also performed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 58/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Ranked secondary end-points (studies M11-313 and M11-810 including post hoc analysis of Study M10-467) 
A summary of the results for the three ranked secondary end-points for both pivotal studies and the results 
from the post hoc analysis of the phase 2 study M10-467 is presented below. 
Table 33. Summarized results of Ranked Secondary Endpoints for Individual Studies (ITT_A 
Population, Study M11-810 and Study M11-313; mITT-1 Population, Study M10-467) 
Rank  Secondary Variable 
1 
2 
3 
Proportion of subjects who 
achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 at 
Week 12, among subjects with 
Hurley Stage II at baseline (NRI) 
Proportion of subjects who 
achieved at least 30% reduction 
and at least 1 unit reduction 
from baseline in Patient's Global 
Assessment of Skin Pain 
(NRS30) – at worst at Week 12 
among subjects with baseline 
skin pain NRS ≥ 3 (NRI)a 
Change in modified Sartorius 
score from baseline to Week 12 
(LOCF)b 
Study  
M11-810 
51.8% vs. 
32.2% 
P = 0.010* 
ew vs. pbo 
Study  
M11-313 
28.9% vs. 
28.6% 
P = 0.961 
Study  
M10-467 
60.0% vs. 
20.8% 
P = 0.009*,a 
45.7% vs. 
20.7% 
P < 0.001* 
27.9% vs. 
24.8% 
P = 0.628 
60.7% vs. 
21.9% 
P = 0.003*,a 
–28.9 vs. –9.5 
P < 0.001* 
–24.4 vs. –
15.7 
P = 0.124 
–38.2 vs. –
20.4 
P = 0.036*,c 
a. 
In Study M10-467, patient global assessment of skin pain was examined using a 100-point scale, and only subjects with a baseline 
value ≥ 30 were included. 
b.  Modified Sartorius measurement was collected at Week 16 for Study M10-467.  
c. 
* 
Post hoc analysis; all other analyses were prespecified. 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Other secondary end-points 
HiSCR at Each Visit 
Study M11-313 
Table 34. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period A (NRI) (ITT_A Population, 
Study M11-313) 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Visit 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 8 
Week 12 
pbo 
N = 154 
22 (14.3) 
29 (18.8) 
31 (20.1) 
40 (26.0) 
ew 
N = 153 
36 (23.5) 
45 (29.4) 
63 (41.2) 
64 (41.8) 
% 
9.3* 
10.6* 
21.1* 
15.9* 
(95% CI) 
(0.7, 17.9) 
(1.1, 20.1) 
(10.8, 31.3) 
(5.3, 26.5) 
a. 
b. 
* 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage. 
P value was calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage. 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 59/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-810 
Table 35. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period A (NRI) (ITT_A Population), 
Study M11-810 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Visit 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 8 
Week 12 
pbo 
N = 163 
19 (11.7) 
36 (22.1) 
41 (25.2) 
45 (27.6) 
ew 
N = 163 
73 (44.8) 
84 (51.5) 
89 (54.6) 
96 (58.9) 
% 
33.2* 
29.6* 
29.7* 
31.5* 
(95% CI) 
(23.5, 42.9) 
(19.3, 40.0) 
(19.2, 40.2) 
(20.7, 42.2) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference was calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage 
(II/III) and baseline antibiotic use (Y/N). 
b. 
* 
P value was calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage (II/III) and baseline antibiotic use (Y/N). 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Figure 17. Proportions of Subjects Achieving HiSCR (NRI) (Panel A, Study M11-810), (Panel B, 
Study M11-313) (ITT_A Population) 
Panel A (Study M11-810): 
Panel B (Study M11-313): 
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
EW(N=163)
PBO(N=163)
EW(N=153)
PBO(N=154)
Week 0
Week 2
Week 4
Week 8
Week 12
Week 0
Week 2
Week 4
Week 8 Week 12
Reduction in Inflammatory Lesions 
Study M11-313 
The overall proportions of subjects achieving complete elimination of AN (AN = 0) and AN of 0/1 (counts of 
0 or 1) at Week 12 were higher for subjects randomized to adalimumab ew compared with subjects 
randomized to placebo (p ≤0.05). 
The treatment effect for the proportion of subjects who achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 as well as those who 
achieved AN count of 0 or 1 was generally larger for subjects with Hurley Stage III at baseline compared to 
subjects with Hurley Stage II at baseline of Study M11-313. The proportion of subjects who achieved AN 
count of 0, 1, or 2 at Week 12 among subjects with Hurley Stage II at baseline (first ranked secondary 
endpoint) did not reach statistical significance while the treatment difference was larger among subjects 
with Hurley Stage III (P ≤ 0.05). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 60/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 36. Proportion of Subjects Achieving AN Count of 0, AN Count of 0/1, or AN Count of 
0/1/2 at Week 12 (NRI) (ITT_A Population, Study M11-313) 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Variable 
pbo 
N = 154 
ew 
N = 153 
AN count of 0 
6 (3.9) 
16 (10.5) 
AN count of 0/1 
16/154 (10.4) 
29/153 (19.0) 
AN count of 0/1/2 
32/154 (20.8) 
43/153 (28.1) 
% 
6.6* 
8.6* 
7.4 
(95% CI) 
(0.8, 12.3) 
(0.6, 16.5) 
(-2.2, 16.9) 
a. 
b. 
95% CI calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage. 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage. * Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
The mean reduction and mean percent reduction from baseline in AN count and inflammatory nodule count 
was higher for subjects in the adalimumab ew group compared with subjects in the placebo group at Week 
12 (p ≤0.05).  
Table 37. Change from Baseline in Lesion Counts at Week 12 (LOCF) (ITT_A Population, Study 
M11-313) 
Lesion Type/ 
Treatment Group  N 
AN count 
BL 
Mea
n 
Week 
12 
Mean 
Within 
Group 
Change 
LS Mean 
± SE 
Between Group Change 
LS 
Mea
n 
(95% CI)  P valuea 
Placebo 
151   14.2  
11.4 
–2.7 ± 0.67 
Adalimumab ew  153   14.3  
8.7 
–5.5 ± 0.67  –2.7 
(–4.6, –
0.9) 
0.004* 
Inflammatory nodule count 
Placebo 
151   11.6 
Adalimumab ew  153   11.5 
Abscess count 
Placebo 
151  
2.7 
Adalimumab ew  153  
2.8  
Draining fistula count 
Placebo 
151 
3.7 
Adalimumab ew  153  
4.6 
All fistula countb 
9.5 
7.2 
1.8 
1.6 
3.4 
3.7 
–1.9 ± 0.59 
–4.2 ± 0.59  –2.4 
(–4.0, –
0.7) 
0.005* 
–0.8 ± 0.18 
–1.2 ± 0.18  –0.3 
(–0.8, 0.2) 
0.181 
–0.3 ± 0.41 
–0.8 ± 0.41  –0.5 
(–1.6, 0.7) 
0.412 
Placebo 
151   10.7 
9.9 
–0.8 ± 0.51 
Adalimumab ew  153 
11.5 
10.4 
–1.0 ± 0.51  –0.2 
(–1.6, 1.2) 
0.782 
a. 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum, baseline value, and treatment in the model. 
b.  All fistula includes draining and nondraining fistulas. 
* 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
The percent change from baseline in lesion counts at Week 12 showed corresponding results, with between 
10-35% decreases in different lesion counts for adalimumab ew vs. between <1% up to 25% decreases for 
placebo.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 61/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-810 
The overall proportions of subjects achieving complete elimination of AN (AN = 0), AN count of 0/1 (AN = 0 
or 1), and AN count of 0/1/2 (AN = 0, 1, or 2) at Week 12 were higher for subjects randomized to 
adalimumab ew compared to subjects randomized to placebo (P ≤0.05).  
Table 38. Proportion of Subjects Achieving AN Count of 0, AN Count of 0/1, or AN Count of 
0/1/2 at Week 12 (NRI) (ITT_A Population), Study M11-810 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Variable 
AN count of 0 
AN count of 0/1 
AN count of 0/1/2 
pbo 
N = 163 
ew 
N = 163 
10 (6.1) 
25 (15.3) 
23 (14.1) 
50 (30.7) 
37 (22.7) 
70 (42.9) 
% 
(95% CI) 
9.2* 
16.6* 
(2.5, 16.0) 
(7.6, 25.6) 
20.4* 
(10.4, 30.4) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference was calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage 
(II/III) and baseline antibiotic use (Y/N). 
b. 
* 
P value was calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage (II/III) and baseline antibiotic use (Y/N). 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
The mean reduction and mean percent reduction from Baseline in AN, inflammatory nodule, abscess, 
draining fistula, and all fistula (draining and non-draining) counts at Week 12 were greater for subjects 
randomized to adalimumab ew than for subjects randomized to placebo (p ≤0.009 for all lesion types, 
except for mean change in "all fistula") (LOCF). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 62/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 39. Change from Baseline in Lesion Counts at Week 12 (LOCF) (ITT_A Population, Study 
M11-810) 
Lesion Type/ 
Treatment 
Group 
AN count 
Placebo 
N 
16
2 
Adalimumab ew  16
3 
Wee
k 12 
Mea
n 
BL 
Mea
n 
Within 
Group 
Change 
LS Mean ± 
SE 
Between Group Change 
LS Mean 
(95% CI)  P valuea 
11.9 
9.7 
–2.4 ± 0.62 
- 
- 
- 
10.7 
5.1 
–6.3 ± 0.62 
–3.8 
(–5.3, –
2.3) 
< 0.001* 
Inflammatory nodule count 
Placebo 
16
2 
Adalimumab ew  16
3 
Abscess count 
Placebo 
16
2 
Adalimumab ew  16
3 
Draining fistula count 
Placebo 
16
2 
Adalimumab ew  16
3 
All fistulab count 
Placebo 
16
2 
Adalimumab ew  16
3 
9.5 
7.6 
–2.0 ± 0.37 
- 
- 
- 
8.6 
4.1 
–4.9 ± 0.38 
–3.0 
(–4.2, –
1.8) 
< 0.001* 
2.4 
2.1 
–0.4 ± 0.22 
- 
- 
- 
2.0 
1.0 
–1.3 ± 0.22 
–0.9 
(–1.4, –
0.4) 
< 0.001* 
3.7 
4.1 
0.5 ± 0.35 
- 
- 
- 
3.0 
2.2 
–0.7 ± 0.35 
–1.2 
(–2.1, –
0.4) 
0.005* 
8.7 
8.5 
–0.2 ± 0.47 
- 
- 
- 
7.2 
6.1 
–1.2 ± 0.47 
–1.0 
(–2.1, 0.1) 
0.083 
d. 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum (baseline Hurley Stage and antibiotics use), baseline value, and treatment in the 
model. 
e.  All fistula includes draining and nondraining fistulas. 
* 
Denotes P ≤0.05. 
The percent change from baseline in lesion counts at Week 12 showed corresponding results, with between 
25-55% decreases in different lesion counts for adalimumab ew vs. 8-25% decreases for placebo.   
Improvement in Lesion Severity 
Changes in the severity of the lesions were evaluated by follow-up of representative lesions. Up to 6 baseline 
representative lesions were identified per patient and evaluated for lesion type, tenderness, size, and degree 
of erythema, and the Patient's Lesion Severity Score was calculated based on these evaluations. 
Study M11-313 
The mean reduction from Baseline in the Patient's Lesion Severity Score and the degree of in erythema and 
tenderness, but not lesion size, were greater for subjects in the adalimumab ew group than for subjects in 
the placebo group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 63/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 40. Change from Baseline in Lesion Severity Scores by Score Type at Week 12 (LOCF) 
(ITT_A Population, Study M11-313) 
Lesion 
Severity 
Score Type/ 
Treatment 
Group 
Wee
k 12 
Mea
n 
BL 
Mean 
N 
Patient's lesion severity score 
Within 
Group 
Change 
Between Group Change 
LS Mean ± 
SE 
LS Mean 
Diff  
(95% CI)  P valuea 
Placebo 
150 
15.9 
10.0 
–6.0 ± 0.58 
Adalimumab 
ew 
151 
16.8 
8.8 
–7.8 ± 0.58 
–1.8 
(–3.4, –
0.2) 
0.029* 
Average lesion severity score in erythema 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
150 
151 
7.0 
7.3 
4.4 
3.7 
–2.6 ± 0.26 
–3.4 ± 0.26 
–0.8 
(–1.5, –
0.1) 
0.025* 
Average lesion severity score in tenderness 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
150 
151 
6.3 
6.8 
3.8 
3.2 
–2.6 ± 0.25 
–3.4 ± 0.25 
–0.9 
(–1.6, –
0.2) 
0.014* 
Average lesion severity score in size 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
150 
151 
2.6 
2.7 
1.8 
1.9 
–0.8 ± 0.14 
–0.8 ± 0.14 
0.0 
(–0.4, 0.4) 
0.976 
a. 
* 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum, baseline value, and treatment in the model. 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Study M11-810 
The mean reduction from Baseline in the various lesion-related parameters were greater for subjects 
randomized to adalimumab ew, than for subjects randomized to placebo (p ≤0.012) (LOCF). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 64/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 6. Change from Baseline in Lesion Severity Scores by Score Type at Week 12 (LOCF) 
(ITT_A Population, Study M11-810) 
Lesion 
Severity 
Score Type/ 
Treatment 
Group 
BL 
Mean 
N 
Week 
12 
Mean 
Within Group 
Change 
Between Group Change 
LS Mean ± SE 
LS Mean 
Diff 
(95% CI)  P valuea 
Patient's lesion severity score 
Placebo 
158 
15.9 
Adalimumab 
ew 
163 
15.3 
9.6 
6.3 
–5.9 ± 0.57 
–8.9 ± 0.57 
–2.9 
(–4.3, –
1.6) 
< 0.001* 
Average lesion severity score in erythema 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
158 
163 
7.1 
6.9 
4.2 
2.8 
–2.7 ± 0.26 
–4.0 ± 0.26 
–1.3 
(–1.9, –
0.7) 
< 0.001* 
Average lesion severity score in tenderness 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
158 
163 
6.2 
5.9 
3.5 
2.2 
–2.5 ± 0.25 
–3.7 ± 0.25 
–1.2 
(–1.8, –
0.6) 
< 0.001* 
Average lesion severity score in size 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
ew 
158 
163 
2.6 
2.5 
1.9 
1.3 
–0.7 ± 0.16 
–1.2 ± 0.16 
–0.5 
(–0.9, –
0.1) 
0.012* 
a. 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum (baseline Hurley Stage and antibiotics use), baseline value, and treatment in the 
model. 
* 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Improvement in Modified Sartorius Score 
Mean change in modified in modified Sartorius score from Baseline to Week 12 was the third ranked 
secondary endpoint for the pivotal studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 65/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-313 
Table 42. Mean Change from Baseline in Modified Sartorius Score by Visit (LOCF) (ITT_A 
Population) Study M11-313 
Study M11-810 
Table 43. Mean Change from Baseline in Modified Sartorius Score by Visit (LOCF) (ITT_A 
Population), Study M11-810 
Risk of Flare 
Study M11-313 
The proportion of subjects who experienced disease flare, defined as at least a 25% increase in AN count 
with a minimum increase of 2 relative to Baseline, was lower at all visits during Period A for subjects 
randomized to adalimumab ew than for subjects randomized to placebo (NRI). At least 1 occurrence of flare 
was experienced by 14% of subjects in the adalimumab ew group and 36% of subjects in the placebo group 
(p<0.001). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 66/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study M11-810 
The proportion of subjects who experienced disease flare was lower for subjects randomized to adalimumab 
ew at all visits during Period A than for subjects randomized to placebo (11% vs. 35%, p<0.001). 
Improvement in Patient-Reported HS-Related Skin Pain 
The proportion of subjects who achieved NRS30 – at worst at Week 12 among subjects with baseline skin 
pain NRS ≥3 was the second ranked secondary endpoint. Since the protocols of both studies were amended 
to include only subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 3 in this analysis, the numbers included in the 
following analyses are smaller than those for other end-points. 
Study M11-313 
A greater proportion of subjects achieved NRS30 in the adalimumab ew group compared with the placebo 
group during Period A (p≤0.05 for all visits except at Week 12)  
To assess improvement in skin pain over the entire treatment period, the average skin pain treatment effect 
across all visits in Period A was analyzed. When the proportion of subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥3 
who achieved NRS30 – at worst among subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 3 at each visit was analyzed 
using a MMRM approach, which included treatment (ew/placebo), visit (Week 2, 4, 8, and 12), and baseline 
Hurley Stage (II/III), the overall treatment effect between adalimumab 40 mg ew and placebo was 40.3% 
versus 24.9% (odds ratio = 2.03, P = 0.004). 
Table 44. Proportion of Subjects Achieving NRS30 – at Worst Among Subjects with Baseline NRS 
at Worst ≥ 3 in Period A (NRI) (ITT_A Population, Study M11-313) 
Treatment Differencea 
Response, n (%) 
Visit 
pbo 
N = 109 
ew 
N = 122 
Week 2 
20 (18.3) 
48 (39.3) 
Week 4 
24 (22.0) 
47 (38.5) 
Week 8 
26 (23.9) 
47 (38.5) 
Week 12 
% 
20.5 
16.4 
14.2 
2.8 
27 (24.8) 
34 (27.9) 
Overallc 
(24.9) 
(40.3) 
-- 
(95% CI) 
(8.8, 32.2) 
(4.4, 28.3) 
(2.2, 26.2) 
(-8.6, 
14.2) 
-- 
Treatment Effect 
P value 
< 0.001*,b 
0.007*,b 
0.020*,b 
0.628b 
0.004* 
a. 
b. 
c. 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley stage. 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley stage. 
P value is calculated from repeated measure analysis, using observed data (for subjects who received analgesic other than ibuprofen 
or acetaminophen, or received ibuprofen or acetaminophen that exceeded the maximum dose allowed, for skin pain or underwent 
intervention, pain assessment from the start until 14 days after the stop of these treatments were excluded from the analyses) across 
Period A, adjusted for treatment (ew versus pbo), visit (Week 2, 4, 8, and 12), and Hurley stages (II versus III), using unstructured 
correlation matrix. The response rate for each treatment group was estimated from the model. Of note, 20/109 (18.3%) and 18/122 
(14.8%) subjects in the pbo and ew groups, respectively, had at least 1 day excluded in Period A due to taking analgesics. 
* 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
Study M11-810 
The proportion of subjects achieving NRS30 in the adalimumab ew group was higher than that in the placebo 
group at every visit during Period A (p≤0.001). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 67/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 45. Proportion of Subjects Achieving NRS30 – at Worst Among Subjects with Baseline NRS 
at Worst ≥ 3 in Period A (NRI) (ITT_A Population, Study M11-810) 
Treatment Differencea 
Response, n (%) 
Visit 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 8 
Week 12 
Overallc 
pbo 
N = 111 
ew 
N = 105 
21 (18.9) 
54 (51.4) 
20 (18.0) 
61 (58.1) 
24 (21.6) 
57 (54.3) 
23 (20.7) 
48 (45.7) 
(24.8) 
(61.2) 
% 
32.9 
40.0 
33.3 
25.1 
-- 
(95% CI) 
(20.3, 45.6) 
(27.1, 53.0) 
(20.3, 46.2) 
(12.7, 37.6) 
-- 
Treatment Effect 
P value 
< 0.001*,b 
< 0.001*,b 
< 0.001*,b 
< 0.001*,b 
< 0.001* 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference was calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage 
b. 
c. 
(II/III) and baseline antibiotic use (Y/N). 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for baseline Hurley Stage and baseline antibiotics use. 
P value is calculated from repeated measures analysis, using observed data (for subjects who received analgesic other than ibuprofen 
or acetaminophen, or received ibuprofen or acetaminophen that exceeded the maximum dose allowed, for skin pain or underwent 
intervention, pain assessment from the start until 14 days after the stop of these treatments were excluded from the analyses) across 
Period A, adjusted for treatment (ew versus pbo), visit (Week 2, 4, 8, and 12), and Hurley stages (II versus III), using unstructured 
correlation matrix. The response rate for each treatment group was estimated from the model. Of note, 5/111 (4.5%) and 0/105 
subjects in the pbo and ew groups, respectively, had at least 1 day excluded in Period A due to taking analgesics. 
* 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
When the proportion of subjects achieving NRS30 – at worst among subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 
3 at each visit was analyzed using a Mixed-Effects Model Repeated Measures (MMRM) approach, including 
covariates of treatment (ew/placebo), visit (Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12), baseline Hurley Stage (II/III), and 
baseline antibiotic use (Yes/No), a statistically significant difference for overall treatment effect was shown 
between adalimumab 40 mg ew and placebo (61% versus 25%; odds ratio = 4.78, p < 0.001).  
Additionally, the mean percent improvement in skin pain at worst was larger for subjects in the adalimumab 
ew group compared with subjects in the placebo group at every visit (p<0.001). Improvement in average 
skin pain was consistent with these results. 
Figure 18. Proportions of Subjects Achieving NRS30 – At Worst Among Subjects with Baseline 
Skin Pain NRS ≥ 3 (NRI) (Panel A, Study M11-810) (Panel B Study M11-313) (ITT_A 
Population) 
Panel A (Study M11-810): 
Panel B (Study M11-313): 
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
EW(N=105)
PBO(N=111)
EW(N=122)
PBO(N=109)
Week 0
Week 2
Week 4
Week 8 Week 12
Week 0
Week 2
Week 4
Week 8 Week 12
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 68/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Quality of Life end-points 
SF-36 (Short Form-36 Health Status Survey) 
Subjects in the adalimumab ew group generally reported greater mean improvement in their physical health 
status than subjects in the placebo group, as measured by change from Baseline to Week 12 in SF-36. In 
particular, subjects in the adalimumab group experienced greater improvement in the PCS (physical 
component summary) domain and the role-physical and bodily pain subdomains, indicating improved 
physical health. 
Results from Part B of the pivotal studies  
Analyses from part B of the two pivotal studies are presented below in the parapgraph Analysis performed 
across trials for the pre-specified integrated analysis. Since there was a difference between the studies with 
respect to the treatment in Part B for the groups who received placebo in Part A, these results are presented 
briefly for each study separately. 
Study M11-313, ITT_EW Population 
At Week 36, 41% of subjects who received placebo in Period A and were treated with adalimumab ew in 
Period B (ITT_B_EW Population) were HiSCR responders. These results were consistent with HiSCR rates in 
the adalimumab ew group in Period A. Improvements from week 12 to 36 were also observed for other 
efficacy endpoints, e.g. AN count and NRS30. 
Study M11-810, ITT_B_PBO Population 
The ITT_B_PBO Population included subjects who were randomized to placebo in Period A and continued on 
placebo in Period B. Subjects in the ITT_B_PBO Population in Period B showed a low level HiSCR rate that 
decreased from Week 12 (29%) to Week 36 (16%) (NRI). 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as 
the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 46: Summary of Efficacy for trial M11-313 and M11-810 
Title: A Phase 3 Multicenter Study of the Safety and Efficacy of ADA in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa  
Study identifier 
M11-313 (PIONEER I) and M11-810 (PIONEER II) 
Design 
Phase 3 multicenter, randomized, DB, PBO-controlled studies of the safety and efficacy of 
ADA in subjects with moderate to severe HS 
Duration of main phase: 
Period A, 12 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatment groups 
Placebo 
12 weeks  
(N=307 for M11-313; 
N=326 for M11-810) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
n=154 for M11-313  
n=163 for M11-810 
Page 69/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
ADA ew 
160  mg  at  week  0,  80  mg  at  week  2,  40  mg  ew 
starting  at  week  4  until  week  12,  12  week  of 
treatment, SC 
n=153 for M11-313 
n=163 for M11-810 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary 
HiSCR 
Proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR, defined as at 
endpoint 
least a 50% reduction in AN count with no increase in 
abscess  count  and  no  increase  in  draining  fistula 
count relative to baseline at Week 12. 
First  secondary 
AN0, 1 or 2 
Proportion  of  subjects  achieving 
inflammatory 
ranked endpoint 
nodule and abscess count of 0, 1, or 2 at Week 12, 
(SRE) 
among subjects with Hurley Stage II at baseline (it 
was  considered  too  strict  to  be  applied  to  subjects 
with Hurley stage III). 
Second SRE 
NRS30 
Proportion  of  subjects  achieving  at  least  30% 
reduction and at least 1 unit reduction from baseline 
in Patient's Global Assessment of Skin Pain (NRS30) 
– at worst at Week 12 among subjects with Baseline 
skin pain NRS (numerical rating scale) ≥ 3. 
Third SRE 
Modified 
Change in modified Sartorius score from Baseline to 
Sartorius 
Week 12. 
score 
Database lock 
M11-313: 5 February 2014; M11-810: 23 May 2014 
Results and analysis 
Analysis description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis  population  and 
ITT-A (N=307 for M11-313; N=326 for M11-810) 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
Study 
M11-313 
M11-810 
estimate variability 
Treatment group 
Number of subjects 
PBO 
154 
Primary
HiSCR% 
26.0 
endpoint 
ew 
153 
41.8 
PBO 
163 
27.6 
ew 
163 
58.9 
SRE 
AN0,  1  or 
28.6 
28.9 
32.2 
51.8 
2  
% 
NRS30 
24.8 
27.9 
20.7 
45.7 
% 
Modified 
-15.7 
-24.4 
-9.5 
-28.9 
Sartorius 
score 
Effect 
estimate 
per  Primary endpoint 
Comparison groups 
PBO vs EW 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 70/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
comparison 
Test statistic 
Cochrane-Mantel-Haenszel 
P-value 
(CMH) test, statistical test was 
2-tailed  with  the  significance 
level 0.05. 
M11-313 
P=0.003 
M11-810 
P<0.001 
SRE 
Comparison groups 
PBO vs EW 
Test statistic 
Cochrane-Mantel-Haenszel 
P-value 
(CMH) test, statistical test was 
2-tailed  with  the  significance 
level 0.05. 
M11-313 
P=0.961 (AN0,1 or 2) 
P=0.628 (NRS30) 
P=0.124 (Sartorius) 
M11-810 
P=0.010 (AN0,1 or 2) 
P<0.001 (NRS30) 
P<0.001 (Sartorius) 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
An integrated analysis of data from the three Phase 3 studies (Studies M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555) 
was pre-specified in the SAP for the ISE. Data from the Phase 2 study (Study M10-467) were analyzed 
separately because the study protocol differs from those of the Phase 3 studies in several details (e.g. 
subjects in Study M10-467 were not required to use antiseptic washes and Hurley Stage I patients were 
allowed). 
Integrated results from Part A of Studies M11-810 and M11-313 
Primary Endpoint 
Both studies met their primary endpoint (Week 12 HiSCR rate). 
A logistic regression analysis of the integrated data, adjusted for baseline weight and baseline draining 
fistula count (both of which were identified using stepwise selection), found the treatment-by-study 
interaction to be non-significant (p>0.10). This finding suggests that differences in baseline characteristics 
in part account for the observed different magnitudes of treatment effect between the 2 studies and was 
considered to provide justification for the pooling of data from the 2 studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 71/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 47. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR at Week 12 (NRI) (ITT_A Population, 
Integrated Analyses) 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Strata 
All 
pbo 
n/N (%) 
ew 
n/N (%) 
85/317 (26.8) 
160/316 (50.6) 
Hurley Stage II 
57/171 (33.3) 
90/168 (53.6) 
Hurley Stage III 
28/146 (19.2) 
70/148 (47.3) 
% 
23.9* 
20.2* 
28.1* 
(95% CI) 
(16.4, 31.4) 
(9.7, 30.8) 
(17.3, 38.9) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference for all subjects calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study, 
baseline Hurley stage, and antibiotics use. 95% CI for adjusted difference by Hurley stage subgroup calculated according to the 
extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study and antibiotics use. 
b. 
P value for all subjects calculated from the CMH test adjusted for study, baseline Hurley stage and antibiotics use. P value for 
comparison by Hurley Stage subgroup was calculated from the CMH test adjusted for study and antibiotics use. 
* 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
With respect to HiSCR over time (secondary end-point), a higher proportion of subjects in the adalimumab 
ew group achieved HiSCR compared with the placebo group, starting at Week 2 (p< 0.001), and remained 
consistent throughout Period A (NRI) (p<0.001 at all visits) in the integrated ITT_A Population. 
Figure 19. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period A (NRI) (ITT_A Population, 
Integrated Analyses) 
60.0%
50.0%
40.0%
30.0%
20.0%
10.0%
0.0%
PBO (N=317)
EW(N=316)
48.1%
50.6%
40.8%
34.5%
12.9%
20.5%
22.7%
26.8%
Week 0
Week 2
Week 4
Week 8
Week 12
Ranked Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
The results of all the ranked secondary endpoints in both studies showed greater improvement in the 
adalimumab group as compared with the placebo group; however, the differences were statistically 
significant only in Study M11-810. Integrated results from the ranked secondary endpoints are presented in 
Table . Because the first ranked secondary endpoint (AN count of 0, 1, or 2 in Hurley Stage II subjects at 
Week 12) missed statistical significance (P = 0.051), none of the secondary ranked endpoints is interpreted 
as confirmatory.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 72/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 48. Statistical Results for Ranked Secondary Endpoints Presented in Rank Order (ITT_A 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
Rank  Secondary Variable 
Proportion of subjects who achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 at 
Week 12, among subjects with Hurley Stage II at baseline (NRI) 
Proportion of subjects who achieved at least 30% reduction and 
at least 1 unit reduction from baseline in Patient's Global 
Assessment of Skin Pain (NRS30) – at worst at Week 12 among 
subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 3 (NRI) 
ew vs. pbo 
40.5% vs. 30.4% 
P = 0.051a 
36.1% vs. 22.7% 
P = 0.002b 
1 
2 
3 
Change in modified Sartorius score from baseline to Week 12 
(LOCF) 
–27.1 vs. –12.5 
P < 0.001c 
a. 
b. 
c. 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for study and antibiotic use. 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for study, baseline Hurley stage, and antibiotic use. 
P value calculated from ANCOVA with baseline value, stratum (study, baseline Hurley stage, and antibiotic use) and treatment in the 
model. 
Health-Related Quality of Life 
Different QoL scales were used in the two pivotal studies, however, DLQI and TSQM were used in both 
studies and results are presented for the integrated ITT_A Population. 
Adalimumab ew subjects had greater improvement in DLQI, compared to placebo-treated subjects, as 
measured by mean change in DLQI, from Baseline to Week 12 (P ≤ 0.05). Among subjects with a baseline 
DLQI ≥ 5, a higher proportion of adalimumab ew subjects than placebo subjects (50% vs. 34%) achieved 
the MCID, defined as a decrease of ≥5.0 points at Week 12 (NRI; p<0.001). 
Table 49. Change from Baseline in DLQI at Week 12 (LOCF) (ITT_A Population, Integrated 
Analyses) 
Treatment 
Group 
pbo 
ew 
Baseline 
Mean 
15.4 
15.2 
N 
310 
312 
Week 
12 
Mean 
12.8 
10.1 
Within Group 
Change 
Between Group 
Changea 
LS Mean  ± SE 
LS Mean 
(95% CI) 
–2.6 ± 0.39 
–5.2 ± 0.39 
–2.6* 
(–3.6, –
1.7) 
a. 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum (study, baseline Hurley stage, and antibiotic use), baseline value, and treatment 
in the model. 
* 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
TSQM scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better treatment satisfaction. Subjects in the 
adalimumab ew group had greater increases in overall treatment satisfaction and effectiveness than 
subjects in the placebo group at Week 12 (p ≤ 0.05). Satisfaction with the side effects and convenience 
were similar between the placebo and treatment groups.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 73/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 50. Change from Baseline in TSQM at Week 12 (LOCF) (ITT_A Population, Integrated 
Analyses) 
Component/ 
Treatment 
Group 
TSQM Global 
Satisfaction 
pbo 
ew 
Effectiveness 
pbo 
ew 
Baselin
e Mean 
N 
Week 
12 
Mean 
Within Group 
Change 
Between Group Changea 
LS Mean ± SE 
LS Mean 
(95% CI) 
36.9 
39.6 
47.2 
58.9 
8.8 ± 1.78 
20.1 ± 1.81 
11.3* 
(6.9, 15.6) 
30.9 
31.3 
41.4 
54.0 
10.9 ± 1.75 
23.6 ± 1.79 
12.6* 
(8.3, 16.9) 
24
3 
23
0 
24
6 
23
1 
a. 
* 
P values were calculated from ANCOVA with stratum, baseline value, and treatment in the model. 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
Integrated results from Part B of Studies M11-810 and M11-313 
While analyses in Period B was specified as exploratory in each individual study due to the limited sample 
size, the period B integrated analysis was pre-specified as confirmatory.  
All re-randomized subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug. Of the 596 subjects who were 
re-randomized in Period B, 286 (48%) subjects completed Period B and 310 (52%) subjects discontinued 
from the study. The most frequently reported primary reason for discontinuation from Period B was per IXRS 
instruction, which instructed subjects who experienced LOR or WOAI to discontinue from the study and enter 
the OLE, Study M12-555. The highest percentage of discontinuation primarily per IXRS instruction was in the 
pbo/pbo (56%) and ew/pbo (48%) groups.  
Table 51.  Overall Subject Disposition in Period B (ITT_B Population, Integrated Analyses) 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; HiSCR = hidradenitis suppurativa complete response; LOR = loss of response; WOAI = 
worsening or absence of improvement 
a. All subjects who were randomized to adalimumab ew in Period A and were re-randomized in Period B. 
b. Subjects meeting criteria of LOR or WOAI were requested by the IXRS system to discontinue from the study and enter the open label 
extension, Study M12-555. 
Note: Percentages based on the number of subjects who were re-randomized. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 74/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Period B: Combined ITT_B_R and ITT_B_NR Population 
When all subjects who were re-randomized after the adalimumab ew treatment in Period A were analyzed 
(ITT_B_R and ITT_B_NR Populations combined), the proportion of subjects with HiSCR at Week 36 was 
higher for subjects in the ew/ew group compared with the ew/eow and ew/pbo groups (Table ).   
All treatment groups experienced reduction to some extent in the HiSCR rate over time during Period B, 
which may in part be due to the study design. Any subject who experienced LOR or WOAI during Period B, 
was discontinued from the study and counted as non-responders in Period B, after roll-over to Study 
M12-555.   
Table 52. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period B (NRI) (Combined ITT_B_R 
and ITT_B_NR Populations, Integrated Analyses) 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Visit 
Entry to 
Period B 
Week 24 
Week 36 
ew/pbo 
(N = 
100) 
ew/eow 
(N = 
101) 
ew/ew 
(N = 
99) 
53 
(53.0) 
30 
(30.0) 
28 
(28.0) 
52 
(51.5) 
37 
(36.6) 
31 
(30.7) 
53 
(53.5) 
44 
(44.4) 
43 
(43.4) 
ew/eow vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/eow 
-- 
-- 
-- 
7.1 
(–5.3, 19.6) 
3.1 
(–9.2, 15.4) 
14.4* 
(1.6, 27.3) 
15.3* 
(2.1, 28.6) 
7.4 
(–5.3, 20.1) 
12.4 
(–0.6, 25.4) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study, baseline Hurley 
stage, and HiSCR status at re-randomization (responder/nonresponder) at entry of Period B. 
b. 
P value calculated from the CMH test adjusted for study, baseline Hurley stage, and HiSCR status at re-randomization 
(responder/nonresponder) at entry of Period B. 
* 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
Period B: ITT_B_R Population (HiSCR responders at entry to Period B) 
The primary endpoint for the integrated analysis was the proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR at Week 36 
in the ITT_B_R Population. Pairwise comparisons were performed in the rank order EW/EW vs. EW/PBO 
followed by EW/EOW vs. EW/PBO. The proportion of ITT_B_R subjects who retained HiSCR at Week 36 was 
higher for subjects who were re-randomized to adalimumab compared to those re-randomized to placebo.  
Table 53. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period B (NRI) (ITT_B_R 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
Response, n (%) 
Treatment Differencea,b 
Visit 
Entry to 
Period B 
Week 24 
Week 36 
ew/pbo 
(N = 
53) 
ew/eow 
(N = 52) 
52 
(98.1) 
21 
(39.6) 
17 
(32.1) 
52 (100) 
29 (55.8) 
24 (46.2) 
ew/ew 
(N = 
52) 
52 
(100) 
32 
(61.5) 
25 
(48.1) 
ew/eow vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/eow 
-- 
-- 
-- 
16.2 
(–3.0, 35.5) 
21.6* 
(2.7, 40.6) 
5.7 
(–13.6, 24.9) 
14.2 
(–4.5, 33.0) 
15.7 
(–2.9, 34.3) 
1.4 
(–17.7, 20.5) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study and baseline Hurley 
stage. 
b. 
* 
P value calculated from the extended CMH test adjusted for adjusted for study and baseline Hurley stage. 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
Note:  One subject was randomized in the HiSCR responder strata although the subject did not achieve HiSCR at Week 12. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 75/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Additional efficacy measures assessed in Period B for the ITT_B_R Population demonstrated that subjects 
benefit by continuing to receive ew treatment rather than de-escalating to an eow regimen. The proportion 
of subjects with worsening of their draining fistula count (≥ 25% increase with minimum increase of 2 
relative to baseline) at any time during Period B was 13% in the ew/pbo group and 15% in the ew/eow group 
compared to 6% in the ew/ew group. Reduction from Baseline in skin pain was greater for both the ew/ew 
group and the ew/eow group compared to ew/pbo (P ≤ 0.05). For these endpoints, subjects in the ew/ew 
group consistently numerically outperformed subjects in the ew/eow group. 
Period B: ITT_B_NR Population (HiSCR non-responders at entry to Period B) 
In the ITT_NR Population (i.e. HiSCR non-responders at entry to Period B), the HiSCR rate was higher by 
Week 36 for subjects in the ew/ew group (38%) compared to subjects in ew/eow (14%) and ew/pbo (23%) 
groups.  
The majority of subjects in the ITT_B_NR Population who achieved HiSCR by Week 36 on continuous 
adalimumab ew therapy in Period B belonged to a subgroup who achieved at least AN25 improvement on 
adalimumab ew by Week 12. A post-hoc analysis was performed, showing that for these AN25 responders, 
Week 36 HiSCR response rates were higher for the ew/ew group (78%) compared to both the ew/eow (22%) 
and ew/pbo (25%) groups at Week 36 (p≤0.05). In contrast, among subjects who were AN25 
non-responders at the end of Period A, the majority in each treatment group did not achieve HiSCR, 
regardless of treatment group.  
Table 54. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period B (NRI) (ITT_B_NR 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
Response 
n (%) 
Treatment Difference 
% (95% CI)a,b 
ew/pbo 
(N = 
47) 
ew/eow 
(N = 
49) 
ew/ew 
(N = 
47) 
ew/eow vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/eow 
1 (2.1) 
0 
1 (2.1) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Visit 
Entry to 
Period B 
Week 24  9 (19.1)  8 (16.3) 
Week 36 
11 
(23.4) 
7 (14.3) 
12 
(25.5) 
18 
(38.3) 
–2.8 
(–18.2, 12.6) 
6.4 
(–10.7, 23.5) 
9.4 
(–6.9, 25.6) 
–9.1 
(–24.8, 6.6) 
14.9  
(–4.0, 33.8) 
24.3* 
(6.7, 41.8) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study and baseline Hurley 
stage. 
b. 
* 
P value calculated from the extended CMH test adjusted for adjusted for study and baseline Hurley stage. 
Denotes p≤0.05. 
Note: 
Two subjects were randomized in the HiSCR non-responder strata although they achieved HiSCR at Week 12. 
Period B: ITT_B_PRR Population (HiSCR responders and partial responders achieving AN25) 
Post-hoc analyses revealed that subjects who achieved a partial responses (≥ 25% reduction in AN count 
relative to baseline in the ITT_B_NR Population) and HiSCR responders (in the ITT_B_R Population) had 
greater potential to achieve or maintain HiSCR with longer treatment of 40 mg ew until Week 36. In this 
population, HiSCR at Week 36 was achieved by a higher proportion of subjects in the ew/ew group compared 
to the ew/eow or ew/pbo groups (refer to table and figure below). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 76/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 55. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period B (NRI) (ITT_B_PRR 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
Response 
n (%) 
Treatment Difference 
% (95% CI)a,b 
ew/pbo 
(N = 73) 
ew/eow 
(N = 70) 
ew/ew 
(N = 70) 
ew/eow 
vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/pbo 
ew/ew vs.  
ew/eow 
53 (72.6)  52 (74.3)  53 (75.7) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Visit 
Entry to 
Period B 
Week 24 
24 (32.9)  36 (51.4)  40 (57.1) 
Week 36 
22 (30.1)  28 (40.0)  39 (55.7) 
18.3* 
(2.1, 34.5) 
23.7* 
(7.5, 40.0) 
5.4 
(–11.1, 
21.9) 
11.2 
(–4.4, 26.8) 
26.8* 
(10.5, 43.1) 
15.1 
(–1.4, 31.5) 
a. 
95% CI for adjusted difference calculated according to the extended Mantel-Haenszel statistic adjusted for study and HiSCR status at 
re-randomization (responder/nonresponder). 
b. 
* 
P value calculated from the extended CMH test adjusted for study and HiSCR status at re-randomization (responder/nonresponder). 
Denotes P ≤ 0.05. 
Figure 20. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit in Period B (NRI) (ITT_B_PRR 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
Results were also presented for other end-points (all referring to the ITT_B_PRR Population):  
For the “Improvement from Baseline in AN count” (mean and mean percent change), there was a numerical 
trend favoring the ew/ew group over the ew/eow group and greater improvement for the ew/ew group 
compared to the ew/pbo group (P ≤ 0.05) in the ITT_B_PRR Population at Week 36. 
For “Achievement of AN Count of 0, 1, 2”, there was a numerical trend in achievement of AN count of 0, 1, 
or 2 favoring the ew/ew group over the ew/eow group in Period B. The ew/ew group demonstrated greater 
improvement (P ≤ 0.05) at Weeks 24 and 36 compared to the ew/pbo group. 
The proportion of subjects who experienced “Flare” (defined as at least a 25% increase in AN counts with a 
minimum increase of 2 relative to Baseline) in the ITT_B_PRR Population, was lower overall for subjects in 
the ew/ew group (1 subject) compared to the ew/eow and ew/pbo groups (9 and 6 subjects, respectively). 
The risk of worsening of disease was based on all occurrences (i.e. not excluding any cases after a subject 
used rescue medication in Study M11-313. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 77/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
With respect to “Improvement in patient-reported HS-related skin pain”, a higher NRS30 rate was 
demonstrated in the ew/ew group by the end of Period B (P ≤ 0.05) as compared to the ew/eow and ew/pbo 
groups. 
With respect to “DLQI”, subjects in the ew/ew group had numerically greater improvement in DLQI, as 
measured by mean change in DLQI, from Baseline to Week 36 compared to subjects in the ew/eow and 
ew/pbo groups. 
Supportive study 
Study M12-555: Phase 3 Open-Label Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Adalimumab in Subjects with 
Moderate to Severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa – PIONEER (Open-Label Extension) 
Is an ongoing study that enrolled subjects who participated in a prior Phase 3 HS study and either  
(a) completed the study;  
(b) achieved HiSCR at the entry to Period B then experienced LOR (defined as loss of at least 50% of the 
improvement (reduction) in the AN count achieved from Baseline to Week 12); or  
(c) did not achieve HiSCR at the entry to Period B then experienced WOAI (defined as an AN count 
≥ Baseline AN count at 2 consecutive visits, excluding Week 12, occurring ≥ 14 days apart) on or after Week 
16 of the prior Phase 3 study. 
Starting at Baseline, all subjects received open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew regardless of treatment 
assignment in a prior Phase 3 study. If at any time on or after Week 24 of the open-label extension (OLE), 
a subject meets the following criteria, the dosing regimen may be reduced to adalimumab 40 mg eow: 
•  Achieved hidradenitis suppurativa clinical response (HiSCR) during the OLE relative to the Baseline 
visit of the prior Phase 3 study; AND 
•  Achieved an abscess and inflammatory nodule (AN) count of 0 or 1 on at least 2 consecutive study 
visits; AND 
• 
The physician and subject mutually decided that the risk/benefit of reducing adalimumab dosing to 
eow was favorable. 
In this study, subjects must have agreed to daily use (and throughout the entirety of the study) of one 
over-the-counter topical antiseptics (specified in the protocol) on their body areas affected with HS lesions. 
The exclusion criteria also specified that subjects should not have received any oral antibiotic treatment for 
HS within 28 days prior to the Baseline visit of Study M12-555, except for antibiotics permitted in a prior 
Phase 3 study. Restrictions were also applied for topical therapies for the treatment of HS, systemic 
non-biologic therapies with potential therapeutic impact for HS and oral concomitant analgesics (including 
opioids) for HS-related pain. 
The original protocol (dated 30 November 2011) had 2 amendments. One hundred seven subjects were 
enrolled under the original protocol, 136 subjects were enrolled under Amendment No. 1, and 254 subjects 
were enrolled under Amendment No. 2.  
Results 
Data from an interim analysis are available in this submission. Subjects entered Study M12-555 at different 
time points and not all subjects had reached the later visits as of the data cut-off date. Therefore, missing 
data were handled using LOCF as the primary approach, and the number of subjects at the later visits are 
noted below the tables. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 78/124 
 
  
  
As of 29 April 2014, 497 subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug in Study M12-555 at 94 study sites 
in the US, Canada, Australia, Germany, Czech Republic, France, Switzerland, Denmark, Greece, Hungary, 
Netherlands, and Sweden. A total of 368 (74%) subjects remained ongoing. Enrollment in the study is closed. 
A flow chart summarizing subject disposition for Studies M11-810, M11-313 and M12-555 presented above 
(Figure 16). 
• 
In the EW/EW/EW Population (subjects who received adalimumab 40 mg ew in both Period A and 
Period B of the prior Phase 3 HS study and received at least 1 dose of study drug in Study M12-555), 
the proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR was maintained above 50% at all visits (range: 51% to 
60%). 
•  Among subjects whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn during Period B of the prior Phase 3 
study and reintroduced upon entry into Study M12-555 (EW/PBO/EW Population), the proportion 
who achieved HiSCR increased soon after retreatment, reaching 56% at Week 12 of Study M12-555. 
•  Among subjects whose dose was reduced to 40 mg eow during Period B of the prior Phase 3 study 
and returned to 40 mg ew upon entry into Study M12-555 (EW/EOW/EW Population), the proportion 
who achieved HiSCR from the time of dose escalation increased over time, reaching 61% at Week 48 
of Study M12-555. 
Table 56.  Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR Over Time During Study M12-555 (LOCF) 
(EW/EW/EW, EW/EOW/EW, and EW/PBO/EW Populations in Study M12-555) 
Visita 
Entry of Study M12-555 
Week 4× 
Week 8× 
Week 12× 
Week 24× 
Week 36×b 
Week 48×b 
EW/EW/EW 
N = 84 
n (%) 
EW/EOW/EW 
N = 90 
n (%) 
EW/PBO/EW 
N = 91 
n (%) 
43 (51.2) 
46 (56.8) 
46 (56.1) 
45 (54.9) 
45 (54.9) 
49 (59.8) 
47 (57.3) 
33 (36.7) 
36 (42.9) 
44 (51.8) 
43 (50.6) 
50 (58.8) 
53 (62.4) 
52 (61.2) 
28 (30.8) 
41 (48.8) 
43 (51.2) 
47 (56.0) 
48 (57.1) 
41 (48.8) 
44 (52.4) 
a. 
b. 
"×" indicates visit in extension study. 
The number of observations at Weeks 36 and 48 are 40 and 22 for EW/EW/EW, 43 and 23 for EW/EOW/EW, and 39 and 20 for 
EW/PBO/EW  
Note: 
The data cutoff date was 29 April 2014. Results after Week 48 (from start of Study M12-555) are available for fewer 
than 20% of subjects.  
With continuous treatment with adalimumab ew, at least 55% of subjects maintained HiSCR up to 48 weeks 
in Study M12-555. Dose interruption and dose reduction were associated with reductions in HiSCR rate from 
entry of Study M12-555 up to Week 8 or Week 12. Re-treatment, however, seems still beneficial, as HiSCR 
rates were above 50% in all 3 populations at Week 48. 
Continuous ew Dosing 
The ew Population includes a total of 316 subjects who were randomized to receive adalimumab 40 mg ew 
in Period A of Studies M11-810 or M11-313: 217 subjects, the ew group, either did not enter Period B or 
entered Period B to receive adalimumab 40 mg eow or placebo, and 99 subjects, the ew/ew (ew) group, 
were re-randomized to continuous ew treatment in Period B regardless of whether the subjects entered 
Study M12-555. 
The results from the ew/ew (ew) group show the long-term efficacy of adalimumab 40 mg ew treatment 
among those who had the opportunity to continue ew treatment by integrating data from both the initial 
studies (Studies M11-313 and M11-810) and Study M12-555. This group represents the overall 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 79/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
adalimumab-treated subjects since HiSCR rates in this group during the first 12 weeks were similar to those 
of subjects who did not have the opportunity to continue beyond Week 12 (ew). The HiSCR rate was above 
50% at Week 8 and was maintained around this level up to Week 72. Among subjects who achieved at least 
AN25 response (partial responders or HiSCR responders) at Week 12, the HiSCR rate was above 60% from 
Week 8 through Week 72 (Figure 21). 
Figure 21. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR by Visit (LOCF) (EW Population, Integrated 
Analyses) 
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
EW (N = 217)
EW/EW (EW) (N = 99)
AN25 Respnders in
EW/EW(EW) (N = 70)
Week 0 Week 2 Week 4 Week 8 Week 12 Week 16 Week 20 Week 24 Week 36 Week 48 Week 60 Week 72
Note: 
ew = subjects randomized to adalimumab 40 mg ew in Period A who either did not enter Period B or entered Period B 
to receive adalimumab 40 mg eow or placebo. ew/ew (ew) = subjects randomized to adalimumab 40 mg ew in both 
Period A and Period B, regardless of entry into Study M12-555. As of the data cutoff date for Study M12-555 (29 April 
2014), not all ongoing subjects had visits beyond Week 36 ew.  The number of subjects with observations at later weeks 
is as follows: 70 at Week 48ew, 42 at Week 60 ew, and 28 at Week 72 ew. Results after Week 72 ew are available for 
fewer than 20% of subjects. 
Dose Reduction and Dose Interruption 
Efficacy data were also integrated across Periods A and B of Studies M11-810 and M11-313, as well as the 
open-label treatment in Study M12-555, to compare the overall strategies of continuous weekly dosing 
(EW/EW/EW Population) with the alternatives of: 
•  Reducing dose frequency to eow at Week 12 and returning to ew in the event of LOR, WOAI, or at 
Week 36 (EW/EOW/EW Population), or 
•  Dose interruption at Week 12 and re-initiation in the event of LOR, WOAI, or at Week 36 
(EW/PBO/EW Population). 
The difference between the ew/ew (ew) group presented above and the EW/EW/EW Population in Study 
M12-555 is that the EW/EW/EW Population did not include 15 subjects in the ew/ew (ew) group who did not 
receive a dose of adalimumab in Study M12-555.  
The proportion of HiSCR responders at Week 36 was higher for subjects in the EW/EW/EW Population 
(63.1%) compared with those in the EW/EOW/EW Population (54.4%) or EW/PBO/EW Population (52.7%).  
These results demonstrate the benefit of continuous treatment with adalimumab ew, as dose interruption 
and dose reduction strategies were associated with temporary decreases in HiSCR, until adalimumab 40 mg 
ew dosing was resumed. Among subjects whose adalimumab treatment was halted at Week 12 
(EW/PBO/EW Population), the HiSCR rate dropped to 42.9% at Week 24. Following re-introduction of (40 mg) 
ew dosing at Week 36 (without initial 160 mg and 80 mg doses), the proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR 
increased over time, reaching 58.2% at Week 48. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 80/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 57. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR Over Time (LOCF) (EW/EW/EW, 
EW/EOW/EW, and EW/PBO/EW Populations, Study M12-555) 
Weeks of Adalimumab 
Treatmenta 
EW/EW/EW 
N = 84 
n (%) 
EW/EOW/EW 
N = 90 
n (%) 
EW/PBO/EW 
N = 91 
n (%) 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 8 
Week 12 
Week 16 
Week 20 
Week 24 
Week 36 
Week 48b 
Week 60b 
Week 72b 
27 (32.1) 
31 (36.9) 
42 (50.0) 
42 (50.0) 
41 (48.8) 
47 (56.0) 
41 (48.8) 
53 (63.1) 
48 (57.1) 
52 (61.9) 
49 (58.3) 
35 (39.8) 
37 (41.1) 
44 (48.9) 
50 (55.6) 
51 (56.7) 
41 (45.6) 
43 (47.8) 
49 (54.4) 
48 (53.3) 
54 (60.0) 
56 (62.2) 
31 (34.4) 
36 (39.6) 
44 (48.4) 
46 (50.5) 
41 (45.1) 
41 (45.1) 
39 (42.9) 
48 (52.7) 
53 (58.2) 
52 (57.1) 
50 (54.9) 
a.  Weeks were relative to the first dose of adalimumab in Study M11-313 or Study M11-810. 
b.  As of the data cutoff date, not all ongoing subjects had visits beyond Week 36. The number of subjects with observations at Weeks 48, 
60, and 72 was 70, 42, and 28, respectively for EW/EW/EW; 70, 55, and 31, respectively, for EW/EOW/EW; and 67, 45, and 27, 
respectively, for EW/PBO/EW. 
Note: 
The data cut-off date was 29 April 2014. Results after Week 72 (from start of prior study) are available for fewer than 20% of 
subjects. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
There were no dedicated studies in special populations. Sub-group analyses were performed both within the 
separate studies and for the studies combined and the integrated results will be presented here.  
Baseline Hurley stage and baseline concomitant antibiotic use (Study M11-810 only) were stratification 
factors in the Period A randomization for the Phase 3 studies. The primary efficacy variable (HiSCR) was 
analyzed for each stratum based on Hurley Stage (II/III) and antibiotic use at Baseline (yes/no) for the 
integrated ITT_A Population. A significantly higher HiSCR rate in the adalimumab ew group compared to the 
placebo group was observed in each stratum at each visit in Period A. Also, as presented above (primary 
efficacy end-point) greater treatment differences were observed among subjects with Hurley Stage III than 
those with Hurley Stage II and among subjects who received concomitant antibiotics compared to those who 
did not. 
Primary efficacy results (HiSCR rate) in the integrated ITT_A Population analysis set were also summarized 
by demographic characteristics (including BMI, weight, smoking status at Baseline, and smoking habit), and 
disease characteristics (including duration of HS, hsCRP, Baseline AN category, and prior HS surgery 
history). 
The higher HiSCR rate in the adalimumab ew group compared to the placebo group at Week 12 was 
consistent in every subgroup (Figure 22). The confidence intervals for the treatment difference excluded 
zero in almost all subgroups; the exceptions were subgroups black and prior HS surgery "yes" for which 
sample sizes were very small (less than 15% of the total). There were no treatment by subgroup interactions 
associated with p≤0.10.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 81/124 
 
  
  
Figure 22. Proportion of Subjects Achieving HiSCR at Week 12 (NRI) by Subgroup (ITT_A 
Population, Integrated Analyses) 
***, **, *Statistically significant at 0.001, 0.01, and 0.05 level, respectively. 
# 
EW and Placebo represents n/N (%). 
Note: 
INT_P is the P value for treatment*subgroup interaction, and it is calculated using a logistic regression with HiSCR at Week 12 as 
response variable, and treatment, subgroup, Hurley stage, and treatment*subgroup interaction as factors. 
Sub-group analyses were also performed within each of the two studies: 
In study M11-313, efficacy (HiSCR at Week 12) among subjects in the adalimumab group generally was 
above 35% (ranging from 30% to 50%) and a consistent treatment effect was generally observed. Some 
exceptions were noted; subjects with BMI ≥ 40 in both the adalimumab and placebo groups had similar 
HiSCR rates; larger treatment difference was observed among subjects with Hurley Stage III than those with 
Hurley Stage II and larger treatment difference was observed among subjects with lower hsCRP than those 
with higher hsCRP. The sample sizes in these subgroups were small. 
In study M11-810, the HiSCR rate was higher in the adalimumab ew group than in the placebo group in all 
subgroups. The lower bound of the 95% confidence interval for the treatment difference exceeded 0, except 
for the subgroups of black, BMI< 25, AN count ≤5, and prior surgical history. The numbers of subjects were 
relatively small in these 4 subgroups. Treatment by subgroup interactions were not significant (p>0.1), 
except for median baseline AN count, where subjects who had higher than median AN count at Baseline 
experienced a larger adalimumab treatment effect. 
Impact of Immunogenicity on Efficacy 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects who achieved HiSCR 
(responders/non-responders) at Week 12. None of the AAA+ subjects in Period A from Study M11-313 (0%, 
0/8 subjects) and Study M11-810 (0%, 0/2 subjects) achieved HiSCR at Week 12. In the AAA– subjects, 64 
of 145 subjects (44.1%) in Study M11-313 and 96 of 161 subjects (59.6%) in Study M11-810 achieved 
HiSCR.   
The number of subjects being AAA+ was overall low and firm conclusions are difficult to make. It is, however, 
noted that none of the AAA+ subjects was a HiSCR responder.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 82/124 
 
 
 
  
  
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The clinical development program for Humira in HS comprises 4 clinical studies: a Phase 2, 
placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study (Study M10-467), two Phase 3 double-blind (DB), 
placebo-controlled studies (Studies M11-810 and M11-313), and one Phase 3 open-label extension (OLE) 
study (Study M12-555; still ongoing). 
In the phase 2 dose-ranging study M10-467, a high and a low dose regimen were compared, in addition to 
placebo. Experience from other, approved indications for adalimumab shows that for some conditions (e.g. 
RA, Ps, PsA) loading and maintenance doses in a lower dose range are sufficient, while in other conditions 
(CD, UC) higher loading and maintenance doses are necessary. The efficacy results in this study showed that 
across all Hurley stages, a statistically significantly higher proportion of subjects in the adalimumab ew 
(every week) treatment group achieved clinical response, compared with placebo at Week 16 (18% vs. 4%, 
P = 0.025). The proportion of subjects who achieved clinical response in the adalimumab eow treatment 
group at Week 16 (10%) was numerically higher but not statistically significant compared to placebo. With 
respect to safety results, no major differences were observed between the two dose levels.  
Based on the efficacy and safety results of this study and the fact that high loading and maintenance doses 
of adalimumab have shown to be necessary in other indications, the choice of dosing regimen for the phase 
3 HS studies is considered justified. The body weight and BMI of subjects with HS are generally high (median 
BMI was >30 in both pivotal studies) and in population PK analyses it has been found that weight is a 
covariate for CL/F, with lower exposures in overweight subjects. Thus, based on these considerations, a high 
dose of adalimumab is considered necessary in HS. 
The pivotal phase 3 studies M11-810 and M11-313 were both multi-center, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 2-period studies with the aim to determine the clinical safety and efficacy of adalimumab 
compared to placebo in subjects with moderate to severe HS. The studies were performed in the US, Europe, 
Australia and Canada.  
The inclusion and exclusion criteria were adequate and ensured that subjects with moderate to severe HS 
were included, i.e. by requiring involvement of at least 2 distinct anatomic areas (at least one with Hurley 
Stage II or III), inadequate response to at least a 3-month course of oral antibiotics for treatment of HS (or 
with intolerance or contraindication to oral antibiotics) and a total AN count ≥ 3 at Baseline while excluding 
patients with very severe HS (e.g. draining fistula count greater than 20 at Baseline). 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria were overall the same for both studies except concerning oral antibiotic 
use; in Study M11-313 subjects were not to have received any oral antibiotic treatment for HS within 28 
days prior to the Baseline visit, while in Study M11-810 specified oral antibiotics (doxycycline or minocycline 
only) were permitted if the dose had been stable for at least 28 days prior to baseline. 
In both studies, subjects must have agreed to daily use throughout the study of an over-the-counter topical 
antiseptic on their body areas affected with HS lesions. It is acknowledged that use of topical antiseptics can 
be part of the routine treatment of HS, possibly with regional differences. From an efficacy perspective, this 
is not likely to have affected the interpretation of the results since all subjects (adalimumab and placebo) 
were to use antiseptics. 
Both studies included a 30-day screening period, an initial 12-week double-blind treatment period (Period A), 
and a subsequent 24-week double-blind treatment period (Period B), plus a Day 70 follow-up phone call 
approximately 70 days after the last dose of study drug administration. The design of both studies is 
considered adequate, with an initial 12-week placebo-controlled part with assessment of the primary 
end-point (HiSCR) at week 12. In both studies, a loading dose regimen was used, with adalimumab 160 mg 
at Week 0, 80 mg at Week 2 followed by 40 mg ew or matching placebo starting at Week 4.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 83/124 
 
  
  
In part B of both studies, subjects in the adalimumab arm were re-randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 
adalimumab 40 mg ew (i.e. continue with 40 mg ew treatment), adalimumab 40 mg eow (i.e. reduced 
dosing frequency) or matching placebo (i.e. withdrawal of active treatment). HiSCR responders who lost 
response and non-responders who experienced a worsening or absence of improvement were discontinued 
and had the opportunity to enter Study M12-555 to receive open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew. The studies 
differed to some extent during part B, e.g. with subjects from the placebo group in Period A of Study 
M11-810 were continued on blinded placebo from Week 12 to Week 35 while in Study M11-313, subjects 
from the placebo arm in Period A received adalimumab 40 mg ew from Week 16 to Week 35 (with 
adalimumab 160 mg at Week 12 and 80 mg at Week 14).  
The primary end-point in both studies was the “Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response”, HiSCR, 
developed by the MAH. HiSCR is defined as at least a 50% reduction in the AN (abscess and inflammatory 
nodule count) count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count, at Week 12 
relative to baseline.  
There is no European guideline available for the clinical development of products for the treatment of HS and 
to date there have been few published randomised, controlled studies for other HS treatments. The MAH has 
received advice from both the FDA and the EMA during the clinical development for Humira in HS. Advice was 
given with respect to the primary end-point as well as other end-points. The MAH originally proposed to use 
“AN50” (a 50% reduction in abscess and inflammatory nodule count) as the primary efficacy end-point. 
However, the SAWP/CHMP had concerns that this endpoint would not adequately account for disease 
progression. Thus, the end-point chosen for phase 3 was the “Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response”, 
HiSCR, that requires at least a 50% reduction in the AN count, that may not be associated with increases in 
abscess count or draining fistula count.  
A comprehensive work has been done by the MAH to develop and validate the HiSCR. In this work, data from 
one phase 2 study as well as data from a small, non-interventional study were used. From the phase 2 study, 
assessment of construct‐related validity, predictive validity and responsiveness to change were assessed 
for HiSCR. Correlations between HiSCR and six other measures, e.g. Hurley Stage, modified Sartorius score, 
Pain‐VAS, HS‐PGA and DLQI, were assessed and it was found that HiSCR was well correlated with the 
other assessments. The HiSCR was also found able to detect changes in HS, based on the difference in the 
mean changes of other measures between HiSCR responders and non‐responders at Week 16 and at Week 
52. 
The clinical meaningfulness for patients of the chosen cut-off of 50 % reduction in AN count for the definition 
of HiSCR response was assessed using alternative thresholds for the percentage changes in AN count. 
Patients with worsening disease or minimal improvement in AN count (<30% reduction) did not have a 
meaningful improvements of DLQI or pain and had only slight improvements in other patient-reported 
outcomes. A 50% reduction in AN count was found to be an appropriate threshold to define a HiSCR 
responder, which is agreed. In the non-interventional study, 22 HS patients and 4 dermatologists 
experienced in treating HS patients participated. Both intra- and inter-rater reliability in assessment of 
lesion counts was found adequate with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) ranging from 0.68 up to 
0.92, with the lowest ICCs observed for total abscess counts. In conclusion, the HiSCR is considered to have 
been adequately described and validated for its intended purpose as the primary end-point in the pivotal 
studies. 
There were three ranked secondary end-points in the studies, assessing AN counts, skin Pain (NRS30) and 
change in modified Sartorius score from Baseline to Week 12. These are also endorsed and were discussed 
in the CHMP scientific advice. In addition, a full range of other secondary efficacy variables were explored, 
covering several aspects of HS, e.g. lesion counts and severity as well as several patient-reported outcomes 
(e.g. DLQI, TSQM, EQ-5D).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 84/124 
 
  
  
The sample size in the phase 3 studies seems foremost to have been chosen based on safety data 
considerations. Based on the observed difference in phase 2, the power for the primary comparison was 
>99% at the planning stage thus allowing a smaller difference to be detected. The sample size per se is, 
however, supported also from an efficacy perspective considering the studies confirmatory status.  
The randomisation procedure used in the phase 3 studies seems appropriate. In both studies, stratification 
was made by Hurley stage to balance for severity of HS disease, which is endorsed. In study M11-810 
concomitant use of permitted oral antibiotic therapy for treatment of HS was allowed (provided the dosing 
regimen was stable) and stratification was made for antibiotic use in this study, which is agreed. The 
methods used to achieve and maintain blinding during the two periods in each study seem appropriate. 
Concerning the statistical methods, the methods planned and the analyses performed are in general 
considered appropriate. Stratification factor(s) was/were taken into account in the analyses. The primary 
approach for handling missing data is supported and also, that several sensitivity analyses were pre-planned. 
Main analyses included all randomised subjects with analyses of the primary endpoint and ranked secondary 
endpoints repeated based on the per-protocol population. The sensitivity modified NRI approaches are also 
supported while the use of LOCF is foremost considered conservative where its use implied treatment failure. 
The procedures to handle multiplicity for primary and key (ranked) secondary endpoints were acceptable. 
No method or discussion regarding the pairwise comparisons in period B has been found. It is however 
acknowledged that period B (both studies) was considered for exploratory analyses only.  The assessment of 
continued adalimumab treatment/adalimumab as maintenance was however to be a part of the integrated 
analyses where statistical testing was to be performed in ranked order.  Study protocol amendments (while 
the studies were ongoing) implied foremost minor statistical changes. Changes were however also 
implemented post-hoc (after final SAP and code break). None of the changes affected primary analyses in 
period A but one of the ranked secondary endpoints. This added analysis is considered for supportive 
purposes. 
The application also contained interim results from the on-going, open-label extension study M12-555, in 
which subjects previously participating in the pivotal phase 3 studies were included. This study enrolled 
subjects who participated in a prior Phase 3 HS study and either (a) completed the study; (b) achieved 
HiSCR at the entry to Period B then experienced LOR (defined as loss of at least 50% of the improvement 
(reduction) in the AN count achieved from Baseline to Week 12); or  (c) did not achieve HiSCR at the entry 
to Period B then experienced WOAI (defined as an AN count ≥ Baseline AN count at 2 consecutive visits, 
excluding Week 12, occurring ≥ 14 days apart) on or after Week 16 of the prior Phase 3 study. 
Starting at Baseline, all subjects received open-label adalimumab 40 mg ew regardless of treatment 
assignment in a prior Phase 3 study. If at any time on or after Week 24 of the open-label extension (OLE), 
a subject met certain criteria, the dosing regimen could be reduced to adalimumab 40 mg eow; if the subject 
achieved HiSCR during the OLE relative to Baseline of the prior Phase 3 study; AND achieved an AN count of 
0 or 1 on at least 2 consecutive study visits; AND the physician and subject mutually decided that the 
risk/benefit of reducing adalimumab dosing to eow was favorable. Also in this study, subjects must have 
agreed to daily use of topical antiseptics on body areas affected with HS lesions. The exclusion criteria also 
specified that subjects should not have received any oral antibiotic treatment for HS within 28 days prior to 
the Baseline visit of Study M12-555, except for antibiotics permitted in a prior Phase 3 study. Restrictions 
were also applied for other HS therapies.  
The indication initially applied for by the MAH was the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (acne inversa) in adult patients, including treatment of inflammatory lesions and prevention of 
worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas. The CHMP acknowledged that no other medicinal product is 
currently approved for the treatment of HS and that the evidence of efficacy from the therapies commonly 
used in HS today is limited.  However, considering that adalimumab is associated with some important 
safety concerns, the CHMP considered that population of patients that may benefit most from treatment with 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 85/124 
 
  
  
Humira should be more clearly defined. The CHMP also noted that, from a mechanistic point of view, it is 
expected that adalimumab treatment would preferably display an anti-inflammatory effect on HS 
preferentially targeting inflammatory nodules rather than abscesses and clinical chronic sequelae such as 
draining fistula. Furthermore, the patient population in the pivotal trials had a higher prevalence of 
inflammatory nodules compared to abscesses, and a limited number of draining fistulas.  
Therefore the CHMP requested that the indication should reflect the fact that patients with moderate to 
severe HS may have been treated with other therapies prior to the decision to initiate treatment with a 
biologic and that the “prevention” claim with respect to abscesses and fistulas should be removed to which 
the MAH agreed.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In study M11-313, 307 subjects were enrolled and randomized, 154 to placebo and 153 to adalimumab. In 
study M11-810, 326 subjects were enrolled and randomized, 163 each to placebo and adalimumab, 
respectively. The number of subjects who completed period A of both studies was high (overall 94%). The 
numbers of subjects who completed period B were much lower (26 to 64% across groups), which was mainly 
due to the study design, since subjects meeting criteria for loss of response, worsening or absence of 
improvement were to discontinue from the study and enter the open-label extension Study M12-555. 
With respect to baseline data, both demographic and disease characteristics were overall well balanced 
between the adalimumab and the placebo groups in both studies, with some exceptions. The population 
included reflects a typical HS population, with the majority being female (>63%), with a mean age below 40 
years and high BMI (>32). The majority of subjects were white (>76% in study 313 and >83% in study 810). 
There were more black subjects in study 313 vs. study 810 (20% vs. 9%). The numbers of subjects using 
nicotine and alcohol were rather high. 
Concerning baseline disease characteristics, the percentages with Hurley stage II or III were about equal, 
around one fourth had a family history of HS, the mean AN count was about 14 in study 313 and 11 in study 
810. The mean number of draining fistulas was also slightly higher in study 313 vs. study 810 (4.2 vs. 3.4) 
and so was the mean modified Sartorius score (149 vs. 115).  
In accordance with the inclusion criteria, all subjects (or nearly all in Study M11-810) reported prior 
antibiotic use for treatment of HS, doxycycline and clindamycin being most common and the majority of 
subjects discontinued use due to inadequate response (overall about 80%). Definitions were included in the 
study protocols to define inadequate response and intolerance to oral antibiotics.  
In study M11-810, the number of subjects treated with stable doses of allowed oral antibiotics (doxycycline 
and minocycline) was 63 (19%), 32 in the placebo group and 31 in the adalimumab group.  
No subjects were excluded in the primary ITT analyses (period A) and almost all subjects (94%) irrespective 
of study, continued to and were included in the ITT population in Period B. The low drop-out rate in period 
A contributed to a small difference between the ITT population and PP population (period A). Primary and 
secondary analyses were repeated based on the PP_A population, but considering the small difference 
between the ITT_A and the PP_A, these did generally not offer any meaningful comparisons with the 
analyses based on the ITT_A population.  
Results Period A 
The primary end-point, HiSCR (the proportion of subjects achieving HiSCR, defined as at least a 50% 
reduction in AN count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count relative to 
Baseline) at Week 12, was met in both studies. The size of the effect differed between the two studies, 
though, with differences between adalimumab and placebo of 16% in study M11-313 and 31.5% in study 
M11-810, respectively. Baseline Hurley stage and baseline concomitant antibiotic use (Study M11-810 only) 
were stratification factors in the Period A randomization for both studies. A significantly higher HiSCR rate in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 86/124 
 
  
  
the adalimumab ew group compared to the placebo group was observed in eachstratum and at each vist in 
Period A. The treatment difference between adalimumab and placebo were greater among subjects with 
Hurley Stage III than those with Hurley Stage II and among subjects who received concomitant antibiotics 
compared to those who did not. 
In the integrated ITT_A Population for both studies combined, 51% of subjects in the adalimumab group 
achieved HiSCR at Week 12 compared to 27% of subjects in the placebo group (P < 0.001). 
For the three, ranked secondary end-points (proportion of subjects who achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 in 
Hurley Stage II subjects; pain reduction assessed by NRS30 in subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 3 and 
Change in modified Sartorius score; all assessed at week 12), Study M11-810 met all these endpoints with 
statistically significant differences between adalimumab 40 mg ew and placebo. In contrast, none of these 
end-points achieved statistical significance in Study M11-313. All outcomes in Study M11-313 were, 
however, numerically in favour of adalimumab ew, although borderline regarding the first endpoint, AN 
count of 0, 1, or 2 in Hurley stage II subjects (the difference in the point estimate for adalimumab versus 
placebo was <1%). Post-hoc analyses for these end-points performed on data from the phase 2 Study 
M10-467 showed statistically significant differences between adalimumab ew and placebo, in favour of 
adalimumab.  
The MAH has discussed possible reasons for the failure to achieve statistical significance for the ranked 
secondary end-points in study M11-313. Some between-study differences in baseline characteristics can be 
noted, e.g. in body weight (mean weight was higher, 98 kg, in; Study M11-313 compared with 93 kg in 
Study M11-810) and weight was a significant covariate for CL/F for adalimumab in HS patients, with higher 
CL/F in heavy subjects.  
Factors indicating HS severity also differed between studies (higher mean draining fistula count, higher 
mean AN count, slightly worse mean pain score in Study, higher mean modified Sartorius score and higher 
mean DLQI score in Study in Study M11-313 compared with Study M11-810).  The percentage of black 
subjects was higher in Study M11-313 compared with Study M11-810 (20% vs. 9%). The percentage of 
current smokers was lower in Study M11-313 (56%) compared with Study M11-810 (66%). Similar to 
obesity, smoking is considered another risk factor for HS. However, for this factor the number of smokers 
was overall lower in study M11-313, and thus, this does not seem to be a factor explaining the poorer 
efficacy outcome in this study compared with study M11-810.  
The primary efficacy end-point in this study (HiSCR), was, however, statistically significant and the study 
may not be regarded as a failed study in this respect even if the effect size was smaller in this study 
compared with Study M11-810. 
A large number of other secondary efficacy variables were assessed. With respect to lesion counts, the 
percent change from baseline in different lesion counts at Week 12 showed decreases in the range 10 to 
55% for adalimumab ew vs. maximally 25% decreases for placebo across the two studies. A small number 
of subjects (10% in study M11-313 and 15% in M11-810) achieved complete elimination of AN (AN = 0) with 
adalimumab ew treatment.  
For the assessment of representative HS lesions, the mean reduction from Baseline in the Patient's lesion 
Severity Score and the degree of in erythema and tenderness, were greater for subjects in the adalimumab 
ew group than for subjects in the placebo group in both studies. In Study M11-313, adalimumab showed no 
effect on lesion size vs. placebo. 
Risk of flare was assessed, defined as at least a 25% increase in AN count with a minimum increase of 2 
relative to Baseline. In both studies, the risk of flare was lower at all visits during Period A for subjects 
randomized to adalimumab ew than for subjects randomized to placebo (NRI).  At least 1 occurrence of flare 
was experienced by 11% (Study M11-810) and 14% (Study M11-313) of subjects in the adalimumab ew 
group and approximately 35% of subjects in the placebo group (P < 0.001, in both studies). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 87/124 
 
  
  
Several different Quality of Life scales were used in the pivotal studies, with DLQI (a validated QoL score 
used in other dermatological conditions) and TSQM (Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication) 
being used in both studies and results are presented for the integrated ITT_A Population. 
Adalimumab ew subjects had greater improvement in DLQI, compared to placebo-treated subjects, as 
measured by mean change in DLQI, from Baseline to Week 12 (P ≤ 0.05). Among subjects with a baseline 
DLQI ≥ 5, a higher proportion of adalimumab ew subjects than placebo subjects (50% vs. 34%) achieved the 
MCID, defined as a decrease of ≥ 5.0 points at Week 12 (NRI; P < 0.001). 
TSQM scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better treatment satisfaction. Subjects in the 
adalimumab ew group had greater increases in overall treatment satisfaction and effectiveness than 
subjects in the placebo group at Week 12 (P ≤ 0.05) (Table 28). Satisfaction with the side effects and 
convenience were similar between the placebo and treatment groups. 
Results Period B 
Analyses were performed for HiSCR at different time points up to week 36 for different populations, defined 
on the basis of the outcome at the end of Part A in the pivotal studies, e.g. responders, non-responders 
(separately and combined) and a post-hoc defined population (ITT_B_PRR Population) defined as HiSCR 
responders and partial responders achieving AN25 (a ≥ 25% reduction in AN count relative to baseline) at 
week 12. 
Regardless of the population analysed, the HiSCR rates decreased over time in all treatment groups. 
However, as pointed out by the MAH, this may in part be explained by the study design, since any subject 
who experienced loss of response (LOR), worsening or absence of improvement (WOAI) during Period B was 
discontinued from the study, counted as a non-responder in Period B and then went to Study M12-555. Thus, 
these subjects did not have the opportunity to demonstrate if they could have regained HiSCR in a 
subsequent visit during Period B. Even if the overall HiSCR rates decreased over time (for reasons outlined 
above), the response rates at weeks 24 and 36 were highest with the ew/ew treatment in all analysis 
populations. Although acknowledged that almost all discontinuations were “by design” the Applicant was 
asked for an analysis of time to LOR/WOAI based on all subjects re-randomised to period B and, irrespective 
of responders status at week 12 (i.e. the ITT-B population) to further illustrate the time point for 
discontinuations in each randomised treatment group. In the MAH´s response, additional analyses of time to 
LOR/WOAI have been provided clarifying also time to discontinuations as per IXRS instruction due to loss of 
response (LOR)/worsening or absence of improvement (WOAI). As clear from previously reported data, the 
proportion of subjects who experienced LOR/WOAI was lowest in the adalimumab ew/ew group as compared 
to the adalimumab ew/placebo and adalimumab ew/eow groups. The difference between ew/ew and ew/eow 
was numerically in favour of ew/ew but provide no clear evidence in support of ew/ew over ew/eow. 
In Study M11-810, the ITT_B_PBO Population included subjects who were randomized to placebo in Period 
A and continued on placebo in Period B, thus, this group had a very long duration of placebo treatment. 
Subjects in the ITT_B_PBO Population in Period B showed a low level HiSCR rate that decreased from Week 
12 (29%) to Week 36 (16%) (NRI). 
In the post-hoc analyses of the sub-group of AN25 responders (partial responders), it was found that among 
the group of HiSCR non-responders, this sub-group was able to reach HiSCR, in particular with adalimumab 
40 mg ew/ew. Based on this, the MAH considers the statement in the SmPC section 4.2. that “Continued 
therapy beyond 12 weeks is recommended except in those patients without any improvement for whom 
continued therapy should be reconsidered” to be supported. This wording was revised in the final SmPC and 
was found acceptable to the CHMP. 
Overall the CHMP considered that the available data were sufficient to support the dosing regimen of 160 mg 
initially at Day 1, followed by 80 mg two weeks later at Day 15 and to continue with a dose of 40 mg every 
week from Day 29 onwards.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 88/124 
 
  
  
2.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The application for Humira in the indication Hidradenitis suppurativa is supported by two adequately 
designed and performed phase 3 studies performed in subjects with moderate to severe HS. 
The primary end-point, HiSCR, was met in both studies, albeit with some differences in the size of the effect 
of adalimumab vs. placebo between the studies. For the three, ranked secondary end-points, Study 
M11-810 met all these endpoints with statistically significant differences between adalimumab 40 mg ew 
and placebo. In contrast, none of these end-points achieved statistical significance in Study M11-313, 
however, all outcomes except one were numerically in favour of adalimumab ew.  
Outcomes related to patient-reported Quality of Life showed an effect of adalimumab vs. placebo for both 
DLQI and TSQM. 
For inclusion in the pivotal studies, patients were required to have had insufficient response or intolerance to 
oral antibiotics. It is acknowledged that no other medicinal product is currently approved for the treatment 
of HS (including oral antibiotics) and most of the therapies commonly used in HS today have not 
demonstrated in a clinical trial setting, evidence of efficacy. However, adalimumab is a TNF alfa-blocker with 
a well-known and not entirely benign safety profile.  Therefore, the initially proposed indication by the MAH, 
for Humira as a first-line treatment for HS, was not considered acceptable.  
Instead, the CHMP requested that Humira should be indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe 
hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in adult patients with an inadequate response to conventional 
systemic HS therapy. 
In addition, given the biological mechanism of action of adalimumab and the specific patient characteristics 
in the HS trials, which had a higher prevalence of inflammatory nodules compared to abscesses, the CHMP 
also requested that the prevention of abscesses and fistulae should not be included in the indication of 
Humira. The applicant agreed to amend the indication in line with the CHMP proposal and reference to claims 
related to worsening of abscesses and draining fistulae were removed. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
Up to 29 April 2014, 727 subjects with HS (635.7 patient years [PYs]) had been exposed to at least 1 dose 
of adalimumab with 576 subjects exposed for more than 6 months and 336 subjects exposed for more than 
1 year in the HS clinical program. 
Patient exposure 
Four analysis sets were used for the integrated safety analyses as summarized in Table . 
Table 58. Definition of Analysis Sets 
Analysis Sets 
Placebo-Controlled 
Analysis Seta 
Studies 
Included  Study Population 
M10-467  
M11-313 
M11-810 
All subjects who received 
at least 1 dose of study 
drug (adalimumab or 
placebo) in Period A of 
Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, or M11-313. 
Treatment Groups and 
Treatment Group 
Comparisons 
Treatment Groups: 
•  Adalimumab ew 
•  Adalimumab eow 
•  Adalimumab total 
(adalimumab ew and eow 
combined)b 
•  Placebo 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 89/124 
 
  
  
Pairwise Comparisons: 
•  Adalimumab ew versus 
placebo 
•  Adalimumab total versus 
placebo 
Treatment Groups: 
•  Adalimumab ew in Period B 
following adalimumab ew in 
Period A (adalimumab 
ew/ew) 
•  Adalimumab eow in Period B 
following adalimumab ew in 
Period A (adalimumab 
ew/eow) 
•  Placebo in Period B following 
adalimumab ew in Period A 
(adalimumab ew/placebo) 
Pairwise Comparisons: 
•  Adalimumab ew/ew versus 
adalimumab ew/eow 
•  Adalimumab ew/eow versus 
adalimumab ew/placebo 
•  Adalimumab ew/ew versus 
adalimumab ew/placebo 
Adalimumab ew 
Adalimumab 
Maintenance 
Analysis Set 
M11-313 
M11-810 
All subjects from Period A 
adalimumab ew group 
who received at least 1 
dose of study drug in 
Period B of Studies 
M11-810 or M11-313. 
Subgroups include: 
•  HiSCR responders at 
the entry of Period B 
•  HiSCR 
nonresponders at 
the entry of Period B 
•  Subjects who 
achieved AN25 at 
entry of Period B 
All Adalimumab ew 
Analysis Setc 
All Adalimumab 
Analysis Set 
M10-467 
M11-313 
M11-810 
M12-555 
M10-467 
M11-313 
M11-810 
M12-555 
All subjects who received 
at least 1 dose of 
adalimumab ew in 
Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, M11-313, or 
M12-555. 
All subjects who received 
at least 1 dose of 
adalimumab ew or eow in 
Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, M11-313, or 
M12-555. 
AN25 = 25% reduction in total abscess and inflammatory nodule count; eow = every other week; ew = every week; HiSCR = hidradenitis 
suppurativa clinical response 
Analyses were also conducted using only the subjects from the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, Studies M11-810 and M11-313 (called 
the Phase 3 Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set). The summaries for these Phase 3 placebo-controlled analyses include 
treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) overview, TEAE by system organ class (SOC) and preferred term (PT), 
treatment-emergent serious adverse event (TESAE) by SOC and PT, infections by SOC and PT, and serious infections by SOC and PT. 
The adalimumab ew or eow (adalimumab) treatment group described in the ISS SAP is referred to as "adalimumab total" to clarify that this 
treatment group contained both the adalimumab ew and eow groups. 
In order to assess the safety of continuous adalimumab ew treatment, analyses also were conducted (using 
the All Adalimumab ew Analysis Set – Continuous Adalimumab ew) and included only those periods where 
adalimumab treatment was continuous. The summaries for continuous adalimumab ew treatment include 
TEAE overview, treatment-emergent adverse events of special interest (AESI) overview, and TEAE by SOC 
and PT. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 90/124 
 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set allows for assessment of the short-term safety profiles for 
adalimumab ew, eow, and total (ew and eow combined) treatments, as compared to placebo, 
and is based on the DB data from Period A of the Phase 2 study, (first 16 weeks) and Period A of 
the Phase 3 studies, (first 12 weeks) with focus on the comparison between the adalimumab ew 
and total groups versus the placebo group. 
The Maintenance Analysis Set allows for an assessment of the safety profiles for continuous 
adalimumab ew treatment (i.e., adalimumab ew in both Period A and Period B) and step-down 
dosing to adalimumab eow (i.e., adalimumab ew in Period A and adalimumab eow in Period B), 
as compared to withdrawal from adalimumab ew treatment (i.e., adalimumab ew in Period A and 
placebo in Period B), is based on the DB data from Period B of the Phase 3 studies M11-810 and 
M11-313. 
The All Adalimumab ew Analysis Set allows for an assessment of the safety profile for 
adalimumab ew treatment that is based on all adalimumab ew exposure across all four studies 
(M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555). 
The All Adalimumab Analysis Set allows for an assessment of safety data that is based on all 
subjects exposed to adalimumab ew and eow in all studies. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, a total of 727 subjects with HS received at least 1 dose of adalimumab 
as of 29 April 2014, with a cumulative exposure of 635.7 PYs. The exposure data are summarized in the table 
below.   
Table 59. Study Drug Exposure for Studies M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 Through 
29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab Analysis Set) 
Duration of Exposure (Days) 
1 
183 (6 months) 
365 (12 months) 
548 (18 months) 
730 (24 months) 
Adalimumab 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
727 (100) 
549 (75.5) 
281 (38.7) 
69 (9.5) 
12 (1.7) 
Note: 
For each subject, the total duration of adalimumab exposure is the sum of the duration of exposure to adalimumab for each 
phase/study. For a phase/study, duration is defined as the last dose date – first dose date + 14, however, if a subject continues 
to the next phase/study and the last dose date of the current phase/study + 14 is greater than the first dose date of the next 
phase/study, then the duration of the current phase/study is defined as the first dose date of the next phase/study – first dose 
date of current phase/study. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 2014 is used if a subject is still ongoing in a study. 
Duration for more than 14 days during a protocol-defined gap or during a gap between studies is excluded. Includes Studies 
M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555. 
Demographic Characteristics 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, the majority of subjects were female (67%), white (80%), <40 years of 
age (64%), and had a BMI ≥30 kg/m2. Of note, the majority of subjects were either current users or 
ex-users of nicotine (60% and 14%, respectively). A similar profile of demographics was observed for the 
other analysis sets.   
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, statistically significant differences among treatment groups were 
observed for mean BMI (p= 0.009) and BMI category (p= 0.031). Mean BMI was highest in the adalimumab 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 91/124 
 
 
 
  
  
eow group and there were more subjects in the adalimumab eow group that were morbidly obese, as 
compared to the other treatment groups.   
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, statistically significant differences among treatment groups were observed 
for race (p= 0.016) and race category (p= 0.016). No other statistically significant differences among 
treatment groups were observed with respect to demographic characteristics. There were no clinically 
meaningful differences among treatment groups in the Placebo-Controlled or Maintenance Analysis Sets that 
would have influenced the safety conclusions. 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, baseline disease characteristics data were representative of a 
population with moderate to severe HS. The mean duration of HS was approximately 11.6 years. Most 
subjects had Hurley Stage II or III HS (53% Hurley Stage II and 44% Stage III). The majority of subjects did 
not have a family history of HS and did not have prior surgery for HS (75% and 87% for the All Adalimumab 
Analysis Set).   
Study M10-467 was the only study which evaluated adalimumab eow dosing in the initial placebo-controlled 
phase and enrolled subjects with Hurley Stage I, II, or III disease; Studies M11-810 and M11-313 enrolled 
mostly subjects with Hurley Stage II or III disease. The baseline disease characteristics were generally 
balanced between the treatment groups. A similar profile of baseline characteristics was observed for the 
other analysis sets. 
Medical History 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, hypertension (19%) and depression (17%) were the most commonly 
reported conditions/diagnoses during medical history data collection. A small percentage of subjects in the 
All Adalimumab Analysis Set had a medical history of ischemic cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction 
[0.7%] and transient ischemic attack [0.7%]) and 2.2% of subjects had a history of psoriasis.  
Prior and Concomitant HS Medication Use 
Of the subjects who reported prior antibiotic use across analysis sets, the majority discontinued use of their 
prior antibiotics because of inadequate response. Subjects from the Phase II dose-ranging study, Study 
M10-467, are not included in this analysis because only antibiotic categories (not antibiotic generic names) 
were collected in the study. 
Continuation of permitted baseline oral antibiotic use for treatment of HS was allowed in Study M11-810, 
provided the dosing regimen had been stable for at least 4 consecutive weeks prior to Baseline. The dosing 
regimen was to remain stable throughout study participation. Across analysis sets, the most commonly used 
concomitant medications were chlorhexidine and ibuprofen (36% and 33% for the All Adalimumab Analysis 
Set). 
In the Phase 3 studies, subjects must have agreed to daily use (throughout the entirety of the study) of 1 of 
the following over-the-counter topical antiseptics on their body areas affected with HS lesions:  
chlorhexidine gluconate, triclosan, benzoyl peroxide, or dilute bleach in bathwater. 
Adverse events 
A TEAE was defined as an event with onset or worsening after the first study drug injection and within 70 
days after the last study drug injection. AEs that occurred on the same day of the first study drug injection 
were considered as TEAEs. 
Placebo-Controlled Initial Treatment (Period A; Weeks 0 to 12) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 92/124 
 
  
  
Safety data from the initial DB period of Phase 2 Study M10-467 (first 16 weeks) and Period A of Phase 3 
Studies M11-810 and M11-313 (first 12 weeks) are shown in Table . Data from the individual studies are 
consistent, and thus, integrated data are presented. 
The percentages of subjects reporting AEs were comparable between the placebo and total adalimumab 
(eow and ew) groups during the placebo-controlled period of the Phase 2 and 3 studies. Similar percentages 
of subjects in the placebo and total adalimumab groups reported AEs that were considered by the 
investigator to be possibly or probably related to study drug and severe AEs. 
Table 60. Overview of Adverse Events in Studies M10-467, M11-810, and M11-313 
(Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set) 
Adalimumab 
Placebo  
N = 366 
n (%) 
eow  
N = 52 
n (%) 
ew  
N = 367 
n (%) 
Total 
N = 419 
n (%) 
233 (63.7) 
33 (63.5) 
211 (57.5) 
244 (58.2) 
13 (3.6) 
10 (2.7) 
3 (5.8) 
2 (3.8) 
10 (2.7) 
13 (3.1) 
7 (1.9) 
9 (2.1) 
Any AE 
Any SAE 
Any AE leading to 
discontinuation of study drug 
Any severe AE 
24 (6.6) 
4 (7.7) 
20 (5.4) 
24 (5.7) 
Any AE at least possibly related 
to study druga 
Any SAE at least possibly related 
to study druga 
99 (27.0) 
16 (30.8) 
106 (28.9) 
122 (29.1) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (1.9) 
3 (0.8) 
4 (1.0) 
Any infection 
114 (31.1) 
22 (42.3) 
96 (26.2) 
118 (28.2) 
Any serious infection 
Any malignancy (excluding 
lymphoma, HSTCL, leukemia, 
NMSC, and melanoma) 
a. 
As assessed by investigator. 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (1.9) 
0 
3 (0.8) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
Note: 
Treatment-emergent AE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and 
up to the last dose of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier.  
SAEs were experienced by similar proportions of subjects in the total adalimumab and placebo groups. Two 
(0.5%) subjects in the placebo group had SAEs of suicide attempt, and 7 subjects (2 [0.5%] subjects in the 
total adalimumab group and 5 [1.4%] subjects in the placebo group) had SAEs of hidradenitis (i.e., 
worsening of HS); all other SAEs were reported by at most 1 subject each. 
AEs led to study drug discontinuation in 2.1% and 2.7% of subjects in the total adalimumab and placebo 
groups, respectively. Hidradenitis led to discontinuation for 3 (0.7%) adalimumab-treated subjects and 2 
(0.5%) placebo-treated subjects. 
Serious infections were reported by 4 (1.0%) adalimumab-treated subjects (3 treated with ew and 1 treated 
with eow) and 2 (0.5%) placebo-treated subjects. 
Placebo-Controlled Maintenance Treatment (Period B; Weeks 12 to 36) 
Comparison of the safety data from subjects treated with continuous adalimumab ew (adalimumab ew in 
both Period A and B, referred to as ew/ew group), dose reduction to adalimumab eow (adalimumab ew in 
Period A and adalimumab eow in Period B, referred to as ew/eow group), or treatment withdrawal from 
adalimumab ew (adalimumab ew in Period A and placebo in Period B, referred to as ew/pbo group) revealed 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 93/124 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
few differences in the safety profiles for the different regimens. Overall, the safety profiles were comparable 
for the adalimumab ew and adalimumab eow groups. 
Table 61. Overview of Number and Percentage of Subjects with TEAEs for Studies M11-810 and 
M11-313 (Maintenance Analysis Set) 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; HSTCL = hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma; NMSC = nonmelanoma skin cancer; PYs = patient 
years; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event; TB = tuberculosis; TESAE = treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
f. 
As assessed by investigator. 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. Any AE with an unknown 
relationship was considered as study drug-related and any AE with an unknown severity was considered as severe. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 94/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 7. Overview of Number and Percentage of Subjects with TEAEs for Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 Through 29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab Analysis Set) 
Category 
Any TEAE 
Any TESAE 
Any TEAE leading to discontinuation of study 
drug 
Any severe TEAE 
Any TEAE at least possibly related to study 
druga 
Any TESAE at least possibly related to study 
druga 
Any infection 
Any serious infection 
Any opportunistic infection (excluding oral 
candidiasis and TB) 
Any TB (active or latent) 
Any lymphoma 
Any NMSC 
Any malignancy (excluding lymphoma, 
HSTCL, leukemia, NMSC, and melanoma) 
Any demyelinating disorder 
Any TEAE leading to death 
Deaths 
Adalimumab 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
572 (78.7) 
78 (10.7) 
70 (9.6) 
107 (14.7) 
322 (44.3) 
(PYs = 635.7) 
Events (E/100 
PYs) 
2975 (468.0) 
115 (18.1) 
84 (13.2) 
169 (26.6) 
958 (150.7) 
20 (2.8) 
26 (4.1) 
377 (51.9) 
789 (124.1) 
21 (2.9) 
1 (0.1) 
3 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
3 (0.4) 
0 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
25 (3.9) 
1 (0.2) 
3 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
3 (0.5) 
0 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
HSTCL = hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma; NMSC = nonmelanoma skin cancer; PYs = patient years; TB = tuberculosis; TEAE = 
treatment-emergent adverse event; TESAE = treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
a             As assessed by investigator. 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first adalimumab dose and up to 70 days after the last dose 
of adalimumab. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 2014 is used if a subject is still ongoing in Study M12-555.  AEs with 
an onset date more than 70 days during a protocol-defined placebo gap or during a gap between studies are excluded.  Any AE 
with an unknown relationship was considered as study drug-related and any AE with an unknown severity was considered as 
severe. 
Common adverse events 
A summary of AEs reported by ≥ 2% of subjects in the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set is presented in Table 
63. The most frequently reported TEAEs for the adalimumab total and placebo groups were headache, 
hidradenitis, and nasopharyngitis. The percentage of subjects who reported headache was higher in the 
adalimumab total group than in the placebo group (11.9% versus 10.4%). The percentages of subjects who 
reported hidradenitis and nasopharyngitis were lower in the adalimumab total group than in the placebo 
group (7.6% versus 12.8% for hidradenitis and 7.4% versus 8.7% for nasopharyngitis). The percentage of 
subjects who reported serious events of hidradenitis was lower in the adalimumab total group than in the 
placebo group (0.5% versus 1.4%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 95/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 8. TEAEs Reported in ≥ 2% of Subjects in Any Treatment Group in Order of Decreasing 
Frequency in the Adalimumab Total Group for Studies M10-467, M11-810, and M11-313 
(Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set) 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; MedDRA = Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities; PT = preferred term; PYs = patient 
years; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. 
A summary of AEs reported by ≥ 2% of subjects in the Maintenance Analysis Set is presented in Table 64. 
The most frequently reported TEAEs in the adalimumab ew/ew and ew/placebo groups were headache, 
nasopharyngitis, hidradenitis, and upper respiratory tract infection. The most frequently reported TEAEs in 
the adalimumab ew/eow group were hidradenitis, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and pyrexia. 
The percentage of subjects who reported hidradenitis was significantly lower in the adalimumab ew/ew 
group, as compared to the adalimumab ew/eow and ew/placebo groups (P = 0.007 and P = 0.002, 
respectively).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 96/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 9. TEAEs Reported in ≥ 2% of Subjects in Any Treatment Group in Order of Decreasing 
Frequency in the Adalimumab ew/ew Group for Studies M11-810 and M11-313 (Maintenance 
Analysis Set) 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; PT = preferred term; PYs = patient years; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 97/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 10. TEAEs Reported in ≥ 2% of Subjects in Order of Decreasing Frequency for Studies 
M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 Through 29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab Analysis 
Set) 
MedDRA PT 
Any TEAE 
Hidradenitis 
Nasopharyngitis 
Headache 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Nausea 
Urinary tract infection 
Arthralgia 
Diarrhoea 
Influenza 
Back pain 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Sinusitis 
Cough 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Dizziness 
Vomiting 
Bronchitis 
Folliculitis 
Hypertension 
Anaemia 
Gastroenteritis 
Pruritus 
Cellulitis 
Injection site erythema 
Myalgia 
Tonsillitis 
Toothache 
Adalimumab 
(PYs = 635.7) 
Events (E/100 PYs) 
2975 (468.0) 
215 (33.8) 
151 (23.8) 
175 (27.5) 
103 (16.2) 
42 (6.6) 
43 (6.8) 
40 (6.3) 
38 (6.0) 
43 (6.8) 
35 (5.5) 
35 (5.5) 
42 (6.6) 
35 (5.5) 
29 (4.6) 
32 (5.0) 
29 (4.6) 
23 (3.6) 
25 (3.9) 
25 (3.9) 
22 (3.5) 
22 (3.5) 
26 (4.1) 
21 (3.3) 
20 (3.1) 
35 (5.5) 
19 (3.0) 
17 (2.7) 
18 (2.8) 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
572 (78.7) 
153 (21.0) 
104 (14.3) 
97 (13.3) 
77 (10.6) 
38 (5.2) 
37 (5.1) 
36 (5.0) 
35 (4.8) 
34 (4.7) 
31 (4.3) 
31 (4.3) 
30 (4.1) 
30 (4.1) 
27 (3.7) 
25 (3.4) 
23 (3.2) 
23 (3.2) 
22 (3.0) 
21 (2.9) 
21 (2.9) 
19 (2.6) 
19 (2.6) 
19 (2.6) 
18 (2.5) 
18 (2.5) 
17 (2.3) 
15 (2.1) 
15 (2.1) 
MedDRA = Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities; PT = preferred term; PYs = patient years; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse 
event 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first adalimumab dose and up to 70 days after the last dose 
of adalimumab. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 2014 is used if a subject is still ongoing in Study M12-555. AEs with 
an onset date more than 70 days during a protocol-defined placebo gap or during a gap between studies are excluded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 98/124 
 
 
  
  
AESI (Adverse Events of Special Interest) 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, the most frequently reported AESI in both the adalimumab total and 
placebo groups were injection site reaction, allergic reaction (most were events of urticaria and pruritus 
generalized; 1 event of drug sensitivity), and hematologic disorder (most events were anemia; 2 events of 
neutropenia were reported by subjects receiving placebo).   
Two subjects in the adalimumab total group had events of infection (infection and pyelonephritis) that were 
serious and considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug; no subjects in the 
placebo group reported serious infection at least possibly related to study drug.  
Two subjects in the placebo group reported worsening or new onset of psoriasis, as compared to no subjects 
in the adalimumab total group.   
Table 11. Overview of Number and Percentage of Subjects with Treatment-Emergent AESI for 
Studies M10-467, M11-810, and M11-313 (Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set) 
AE = adverse event; AESI = adverse event of special interest; eow = every other week; ew = every week; PYs = patient years; TEAE = 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
Note: TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. AEs with unknown severity are counted 
as severe. AEs with unknown relationship to study drug are counted as study drug-related. 
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, the most frequently reported AESI were allergic reaction (1 event of drug 
hypersensitivity), hematologic disorder (anemia), and worsening/new onset psoriasis. Three subjects in the 
adalimumab ew/eow group, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/ew and 2 subjects in the adalimumab 
ew/placebo group reported allergic reaction related AEs.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 99/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Three subjects in the adalimumab ew/ew group, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/eow, and 1 subject in the 
adalimumab ew/placebo group reported worsening or new onset of psoriasis.  
Of the subjects who reported AESI that were serious and considered by the investigator as at least possibly 
related to study drug, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/ew group reported a treatment-emergent serious 
infection (severe pneumonia). In addition, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/eow group experienced a 
malignancy (squamous cell carcinoma located on the right nasal slope).  
Table 67. Overview of Number and Percentage of Subjects with Treatment-Emergent AESI for 
Studies M11-810 and M11-313 (Maintenance Analysis Set) 
AE = adverse event; AESI = adverse event of special interest; eow = every other week; ew = every week; PYs = patient years; TEAE = 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
a As assessed by investigator. 
Note: TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. AEs with unknown severity are counted 
as severe. AEs with unknown relationship to study drug are counted as study drug-related. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, the most frequently reported AESI were injection site reaction, allergic 
reaction (1 event of drug hypersensitivity), worsening/new onset psoriasis, and hematologic disorders 
(mainly anemia; 2 subjects each reported events of neutropenia and lymphopenia). All other AESI were 
reported in <1% of subjects each.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 100/124 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 68. Overview of Number and Percentage of Subjects with Treatment-Emergent AESI for 
Studies M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 Through 29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab 
Analysis Set) 
Category 
Any diverticulitis 
Any oral candidiasis 
Any latent TB 
Any parasitic infection 
Any malignancy 
Any allergic reaction including angioedema/anaphylaxis 
Any lupus-like reactions and SLE 
Any MI 
Any CVA 
Any CHF 
Any pulmonary embolism 
Any ILD 
Any erythema multiforme 
Any worsening/new onset of psoriasis 
Any hematologic disorders including pancytopenia 
Any liver failure and other liver event 
Any injection site reaction 
Adalimumab 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
(PYs = 635.7) 
Events (E/100 PYs) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
5 (0.7) 
27 (3.7) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
23 (3.2) 
22 (3.0) 
3 (0.4) 
54 (7.4) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (0.5) 
3 (0.5) 
3 (0.5) 
5 (0.8) 
35 (5.5) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
27 (4.2) 
26 (4.1) 
3 (0.5) 
107 (16.8) 
AESI = adverse event of special interest; CHF = congestive heart failure; CVA = cerebrovascular accident; ILD = interstitial lung disease; 
MI = myocardial infarction; PYs = patient years; SLE = systemic lupus erythematosus; TB = tuberculosis 
Note: 
Treatment-emergent AESI is defined as any adverse event of special interest with an onset date on or after the first adalimumab 
dose and up to 70 days after the last dose of adalimumab. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 2014 is used if a subject 
is still ongoing in Study M12-555. AESI with an onset date more than 70 days during a protocol-defined placebo gap or during a 
gap between studies are excluded. 
Subjects who reported AESI that were serious and considered by the investigator as at least possibly related 
to study drug included 10 subjects who reported serious infections (purulent discharge/rash pustular, 
cellulitis, pneumonia chlamydial, pneumonia, septic shock, pyelonephritis, infection, sepsis, pneumonia 
viral) and 1 subject each who reported events of malignancy (seminoma), acute MI, pustular psoriasis, and 
anaemia.  
No subjects reported events in the following AESI categories: legionella infection, active TB, reactivation of 
hepatitis B, PML, HSTCL, melanoma, leukaemia, vasculitis (cutaneous and non-cutaneous), sarcoidosis, 
intestinal perforation, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, ALS, RPLS, and adalimumab administration-related 
medication errors. 
Infections 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 28% and 31% of subjects in the adalimumab total and placebo 
groups, respectively, reported treatment-emergent infections. Overall, the most frequently reported 
treatment-emergent infections were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract 
infection, and bronchitis. Of the subjects who reported treatment-emergent infections, 40% in both the 
adalimumab total group and the placebo group reported events that were considered at least possibly 
related to study drug. Of the subjects who reported treatment-emergent infections, 8 of 118 subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 101/124 
 
 
  
  
(6.8%) in the adalimumab total group and 7 of 114 subjects (6.1%) in the placebo group reported severe 
events. 
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, 32% of subjects in the adalimumab ew/ew group, 31% of subjects in the 
adalimumab ew/eow group, and 29% of subjects in the adalimumab ew/placebo group reported 
treatment-emergent infections. Of the subjects who reported treatment emergent infections, 12 of 32 
subjects (37.5%) in the adalimumab ew/ew group, 7 of 31 subjects (22.6%) in the adalimumab ew/eow 
group, and 11 of 29 subjects (37.9%) in the adalimumab ew/placebo group reported events that were 
considered at least possibly related to study drug. Three subjects in the adalimumab ew/ew group reported 
severe treatment-emergent infections (nasopharyngitis, otitis externa, and pneumonia). No subjects in the 
two other groups reported severe treatment emergent infections. 
In the All Adalimumab ew Analysis Set, 47% of subjects reported treatment-emergent infections; 134 of 324 
subjects (41.4%) reported events that were considered at least possibly related to study drug and 24 of 324 
subjects (7.4%) reported severe infections. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 52% of subjects reported treatment-emergent infections, the most 
frequent being nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and urinary tract infection. 158 of 377 
subjects (42%) reported events that were considered at least possibly related to study drug and 27 of 377 
subjects (7.2%) reported severe events. 
Serious Infections 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 1.9% of subjects in the adalimumab eow group, 0.8% of subjects in 
the adalimumab ew group, 1.0% of subjects in the adalimumab total group, and 0.5% of subjects in the 
placebo group reported treatment-emergent serious infections. Serious infections considered at least 
possibly related to study drug were reported in 2 subjects in the adalimumab total group. Serious 
treatment-emergent infections that were also severe included infection, pilonidal cyst, and pyelonephritis in 
the adalimumab total group and gastroenteritis and viral infection in the placebo group. 
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/ew group reported a treatment-emergent 
serious infection that was also severe (pneumonia) and which was considered by the investigator as 
probably related to study drug. The pneumonia led to interruption of study drug.  
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 2.9% of subjects reported treatment-emergent serious infections. 10 of 
21 subjects (48%) reported events that were considered at least possibly related to study drug and 18 of 21 
subjects (86%) reported severe events. 
Skin and Soft Tissue Serious Infections 
Events of serious infection were adjudicated post-hoc (after blind break) to identify which were potentially 
skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs). SSTIs were defined as microbial invasion of the epidermis, dermis, 
and/or subcutaneous tissues accompanied by signs and symptoms of inflammation. These SAEs included all 
SAEs of hidradenitis because they were reported as serious infections. Medical history potentially relevant to 
the development of the SSTI (i.e., history of other conditions associated with increased risk of infection or 
history of previously documented skin infections) was noted. 
Events were adjudicated as SSTIs based on clinical judgement, e.g. related to findings like rapid onset of 
symptoms, presence of systemic manifestations of infection (e.g. fever and chills), the culture of a 
predominant pathogenic organism from purulent drainage or blood, laboratory data (leukocytosis, 
bandemia, rises in C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate) and clear improvement with 
antibacterial treatment. For areas of skin not affected by underlying HS disease, new onset of localized 
warmth, erythema, and tenderness of the skin also was considered as suggestive of infection. Since the 
adjudications were done retrospectively, limitations exist in regards to varying levels of event detail as well 
as inherent challenges in assessing the role of infection in the context of baseline inflammation in the case 
of areas of skin affected by HS. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 102/124 
 
  
  
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 12 SAEs were reviewed, 8 of which were adjudicated as SSTIs. One 
SAE was adjudicated as not being a SSTI and, for 3 SAEs (all occurred in subjects receiving placebo), there 
was insufficient information to adjudicate the events. The SAEs that were determined to be SSTIs included 
1 event each of Escherichia infection and genital infection bacterial in the same subject who had a history of 
infection and who was receiving adalimumab; 1 event of pilonidal cyst in a subject with a history of pilonidal 
cyst and who was receiving adalimumab; and 5 events of hidradenitis, 1 of which occurred in a subject who 
had a history of diabetes. Three SAEs of hidradenitis occurred in 2 subjects receiving placebo and 2 SAEs of 
hidradenitis occurred in 2 subjects receiving adalimumab. One of the subjects receiving adalimumab 
discontinued from study drug because of the event of hidradenitis. All events of hidradenitis, except 1, were 
reported to have resolved; the outcome of the 1 other event is unknown. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 41 SAEs were reviewed, 30 of which were adjudicated as SSTIs, in 23 
subjects (3.2%). Six SAEs (Escherichia infection, genital infection bacterial, penile swelling, scrotal swelling, 
purulent discharge, and rash pustular) occurred in the same subject who had a history of infection.  
Thirteen of the SAEs that were determined to be SSTIs were events of hidradenitis, 2 of which occurred in 
subjects receiving placebo and 11 of which occurred while the subject was receiving adalimumab (4 of these 
subjects discontinued from study drug because of the event). Of the 2 subjects receiving placebo at the time 
of the SAE, 1 subject who was initially randomized to adalimumab ew experienced an event following 
re-randomization to placebo (34 days after the last dose of adalimumab) that led to study discontinuation 
and 1 subject experienced an event while receiving adalimumab ew and then experienced another event 
following re-randomization to placebo (63 days after the last dose of adalimumab). All of the events of 
hidradenitis were reported as resolved, except 1, which was ongoing as of the cut-off date for the analyses.  
Ten of the 23 subjects with SSTIs had an underlying medical history that may have contributed to the 
development of the serious infection. Of the 12 subjects with events of hidradenitis, 3 subjects had a history 
of diabetes and 2 subjects had a history of pilonidal cyst. 
Opportunistic and parasitic infections 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, a few cases of treatment-emergent opportunistic infections were 
reported; one case of cutaneous coccidioidomycosis, three cases of oral candidiasis, three cases of latent TB 
(all mild and nonserious). The event of TB for 1 subject was considered by the investigator as probably 
related to study drug and study drug was discontinued. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 3 subjects reported treatment-emergent parasitic infections 
(trichomoniasis, acarodermatitis and bed bug infestation), none of which led to discontinuation. 
Malignancies 
Five subjects (0.7%) in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set reported treatment-emergent malignancies 
(seminoma, breast cancer Stage III, Hodgkin's disease, squamous cell carcinoma, and benign vocal cord 
neoplasm. Subjects who reported malignancies had received between 81 and 421 days of adalimumab 
treatment. The seminoma was considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug and 
led to discontinuation of study drug. The other 4 events were considered by the investigator as probably not 
related or not related to study drug. 
Allergic Reactions 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 1.7% and 0.8% of subjects in the adalimumab total and placebo 
groups, respectively, reported treatment-emergent allergic reactions. Treatment-emergent allergic 
reactions in 2 subjects in the adalimumab total group (pruritus generalized and urticaria) were mild, 
considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug, and did not result in discontinuation 
from study drug. All other reported events were considered by as probably not related or not related. Three 
subjects in the adalimumab total group reported events of asthma and all events were an exacerbation or 
worsening of a pre-existing condition.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 103/124 
 
  
  
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/ew group, 3 subjects in the adalimumab 
ew/eow group, and 2 subjects in the adalimumab ew/placebo group reported treatment-emergent allergic 
reactions.  
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 3.7% of subjects reported treatment-emergent allergic reactions. 
Treatment-emergent allergic reactions reported in 9 subjects were considered by the investigator as at least 
possibly related to study drug; none of the reported events led to study drug discontinuation. Seven subjects 
reported events of asthma; one of which was considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to 
study drug.   
Overall, no subjects reported serious or severe treatment-emergent allergic reactions. 
Lupus-Like Reactions/SLE 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/placebo/ew population reported a 
non-serious event of severe treatment-emergent cutaneous lupus erythematosus after the last dose of 
placebo in Period B of Study M11-810 but before the first dose of adalimumab ew in Study M12-555. The 
event lasted for more than 56 days and was ongoing as of 29 April 2014. The subject had no history of lupus 
or lupus-like condition. The event did not lead to discontinuation and the subject subsequently began 
adalimumab ew treatment in Study M12-555. 
Autoimmune Hepatitis 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 1 subject had an event of autoimmune hepatitis. The event was 
considered by the investigator as possibly related to study drug and led to interruption of study drug.   
Myocardial Infarction 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 1 subject reported a treatment-emergent MI, which occurred 4 days 
after the last dose of adalimumab eow in Study M11-810. The event was considered by the investigator as 
possibly related to study drug. This subject also had an event of cardio-respiratory arrest 38 days later, 
which subsequently led to the subject's death. 
Cerebrovascular Accident 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 2 subjects reported a treatment-emergent CVA; one non-serious and 
one serious. The serious event, which led to discontinuation from study drug, occurred 3 days after the last 
dose of adalimumab ew in Study M12-555 and was considered by the investigator as probably not related to 
study drug. Results from an MRI conducted at the time of the event showed small vessel ischemia. 
Congestive Heart Failure 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 3 subjects reported treatment-emergent CHF. All events were 
considered not related or probably not related to study drug. All 3 subjects had diabetes mellitus and were 
current smokers. One subject was obese and had a family history of cardiomyopathy. 
Pulmonary Embolism and Interstitial Lung Disease 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 1 subject reported a treatment-emergent pulmonary embolism, which 
occurred 11 days after the last dose of adalimumab ew in Study M12-555. The same subject also reported 
a non-serious treatment-emergent Interstitial Lung Disease. The events were considered as not related to 
study drug and did not lead to discontinuation of study drug.  
Pancreatitis 
One subject had a serious event of severe autoimmune pancreatitis with fatal outcome. The event was 
considered by the investigator as not related to study drug.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 104/124 
 
  
  
Erythema Multiforme 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 1 subject reported a non-serious, mild event of treatment-emergent 
erythema multiforme while receiving adalimumab ew, that led to discontinuation from study drug. The event 
was considered by the investigator as probably related to study drug. 
Worsening/New Onset Psoriasis 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 2 subjects (0.5%; both worsening of psoriasis) in the placebo group 
and no subjects in the adalimumab total group reported events of psoriasis.  
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, 3 subjects in the adalimumab ew/ew group and 1 subject each in the 
adalimumab ew/eow and ew/placebo groups reported treatment-emergent worsening/new onset psoriasis. 
Four of these events were considered at least possibly related to study drug and one event was considered 
not related. No subjects reported serious or severe treatment-emergent worsening/new onset psoriasis; 1 of 
the events (adalimumab ew/placebo group) led to study drug discontinuation. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 23 subjects (3.2%) reported events of psoriasis. The incidence rate was 
4.2 E/100 PYs, which was similar to the rate reported for adalimumab ew across other indications of CD, RA 
and Ps (4.1 E/100 PY). Treatment-emergent worsening/new onset psoriasis in 19 subjects was considered 
by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug; 11 of these subjects discontinued study drug 
due to the events. Of the subjects who reported treatment-emergent worsening/new onset psoriasis, 6 had 
a prior history of psoriasis. Four subjects reported events that were severe while receiving adalimumab ew 
treatment; 1 of the reported events, which occurred during Study M12-555, was also serious (pustular 
psoriasis).Each of these subjects discontinued study drug due to the events. Follow-up for reports of 
psoriasis in the HS clinical development program included assessment of the specific type of psoriasis (i.e., 
plaque, guttate, or pustular) and the location of the psoriasis. 
Table 69. Treatment-Emergent Worsening/New Onset Psoriasis Reported for Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, M11-313, and M12-555 Through 29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab Analysis Set) 
MedDRA PT 
Any treatment-emergent worsening/new onset 
psoriasis 
Psoriasis 
Pustular psoriasis 
Dermatitis psoriasiform 
Guttate psoriasis 
Adalimumab 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
23 (3.2) 
10 (1.4) 
6 (0.8) 
5 (0.7) 
2 (0.3) 
AESI = adverse event of special interest; MedDRA = Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities; PT = preferred term 
Note: 
Treatment-emergent AESI is defined as any adverse event of special interest with an onset date on or after the first adalimumab 
dose and up to 70 days after the last dose of adalimumab. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 20 is used if a subject is 
still ongoing in Study M12-555. AESIs with an onset date more than 70 days during a protocol-defined placebo gap or during a gap 
between studies are excluded. 
In the Humira SmPC, worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including palmoplantar pustular psoriasis) are 
included as common ADRs. However, pustular psoriasis (generalised) is currently not included. Brief 
narratives of the events of pustular psoriasis are provided below: 
Study M11-810: 
• 
The first subject was a 26-year-old black, very obese, smoking female who was randomized to the 
placebo/ew treatment group in Period B, and experienced severe pustular psoriasis on Day 183. The 
subject had a history of plaque psoriasis and was symptomatic at study entry. A biopsy showed 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 105/124 
 
  
  
suppurative folliculitis. The subject was treated with medication and discontinued study drug. The 
event of pustular psoriasis was ongoing as of Day 198.  
• 
The other was a 26-year-old black female randomized to the placebo/ew treatment group in Period 
B, who experienced moderate pustular psoriasis on Day 183. The subject did not have a history of 
psoriasis. A biopsy showed folliculitis. This subjects was also obese and a past smoker. The subject 
was treated with medication and discontinued study drug. The event of pustular psoriasis was 
ongoing as of Day 167.  
The investigator did not consider either of the events to be serious, but both were considered probably 
related to study drug. Both subjects were prematurely discontinued from the study. 
Study M12-555: 
•  Serious event: This subject was a 41-year-old female in the PBO/PBO/EW Population, who had 
an event of severe pustular psoriasis (reported term: pustular psoriasis scalp and palms) on Day 
162, 14 days after the first dose of open-label adalimumab. Study drug was interrupted and the 
subject received treatment. The event persisted until an SAE of severe pustular psoriasis 
(reported term: exacerbation of pustular psoriasis) was reported on Day 241, and study drug 
was discontinued. The event resolved in 8 days. The investigator considered both events to be 
probably related to study drug. The subject had no history of psoriasis. 
•  Severe event: This subject was a 31-year-old female in the EW/EW/EW Population, who had a 
severe, non-serious event of pustular psoriasis (reported term: new onset of pustular psoriasis 
palmar/plantar) on Day 287 (Day 36 of Study M12-555). Study drug was discontinued, and the 
event was ongoing as of Day 399. The event was considered possibly related to study drug. 
•  1 discontinuation due to a pustular psoriasis AE: This was a 37-year-old female in the 
PBO/EW/EW Population, who had a moderate event of pustular psoriasis (reported term: 
pustular psoriasis, bilateral palms and soles) on Day 266 (Day 13 of Study M12-555). The 
investigator considered the event to be probably related to study drug. 
None of these 3 subjects had a history of psoriasis. 
Study M10-467: 
This was a 44-year-old white male with no history of Ps, who reported treatment-emergent pustular Ps 
on Day 246, 134 days after switching from ew adalimumab to eow adalimumab. The event was 
non-serious, mild in severity, and considered by the investigator as possibly related to study drug. The 
subject prematurely discontinued from the study as a result of this TEAE. As of Day 302 the event was 
ongoing. 
Hematologic Disorders 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 3 subjects (0.7%) and 5 subjects (1.4%) in the adalimumab total 
and placebo groups, respectively, reported treatment-emergent hematologic disorders. The events in the 
adalimumab group were considered as probably not related or not related to study drug. Two subjects 
reported events that were serious and 2 reported events that were severe; 1 subject had an interruption of 
study drug because of the event. 
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, 2 subjects each in the adalimumab ew/placebo and adalimumab ew/ew 
groups and 1 subject in the adalimumab ew/eow group reported treatment-emergent hematologic reactions 
(anemia); no subjects reported neutropenia. No events were serious or severe and none led to 
discontinuation of study drug. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 106/124 
 
  
  
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 22 subjects (3.0%) reported treatment-emergent hematologic 
disorders; the majority of these subjects reported events of anemia. Six subjects reported events that were 
considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug. Two subjects reported 3 serious 
events of anemia. Two events reported by 1 of the subjects were considered as possibly related to study 
drug and led to study drug discontinuation and 1 event reported by the second subject was considered as 
probably not related to study drug. One subject reported a severe event of anemia. 
Liver Failure and Other Liver Events 
No events of liver failure were reported. In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 3 subjects reported 
treatment-emergent other liver events; all were non-serious. Two of these subjects, who had a severe event 
of hepatic steatosis and a moderate event of autoimmune hepatitis, were receiving adalimumab ew in Study 
M12-555 at the time of the event One of these subjects also had hypercholesterolemia. These events were 
considered as at least possibly related to study drug and led to interruption of study drug. The subject with 
autoimmune hepatitis is also discussed above under the category of "Autoimmune Hepatitis". The third 
subject had an event of drug-induced liver injury while receiving adalimumab ew during Period A of Study 
M11-810. This event was considered by the investigator as not related to study drug. The subject had been 
receiving isoniazid for treatment of TB at the time of the event, which was then discontinued. 
Injection Site Reactions 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, 19 subjects (4.5%) and 10 subjects (2.7%) in the adalimumab total 
and placebo groups, respectively, reported treatment-emergent injection site reactions. Of the subjects who 
reported treatment-emergent injection site reactions, 95% in the adalimumab total group and 100% in the 
placebo group reported events that were considered at least possibly related to study drug. No subjects 
reported injection site reactions that were serious or severe; none of the events led to discontinuation. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 54 subjects (7.4%) reported treatment-emergent injection site 
reactions. Of these, 94% were considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug. No 
subjects reported treatment-emergent injection site reactions that were serious or severe; none of the 
events led to discontinuation 
Comparison with other indications 
The MAH presented data from five studies in the MAH’s adalimumab clinical trials database (two studies in 
CD, one in RA, and two studies in psoriasis) that directly compared adalimumab 40 mg eow and adalimumab 
40 mg ew dosing in a blinded, controlled fashion. The overall incidence of AESI in the HS clinical 
development program was consistent with previous studies in approved adalimumab indications.   
A review of the safety data across the 5 studies overall revealed no consistent differences between the safety 
profile of adalimumab eow and ew dosing. The rate of adverse events in the adalimumab ew dosing group 
was similar to the eow dosing group for all studies, except in one of the psoriasis studies. In Study M02-528, 
there were more subjects in the ew dosing group with any SAE, any AE probably or possibly related to study 
drug, infectious non-serious AEs, and injection site reaction AEs. These results were based on 12 weeks of 
dosing and all of these trends (except for "any AE probably or possibly related to study drug") were not 
observed in the follow-up study, Study M02-529, during which subjects received up to 48 weeks of dosing. 
Overall, across all 5 of the studies examined, there was no clear trend of specific AEs occurring at a greater 
frequency with ew dosing than eow dosing. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 107/124 
 
  
  
Table 70. Clinical Trials Comparing Adalimumab 40 mg eow and ew Dosing 
Study 
Title 
Indication 
Length of 
Dosing 
Adalimumab 
Doses 
Number of Patients (By 
Dose Group) 
DE011 
A multicenter, 
randomized, 
placebo-controlled Phase 
3 study comparing 2 
doses and 2 dosing 
intervals of the fully 
human anti-TNF 
antibody, D2E7, versus 
placebo administered 
over 6 months as SC 
injections in patients with 
RA 
M02-404  A multicenter, 
randomized, DB, 
placebo-controlled study 
of the human anti-TNF 
monoclonal antibody 
adalimumab for the 
induction and 
maintenance of clinical 
remission in subjects 
with Crohn's disease 
M02-433  A multicenter, 
randomized, DB, 
placebo-controlled study 
of the human anti-TNF 
monoclonal antibody 
adalimumab for the 
maintenance of clinical 
remission in subjects 
with Crohn's disease 
(OLE) 
RA 
26 weeks 
20 mg eow 
20 mg ew 
40 mg eow 
40 mg ew 
Placebo, N = 110 
20 mg eow, N = 106 
20 mg ew, N = 112 
40 mg eow, N = 113 
40 mg ew, N = 103 
Crohn's 
disease 
52 weeks 
40 mg eow 
40 mg ew 
Placebo, N = 261 
40 mg eow, N = 260 
40 mg ew, N = 257 
Crohn's 
disease 
4 weeks; 
randomized 
56+ weeks 
(OLE) 
40 mg eow 
40 mg ew 
Remitters:  N = 55 
(placebo, N = 18, 
adalimumab 40 mg eow, N = 
19 
adalimumab 40 mg ew, N = 
18) 
Non-remitters:  N = 221 
(adalimumab 40 mg eow) 
M02-528  A Phase 2 multicenter 
Psoriasis 
12 weeks 
study of the safety and 
efficacy of adalimumab 
(D2E7) in subjects with 
moderate to severe 
chronic plaque psoriasis 
40 mg eow 
40 mg ew 
Placebo, N = 52 
40 mg eow, N = 45 
40 mg ew, N = 50 
DB = double-blind; eow = every other week; ew = every week; OLE = open-label extension; RA = rheumatoid arthritis; SC = 
subcutaneous; TNF = tumor necrosis factor 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 108/124 
 
  
  
Table 12. Overview of TEAEs per 100 Patient Years (All Placebo-Controlled Studies with eow and 
ew Dosing) 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, TESAEs were reported in 3.1% of subjects in the adalimumab total 
group and 3.6% of subjects in the placebo group ( 
Table 72). TESAEs considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug were reported 
in 1.0% of subjects in the adalimumab total group and 0.5% of subjects in the placebo group. All TESAEs 
considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug were reported by 1 subject each in 
the adalimumab total and placebo groups. 
In the Maintenance Analysis Set, TESAEs considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study 
drug were lymphadenitis and acute MI in the adalimumab ew/eow group (1 subject each) and pneumonia 
and rash in the adalimumab ew/ew group (1 subject each). No TESAEs at least possibly related to study drug 
were reported in the adalimumab ew/placebo group. 
In the All Adalimumab ew Analysis Set, all TESAE considered by the investigator as at least possibly related 
to study drug were reported by 1 subject each, with the exception of pneumonia, which was reported by 2 
subjects. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 10.7% of subjects reported TESAEs (Table 73). The following TESAEs 
were reported in ≥ 2 subjects each: anemia, cellulitis, ectopic pregnancy, hidradenitis, non-cardiac chest 
pain, palpitations, pilonidal cyst, pneumonia, postoperative wound infection, sepsis, and septic shock. All 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 109/124 
 
 
  
  
other TESAEs were reported in 1 subject each. A total of 2.8% of subjects reported TESAEs that were 
considered by the investigator as at least possibly related to study drug. Of these, pneumonia was reported 
in 2 subjects. 
Table 13. Number and Percentage of Subjects Who Reported TESAEs for Studies M10-467, 
M11-810, and M11-313 (Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set) 
MedDRA PT 
Any TESAE 
Hidradenitis 
Anemia 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
Escherichia infection 
Genital infection bacterial 
Infection 
Interstitial lung disease 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Pilonidal cyst 
Pyelonephritis 
Renal failure acute 
Sexual abuse 
Tendon rupture 
Vocal cord neoplasma 
Accidental overdose 
Diabetes mellitus inadequate control 
Dizziness 
Effusion 
Fatigue 
Gastroenteritis 
International normalized ratio increased 
Intervertebral disc calcification 
Invasive ductal breast carcinoma 
Presyncope 
Small intestinal obstruction 
Suicide attempt 
Tendonitis 
Viral infection 
n (%) 
Adalimumab 
Placebo 
(N = 
366) 
eow 
(N = 
52) 
ew 
(N = 
367) 
Total 
(N = 
419) 
13 (3.6) 
3 (5.8) 
10 (2.7) 
13 (3.1) 
5 (1.4) 
1 (1.9) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (1.9) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (1.9) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
eow = every other week; ew = every week; MedDRA = Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities;  
PT = preferred term; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event; TESAE = treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
a            determined to be benign. 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first dose of study drug in Period A and up to the last dose 
of study drug in Period A + 70 days or the first dose of study drug in Period B, whichever is earlier. Any AE with an unknown 
relationship was considered as study drug-related and any AE with an unknown severity was considered as severe. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 110/124 
 
 
  
  
Table 14. TESAEs Reported by at Least 2 Subjects for Studies M10-467, M11-810, M11-313, and 
M12-555 Through 29 April 2014 (All Adalimumab Analysis Set) 
MedDRA PT 
Any TESAE 
Hidradenitis 
Cellulitis 
Anaemia 
Ectopic pregnancy 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Palpitations 
Pilonidal cyst 
Pneumonia 
Postoperative wound infection 
Sepsis 
Septic shock 
Adalimumab 
(N = 727) 
n (%) 
78 (10.7) 
22 (3.0) 
3 (0.4) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
MedDRA = Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities; PT = preferred term;  
TESAE = treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
Note: 
TEAE is defined as any adverse event with an onset date on or after the first adalimumab dose and up to 70 days after the last dose 
of adalimumab. The last available dose date prior to 29 April 2014 is used if a subject is still ongoing in Study M12-555. AEs with 
an onset date more than 70 days during a protocol-defined placebo gap or during a gap between studies are excluded. Any AE with 
an unknown relationship was considered as study drug-related and any AE with an unknown severity was considered as severe. 
Deaths  
No deaths were reported during the 12-week placebo-controlled treatment periods. 
One subject died in Study M11-810. This was a 35-year-old male in the adalimumab ew/eow group who had 
an event of cardio-respiratory arrest on Day 234, 42 days after the last dose of study drug (Period B). The 
investigator considered the event not related to adalimumab, but a result of coronary heart disease. The 
subject had a prior event of non-ST elevation myocardial infarction on Day 196 and there was a family 
history of early onset coronary heart disease. Other risk factors included a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus 
since 2008 and heavy smoking for 16 years. 
One subject died in Study M12-555. This was a 62-year-old female in the placebo/placebo/ew group (i.e. 
received placebo throughout Study M11-810 and then received adalimumab ew in the OLE study) with a 
history of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, who experienced a fatal AE of autoimmune pancreatitis on Day 214 and 
cardiac arrest/respiratory failure on Day 241 (30 days after the last dose of adalimumab ew). The 
investigator considered the event not related to adalimumab. Hashimoto's thyroiditis has been associated 
with autoimmune pancreatitis (Pezzilli 2005). The cause of death was septic shock that developed after an 
event of ascending cholangitis due to severe autoimmune pancreatitis. 
Laboratory findings 
Mean changes in hematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis values from Baseline to the final visit were not 
considered to be clinically meaningful in the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set or the All Adalimumab Analysis 
Set. 
Individual Subject Changes 
Hematology 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 111/124 
 
 
  
  
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, shifts in hematology values from normal or high at Baseline to low at 
the final visit or low or normal at Baseline to high at the final visit were generally infrequent and not 
considered clinically meaningful for the adalimumab total and placebo groups. A total of 17.5% of subjects 
in the adalimumab eow group experienced shifts in platelet count from low or normal at Baseline to high at 
the final visit, which was numerically higher than placebo (4.0% of subjects). 
Similarly, in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, shifts in hematology values were generally infrequent and not 
considered clinically meaningful. 
Clinical Chemistry 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, shifts in chemistry values from normal or high at Baseline to low at 
the final visit or low or normal at Baseline to high at the final visit were generally infrequent and not 
considered clinically meaningful for most parameters for the adalimumab total and placebo groups. A 
greater percentage of subjects in the adalimumab total group experienced shifts in cholesterol and 
triglyceride levels from normal or low at Baseline to high at final, as compared to the placebo group (14% vs. 
8% and 11% vs. 7%, respectively). None of these shifts were reported as AEs. Although numerically higher, 
these shifts were not considered to be clinically meaningful. Few shifts (≤9 of 785 subjects) from normal 
levels in each of SGPT/ALT, SGOT/AST, alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin were observed; these shifts 
were not considered to be clinically meaningful. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, shifts in chemistry values were also generally infrequent and not 
considered clinically meaningful for most parameters. A total of 14% and 11% of subjects experienced shifts 
in cholesterol and triglyceride levels, respectively, from normal or low at Baseline to high at final. None of 
these shifts were reported as AEs and they were not considered clinically meaningful. Few shifts (≤ 12 of 
727 subjects) from normal levels in each of SGPT/ALT, SGOT/AST, alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin 
were observed; these shifts were not considered to be clinically meaningful. 
Urinalysis 
Shifts in urinalysis values from Baseline to the final visit were generally infrequent and not considered 
clinically meaningful in the adalimumab total and placebo groups in the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set and 
All Adalimumab Analysis Set. 
Individual Clinically Significant Abnormalities 
Hematology 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, hematology values of CTC Grade ≥2 were observed for hemoglobin 
(1.8% of subjects) and neutrophils (0.5% of subjects) in the adalimumab total group, and for hemoglobin 
(1.7% of subjects), WBC count (0.3% of subjects), neutrophils (0.8% of subjects), lymphocytes (0.6% of 
subjects) in the placebo group. Hematology values of CTC Grade ≥ 3 were observed for hemoglobin in 1 
subject in the adalimumab total group and for hemoglobin and neutrophils in 2 subjects each in the placebo 
group.   
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, hematology values of CTC Grade ≥2 were observed for hemoglobin 
(3.9% of subjects) and WBC count (0.3% of subjects), neutrophils (1.1% of subjects), lymphocytes (0.7% 
of subjects), and platelets (0.1% of subjects). Hematology values of CTC Grade ≥3 were observed for 
hemoglobin (0.8% of subjects) and WBC count (0.1% of subjects), neutrophils (0.4% of subjects), 
lymphocytes (0.3% of subjects), and platelets (0.1% of subjects).  
Based on a medical review, none of the above changes were considered clinically meaningful. 
Clinical Chemistry 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, chemistry values of CTC Grade ≥2 occurred in less than 2% of 
subjects for all measured parameters except hypophosphatemia and hypertriglyceridemia (p= 0.005 vs. 
placebo) in the adalimumab total group, and hyperglycemia in the adalimumab total and placebo groups. 
Chemistry values of CTC Grade ≥2 occurred in less than 2% of subjects in the placebo group for all measured 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 112/124 
 
  
  
parameters, except hypophosphatemia and hyperglycemia. Chemistry values of CTC Grade ≥ 3 occurred in 
≤ 1% of subjects in both the adalimumab total and placebo groups. None of these values were considered 
clinically meaningful. There was no significant difference among the adalimumab total and placebo groups in 
the proportion of subjects with CTC Grade ≥ 3 elevations in triglycerides.  
Concerning clinically significant liver function values, ALT values ≥3 × ULN were experienced by 3 subjects 
in the adalimumab total group and 2 subjects in the placebo group. ALT values ≥ 5 × ULN were experienced 
by 1 subject in the adalimumab total group and 2 subjects in the placebo group. AST values ≥3 × ULN were 
experienced by 1 subject in the adalimumab total group and 2 subjects in the placebo group. AST values ≥5 
× ULN and ≥10 × ULN were experienced by a few subjects in the placebo group. Alkaline phosphatase values 
≥1.5 × ULN were experienced by 3 subjects each in the adalimumab total group and placebo group. No 
subjects experienced total bilirubin ≥2 × ULN. 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, the most frequently occurring chemistry values of CTC Grade ≥ 2 and ≥ 
3 were hypophosphatemia, hyperglycemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. A review of the liver function tests did 
not reveal any potential signal for severe hepatotoxicity. The incidence of potentially clinically significant 
liver function values is provided below (N = 727): 
–  ALT values ≥3 × ULN were experienced by 10 subjects; ALT values ≥ 5 × ULN were experienced by 2 
subjects; and ALT values ≥ 10 × ULN were experienced by 1 subject.   
o  One subject had a non-serious event of severe hepatic steatosis on Day 85 of Study M12-555 
that was considered as probably related to study drug. The subject underwent laboratory testing 
and hepatic echography. ALT values were elevated (505 U/L). Study drug was interrupted and 
restarted on Day 99. The event was considered resolved on Day 105 and a subsequent ALT value 
(Day 169) was 28 U/L. 
–  AST values ≥3 × ULN were experienced by 6 subjects.   
–  Total bilirubin ≥2 × ULN was experienced by 1 subject. 
–  Alkaline phosphatase values ≥ 1.5 × ULN were experienced by 13 subjects. 
–  ALT and/or AST ≥3 × ULN and concurrent total bilirubin ≥ 1.5 × ULN was experienced by 1 subject. 
–  ALT and/or AST ≥3 × ULN and concurrent total bilirubin ≥ 2 × ULN was experienced by 1 subject. 
One subject experienced multiple SAEs, including cholangitis, septic shock, and a fatal event of autoimmune 
pancreatitis during the OLE study, Study M12-555 (see above, section 4.4) 
Vital Signs 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, the numbers of subjects with potentially clinically significant vital 
sign values were balanced across the treatment groups. Similarly, in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, the 
number of subjects with potentially clinically significant vital sign values was low. Mean changes in vital sign 
values from Baseline to the final visit and the incidence of potentially clinically significant vital sign values 
were not considered to be clinically meaningful. 
Safety in special populations 
Intrinsic Factors 
The number and percentage of TEAEs overall, by primary SOC and PT, as well as by AESI overall, were 
assessed by subgroups of sex, age, race, baseline BMI, baseline Hurley Stage, and prior HS surgery, (Phase 
3 studies only).  
In the Placebo-controlled Analysis Set, although there were a few statistically significant differences, no 
clinically meaningful differences were observed. In many cases, the sample sizes were too small to 
determine whether a difference between subgroups was meaningful. No clinically meaningful differences 
were observed for the Maintenance, All Adalimumab ew, and All Adalimumab Analysis Sets, with respect to 
the subgroups analyzed. 
Extrinsic Factors 
The number and percentage of TEAEs, overall, by primary SOC and PT, as well as AESI overall, were 
assessed by subgroups of nicotine use and prior antibiotic use. The subgroup categories were analyzed to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 113/124 
 
  
  
evaluate if there was any impact of extrinsic factors on the overall safety profile of adalimumab in subjects 
with moderate to severe HS.   
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, a smaller percentage of subjects in the adalimumab total group who 
never used nicotine (non-users) reported TEAEs overall, TEAEs at least possibly related to study drug, and 
infections than subjects who had used nicotine (ex-users) and subjects who currently use nicotine (users). 
Similar results were observed for the placebo group; however, the percentages of subjects who reported 
these events were small across subgroups. The clinical significance of these differences was deemed 
unclear. 
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, a statistically significant treatment by antibiotic use interaction was 
observed overall for TESAEs (P = 0.015) with more TESAEs reported in subjects concomitantly using 
antibiotics and adalimumab. No clinically meaningful differences were observed for the Maintenance, All 
Adalimumab ew, and All Adalimumab Analysis Sets, with respect to the subgroups analyzed. 
Pregnancy and Lactation 
In the HS clinical development program, female subjects were required to be either not of childbearing 
potential or of childbearing potential and practicing an approved method of birth control throughout the 
study and for 150 days after the last dose of study drug. A lactating or pregnant female was not eligible to 
participate in the studies. The results of the serum pregnancy test performed during the screening period 
and urine pregnancy test performed at the baseline visit must have been negative. A subject who became 
pregnant during participation in the clinical studies was to be discontinued from study drug. Pregnancy in a 
study subject was not considered an AE. However, the medical outcome of an elective or spontaneous 
abortion was considered an SAE and was to be reported to AbbVie within 24 hours of the site becoming 
aware of the event. 
Thirteen pregnancies were reported in the HS clinical development program: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Two pregnancies occurred in Study M10-467: 1 woman (adalimumab eow group) delivered a 
stillborn infant due to gestational hypertension (this subject had a relevant history of 
pregnancy-induced hypertension during a prior pregnancy that produced an infant without 
complications) and 1 woman (adalimumab ew group) delivered a premature infant by emergency 
cesarean because of an event of pre-clampsia.  
Three pregnancies occurred in Study M11-810: 2 women (adalimumab ew/eow and adalimumab ew 
[subject discontinued in Period A] groups) delivered live infants with no noted birth defects; the third 
woman had an elective abortion.   
Five pregnancies occurred in Study M11-313: 2 women (both in the placebo/ew group) delivered 
live infants (no further information is available); 1 subject (placebo/ew group) had an ectopic 
pregnancy that was non-viable; and the other 2 women (adalimumab ew/ew and ew/eow groups) 
had an ectopic pregnancy and elective abortion, respectively.  
Three pregnancies occurred in Study M12-555: 1 woman (placebo/placebo/ew group) had a 
spontaneous abortion and the other 2 had delivery dates of September 2014 and November 2014.   
Elderly 
With respect to percentage of subjects experiencing TEAEs sub-group analyses were only performed based 
on the age categories < 40 years of age ("younger") and subjects ≥ 40 years ("older") as it is acknowledged 
that HS patients are often in the range 30-40 years with a minority of patients being elderly. However, the 
CHMP requested an analysis of all, fatal and serious AEs observed in elderly patients as well as all AEs 
leading to treatment withdrawal or related to falling, infections, cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and CNS 
events. 
The MAH provided this information which is summarized inTable 74.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 114/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 15: Analysis of AE in the elderly population included in the HS studies 
Age < 65 yrs 
N = 717 
65 – 74 yrs 
N = 10 
75 – 84 yrs 
N = 0 
85 + 
N = 0 
Total 
Fatal 
Serious 
Withdrawal 
AE related to falling 
CV events 
Cerebrovascular events 
Infections 
564 (78.7) 
8 (80.0) 
2 (0.3) 
76 (10.6) 
67 (9.3) 
5 (0.7) 
4 (0.7) 
2 (0.3) 
0 
2 (20.0) 
3 (30.0) 
1 (10.0) 
0 
0 
0 
370 (51.6) 
7 (70.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
CNS (confusion/extrapyramidal) 
140 (19.5) 
The CHMP considered that the available data, whilst limited do not raise any specific concerns in this 
indication for elderly patients.  
Immunological events 
Immunogenicity of adalimumab in the HS population is discussed in the PK section of this AR, in relation to 
the effect of adalimumab antibodies on pharmacokinetics. 
Immunogenicity of adalimumab was assessed in Studies M10-467, M11-313 and M11-810 using a double 
antigen sandwich enzyme -linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. A sample was classified as AAA+ 
if the AAA concentration in serum was > 20 ng/mL and the serum sample was collected within 30 days after 
an adalimumab dose. 
In the Phase 2 Study M10-467, five subjects were AAA positive (4.9%) during the DB period (Weeks 0-16): 
2 subjects in the 40 mg ew group (3.9%) and 3 subjects in the 40 mg eow group (5.8%). Another 11 (7.1%) 
new subjects became AAA+ in the OL period (Weeks 17 52). The percentage of subjects with AAA+ samples 
was 10.4% (16/154) during the entire study period (Week 0 to Week 52). 
In the two Phase 3 Studies, the percentage of subjects with AAA+ samples following 12 weeks of 
adalimumab 40 mg ew treatment in Period A was 3.2% (10/316). For subjects who continued to receive 
adalimumab 40 mg ew treatment in Period B, the percent of subjects testing positive for AAA was 10.1% 
(10/99). In all subjects who received at least one dose of adalimumab in the studies, the percent of subjects 
testing positive for AAA was 6.5% (30/461 subjects). The AAA+ rate was comparable between ew/ew and 
ew/eow subjects in Period B. 
Concerning the impact of immunogenicity on safety, the rate of any AEs and the rate of infectious AEs were 
comparable between AAA+ and AAA– subjects. For the remaining AEs (e.g., serious AEs, serious infection 
AEs, diverticulitis, allergic reactions, worsening/new onset of psoriasis and hematologic disorders etc.), the 
numbers of AAA+ and/or AAA– subjects who reported these AEs were too small to make a definitive 
conclusion. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Drug-drug interactions have not been specifically evaluated in the HS clinical development program. 
Concomitant use of biologic DMARDS, other TNF blockers, or MTX were not allowed in Studies M11-810 and 
M11-313. Antibiotics were used in a sub-set of patients in study M11-810, as stipulated in the protocol. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 115/124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, TEAEs leading to discontinuation were reported in 2.1% of subjects 
in the adalimumab total group and 2.7% of subjects in the placebo group. TEAEs leading to discontinuation 
in 4 subjects in the adalimumab total group and 3 subjects in the placebo group were considered by the 
investigator as at least possibly related to study drug. All TEAEs leading to discontinuation were reported in 
1 subject each in the adalimumab total and placebo groups, except for hidradenitis (3 subjects in the 
adalimumab total group and 2 subjects in the placebo group). 
In the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, 70 (9.6%) subjects reported TEAEs leading to discontinuation. Of the 
subjects who reported TEAEs leading to discontinuation, 60% reported events that were considered by the 
investigator as at least possibly related to study drug.  
TEAEs leading to discontinuation that were reported in ≥ 2 subjects included hidradenitis in 23 subjects 
(3.2%); pustular psoriasis in 6 subjects (0.8%); psoriasis in 3 subjects (0.4%); and weight increased, rash 
pustular, paresthesia, and drug eruption in 2 subjects each (0.3%). All other TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation were reported in 1 subject each (0.1%). 
Post marketing experience 
There is no post marketing experience from use of Humira in the HS indication. 
Adalimumab was first approved for treatment of RA on 31 December 2002 (international birth date). As of 
31 December 2013, adalimumab has been evaluated in more than 42,000 subjects with different conditions, 
e.g. RA, other arthritis conditions, CD, paediatric CD, psoriasis, paediatric psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and 
uveitis. The estimated cumulative post-marketing patient exposure since the IBD through 31 December 
2013 is 2.9 million PYs. Potential new safety signals are monitored through post-marketing safety 
surveillance e.g. by reports from clinical studies, all reports from spontaneous sources, the literature, 
regulatory agencies, post-marketing studies and registries. Eight AbbVie-sponsored adalimumab safety 
registries are ongoing. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The proposed posology for Humira in adult patients with moderate to severe HS is an initial dose of 
adalimumab 160 mg on Day 1, followed by a dose of adalimumab 80 mg on Day 15, and then dosing of 
adalimumab 40 mg every week (ew) starting on Day 29. The CHMP noted that the proposed dosing schedule 
for Humira in HS is quite intense, with high initial loading doses followed by 40 mg every week (ew) from 
week 4. This is a higher dose compared with the approved posologies of Humira in rheumatoid arthritis, 
other arthritis conditions and psoriasis. The HS posology is, however, rather similar to the posology 
approved in ulcerative colitis and Crohn´s disease (in CD a high loading dose recommended if a rapid 
response is desirable) except that for both these indications, the maintenance dose is 40 mg every other 
week, with a possibility to increase the dose to 40 mg every week if needed.  
The documentation provided by the MAH, included some information from studies in other indications in 
which adalimumab 40 mg ew and 40 mg eow were compared. Approximately 400 subjects have been 
exposed to adalimumab 40 mg ew in 5 clinical studies in non-HS indications, with the duration of exposure 
to this dose of adalimumab ranging between 4 and 52 weeks. No consistent trends were observed in 
incidence rates of Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI) in the ew versus eow groups across the CD and 
UC open-label studies.  Some increases in the incidence rates of events with adalimumab 40 mg ew, as 
compared to adalimumab 40 mg eow were observed, particularly in the UC studies; however, these 
increases may be related to increased inflammatory bowel disease activity in the subjects who required dose 
escalation to adalimumab ew dosing. In order to collect further information on the long-term safety of 
adalimumab with the new dosing regime in the HS indication the MAH was requested to provide the results 
of the ongoing study M12-555 and this safety concern was also included in the RMP for Humira. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 116/124 
 
  
  
In the HS studies, the percentages of subjects reporting adverse events were comparable between the 
placebo and total adalimumab (eow and ew) groups during the placebo-controlled period of the Phase 2 and 
3 studies. SAEs were also experienced by similar proportions of subjects in the total adalimumab (ew and 
eow) and placebo groups. AEs led to study drug discontinuation in 2.1% and 2.7% of subjects in the total 
adalimumab and placebo groups, respectively.  
Safety data for Period B (Weeks 12 to 36 in the HS studies) revealed few differences in the safety profiles 
between the different dosing regimens. Overall, the safety profiles were comparable for the adalimumab ew 
and eow groups. 
The most frequently reported TEAEs for adalimumab in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set were hidradenitis, 
nasopharyngitis, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, nausea, urinary tract infection and arthralgia. 
The percentage of subjects who reported hidradenitis as an AE was significantly lower in the adalimumab 
ew/ew group, as compared to the adalimumab ew/eow and ew/placebo groups. Thus, apart from the 
hidradenitis AEs which is related to the patient population within this indication, the pattern of TEAEs does 
not appear different from what has previously been observed with adalimumab. 
The number and type of AEs leading to discontinuation were not of great concern. In the All Adalimumab 
Analysis Set, 10% of subjects reported TEAEs leading to discontinuation. Except hidradenitis, 3.2%, pustular 
psoriasis or psoriasis were quite common reasons for discontinuation. 
A number of AESI were identified from the clinical trials conducted in HS. In the Placebo-Controlled Analysis 
Set, the most frequently reported AESI in both the adalimumab total and placebo groups were injection site 
reaction, allergic reaction (mostly urticaria and pruritus generalized; 1 event of drug sensitivity), and 
hematologic disorder (mostly anaemia).  
Similarly, in the Maintenance Analysis Set and All Adalimumab Analysis Set, the most frequently reported 
AESI were injection site reaction, allergic reactions and hematologic disorders (mainly anaemia; 2 subjects 
each reported events of neutropenia and lymphopenia) and events of worsening/new onset psoriasis were 
also reported. 
Subjects who reported AESI that were serious and considered by the investigator as at least possibly related 
to study drug included 10 subjects who reported serious infections (purulent discharge/rash pustular, 
cellulitis, pneumonia chlamydial, pneumonia, septic shock, pyelonephritis, infection, sepsis, pneumonia viral) 
and 1 subject each who reported events of malignancy (seminoma), acute MI, pustular psoriasis and 
anaemia.  
Adalimumab affects the immune system and it is well known that it causes an overall increased infection risk. 
In both the Placebo-Controlled Analysis and Maintenance Analysis Sets, around 30% of subjects across all 
groups reported treatment-emergent infections, the most common being nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory 
tract infection, urinary tract infection and bronchitis.  
With respect to treatment-emergent serious infections, such infections were reported in 2.9% of subjects in 
the All Adalimumab Analysis Set. Some of the infections reported were pilonidal cyst, pneumonia, cellulitis 
and pyelonephritis. Extensive warnings in relation to the risk of infections with adalimubab use are already 
included in the SmPC for Humira. In addition, the Humira Risk Management Plan includes a number of 
additional risk minimisation measures to minimise such risks. 
Since HS is a condition with skin lesions that may become infected, it was considered important to perform 
a post-hoc adjudication for identification of potential SSTIs. Cases of SSTIs occurred both in adalimumab- 
and placebo-treated subjects and a fairly large portion was reported as hidradenitis. Some of those who 
developed SSTIs had other relevant risk factors, e.g. diabetes or prior history of SSTIs.  
The rate or severity of infections, including SSTIs, with Humira in HS does not give cause for concern as it 
does not differ markedly with the experience from the other licensed indications of Humira. However, an 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 117/124 
 
  
  
increased risk for infections should always be considered, especially in vulnerable patients. This is 
adequately addressed in the currently approved SmPC. One issue to be considered in this respect is the 
required use of topical antiseptics in the pivotal phase 3 studies and which was a request also in study 
M12-555 as this could potentially have reduced the overall rate of SSTIs of HS lesions. The product 
information now states that all subjects in the main clinical studies were required to use topical antiseptics. 
This was agreed by the CHMP. 
With respect to AESI other than infections, no new or unexpected findings were overall observed in the HS 
studies. One observation is, however, made in relation to events of worsening/new onset psoriasis. Six 
events of pustular psoriasis were reported (0.8% in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set). In the Humira product 
information, worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including palmoplantar pustular psoriasis) are included as 
common ADRs. However, pustular psoriasis (generalised) is currently not included in the Humira SmPC. 
However, the MAH clarified that these were cases of pustular psoriasis mainly affecting the palms or the 
scalp and therefore the CHMP concluded that it is not warranted to add generalised pustular psoriasis in the 
ADR table in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Serious AEs were reported in 11% of subjects in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, with anaemia, cellulitis, 
ectopic pregnancy, hidradenitis, non-cardiac chest pain, palpitations, pilonidal cyst, pneumonia, 
postoperative wound infection, sepsis, and septic shock reported in ≥ 2 subjects each. 2.8% of subjects 
reported TESAEs that were considered at least possibly related to study drug, of these, pneumonia was 
reported in 2 subjects. With the exception of hidradenitis which is an indication specific adverse event and is 
not considered to be causally associated with Humira treatment, the observed events are consistent with the 
known safety profile of Humira with appropriate warnings and risk minimisation measures already included 
in the SmPC and RMP respectively.  
A total of two deaths on adalimumab have been reported in the HS clinical studies; one due to 
cardio-respiratory arrest and the other due to septic shock following severe autoimmune pancreatitis. None 
of these events were considered related to adalimumab by the investigators. Even though this was 
considered plausible, cardiac disorders, e.g. myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest, are labelled 
uncommon or rare ADRs in the Humira SmPC. 
With respect to laboratory findings and vital signs, no new concerns were identified in the HS population, 
compared with previous indications for adalimumab. 
Concerning safety in special populations, for intrinsic factors (sex, age, race, baseline BMI, baseline Hurley 
Stage, and prior HS surgery), there were a few statistically significant differences in the Placebo-controlled 
Analysis Set, but no clinically meaningful differences were observed.  In many cases, the sample sizes were 
too small to make firm conclusions.  No clinically meaningful differences between sub-groups were observed 
for the other analysis sets either. 
For extrinsic factors, analyses were made for subgroups of nicotine use and prior antibiotic use. In the 
Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, a smaller percentage of subjects in the adalimumab total group who never 
used nicotine (non-users) reported TEAEs overall, TEAEs possibly related to study drug, and infections 
compared with nicotine users and ex-users. Similar results were observed for the placebo group. In the 
Placebo-Controlled Analysis Set, a statistically significant treatment by antibiotic use interaction was 
observed with more TESAEs reported in subjects concomitantly using antibiotics and adalimumab.  
Concerning immunological events, some allergic reactions and TEAEs related to hypersensitivity have been 
reported, however, the data do not give cause for concern in relation to what is known for adalimumab in 
other indications. Immunogenicity of adalimumab in the HS population was discussed both related to the 
effect of adalimumab antibodies on pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety. The number of subjects being 
AAA+ was overall low (approximately 10%) and, as for efficacy, firm conclusions are difficult to make. 
However, immunogenicity did not have an apparent impact on the safety of adalimumab in HS subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 118/124 
 
  
  
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The safety profile of adalimumab in HS does not appear different from what that previously observed with 
adalimumab in other indications, except for rather frequent reporting of hidradenitis as an AE. 
The rate or severity of infections, including SSTIs, with Humira in HS does not give cause for concern in 
comparison with the experience in other indications. The required use of topical antiseptics in the pivotal 
studies could potentially have reduced the overall rate of SSTIs of HS lesions and it is now mentioned in the 
product information that all subjects in the main clinical studies were required to use topical antiseptics. For 
AESI other than infections, no new or unexpected findings were overall observed in the HS studies. 
Serious AEs were reported in 11% of subjects, with anaemia, cellulitis, ectopic pregnancy, hidradenitis, 
non-cardiac chest pain, palpitations, pilonidal cyst, pneumonia, postoperative wound infection, sepsis, and 
septic shock being the most common. Several events of worsening/new onset psoriasis were reported, 
including cases of pustular psoriasis. It was clarified that these cases had mainly palmo-plantar involvement 
but were not to be regarded as generalised pustular psoriasis. 
With the exception of hidradenitis which is related to the target population in this indication and is not 
considered to be causally associated with Humira treatment, the observed events are consistent with the 
known safety profile of Humira with appropriate warnings and risk minimisation measures already included 
in the SmPC and RMP respectively.   
The CHMP considered that the available data with the adalimumab 40 mg ew dosing regimen in the HS 
population are relatively limited compared to the information available with the dosing regimens in the other 
approved Humira indications. Therefore and in order to further characterise the long-term safety in adult 
patients treated with Humira for HS, the CHMP requested that this information should be collected through 
the ongoing study M12-555.  Consequently, the MAH has included in the RMP as missing information, long 
term safety in HS and will provide the final study report from study M12-555 as outlined in the RMP. 
2.5.3.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 11.3 could be acceptable if the MAH 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report.  
The MAH implemented the requested changes in the Risk Management Plan version: 11.3.1 
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC have been 
updated as detailed in the appended product information. The package leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 119/124 
 
 
 
  
  
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The primary end-point, HiSCR, was met in both studies, albeit with some differences in the size of the effect 
of adalimumab vs. placebo between the studies. In study M11-313, 42% of the adalimumab-treated 
subjects reached HiSCR (26% on placebo) while in Study M11-810, 59% of adalimumab-treated subjects 
reached HiSCR (28% on placebo). Baseline Hurley stage and baseline concomitant antibiotic use (Study 
M11-810 only) were stratification factors in the Period A randomization for both studies. A significantly 
higher HiSCR rate in the adalimumab ew group compared to the placebo group was observed in every 
subgroup. The treatment difference between adalimumab and placebo were greater among subjects with 
Hurley Stage III than those with Hurley Stage II and among subjects who received concomitant antibiotics 
compared to those who did not. 
For the three, ranked secondary end-points (proportion of subjects who achieved AN count of 0, 1, or 2 in 
Hurley Stage II subjects; pain reduction assessed by NRS30 in subjects with baseline skin pain NRS ≥ 3 and 
Change in modified Sartorius score; all assessed at week 12), Study M11-810 met all these endpoints with 
statistically significant differences between adalimumab 40 mg ew and placebo. In Study M11-313 all 
outcomes except one were numerically in favour of adalimumab ew, however, none of these three 
end-points achieved statistical significance. Post-hoc analyses for the same end-points performed on data 
from the phase 2 Study M10-467 showed statistically significant differences between adalimumab ew and 
placebo, in favour of adalimumab.  
Other secondary end-points generally mirrored the results of the primary and ranked secondary end-points. 
With respect to lesion counts, the percent change from baseline in different lesion counts at Week 12 showed 
decreases in the range 10-55% for adalimumab ew vs. maximally 25% decreases for placebo across the two 
studies. A small number of subjects (10% in study M11-313 and 15% in M11-810) achieved complete 
elimination of AN (AN = 0) with adalimumab ew treatment. The occurrence of flare was experienced by 11% 
(Study M11-810) and 14% (Study M11-313) of subjects in the adalimumab ew group and approximately 
35% of subjects in the placebo group (P < 0.001, in both studies). 
With respect to reduction in skin pain (NRS30; a ranked secondary end-point), in study M11-313, a greater 
proportion of subjects achieved NRS30 in the adalimumab ew group compared with the placebo group 
during Period A for all visits.  
Outcomes related to patient-reported Quality of Life showed an effect of adalimumab vs. placebo was shown 
for both DLQI and TSQM. 
Regarding maintenance treatment, results from part B of the pivotal studies as well as interim results from 
the OLE study M12-555 showed that the response rates at most time points were highest with the ew/ew 
treatment in all analysis populations. AEs of "hidradenitis" (i.e. worsening of disease) were more common 
for ew/pbo (20%) and for ew/eow (18%) compared with ew/ew (5%). For a range of secondary end-points, 
the ew/ew treatment generally also showed better results compared with the ew/eow and ew/pbo groups in 
the ITT_B_PRR Population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 120/124 
 
  
  
In the post-hoc analyses of the sub-group of AN25 responders (partial responders), it was found that among 
the group of HiSCR non-responders, this sub-group was able to reach HiSCR, in particular with adalimumab 
40 mg ew/ew. Based on this, continued therapy beyond 12 weeks is recommended except in those patients 
without any improvement for whom continued therapy should be reconsidered. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Whilst both pivotal studies met the primary end-point, HiSCR, there was a difference in the size of the effect 
of adalimumab vs. placebo between these studies. The difference between adalimumab and placebo was 16% 
in study M11-313 and 31.5% in study M11-810. While in study M11-810, roughly 30% more patients in the 
ADA ew group met the primary endpoint compared to the placebo-treated group, in study M11-313 the gain 
in the number of responders was lower (almost half; 15%).  
The treatment differences were statistically significantly higher for adalimumab at all-time points, except at 
Week 12, which was the time point for assessment as a ranked secondary end-point. Thus, the treatment 
effect seemed to decrease over time, which was also observed to some extent in Study M11-810, although 
the difference vs. placebo was overall larger and a significant difference was observed at all-time points. 
Therefore, continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period.  The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be 
periodically evaluated 
For the three, ranked secondary end-points, none of these achieved statistical significance in Study 
M11-313, however, all outcomes except one were numerically in favour of adalimumab ew.  
Possible reasons for the difference between the two studies and the failure to achieve statistical significance 
for the ranked secondary end-points in study M11-313 provided by the Applicant were between-study 
differences in baseline characteristics (body weight, factors indicating HS severity such as draining fistula 
count, AN count, mean pain score and modified Sartorius scores, proportion of black subjects). In addition 
to between-study differences, there were also some within-study differences in baseline characteristics 
between the adalimumab and placebo groups, e.g. body weight in study M11-810 (mean 96 kg in the 
placebo group and 90 kg in the adalimumab group).  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The safety profile of adalimumab in HS does not appear different from what that previously observed with 
adalimumab in other indications, except for rather frequent reporting of hidradenitis as an AE and which is 
not necessarily causally associated with adalimumab.  
It is well known that adalimumab causes an overall increased infection risk. In both the Placebo-Controlled 
Analysis and Maintenance Analysis Sets, around 30% of subjects across all groups reported 
treatment-emergent infections, the most common being nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, 
urinary tract infection and bronchitis. The rate or severity of infections, including SSTIs, with Humira in HS 
did not give cause for concern in comparison with the experience in other indications.  
Serious AEs were reported in 11% of subjects in the All Adalimumab Analysis Set, with anemia, cellulitis, 
ectopic pregnancy, hidradenitis, non-cardiac chest pain, palpitations, pilonidal cyst, pneumonia, 
postoperative wound infection, sepsis, and septic shock being most common. 2.8% of subjects reported 
TESAEs that were considered at least possibly related to study drug, of these, pneumonia was reported in 2 
subjects. 
A total of two deaths on adalimumab have been reported in the HS clinical studies; one due to 
cardio-respiratory arrest and the other due to septic shock following severe autoimmune pancreatitis. None 
of these events were considered related to adalimumab by the investigators.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 121/124 
 
  
  
With respect to laboratory findings and vital signs, no new concerns were identified in the HS population, 
compared with previous indications for adalimumab. 
Concerning immunological events, some allergic reactions and TEAEs related to hypersensitivity have been 
reported, however, the data do not give cause for concern in relation to what is known for adalimumab in 
other indications. The number of subjects with adalimumab antibodies was overall low (approximately 
10%), however, immunogenicity did not have an apparent impact on the safety of adalimumab in HS 
subjects. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The overall observed incidence of infections, specifically SSTIs, might have been influenced by the required 
use of topical antiseptics in the pivotal phase 3 studies and also in study M12-555. This could potentially 
have reduced the overall rate of SSTIs of HS lesions. Hence, the use of a topical antiseptic wash on the HS 
lesions is recommended in the SmPC. 
In addition, given the relatively limited experience with the dosing regimen in HS, compared to the other 
approved indications of Humira, further information on the long term safety of Humira with the new dosing 
regimen will be collected through the ongoing open label study which is included in the RMP. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
HS can be a severe and debilitating condition, in particular in moderate to severe cases. There are currently 
no approved medicinal products for the treatment of HS and there are few randomized, controlled trials to 
provide firm support for HS treatments. Thus, there is an unmet medical need in this condition. 
An extensive program has been performed for Humira in HS, with development of a new score, the HiSCR, 
to assess efficacy in the two pivotal studies. Both pivotal studies met this primary efficacy end-point, albeit 
with different size of the effect vs. placebo.  
The effect observed for the primary end-point HiSCR, for the ranked secondary end-points (in Study 
M11-810) and other end-points is deemed clinically relevant. The HiSCR outcome in Study M11-313 can also 
be considered clinically meaningful, and is supported by significant improvement in quality of life endpoints.   
In addtion, the post-hoc analysis of HiSCR and ranked secondary end-points (corresponding to phase 3 
end-points) in the phase 2 study M10-467, however, provide further support for efficacy.  
Adalimumab has been approved for more than 10 years and is used in a range of conditions with 
autoimmune origin. Its safety profile is considered well characterized at this stage, with infections and risks 
related to malignancies being well-known risks. The proposed dosing schedule for Humira in HS is quite 
intense, more frequent than the ones commonly used in the other approved indications of Humira.  However, 
the safety profile of adalimumab in HS does not appear different from what that previously observed with 
adalimumab in other indications, except for rather frequent reporting of hidradenitis as an AE. This includes 
the rate and severity of infections, including SSTIs.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
The efficacy of adalimumab in HS as shown in the two pivotal studies and supported by the phase 2 study is 
deemed clinically relevant, including the positive outcomes related to patient-reported QoL. The dosing 
schedule in HS is the most intensive one so far recommended for Humira, however, the safety profile of 
adalimumab in HS did not appear significantly different from what has previously been observed with 
adalimumab in other indications.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 122/124 
 
  
  
Furthermore, the clinical need for the higher maintenance dose in this indication is justified. Therefore, and 
given that the cumulative experience and available safety information with the use of Humira, with this high 
maintenance dose is reassuring, a continuous maintenance dose regimen of 40 mg ew is accepted.   
At the same time it is acknowledged that the safety profile of adalimumab is complex and not entirely 
benign. Thus, a continuous or life-long, treatment of HS may not be justified in all cases. This is clearly 
reflected in the SmPC with clear recommendations to healthcare professionals that the benefit-risk of 
long-term Humira should be periodically re-evaluated. In addition in cases of patients with no improvement 
continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered. 
The benefit-risk balance of adalimumab for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (acne inversa) in adult patients with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy is considered positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
 The application for Humira in the treatment in the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa is approvable since other concerns and major objections have all been resolved. 
Final Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following 
change: 
Variation(s) accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
 C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one 
Extension of Indication to include the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adult patients with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy.  
As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC are updated and the Package Leaflet 
is being updated accordingly. In addition, the MAH proposed minor editorial changes in the SmPC and 
Package Leaflet. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance 
with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal.> 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 123/124 
 
 
 
 
  
  
RMP. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the same 
time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/364731/2015 
Page 124/124 
 
 
  
  
