London, 26 April 2007 
Product name: Humira/Trudexa 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/481-482/II/33 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human immunoglobulin (IgG1) monoclonal antibody containing human 
peptide  sequences  that  binds  to  human  Tumor  Necrosis  Factor  (TNF)  and  neutralises  the  biological 
function of TNF by blocking its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA),  psoriatic  arthritis 
(PsA) and ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 
The MAH applied for an extension of the therapeutic indication for adalimumab to include treatment 
of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD) in adult patients who have had an inadequate 
response  to  conventional  therapy  and  to  include  treatment  in  patients  with  moderately  to  severely 
active CD who have lost response to or are intolerant to infliximab.  
Crohn’s disease is a chronic relapsing, remitting inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal tract, the 
cause of which remains unknown. The disease affects the gastrointestinal tract discontinuously from 
mouth to anus, but most commonly the disease is located both in ileum and colon (40%)1, followed by 
a disease in the small bowel only (30%), and in the colon only (25%). It occurs in a relatively young 
population  and  there  is  no  marked  sex  difference.  The  incidence  of  CD  in  European  countries  is 
estimated  to  be  6-7/100.000.  Patients  with  CD  have  a  normal  life  expectancy,  however,  most 
individuals experience an impact of the disease on their daily life. 
The application for the present type II variation was supported by 2 induction studies (M02-403 and 
M04-691)  and  one  maintenance  study  (M02-404).  Additional  data  from  long-term  extension  studies 
(M02-433 and M04-690) was provided as supportive data. 
The  MAH  proposed  to  amend  the  text  of  the  SPC  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  to  reflect  the 
results of the above mentioned studies, and to update the PL accordingly.  
2. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics2 
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of adalimumab were evaluated in 211 and 276 anti-TNF-naïve subjects in 
study  M02-403  and  study  M02-433,  respectively.  The  PK  of  adalimumab  were  also  evaluated  in 
159 subjects  who  had  lost  response  or  were  intolerant  to  infliximab  in  study  M04-691.  The 
immunogenicity of adalimumab and its potential impact on efficacy and safety were examined in these 
three studies.  
In the clinical trials, the 160 mg induction dose was administered as four subcutaneous injections of 
40 mg in a single day followed by a single dose of 80 mg at week 2. To support administration of the 
160 mg dose as two 80 mg doses on two consecutive days, a population PK analysis and simulations 
were performed based on data from the study M02-403.  
Adalimumab concentrations and anti-adalimumab antibodies (AAA) were determined using validated 
ELISA  (enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay)  methods.  Approximately  half  of  the  total  number  of 
samples were analysed for AAA.  
Population PK model 
A  nonlinear  mixed  effects  modelling  (NONMEM)  approach  was  applied  to  the  PK  data  to  build  a 
population-PK  model  to  estimate  adalimumab  apparent  clearance  (CL/F)  and  apparent  volume  of 
distribution (V/F).  
1 All figures presented in this report are approximate 
2 For details of the studies referred in this section, please see section 3.3 Clinical efficacy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Population PK/PD modelling 
The  model  was  built  with  the  NONMEM  software.  All  subjects  from  study  M02-403  (n=211)  who 
received  at  least  one  dose  and  who  had  at  least  one  measurable  concentration  were  included  in  the 
PK/PD analysis. The efficacy measure  used  was the CDAI (Crohn’s Disease  Activity Index)3 score, 
which reflects the severity of the CD.  
The effects of covariates including weight, age, sex, baseline CRP (C reactive protein) concentration, 
presence  of  AAA,  concomitant  MTX  (methotrexate),  6-MP  (6-mercapto  purine)  or  AZA 
(azathioprine),  and  baseline  CDAI  score  were  explored  in  the  analysis.  Only  log-transformed  CRP 
reached statistical significance, but this only explained 3% of the variability in IC50 values.  
The CHMP considered that the range of data was not large enough to support estimation of the Imax. It 
was  agreed  that  dose  adjustment  based  on  CRP  is  not  warranted.  From  the  graphical  exploration  of 
individual  estimates  (although  not  reliable  due  to  the  sparse  data),  the  only  remaining  trend  was  a 
relation between IC50 and presence of AAA. This relation was not found statistically significant, which 
could be due to the low number of subjects with AAA included (3%), but the relation could still be 
clinically relevant. Review of the few subjects in whom antibodies had been detected, gave signals of 
an association between presence of antibodies and reduced effect. The MAH was requested to revise 
the figures presented in the product information of percentages of patients with AAA, based on their 
respective individual exposure to adalimumab.  
Two  regimens  were  simulated  (1)  160 mg  on  day  0  and  80  mg  on  day  14  and  (2) 80  mg  on  day  0, 
80 mg  on  day  1  and  80  mg  on  day  14.  A  total  of  2500  subjects  were  simulated  for  each  regimen. 
Notwithstanding the identified uncertainties regarding the PK/PD modelling, the simulation results of 
the different dosing regimens tested (160 mg adalimumab given over 1 or 2 days at week 0, followed 
by 80 mg on at week 2) showed similar profiles. 
Figure 1. Serum adalimumab concentrations for 160 mg adalimumab given over 1 or 2 days at week 
0, followed by 80 mg adalimumab on 1 day at week 2 
3 The CDAI is a research tool used to quantify the symptoms of patients with Crohn’s disease, during a one-week assessment 
period. It consists of eight factors, such as number of liquid or soft stools each day for seven days, abdominal pain, general 
well being, presence of complications (uveitis, joint pains, fistulas, abscesses, fever, among others), number of infirm days, 
presence of an abdominal mass, haematocrit below a certain value and the percentage deviation from standard weight. The 
score ranges from zero up to approximately 600. Lower scores correlate with less severe CD activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Regarding the simulated pharmacodynamic profiles, the CHMP agreed that the two profiles seem to 
perform  very  similar  with  regard  to  the  range  of  decrease  in  CDAI  scores  within  the  population, 
however  it  only  shows  the  first  four  weeks  of  treatment  and  on  an  individual  basis  this  may  not  be 
true.  Depending  on  the  initial  baseline  value,  the  decrease  may  be  small  or  not  observed.  Figure  2 
below shows all subjects, both for patients who achieved remission and those who did not. Individual 
observations in this graph were also presented, showing that during the first four weeks of treatment, 
some patients achieved remission, while some patients did not achieve remission or their CDAI score 
was even increased.   
Figure 2. CDAI scores for 160 mg adalimumab given over 1 or 2 days at week 0, followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on 1 day at week 2 
Discussion on pharmacokinetics 
The CHMP identified certain uncertainties regarding the PK/PD modelling, but since the MAH did not 
intend  to  use  the  model  further,  no  issue  remained  regarding  this  question.  The  MAH  presented  a 
discussion regarding the percentage of patients with AAA based on the patients individual exposure to 
adalimumab  and  updated  the  SPC  accordingly.  The  alternate  dosing  regimen  over  two  days  for  the 
first dose was considered acceptable from a pharmacokinetic point of view.  
3. 
Clinical efficacy 
Introduction 
To support this application the MAH presented the following study programme: 
Induction studies 
Study  M02-403  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  phase  2/3  study  to 
evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  PK  of  adalimumab,  in  comparison  with  placebo,  as  induction 
treatment  for  anti-TNF-naïve  subjects  with  moderate  to  severe  CD.  Subjects  were  to  have  had  a 
diagnosis of CD for > 4 months.  
Study  M04-691  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  phase  3  study 
designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and PK of adalimumab 160/80 mg, in comparison to placebo, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as  induction  treatment  for  subjects  with  moderate  to  severe  CD  who  either  initially  responded  to 
infliximab and lost response or who were intolerant to infliximab. Subjects with a diagnosis of CD for 
any length of time were enrolled. 
Maintenance study 
Study M02-404 consisted of a 4-week open label (OL) induction phase followed by a 52-week double 
blind,  randomised,  parallel,  placebo-controlled  phase.  It  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and 
safety  of  adalimumab  in  subjects  who  had  initially  responded  to  an  OL  adalimumab  induction 
regimen. Subjects who were naïve to anti-TNF agents and subjects who had been previously treated 
with an anti-TNF agent other than adalimumab were enrolled.  
Extension program 
Subjects  who  completed  studies  M02-403,  M04-691  or  M02-404  were  eligible  to  be  enrolled  in  a 
long-term extension program, study M02-433 or study M04-690 (see Figure 3 below). Study M02-433 
is an ongoing maintenance study. Study M04-690 is a long-term safety and efficacy study. However, 
only safety data collected through 14 February 2006 were presented. Figure 3 shows a flow diagram of 
the studies: 
Figure 3 
Flow diagram of studies 
Induction Studies
Maintenance Studies
Long-Term Extension Studies
M02-403 
Dose ranging study in anti-TNF 
naïve subjects
N= 299
M04-691
Infliximab failure subjects
N=325
Ongoing
Completed
Methods 
M02-433 – First Year
Long-term safety and efficacy
N=276
M02-433 – Continuation
Long-term safety and efficacy
N=172
M02-404 
Long-term safety and efficacy 
in anti-TNF naïve and experienced 
subjects 
N=854
M04-690
Long-term safety and efficacy
N=777
Subject Population 
Patients included had severe CD,  with a disease activity defined by a CDAI  score between 220 and 
450 points. The definition of severe disease according to CDAI score is a score >450. No such patients 
were  included  in  the  studies.  The  MAH  defined  subjects  with  a  score  over  300  and  concomitant 
medication  as  having  severe  disease,  which  was  agreed  with  by  the  CHMP.  This  information  was 
included in the SPC. The enrolled subjects represented a heterogeneous spectrum of treatment patterns 
which  included  subjects  who  had  previously  failed  conventional  therapy  for  moderate  to  severe 
disease  (corticosteroids  and/or  immunosuppressants)  and  were  no  longer  candidates  for  these 
treatments based on the judgment of their healthcare providers, subjects who were being treated with 
conventional therapy, and subjects who had been previously treated with anti-TNF agents, primarily 
infliximab. 
Entry  criteria  were  similar  across  studies  and  included  the  following:  males  and  females  ≥ 18  and 
≤ 75 years  of  age;  females  who  were  not  pregnant  or  breast  feeding;  diagnosis  of  CD  confirmed  by 
endoscopy  or  radiologic  evaluation;  and  no  history  of  ulcerative  colitis,  cancer,  lymphoproliferative 
disease, active or untreated tuberculosis (TB), listeria, or human immunodeficiency virus. 
Concomitant Crohn's-related medications 
Concomitant  Crohn's-related  medications  were  to  remain  constant  throughout  each  study  and  could 
include  immunosuppressants  (AZA,  6-MP,  MTX),  aminosalicylates,  Crohn's-related  antibiotics,  or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
corticosteroids.  No  new  Crohn's-related  medications  were  to  be  started  during  a  subject's  study 
participation  and  doses  of  concomitant  medications  were  not  to  change  during  study  participation, 
except for steroid tapering. Corticosteroid users were allowed to taper corticosteroids after week 8 in 
study M02-404 and in the OL cohort in study M02-433, or were required to taper corticosteroids after 
week 8  in  the  randomised  cohort  in  study  M02-433  if  the  subject  had  responded  to  study  therapy. 
Subjects  were  not  to  receive  cyclosporine,  mycophenolate  mofetil,  or  tacrolimus  within  8 weeks  of 
screening  and  during  the  trials.  Subjects  were  also  not  to  receive  therapeutic  enemas,  but  were 
permitted to be treated with enemas as preparation for a colonoscopy. 
Efficacy endpoint 
The same primary endpoint, clinical remission defined as a CDAI score < 150, was evaluated in all of 
the studies. Some secondary efficacy endpoints were clinical response (CR) endpoints based on CDAI 
scores, such as CR-100 and CR-70, which are defined as decreases from baseline in CDAI scores of 
≥ 100 points and ≥ 70 points, respectively. Other secondary endpoints included durability of response, 
ability  of  subjects  to  discontinue  steroid  use,  heal  draining  cutaneous  fistulas  for  the  maintenance 
studies,  the  Inflammatory  Bowel  Disease  Questionnaire  (IBDQ)4  (all  studies)  and  SF-36  health 
survey5 (study M02-404 only) to assess the effect on subject well-being. 
Statistical Methods 
The statistical methods in general were considered acceptable. 
Main clinical studies  
Study M02-403 (induction) 
Study participants 
The  study  participants  were  adults  above  18  and  below  75  years  of  age,  anti-TNFα  naïve,  with  a 
diagnosis of CD (CDAI score ≥ 220 and ≤ 450) > 4 months confirmed by endoscopy or radiology.  
The primary endpoint was clinical remission (CDAI < 150) at week 4. Subjects who completed study 
M02-403  and  met  entry  criteria  for  study  M02-433  were  given  the  opportunity  to  rollover  into  this 
study which evaluated the maintenance of clinical remission in subjects with CD. 
The CHMP noted that the design of a dose finding and an induction study together made the compared 
groups  small.  It  was  considered  acceptable,  although  the  observed  difference  in  terms  of  remission 
between  the  adalimumab  160/80  mg  group  and  the  placebo  group  was  just  slightly  less  than  the 
predefined effect (23.3% vs. 25%, respectively). Additionally, patients included had CDAI scores of 
≥ 220 and ≤ 450, which correspond to patients with moderate disease only. The MAH was asked to 
calculate  the  number  of  subjects  corresponding  to  a  severe  population,  based  on  overall  clinical 
condition of the patient. No patients with CDAI score > 450 were included in the study. The MAH’s 
proposed  a  definition  of  severe  disease  as  patients  with  CDAI  score  >  300  and  concomitant 
corticosteroid  and/or  immunosuppressants.  The  CHMP  accepted  this  definition,  which  was  then 
reflected in the product information.  
The majority of subjects were women (54%), Caucasian (89%) and the median age was 37 years. The 
demographics  characteristics  were  considered  as  generally  similar  between  the  groups  with  a  few 
exceptions.  For  example,  there  were  a  greater  proportion  of  younger  subjects  in  the  placebo  group 
compared  to  the  active  treatment  groups.  Disease  characteristics  were  similar  between  the  groups 
except that a greater proportion of subjects in the highest dose group had CDAI score > 300.  
It  was  noted  that  50%  of  patients  had  neither  steroids  nor  immunosuppressants  at  inclusion. 
Furthermore,  approximately  20%  of  the  patients  had  not  received  steroids  or  immunosuppressants 
prior to the study or at baseline. Consequently, they were naïve not only to TNFα inhibitors but also to 
4 The Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) is a patient status questionnaire, which includes several domains 
such as social function, systemic system, emotional function and bowel symptoms.  
5  SF-36  health  survey  is  a  brief  and  comprehensive  generic,  quality  of  life  questionnaire,  or  rating  scale,  which  is  able  to 
distinguish between patients with CD and the general population. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
“conventional”  treatment.  Furthermore,  only  about  10%  of  patients  had  both  steroids  and 
immunosuppressants at baseline.  
The MAH was asked to clarify the number of patients who represented the population with failure to 
conventional therapy. The MAH’s definition of refractory patients was not agreed with. It was further 
acknowledged that the minority of truly refractory subjects in the trial might be a problem in relation 
to  the  proposed  indication,  but  this  situation  was  still  accepted.  The  CHMP  therefore  recommended 
that the indication should be restricted to patients with severe disease only, due to the safety profile of 
adalimumab (see discussion on clinical safety).  
Steroids and a defined tapering of those were allowed. It was noted that the steroid dose permitted for 
the induction studies (≤20mg) was lower than the permitted dose in the maintenance studies (≤30mg). 
The  CHMP  asked  for  further  details  on  steroid  use  and  analyses  of  the  effects  of  concomitant 
corticosteroids  and/or  immunosuppressive  in  the  effect  of  adalimumab,  which  were  provided  by  the 
MAH (see discussion of efficacy below).  
Treatment 
A  total  of  299  subjects  were  randomised  to  receive  one  of  four  treatment  regimens  (1:1:1:1)  by 
subcutaneous  (sc)  injections.  Subjects  received  either  adalimumab  160 mg  at  baseline  (week 0) 
followed  by  80 mg  at  week 2,  adalimumab  80 mg  at  week 0  followed  by  40 mg  at  week 2, 
adalimumab 40 mg at week 0 followed by 20 mg at week 2, or placebo at week 0 and week 2.  
The doses were chosen based on the approved RA dosing of 40 mg eow (every other week), which in 
RA  results  in  serum  concentrations  of  4-8  µg/ml.  Based  on  the  prediction  generated  from 
pharmacokinetic  modelling,  an  initial  doubling  of  the  dose  was  utilised  to  provide  enhanced  and 
sustained  adalimumab  levels  in  the  beginning of  treatment.  The  dose  of  160/80 mg  was  expected  to 
yield a concentration slightly above 10 µg/ml, which was the serum level that produced near maximal 
response in the RA programme. 
Subjects  who  experienced  disease  flare  or  nonresponse  during  the  CD  studies  were  permitted  to 
continue treatment by switching to open-label adalimumab therapy. Subjects who switched to open-
label adalimumab therapy were imputed as failures for the efficacy endpoints. 
Results: 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
Only the group of subjects treated with adalimumab 160/80 mg had a statistically significantly greater 
remission  rate  at  week  4  compared  to  placebo  (36%  vs.  12%;  p  =  0.001),  while  the  results  in  the 
80/40 mg groups was borderline statistically significant (p<0.061). The odds ratios for the difference 
from  placebo  in  the  clinical  remission  rate  were  4.0,  2.3,  and  1.5  for  the  adalimumab  160/80  mg, 
80/40 mg,  and  40/20  mg  groups,  respectively.    Time  to  clinical  remission  was  evaluated  across  the 
induction  regimens.  The  25th  percentile  for  time  to  clinical  remission  was  15  days  for  adalimumab 
160/80 mg (statistically significantly different vs. placebo), 29 days for adalimumab 80/40 mg, and 33 
days for placebo.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Statistically significantly greater proportions of subjects in the adalimumab 160/80 mg group than in 
the  placebo  group  experienced  CR-100  (49%  and  24%,  respectively)  and  CR-70  (58%  and  34%, 
respectively) at week 4. For the adalimumab 80/40 mg and adalimumab 40/20 mg groups at week 4, 
the only statistically significant differences for adalimumab vs. placebo were for CR-70.  
The mean change in IBDQ scores from baseline (week 0) to week 4 was 21 in the placebo group, and 
18, 31 and 34 in the adalimumab 40/20 mg; 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg groups. Only the change in the 
160/80 mg group reached statistical significance.  
There  was  a  greater  percentage  difference  between  placebo  and  CR-100  and  CR-70  response  in  the 
lower dosing regimens compared to the results for remission. The percentage difference for the highest 
dosing regimen vs placebo was similar between remission rates and response rates. This might imply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  subjects  that  are  responders  to  treatment  have  a  good  chance  of  reaching  remission  with  higher 
doses.  
Study M04 − 691 (induction) 
Study participants 
The  study  participants  were  adults  above  18  and  below  75  years  of  age,  with  a  diagnosis  of  CD 
confirmed by endoscopy or radiology (CDAI score ≥ 220 and ≤ 450). Subjects had to have responded 
to  an  initial  infliximab  dose,  and  to  receive  at  least  two  subsequent  doses  of  infliximab  ≥ 5  mg/kg 
every 8 weeks. Subjects were to have discontinued infliximab at least 8 weeks prior to screening. The 
primary  endpoint  was  clinical  remission  (CDAI  <  150)  at  week 4.  The  majority  of  patients  were 
women (65%), Caucasian (94%) and the median age was 37 years. The demographics characteristics 
were generally similar with a few exceptions. For example, there were a greater proportion of females 
in the active treatment group compared to the placebo group. The disease characteristics were similar 
between  the  groups.  The  subjects  represented  a  more  severely  ill  population  compared  to  the 
population in study M02-403. For instance, it was noted that more patients in this study compared with 
study  M02-403  were  treated  with  either  steroids  or  immunosuppressants  at  inclusion.  However, 
approximately 30% of the patients had not received steroids or immunosuppressants prior to the study 
or at baseline, which indicates that they had received infliximab as first line treatment earlier, which 
constitutes an off-label use in Europe. 
Treatment 
A  total  of  325  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  receive  adalimumab  160/80  mg  or 
placebo, at week 0 and 2. Subjects who completed week 4 of the study could be enrolled into study 
M04-690. 
Results: 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
The proportion of subjects who achieved clinical remission at week 4 was greater in the adalimumab 
160/80 mg group compared to the placebo group (21% vs. 7%, respectively, p<0.001).  
There were no obvious differences in response to treatment between patients that had loss of response 
compared to those who had become intolerant to infliximab, although there may be a trend towards a 
better response in patients with intolerance to infliximab. The effect did not seem to be driven by the 
anti-infliximab antibody status. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
The CHMP noted that the ∆ (delta) percentage of difference between active treatment and placebo was 
approximately 14 and 18% respectively for CR-100 and CR-70 response (38% vs. 25% and 52% vs. 
34%, for adalimumab and placebo respectively). About 40-50 % of patients in this patient group who 
are generally difficult to treat, improved. Small but statistically significant differences were noted in 
the IBDQ score and CRP levels. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  it  would  have  been  interesting  to  include  primary  non-responders  to 
infliximab  in  this  study.  There  were  some  withdrawals  in  the  study  and  especially  in  the  active 
treatment arm. As in study M02-403, this was considered as probably at least partly dependent on the 
short study duration. After clarification from the MAH, it became evident that the definition of loss of 
response  was  far  too  vague  to  justify  an  inclusion  of  a  statement  in  the  indication.  To  justify  such 
statement, an infliximab arm  would have been required. Although the justification for intolerance is 
more relevant, it is probable that subjects were included after minor reactions since only one symptom 
was  required.  Furthermore,  the  delayed  reactions  seemed  unspecific  and  could  have  other 
explanations.  The  MAH  proposed  to  include  the  information  that  primary  non-responders  were 
excluded from the studies in the revised product information. This was accepted by the CHMP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study M02-404 (maintenance) 
Study participants 
The study participants were adults above 18 and below 75 years of age, who may have used an anti-
TNFα agent (excluding primary non-responders to previous anti-TNFα treatment) with a diagnosis of 
CD > 4 months (CDAI score ≥ 220 and ≤ 450). 
The  mITT6  (modified  intent  to  treat)  analysis  set  (N  =  499)  included  randomised  subjects  who 
achieved a CR-70 at week 4. The first co-primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects in clinical 
remission at week 26, and the second co-primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects in clinical 
remission at week 56.  
The majority of subjects were women (62%), Caucasian (93%) and the median age was 36 years. The 
demographics,  disease  characteristics  and  the  disease  related  study  medication  in  this  study  was 
similar to the induction studies.  
Treatment 
Open label (OL) phase 
All 854 enrolled subjects received OL adalimumab induction therapy of 80 mg administered at week 0 
and 40 mg administered at week 2.  
Placebo controlled phase 
After the OL phase, at week 4, subjects were stratified by responder status (subject who achieved CR-
70) and previous anti-TNF use and were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three blinded treatment 
groups: adalimumab 40 mg ew (every week), adalimumab 40 mg eow, or placebo. Subjects could have 
been  switched  to  OL  adalimumab  40  mg  eow  at  or  after  week  12  if  they  experienced  a  protocol-
defined flare or loss of response (i.e. an increase in CDAI score of at least 70 points and a CDAI score 
above  220).  The  dose  could  have  been  increased  to  adalimumab  40  mg  ew  for  repeated  flare  or 
nonresponse. Subjects who met CR-70 after week 8 could have been tapered from corticosteroids.  
There were a greater number of discontinuations in this maintenance study. The discontinuation due to 
lack  of  efficacy  and  adverse  events  was  higher  in  the  placebo  group,  at  least  compared  to  the 
adalimumab 40 mg ew group. 
Further to the request for supplementary information, the MAH explained that the induction regimen 
was selected before results from the M02-403 induction dose-ranging study were available. Based on 
predicted serum concentrations and previous experience from RA, it was assumed that this induction 
regimen would provide adequate efficacy to initiate treatment of CD.  
Results 
Of the 854 subjects who entered the OL induction phase, 25% achieved clinical remission, 45% CR-
100, and 60% achieved CR-70 at week 4. 
Primary endpoint 
The  proportions  of  mITT  subjects  who  achieved  clinical  remission  at  weeks  26  and  56  were 
statistically  significantly  greater  in  the  adalimumab  40  mg  eow  and  40  mg  ew  compared  to  placebo 
(46%,  39%,  17%  and  41%,  36%,  12%,  respectively).  The  clinical  remission  rate  for  each  of  the 
adalimumab groups was statistically significantly greater than placebo at each study visit from week 8 
through  week  56.  The  differences  between  the  adalimumab  40  mg  eow  and  adalimumab  40  mg  ew 
groups at both of these time points were not statistically significant, but there was a trend towards a 
better efficacy in the subjects that received treatment ew. 
Among the 260 subjects randomised to adalimumab 40 mg eow maintenance dosing, 71 (27%) dose 
escalated to 40 mg ew dosing. Among those, 54 (76%) achieved CR-70 response after dose escalation. 
The  MAH  argued  that  dose  escalation  from  40 mg  eow  to  40 mg  ew  may  be  beneficial  for  subjects 
who  do  not  respond  to  the  initial  maintenance  dose  or  who  lose  response.  However,  the  CHMP 
considered that it has not been possible to identify criteria which could predict such benefit.  
6  Modified  intent-to-treat  includes  all  randomised  subjects  who  received  at  least  one dose  of  randomised  study  drug  and 
achieved clinical response at week 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Based on the results presented above, the MAH applied for the dosing regimen 40 mg eow, which was 
accepted by the CHMP. 
Secondary Endpoint 
The proportions of subjects with CR-100 and CR-70 at weeks 26 and 56 were statistically significantly 
greater  for  each  adalimumab  dose  vs.  placebo  in  the  mITT  analysis  set.  These  significant  treatment 
differences were noted early (week 8) and remained throughout the double blind phase (week 56).  
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  discontinued  steroid  use  for  at  least  90  days  and  were  in  clinical 
remission was statistically significant between each of the adalimumab groups (about 20-30%) and the 
placebo group (3-5%) at weeks 26 and 56. In addition, the proportion of subjects in first steroid-free 
clinical remission was statistically significant between each of the adalimumab groups (about 30-35%) 
and the placebo group (3-6%) at week 26, week 56, and both week 26 and week 56. No statistically 
significant  difference  was  observed  between  the  adalimumab  groups.  Statistically  significant  effects 
were shown on most IBDQ scores. 
Time to loss of response 
The MAH was asked to address information on time to loss of remission when therapy is stopped. In 
study  M02-404,  there  are  controlled  data  on  subjects  who  were  initially  treated  with  open-label 
induction  regimen  80/40  mg  and  then  randomised  to  blinded  placebo  maintenance  therapy.  Overall, 
71% of the subjects in remission at week 4 following adalimumab 80/40 mg induction therapy, who 
were randomised to placebo, lost remission after 12 weeks off therapy (receiving placebo) and 43% of 
these  subjects  lost  remission  after  only  4  weeks  off  therapy  (receiving  placebo).  These  data  were 
considered sufficient to address loss of remission. Nevertheless, it is evident that only approximately 
35-40% of subjects in the trial were in remission at week 56.  
Concomitant medication  
The CHMP noted that adalimumab showed a steroid-sparing effect in the maintenance trial M02-404, 
where 23-39% of patients treated with adalimumab were able to be steroid free and still in remission at 
weeks 26 and 56. However, nearly 80 % of subjects received concomitant medications (corticosteroid 
and/  or  immunosuppressants)  during  the  maintenance  study.  The  MAH  presented  week  56  data  on 
clinical  response  and  remission  for  subjects  not  receiving  immunomodulators.  The  results  indicated 
that more patients on adalimumab than on placebo could be successfully treated without concomitant 
use of immunosuppressant and corticosteroid treatment.  
Randomised Non-Responder (RNR) analysis set 
A total of 279 subjects did not achieve CR-70 after OL adalimumab 80/40 mg induction therapy and 
were  randomised  (RNR  analysis  set)  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  one  of  three  blinded  treatment  groups  as 
described before. The proportions of RNR subjects who achieved clinical remission at weeks 26 and 
56 were greater in the adalimumab 40 mg eow (22% and 16%, respectively) and 40 mg ew (9% and 
13%,  respectively)  groups  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (8%  and  8%,  respectively),  however  not 
statistically  significant.  The  only  statistically  significant  difference  was  between  adalimumab  40  mg 
eow and placebo at week 26. 
The CHMP noted that the fact that there is a statistically significant difference between placebo and 
adalimumab 40 mg eow in this non-responder analysis might indicate that two doses and evaluation 
after 4 weeks may be a too short time for some subjects to respond on.  
Fistula analysis  
The fistula analysis set consisted of 117 randomised subjects who had draining cutaneous fistulas at 
both  screening  and  baseline  evaluations,  to  ensure  that  only  subjects  with  persistent  fistulas  were 
included.  Based  on  the  anticipated  small  sample  size,  the  adalimumab  40  mg  eow  and  adalimumab 
40 mg ew groups were combined for all fistula analyses vs. the placebo group.  
The  proportions  of  subjects  with  one  or  more  draining  cutaneous  fistulas  at  both  screening  and 
baseline were 18%, 11%, and 16% in the placebo, adalimumab 40 mg eow, and adalimumab 40 mg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ew treatment groups, respectively. Most subjects (97%) had perianal fistulas and most subjects (61%) 
had only one fistula.  
A greater proportion of subjects in the combined adalimumab group compared to the placebo group 
had  no  draining  cutaneous  fistulas  at  the  last  two  evaluations  during  double  blind  treatment,  the 
seventh ranked secondary endpoint (33% and 13%, respectively [p = 0.016]. Based on the hierarchical 
ranking of the major secondary endpoints, this evaluation was not statistically significant. 
The difference between the combined adalimumab group and the placebo group in the proportion of 
subjects with no draining cutaneous fistulas at the last two evaluations on or before week 26 and week 
56  were  statistically  significant  (30%  and  13%  respectively;  p  =  0.043;  and  (33%  and  13%, 
respectively; p = 0.016).  
Although the effects described above were noted, the CHMP considered the data insufficiently robust 
for inclusion in the SPC.  
Supportive clinical study 
Study M02 − 433 (maintenance) 
Study participants and treatment 
A total of 276 subjects from study M02-403 were enrolled. Subjects who achieved clinical remission 
at study M02-433 baseline (week 0), and remained in clinical remission at week 4 were randomised in 
a 1:1:1 ratio to adalimumab 40 mg ew, adalimumab 40 mg eow, or placebo. Subjects not achieving 
clinical remission at one or both of these timepoints were assigned to receive OL adalimumab 40 mg 
eow. Subjects in the randomised group who experienced a protocol-defined flare or were considered 
non-responders  could  be  switched  to  OL  adalimumab  40  mg  eow.  Subjects  receiving  adalimumab 
40 mg eow from either the randomised or OL groups who met these criteria for flare or non-response 
could be switched to adalimumab 40 mg ew.  
At week 4, 55 subjects were randomised to placebo, adalimumab 40 mg eow, or adalimumab 40 mg 
ew and 204 subjects were assigned to OL adalimumab 40 mg eow. A total of 17 enrolled OL subjects 
discontinued prior to week 4.  
The primary efficacy analysis included all randomised subjects who received at least one dose of study 
drug. The primary efficacy variable was the maintenance of clinical remission at week 56.  
Results  
Primary endpoint: 
The proportion of subjects achieving clinical remission for OL, adalimumab ew, adalimumab eow and 
placebo was 36%, 94% (p<0.05 vs. placebo), 58% and 39% at week 24 and 36%, 67%, 47% and 33% 
at  week  56,  respectively.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  in  the  OL  analysis 
between  the  treatment  groups.  The  subjects  were  to  proceed  to  the  adalimumab  40  mg  ew  regimen 
only if the adalimumab 40 mg eow regimen was not effective. 
Secondary endpoints  
Time  in  clinical  remission  was  longer  in  each  of  the  randomised  adalimumab  groups  than  in  the 
placebo group. Median time in clinical remission was 120 and 337 days for placebo and adalimumab 
40 mg eow, respectively, and could not be determined for the adalimumab 40 mg ew because  more 
than  50%  of  subjects  who  attained  clinical  remission  remained  in  clinical  remission  at  study 
completion. The difference between placebo and adalimumab 40 mg ew was statistically significant. 
These results were similar to the time in clinical remission results seen in study M02-404.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical data were submitted on efficacy in special populations. Only 28 patients > 65 and 5 patient 
> 75 were included. No children were included.  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
There  were  no  significant  differences  between  placebo  groups  and  active  treatment  concerning  for 
example  severity  of  the  disease  with  the  exception  that  there  was  a  difference  in  the  remission  rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between placebo and active treatment for subjects treated with corticosteroids at baseline. The answer 
to treatment was higher in patients with corticosteroids at baseline.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  MAH  presented  a  study  programme  to  support  the  application  for  extension  of  the  therapeutic 
indication to include treatment of patients with moderate to severe CD.  
The study program included study M02-403 as a combined dose finding and induction study. At week 
4, efficacy was only established for the 160/80 mg induction dosing regimen while the results in the 
80/40 mg groups was borderline statistically significant (p<0.061). However, the CHMP considered it 
not  unlikely  that  patients  treated  with  80/40  mg  eventually  should  have  responded  to  therapy.  The 
MAH  was  asked  to  further  present  and  discuss  efficacy  and  safety  data  at  the  8  and  12  weeks  time 
points  in  patients  who  had  continued  in  study  M02-433,  for  the  respective  induction  dose  groups. 
Additional analyses showed similar efficacy for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction doses at week 
8,  38%  and  36%  of  subjects  were  in  clinical  remission  for  the  160/80  mg  and  80/40  mg  regimens, 
respectively. In addition, the 12-week data indicated that the total frequency of adverse events (AEs), 
and  especially  serious  and  severe  AEs,  was  higher  in  the  160/80  mg  compared  with  the  80/40  mg 
dosing regimen; and that there were higher frequencies of for example, infectious AEs and injection 
related AEs in the 160/80 mg group (see 4. Clinical safety). Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the 
80/40 mg induction regimen should be the first option. However, in situations when a rapid response is 
required the 160/80 mg dose regimen would be an option, provided that the prescriber is aware of the 
risks associated with this dose regimen. The MAH revised the product information accordingly.  
Further  analyses  on  the  impact  of  concomitant  steroid  use  indicated  a  statistically  significant  better 
efficacy at week 4 in the 160/80 mg induction dose regimen group, for those using corticosteroids at 
baseline  (40%  vs.  8%,  for  adalimumab  vs.  placebo  respectively)  than  for  those  not  using 
corticosteroids at baseline (19% vs. 9%, for adalimumab vs. placebo respectively). Thus, concomitant 
steroid  use  in  the  induction  phase  was  considered  a  predictor  for  clinical  efficacy.  The  product 
information  was  updated  to  recommend  that  adalimumab  is  to  be  used  concomitantly  with 
corticosteroids in the induction phase. However, adalimumab may be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to corticosteroids or when continued treatment with corticosteroids is inappropriate 
The other induction study M04-691 evaluated the 160/80 mg adalimumab dosing regimen in patients 
who  had  earlier  response  to  infliximab  but  lost  the  response  or  developed  intolerance  to  infliximab. 
There  was  a  statistical  significant  difference  (14%)  among  adalimumab  and  placebo  treated  groups, 
which  was  smaller  than  the  difference  observed  in  study  M02-403.  Primary  non-responders  to 
infliximab were not included. Treatment with adalimumab might be an alternative in patients who lost 
response or are intolerant to infliximab. However, the definition of loss of response was far too vague 
to  justify  an inclusion  of a  statement  in  the  indication.  To  justify  such  statement,  an  infliximab  arm 
would have been required in the trial. Also the definition for intolerance to infliximab was insufficient 
to justify an indication. The MAH agreed to add this information to section 5.1 of the SPC. 
In the pivotal maintenance study M02-404 (ITT n=499) the sustained response with patients in clinical 
remission at week 56 in the treatment group with 40 mg adalimumab eow was 36% compared to 12% 
for  placebo.  This  was  statistically  significant  and  considered  a  clinically  relevant  difference; 
comparable with the results for the earlier approved anti-TNFα agent. However, the CHMP noted that 
only responders to treatment were included. In the supportive maintenance study M02-433 there were 
very few subjects in the randomised analyses which made the data difficult to interpret.  
4. 
Clinical safety 
The safety of adalimumab was determined through evaluation of AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), 
TNF-inhibitor  related  AEs  of  interest  (which  include  infections,  hypersensitivity  reactions, 
malignancies, congestive heart failure, hepatic events and demyelinating disease events), injection site 
reactions, clinical laboratory evaluations, physical examinations and vital signs. Safety was assessed in 
three analysis sets (induction, double-blind maintenance, and all studies). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
The  adalimumab  development  program  in  CD  included  safety  experience  from  1459  subjects  who 
received  at  least  one  dose  of  adalimumab;  for  cumulative  exposure  of  1506  patient  years,  through 
14 February 2006. Table 1 below presents the analysis sets for the safety analysis. 
Table 1. 
Analysis sets for safety analysis 
Analysis Set 
Induction 
studies 
included  Safety Population 
M02-403
M04-691
M02-404 
Subjects from M02-403 and M04-691 who 
received at least one injection of 
randomized study drug and subjects from 
M02-404 who received at least one 
injection of adalimumab during OL 
induction period 
Number of Subjects 
1478 
(240 placebo, 74 adalimumab 40/20 mg, 
75 adalimumab 80/40 mg DB, 854 
adalimumab 80/40 mg OL, and 235 
adalimumab 160/80 mg) 
Double blind 
Maintenance 
M02-404
M02-433 
Subjects who received at least one 
injection of randomized study drug 
(adalimumab or placebo) 
833 
(279 placebo, 279 adalimumab 40 mg 
eow, 275 adalimumab 40 mg ew) 
Subjects who received at least one 
injection of adalimumab (OL or DB) 
All Studies 
M02-403
M02-404
M02-433
M04-690
M04-691 
1459 (1238 subjects in induction studies 
[225 in M02-403, 854 in M02-404, 159 in 
M04-691] and 221 placebo subjects who 
received adalimumab in extension studies 
[65 in M02-433 and 156 in M04 690]) 
The extent of adalimumab exposure during controlled Studies M02-403, M02-404, and M04-691 and 
extension Studies M02-433 and M04-690 was submitted.  
Adverse events 
In the induction analysis set, the proportion of subjects reporting at least one treatment − emergent AE 
was statistically significantly greater in the placebo group compared with the adalimumab 160/80 mg 
group (73% vs. 63%, respectively; p=0.018). The MAH presented the frequency of AEs at week 4, and 
there were no major differences between the 80/40 mg and the 160/80 mg dosing regimens although 
the numbers  of subjects were considered low. After  further analyses of data up to week 12 in study 
M02-403  patients  only  who  continued  to  study  M02-433  the  total  frequency  of  AEs,  and  especially 
serious  and  severe  AEs,  was  higher  in  the  groups  who  had  received  160/80  mg  compared  with  the 
80/40 mg dosing regimen; and that there were higher frequencies of for example, infectious AEs and 
injection related AEs in the 160/80 mg group. 
In the induction analysis set, the most frequently reported treatment-emergent AEs (≥ 5% of subjects 
in any treatment group) included injection site irritation, headache, nausea, arthralgia, abdominal pain, 
injection  site  reaction,  nasopharyngitis,  fatigue,  CD,  and  injection  site  pain.  There  was  a  greater 
proportion of placebo subjects reporting CD compared with adalimumab 160/80 mg treated subjects 
(9% vs. 3%, respectively; p = 0.010). A ≥ 2-fold increase in the incidence of arthralgia was noted in 
the  adalimumab  160/80  mg  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (5%  vs.  2%,  respectively).  There 
was  no  significant  difference  between  the  commonly  reported  possibly  drug  related  AEs  (≥  1%  of 
subjects in any treatment group) in the adalimumab group compared to the placebo except for fatigue.   
During  the  double  blind  treatment  in  studies  M02-404  and  M02-433,  the  overall  incidence  of 
treatment-emergent  AEs  was  85%,  88%,  and  85%  in  the  placebo,  adalimumab  40 mg  eow,  and 
adalimumab 40 mg ew treatment groups, respectively.  
The  most  frequently  reported  (≥  5%  of  subjects  in  any  treatment  group)  treatment − emergent  AEs 
during double blind treatment included CD, arthralgia, nasopharyngitis, headache, nausea, abdominal 
pain, fatigue, upper respiratory tract infection, pyrexia, influenza, urinary tract infection, injection site 
reaction, diarrhoea, and pharyngolaryngeal pain.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Two deaths were reported across the five studies. In study M02-404, a 72-year-old white male, died 
due  to  pulmonary  embolism.  In  study  M02-404,  a  56-year-old  white  female,  died  from  acute 
leukaemia, 6 months after discontinuation of OL adalimumab 40 mg eow in study M04-690 (definite 
exposure to adalimumab was approximately one year, with additional potential exposure of 4 months). 
The first case of death seemed unrelated to the study drug but the second case may be related. 
The  SAEs  reported  in  the  induction  analysis  set  were  gastrointestinal  disorders,  infections  and 
infestations, metabolism and nutrition disorders, among others. From the data presented there were no 
major  dose-dependent  differences  in  SAEs.  However,  the  CHMP  alerted  that  these  data  have  to  be 
interpreted  with  caution  since  the  number  of  patients  was  small.  The  number  of  SAEs  leading  to 
discontinuation was very small. 
No higher risk of SAEs in the different dosing regimens was evident in the double blind maintenance 
analysis  set.  The  significantly  lower  number  of  SAEs  in  the  active  treatment  group  compared  to 
placebo  was  possibly  due  to  more  CD-related  effects.  There  was  no  difference  if  SAEs  concerning 
gastrointestinal  events  were  excluded.  There  were  5  patients  with  small  bowel  obstruction  in  the 
40 mg  eow  group,  but  there  was  no  apparent  relation  to  adalimumab  treatment.  Nevertheless,  a 
warning  statement  was  added  to  the  SPC,  and  the  MAH  committed  to  monitor  the  occurrence  of 
intestinal stricture in ongoing safety studies and the planned registry. 
There were more discontinuations due to AEs in the active treatment group, at least with the 80/40 mg 
dosing regimen.  
Adverse events of special interest 
Infections 
In the all studies analysis set, the percentage of subjects reporting at least one infectious AE was 58%. 
Nasopharyngitis  was  the  most  commonly  reported  infection,  followed  by  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection and sinusitis. Infectious AEs at least possibly drug related were reported by 15% of subjects. 
Furthermore, in the all studies analysis set, the percentage of subjects reporting at least one infectious 
SAE was 5%. Infectious SAEs at least possibly drug related were reported by 2% of subjects. 
In  the  double  blind  maintenance  analysis  set,  the  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  at  least  one 
infectious AE was slightly higher in the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo group. 
However, when summarised as events per 100 PYs (patient years), the pattern of infectious AE rates 
among treatment groups was lower in each of the adalimumab groups than placebo. Nasopharyngitis 
was  the  most  commonly  reported  infectious  AE,  followed  by  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  and 
influenza.  
Opportunistic infections (all analyses set) 
Twenty-eight  subjects  (26  adalimumab  and  2  placebo)  reported  at  least  one  treatment  −  emergent 
opportunistic  infection.  The  opportunistic  infections  resolved  in  18  subjects  and  were  ongoing  in 
10 subjects. Of the 28 subjects reporting an opportunistic infection, 14 had events considered at least 
possibly drug related. Only one of these events led to premature discontinuation of study drug. 
Three  subjects  (2  from  study  M02-404  and  1  from  study  M04-690)  reported  tuberculosis  (TB)  or 
pulmonary TB. Each of the events was considered possibly or probably drug related. Two of the cases 
occurred in previously tuberculin negative subjects and one in a subject despite a history of adequate 
prophylaxis for latent TB. This underscores the need for continued surveillance for tuberculosis, with 
stringent surveillance techniques prior to administration of adalimumab. 
Malignancy (all analyses set) 
Eighteen  subjects  (16  adalimumab  and  2  placebo)  reported  a  total  of  19  treatment  −  emergent 
neoplasms. Three of the 18 subjects experienced events coded as neoplasms that were not confirmed 
as malignancies. One additional adalimumab subject experienced an event coded as skin neoplasm that 
was not confirmed as a malignancy. Five of the 14 subjects with malignancies had non-melanoma skin 
malignancies.  The  most  common  treatment-emergent  malignancy  was  basal  cell  carcinoma  (3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects). Nine subjects experienced the following malignancies: breast cancer (2 subjects), papillary 
thyroid  (2  subjects),  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma,  prostate  cancer,  ovarian  cancer,  acute  myeloid 
leukaemia, and bladder cancer. The case of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma occurred in a 61-year-old male, 
who had also been treated with concomitant AZA.  
Of  the  18  subjects,  six  had  events  considered  at  least  possibly  drug  related.  Eight  of  the  treatment-
emergent  neoplasm  events  led  to  premature  discontinuation  of  study  drug  and  ten  were  considered 
SAEs. 
From the data presented it was noted that the standardised incidence ratio (SIR) is elevated for several 
malignancies. However, the number of cases is small and the 95% CI (confidence intervals) were wide 
and all including 1.00. Therefore no definite conclusions could be drawn but a small risk elevation for 
developing malignancies cannot be excluded.  
Immune reactions and drug hypersensitivity 
A total of 41 of 1459 subjects reported at least one event of immune reaction. A total of nine subjects 
prematurely  discontinued  study  drug  due  to  the  following  immune  reactions:  serum  sickness  (3 
lupus 
subjects),  drug  hypersensitivity  (2  subjects),  hypersensitivity  (2  subjects),  systemic 
erythematosus (2 subjects), and lupus-like syndrome (1 subject). 
Thirteen subjects reported AEs of drug hypersensitivity, including two subjects during induction, six 
subjects  during  double  blind  maintenance,  four  subjects  during  OL,  and  one  subject  during  both 
double  blind  maintenance  and  OL.  None  of  these  events  was  considered  a  SAE.  There  were  no 
reported cases of type I hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis. Seven subjects reporting seven AEs of drug 
hypersensitivity  were  in  connection  with  non-study  drugs.  Eight  of  these  events  were  considered  at 
least possibly drug related. Two of the 14 events led to premature discontinuation of study drug. 
Demyelinating Disease 
Two  subjects  in  the  all  studies  analysis  set  reported  demyelinating  disease.  One  of  these  was 
considered to be related to study drug and led to premature discontinuation of the study drug. 
Injection Site Reaction 
In the induction analysis set, the most commonly reported injection site reactions treatment-emergent 
AEs  (≥  1%  of  subjects  in  any  treatment  group)  were  reported  in  12%  (placebo),  21%  (80/40  mg 
double blind), 13% (80/40 mg OL) and 17% (160/80 mg) of subjects. In the double blind maintenance 
analysis set, they were reported in 4% (placebo), 13% (40 mg eow) and 13% (40 mg ew) of subjects.  
Hepatic Events 
Hepatic AEs were categorised as hepatobiliary events or investigations. One adalimumab 160/80 mg 
subject  with  Gilbert's  Syndrome  reported  hyperbilirubinemia  and  two  adalimumab  80/40  mg  OL 
subjects reported hepatic steatosis. Hepatic steatosis is the most common hepatobiliary lesion found in 
patients  with  CD.  Adverse  events  of  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT) 
increased,  aspartate 
aminotransferase  (AST)  increased,  and/or  alkaline  phosphatase  were  reported  in  five  adalimumab 
80/40 mg subjects and one adalimumab 160/80 mg subject. Increased ALT/AST has been established 
with adalimumab in other indications. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti adalimumab antibody (AAA) levels were not monitored in the pivotal maintenance study (M02-
404).  In  the  induction  studies  and  the  supportive  maintenance  study  (M02-433),  the  overall  AAA 
frequency was 2% (7 of 436 subjects). It seems as AAAs started to appear only after a while in study 
M02-433,  as  in  6  out  of  the  7  patients,  AAAs  were  detected  from  week  30,  resulting  in  an  AAA 
incidence  of  2.6%  (7/269  subjects).  Consequently,  the  AAA  positive  rate  was  very  low  in  the 
induction studies (1 of 366 subjects). Among the seven subjects who were AAA positive, 43% were in 
clinical remission (CDAI < 150) at week 24 and 29% remained in clinical remission at week 56 in the 
maintenance study. In the limited number of subjects with antibodies, there appears to be a tendency 
of  reduced  effect,  but  so  far,  experience  from  CD  and  other  indications  does  not  point  to  safety 
problems. The CHMP acknowledged that the frequency of AAA seemed low, and lower than reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for subjects with RA (5%), or in other indications. Currently the data do not allow an explanation of 
this difference.  
Circulating  levels  of  the  drug  often  interfere  with  the  analyses  therefore  underestimating  the  rate  of 
antibodies.  
Laboratory findings 
In  the  induction  analysis  set,  differences  were  observed  between  the  adalimumab  160/80  mg  and 
placebo treatment groups for the mean change from baseline to the final visit for the following clinical 
chemistry parameters:  albumin, total protein, total cholesterol, lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), alkaline 
phosphatase, and total bilirubin. Increases in albumin and total protein generally reflected patterns of 
improvement in CD activity. The remaining treatment group differences were not considered clinically 
significant.  
In  the  double  blind  maintenance  analysis  set,  differences  were  observed  between  at  least  one  of  the 
adalimumab treatment groups and the placebo group for the mean change from baseline to the final 
value  for  the  following  clinical  chemistry  parameters:  sodium,  albumin,  calcium,  total  protein,  total 
cholesterol, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin. Changes in albumin, total protein, and alkaline 
phosphatase  generally  reflected  patterns  of  improvement  in  CD  activity.  Specifically,  albumin  and 
total  protein  increased  relative  to  placebo  and  alkaline  phosphatase  decreased.  The  remaining 
treatment  group  differences  were  not  considered  clinically  significant.  No  statistically  significant 
treatment differences were observed between the adalimumab groups. 
Safety in special populations 
Intrinsic Factors 
Intrinsic  factors  were  investigated  through  an  evaluation  of  AE  incidence  rates  within  specific  sub-
populations. Only those AEs with a statistically significant difference in relative risk and reported by 
≥ 5%  of  subjects  in  any  subgroup  were  discussed  and  displayed.  The  relative  risk  of  arthralgia  was 
higher for females than males. For adalimumab 40 mg eow vs. placebo, the relative risk of nausea and 
upper  respiratory  tract  infection  was  higher  for  males  than  females.  For  adalimumab  40  mg  ew  vs. 
placebo, the relative risk of abdominal tenderness and dyspepsia was higher for males than females. 
Extrinsic Factors 
In the induction analysis set, the relative risk of injection site reaction was higher for subjects without 
previous  anti-TNF  use  than  subjects  with  previous  anti-TNF  use.  The  relative  risk  of  injection  site 
reaction  was  higher  for  users  of  immunosuppressants  than  non-users  of  immunosuppressants.  For 
adalimumab  40  mg  ew  vs.  placebo,  the  relative  risk  of  influenza  was  higher  for  users  of 
immunosuppressants than non-users of immunosuppressants. On the other hand, an opposite pattern of 
risk was observed for upper respiratory tract infection.  
There seems to be no specific major sex related difference in AEs. Adalimumab has not been studied 
in  the  paediatric  Crohn’s  population.  The  number  of  patients  above  the  age  of  65  in  the  Crohn’s 
studies was limited. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety profile observed in the CD studies seemed to correspond to the earlier known safety profile 
of anti-TNFα drugs with increased risk for infections, including opportunistic infections. Furthermore, 
uncertainties  related  to  long-term  effects  remain.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the 
inclusion of moderate disease in the indication.  
The  total  frequency  of  AEs,  and  especially  serious  and  severe  AEs,  was  higher  with  the  160/80  mg 
induction regimen compared with the 80/40 mg regimen up to week 12 in study M02-433 patients who 
continued in study M02-433 ; and there were higher frequencies of for example, infectious AEs and 
injection related AEs in the 160/80 mg group. The CHMP therefore recommended that the 80/40 mg 
regimen should be the primary option for induction treatment (see also 3. Clinical efficacy). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that it is important to know if the treatment is effective even with episodic or 
on-demand  treatment  i.e.  stopping  treatment  for  different  time  periods  and  then  starting  treatment 
again. The MAH indicated that this kind of regimen is included in study M02-404 where a period of at 
most  8  weeks  off  treatment  was  included.  However  this  period  of  time  was  considered  too  short  to 
really  evaluate  on-demand  treatment.  The  MAH  committed  to  evaluate  episodic  treatment  in  the 
planned  CD  registry.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  proposed  a  revision  of  the  product  information  on 
readministration if adalimumab has been stopped and signs and symptoms of disease recur. However, 
is should be noted that there is little experience from readministration after more than 8 weeks since 
the previous dose.  
On request by the CHMP, the MAH presented a separate analysis of those patients (about 10%) who 
had both corticosteroids and immunosuppressants at baseline. In this limited number of patients, it did 
not  seem  that  adalimumab  treatment  in  combination  with  corticosteroids  and  immunosuppressive 
agents  further  increases  the  risk  for opportunistic  infections.  However,  the  available  safety  data  was 
too limited to allow conclusions on this issue. In a literature review, the safety signal about the higher 
risk  of  opportunistic 
taking  concurrent  corticosteroids  or  other 
immunosuppressants  and  TNF-alpha  was  confirmed.  The  CHMP  considered  it  important  that  the 
MAH undertakes an adequate educational programme on TB prevention. The MAH agreed with the 
CHMP proposal.  
in  patients 
infection 
5. 
Risk management plan 
No  new  safety  concerns  were  observed  in  the  CD  population  as  compared  to  the  RA,  PsA,  and  AS 
clinical  databases  and  post-marketing  experience.  Existing  risk  minimisation  measures  already  in 
place include:  
•  Detailed instructions on the proper use of the product in the SPC and PL, along with appropriate 
warnings and precautions to be taken by the physician and patient. 
•  Regular  follow-up  of  spontaneous  adverse  event  reports  as  part  of  standard  pharmacovigilance 
practices 
•  Patient registries, monitoring of malignancies, educational programs regarding TB prevention 
•  Patient alert card which reminds patients of the potential for infections/TB and heart failure. 
•  Analyses  of  TNF-inhibitor  events  of  interest  in  PSURs,  which  include  central  demyelating 
disease, congenital disorders, congestive heart failure, fatal outcomes, lupus and lupus-like illness, 
malignancies,  opportunistic  infections,  T-cell  lymphoma  (hepatosplenic),  tuberculosis,  and 
vasculitis. 
The MAH committed to performing the studies and additional pharmacovigilance activities detailed in 
the Pharmacovigilance Plan. 
A summary of the risk management plan for adalimumab highlighting the safety concerns with 
adalimumab is presented below:  
Summary of the risk management plan for adalimumab: 
Safety concern 
Identified risks:  
 -  Tuberculosis  (TB)  and 
other 
opportunistic 
infections 
 - Congestive heart failure 
 - Serious infections  
 - CNS demyelination 
 - Fatal outcomes 
Proposed  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed 
activities 
risk  minimisation 
Routine 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
Crohn’s Disease patient registry: 
patients  from  the  ongoing  CD 
clinical  studies  as  well  as  those 
newly  prescribed  adalimumab 
will  be  offered  enrolment  into 
this  registry.  Abbott  plans  to 
information 
text,  SPC 
Product 
sections  4.3,  4.4,  4.8,  package 
leaflet.  
educational 
programme 
TB 
extended 
treating 
to  physicians 
patients  with  CD  and  development 
of  tool  to  measure  effectiveness  of 
educational programme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient alert card. 
information 
Product 
text,  SPC 
sections  4.4,  4.6,  4.8,  package 
leaflet 
 -  Lupus  and  lupus  like-
illness 
 - Vasculitis 
Potential risks 
 -  Malignancies,  including 
lymphoma  
- Intestinal strictures 
 - congenital disorder 
patients 
follow-up 
on 
adalimumab  for  five  years.  A 
final report will be submitted 12 
months  after  the  completion  of 
the registry. 
Ongoing  long  term  studies  and 
registry in Rheumatoid Arthritis. 
Routine 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
Crohn’s Disease patient registry: 
patients  from  the  ongoing  CD 
clinical  studies  as  well  as  those 
newly  prescribed  adalimumab 
will  be  offered  enrolment  into 
this  registry.  Abbott  plans  to 
follow-up 
on 
adalimumab  for  five  years.  A 
final report will be submitted 12 
months  after  the  completion  of 
the registry. 
patients 
Ongoing  long  term  studies  and 
registry in Rheumatoid Arthritis. 
Missing information 
 -  Long-term  safety  in  CD 
Routine 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
patients 
 - Episodic treatment 
 -  Hepatosplenic  T-cell 
lymphoma 
Crohn’s Disease patient registry: 
patients  from  the  ongoing  CD 
clinical  studies  as  well  as  those 
newly  prescribed  adalimumab 
will  be  offered  enrolment  into 
this  registry.  Abbott  plans  to 
follow-up 
on 
adalimumab  for  five  years.  A 
final report will be submitted 12 
months  after  the  completion  of 
the  registry.  This  registry  will 
treatment 
collect 
interruptions 
and 
readministration of adalimumab. 
patients 
data 
on 
Ongoing  long  term  studies  and 
registry in Rheumatoid Arthritis. 
In the safety specifications provided by the MAH, reference was made to the CD indication. In future 
submissions, the safety specifications should address all approved indications. The MAH committed to 
submit an updated risk management plan as per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems 
for medicinal products for human use, covering all indications. This information was reflected in the 
annex II of the CHMP opinion.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Crohn’s disease is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease which most often begins during adolescence 
and  young  adulthood  and  in  severe  cases  the  patients  may  suffer  from  e.g.  malabsorption  and 
abdominal pain which results in a severe impact on the daily activities with a decreased ability to work 
or study. Therefore it is important to evaluate new treatments for this disease. At present there is one 
approved  anti-TNFα  agent  for  treatment  of  Crohn’s  disease.  One  of  the  main  issues  with  anti-TNF 
therapy  is  to  satisfactorily  describe  the  population  intended  for  treatment  because  of  uncertainties 
about  the  long-term  safety  but  also  long-term  efficacy.  Risk  for  malignancies  is  still  under 
surveillance.  
Three  pivotal  studies,  two  induction  studies  (M02-403  and  M04-691)  and  one  maintenance  study 
(M02-404)  and  one  supportive  maintenance  study  (M02-433)  have  been  submitted  to  justify  the 
indication in Crohn’s disease.  
Study  M02-403  was  a  combined  dose  finding  and  induction  study.  The  MAH  initially  claimed  that 
efficacy was only established for the 160/80 mg induction dosing regimen (n=76), a higher dose than 
the doses used in other indications. However, the MAH investigated the difference in remission rate 
and safety profile between patients that received 160/80 mg or 80/40 mg as an induction regimen after 
8  and  12  weeks,  in  patients  on  maintenance  treatment  (40mg  eow).  The  efficacy  and  safety  data 
suggested  that  the  different  treatment  regimens  are  similar  according  to  remission  rate  at  week  12. 
Furthermore, there were trends towards a lower frequency of adverse events in the 80/40 mg compared 
to  the  160/80  mg  regimen.  The  induction  regimen  proposed  for  this  indication  was  thus  80/40  mg. 
However,  in  situations  when  a  rapid  response  is  required  the  160/80  mg  dose  regimen  would  be  an 
option,  provided  that  the  prescriber  is  aware  of  the  higher  risk  for  adverse  events  with  this  dose 
regimen. The data indicated also a statistically significant better efficacy at week 4 when adalimumab 
160/80 mg was used together with corticosteroids compared with adalimumab without steroids. Thus, 
concomitant steroid use was a predictor for clinical efficacy.  
With respect to episodic treatment, the MAH agreed to study the interruption and readministration of 
adalimumab  in  the  registry  setting.  The  option  for  readministration  if  signs  and  symptoms  of  the 
disease recur is considered important, given e.g. the uncertainties with long-term anti-TNF treatment. 
The product information was updated accordingly. 
In  the  pivotal  maintenance  study  M02-404  (mITT  n=499)  the  sustained  response  with  patients  in 
clinical remission at week 56 in the treatment group with 40 mg adalimumab eow was 36% compared 
to 12% for placebo. This was statistically significant and a clinically relevant difference; comparable 
with  the  results  for  the  earlier  approved  anti-TNFα  agent.  However,  the  CHMP  noted  that  only 
responders to treatment were included. In the supportive maintenance study M02-433 there were very 
few subjects in the randomised analyses set which made the data difficult to interpret.   
The CHMP noted that adalimumab showed a steroid-sparing effect in the maintenance trial M02-404, 
where 23-39% of patients treated with adalimumab were able to be steroid free and still in remission at 
weeks 26 and 56. However, nearly 80 % of subjects received concomitant medications (corticosteroid 
and/  or  immunosuppressants)  during  the  maintenance  study.  The  week  56  data  on  clinical  response 
and  remission  for  subjects  not  receiving  immunomodulators  indicated  that  more  patients  on 
adalimumab 
treated  without  concomitant  use  of 
immunosuppressant and corticosteroid treatment.  
The safety profile seemed to be correspondent to the earlier known safety profile of anti-TNFα drugs 
with increased risk especially for opportunistic infections. There were trends towards more AEs in the 
higher  induction  dosing  regimen  of  160/80  compared  to  80/40mg.  However,  the  groups  directly 
comparing safety data between induction doses 160/80 and 80/40 were small.  
than  on  placebo  could  be  successfully 
The RMP was considered acceptable. The MAH agreed for the next revision of this plan, to update the 
safety  specification  section  with  all  approved  indications.  The  RMP  has  also  been  updated  with  a 
presentation  of  ongoing  safety  studies  in  CD,  but  still  lacks  such  tabulation  for  all  indications.  The 
MAH committed to long-term follow up of patients from the CD trial, to be reported within PSURs, as 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
well  as  setting  up  a  registry  in  the  EU.  The  MAH  also  committed  to  expand  the  TB  educational 
programme to CD, and to study its effectiveness.  
Based on the data presented, the CHMP did not agree to include moderate disease in the indication, 
and agreed that treatment should be severe, active disease. 
The review of the MAH’s different proposals for the SPC, section 4.8, and particularly Table 1 in this 
section  led  to  doubts  regarding  the  MAH’s  procedures  to  adequately  handle  the  safety  data  base, 
including  undertake  adequate  medical  assessment.  With  respect  to  overall  pharmacovigilance,  the 
MAH  provided  a  brief  summary  of  its  global  system  and  of  signal  detection,  which,  on  the  level 
described,  seem  to  be  in  line  with  requirements.  Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  considered  there  are  still 
some questions related to the MAH’s approach for handling these different activities. The need for a 
GCP/Pharmacovigilance inspection was agreed with by the CHMP, not precluding the approval of the 
current application. 
IV.  CONCLUSION 
On  26  April  2007  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics,  annex  II  and  the  package 
leaflet, subject to the additional commitments undertaken. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
