EMA/248288/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000123 
EPAR summary for the public 
Hycamtin 
topotecan 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Hycamtin. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Hycamtin. 
What is Hycamtin? 
Hycamtin is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance topotecan. It is available as a powder 
to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein and as capsules (0.25 and 1 mg). 
What is Hycamtin used for? 
Hycamtin is used on its own to treat patients with: 
•  metastatic cancer of the ovary (when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body). It is used 
after at least one other treatment has failed; 
• 
small cell lung cancer, when the cancer has relapsed (come back). It is used when giving the 
original treatment again is not recommended. 
It is also used together with cisplatin (another cancer medicine) to treat women with cancer of the 
cervix, when the cancer has come back after radiotherapy, or when the disease is at an advanced 
stage (has spread beyond the cervix). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Hycamtin used? 
Treatment with Hycamtin should only be given under the supervision of a doctor experienced in the 
use of chemotherapy. Infusions should be carried out in a specialised cancer ward.  
The dose of Hycamtin to be used depends on the type of cancer that it is being used to treat and the 
patient’s weight and height. When Hycamtin is used on its own for ovarian cancer, it is given by 
intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. For lung cancer, Hycamtin can be given as an infusion or, for 
adults, as capsules. For both ovarian and lung cancer, Hycamtin is given every day for five days with a 
three-week interval between the start of each course. Treatment may continue until the disease gets 
worse.  
When used with cisplatin in cervical cancer, Hycamtin is given as an infusion on days 1, 2 and 3 (with 
cisplatin given on day 1). This is repeated every 21 days for six courses or until the disease gets 
worse. 
Doses of Hycamtin may need to be adjusted or treatment delayed, depending on side effects. For full 
details, see the summary of product characteristics, also part of the EPAR. 
How does Hycamtin work? 
The active substance in Hycamtin, topotecan, is a cancer medicine that belongs to the group 
‘topoisomerase inhibitors’. It blocks an enzyme called topoisomerase I, which is involved in the division 
of DNA. When the enzyme is blocked, the DNA strands break. This prevents the cancer cells from 
dividing and they eventually die. Hycamtin also affects non-cancer cells, which causes side effects. 
How has Hycamtin been studied? 
Hycamtin as an infusion has been studied in more than 480 women with ovarian cancer who had failed 
one treatment with platinum-containing cancer medicines. Three studies were ‘open’, meaning that the 
medicine was not compared to any other treatment and the patients knew that they were receiving 
Hycamtin. The fourth study involved 226 women, and compared Hycamtin with paclitaxel (another 
cancer medicine). The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose tumours 
responded to treatment. 
Hycamtin has also been studied in three main studies in 656 patients with relapsed small cell lung 
cancer. One study compared Hycamtin capsules with symptom control alone and another compared 
Hycamtin as an infusion with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine (a standard combination 
of chemotherapy). The third study compared Hycamtin given as an infusion and as capsules. The 
effectiveness was measured by looking at survival or response rates. 
Hycamtin as an infusion has been studied in 293 women with advanced cervical cancer, where the 
effectiveness of a combination of Hycamtin and cisplatin was compared with that of cisplatin alone. The 
effectiveness was measured by looking at overall survival. 
What benefit has Hycamtin shown during the studies? 
In ovarian cancer, the studies showed the effectiveness of Hycamtin, with an overall response rate of 
about 16%. In the main study, 21% of the patients who received Hycamtin (23 out of 112) responded 
to treatment, compared with 14% of the paclitaxel patients (16 out of 114). 
In lung cancer, looking at the results obtained in all three studies, the response rate was 20% (480 
patients received Hycamtin). Compared with symptom control alone, Hycamtin prolonged survival by 
Hycamtin  
EMA/248288/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
12 weeks. It was as effective as the standard combination chemotherapy. Hycamtin given as capsules 
was as effective as Hycamtin given as an infusion. 
In cervical cancer, patients receiving the combination of Hycamtin and cisplatin survived an average of 
9.4 months, compared with 6.5 months for the patients who received cisplatin only. 
What is the risk associated with Hycamtin? 
The most common side effects with Hycamtin (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are neutropenia (low 
white blood cell counts), febrile neutropenia (neutropenia with fever), thrombocytopenia (low platelet 
counts), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), nausea (feeling 
sick), vomiting and diarrhoea (all of which may be severe), constipation, abdominal (tummy) pain, 
mucositis (mouth sores), alopecia (hair loss), loss of appetite (which may be severe), infections, 
pyrexia (fever), asthenia (weakness) and fatigue (tiredness).  
Hycamtin must not be used in patients who are breast-feeding, or in patients who have severe bone 
marrow depression (low white blood cell and platelet counts) before treatment. For the full list of all 
side effects and restrictions with Hycamtin, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Hycamtin been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Hycamtin’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Hycamtin? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Hycamtin is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Hycamtin, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Hycamtin 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Hycamtin on 12 November 1996.  
The full EPAR for Hycamtin can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Hycamtin read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
Hycamtin  
EMA/248288/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
