06/11/2023 
EMA/432491/2023 
Shortage of Hycamtin (topotecan) 
0.5 and 1 mg hard capsules 
Indication 
Hycamtin is used on its own to treat patients with: 
•  metastatic cancer of the ovary (when the cancer has 
spread to other parts of the body). It is used after at 
least one other treatment has failed;  
• 
small cell lung cancer, when the cancer has relapsed 
(come back) after treatment. It is used when giving 
the original treatment again is not recommended. 
It is also used with cisplatin (another cancer medicine) to 
treat women with cervical cancer that has come back after 
radiotherapy or is at an advanced stage (has spread 
beyond the cervix). 
Reason for shortage  
A quality defect was found in some batches of the 
medicine. These batches were not released and 
manufacturing was suspended, causing a shortage of the 
medicine.  
Member States affected1 
The shortage affects some of the EU/EEA Member States 
where the product is marketed: Austria, Belgium, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, 
Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Portugal, 
Romania and Sweden.  
Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s SPOC working party2 is closely monitoring the 
supply situation and engaging with the marketing 
authorisation holder and other stakeholders to identify 
measures to mitigate the impact of the supply shortage. 
1 This information may change. For accurate information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, please consult the national shortage register. 
2 The Single Point of Contact (SPOC) working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could 
affect the supply of medicines in the EU. Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be found on EMA’s 
website. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Hycamtin (topotecan) 
0.5 and 1 mg hard capsules 
Information to healthcare 
•  An out-of-specification assay finding in some batches 
professionals  
of Hycamtin has led to a suspension of production, 
causing a shortage of the medicine.  
• 
The company that markets the medicine is working 
with national authorities to remedy the shortage.  
• 
To alleviate the supply situation, affected Member 
States may import the medicine from markets where 
the product is still available.  
• 
In the meantime, healthcare professionals should 
consider switching patients to topotecan-containing 
intravenous formulations.  
• 
Please consult your national shortage register for 
further advice, including advice on alternatives. 
Information to patients  
•  A halt in production has caused a shortage of 
Hycamtin.  
• 
Your doctor may change your treatment to other 
medicines that contain topotecan. These medicines 
may be given as an injection in the hospital.  
• 
Please consult your national shortage register for 
further advice. 
Status 
•  Ongoing, expected to last until April 2024. 
Shortage of Inductos (dibotermin alfa) 
EMA/432491/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
