SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Hycamtin.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 September 2004. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Ovarian cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in women. At time of diagnosis, the 
cancer  has  spread  outside  the  pelvis  in  at  least  60%  of  the  patients.  At  the  time  of  the  evaluation, 
overall  five-year  survival  was  about  20%.  The  treatment  of  advanced  ovarian  carcinoma  generally 
consisted of surgery followed by chemotherapy. Commonly used chemotherapy regimens have been 
platinum-based and cyclophosamide/cisplatin was a widely used combination regimen at the time of 
the  evaluation.  Paclitaxel  in  combination  with  cisplatin  had  shown  promising  results  as  first-line 
therapy.  Although  the  response  rate  to  first-line  chemotherapy  is  relatively  high,  the  disease  will 
relapse in the majority of patients. Ovarian carcinoma, which fails first-line therapy, is not curable. 
Topotecan  is  a  semisynthetic  structure  analogue  of  the  natural  alkaloid  camptothecin.  It  is  water 
soluble with an intact lactone ring. The lactone ring may open in a reversible pH-dependent reaction, 
forming  a  carboxylate  derivative.  Only  the  lactone  form  is  pharmacologically  active,  inhibiting 
topoisomerase  1.  This  nuclear  enzyme  is  crucial  for  DNA  replication,  i.e.  proliferation,  DNA  repair 
and transcription. Topoisomerase 1 inhibitors bind only to the DNA-enzyme complex. This binding is 
rapidly  reversible,  allowing  religation  within  30  min.  after  drug  removal.  Following  prolonged  drug 
exposure, DNA fragmentation occurs leading to apoptotic cell death.  
The proposed indication is treatment of metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure of first-line or 
subsequent therapy. The proposed dosage is 1.5 mg/m2/day administered intravenously during 30 min. 
for 5 consecutive days every 3 weeks.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Hycamtin is presented as powder for solution for infusion. Each vial contains topotecan hydrochloride 
equivalent to 4 mg of topotecan. The product should be reconstituted with 4 ml of water for injection 
and  diluted  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  or  5%  glucose  intravenous  infusion.  It  contains  mannitol  as 
bulking agent, tartaric acid as a stabiliser as well as hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide to adjust 
the  pH  to  2.5-3.5.  Hycamtin  is  packaged  in  5  ml  vials  of  Type  I  flint  glass  (Ph.  Eur.)  with  grey 
siliconised butyl rubber stoppers with aluminium flip-off seals. 
Topotecan hydrochloride is hygroscopic with a low solubility in organic solvents except methanol. Its 
aqueous  solubility  decreases  with  increasing  pH.  In  aqueous  solution  it  can  undergo  pH-dependent 
reversible  opening  of  the  lactone  ring  (below  pH  4  no  open  form  is  present,  above  pH  9  more  than 
95%  is  hydrolysed).  Topotecan  is  light  and  heat  sensitive.  The  purpose  of  the  pharmaceutical 
development was to produce a product stable enough for intravenous injection. The lyophilised form 
was  chosen  due  to  the  stability  problems  arising  from  the  above-mentioned  properties  of  the  drug 
substance. 
Topotecan  is  semisynthetically  manufactured  from  the  plant-derived  alkaloid  camptothecin.  The 
starting  material  may  be  obtained  from  two  natural  sources  -  Chinese  (Acuminata)  and  Indian 
(Mappia).  Purification  of  the  crude  extract  from  either  source  is  required.  The  main  steps  in  the 
synthesis involve reduction and selective oxidation of the quinoline moiety of camptothecin, followed 
by the introduction of an N,N-dimethylaminomethyl side-chain. The structure of topotecan is proved 
by  elementary  analysis,  interpreted  ultra  violet-,  infrared-,  nuclear  magnetic  resonance-,  and  mass-
spectrometry  spectra.  Serial  batch  analyses  confirmed  the  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process, 
using tests which were sufficiently validated. 
Topotecan  is  chiral  and  contains  one  stereogenic  (asymmetric)  centre  with  the  S  configuration.  The 
molecule is homochiral to camptothecin, for which the stereochemical purity is ascertained by chiral 
chromatography. The antipode has not been found in any batch and there is no known mechanism to 
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
racemise  camptothecin  under  the  conditions  applied  during  the  synthesis  of  topotecan.  Thus,  the 
stereochemical purity is considered to be under control. 
Five  impurities  have  been  qualified  at  their  specification  levels.  Owing  to  the  limited  number  of 
batches manufactured, the limits for impurities should be reassessed when more experience is gained. 
Also  with  respect  to  the  finished  product,  limits  for  impurities  and  degradation  products  will  be 
reassessed when more experience is gained. 
With  respect  to  other  ingredients,  mannitol,  tartaric  acid,  hydrochloric  acid,  sodium  hydroxide  and 
water for injection were claimed to follow the requirements of the Ph. Eur. To show conformance with 
the Ph. Eur., certificates of analyses should be submitted when available. Limits for microbial purity 
of water for injection were confirmed not to exceed 10 CFU/100 ml and of topotecan hydrochloride, 
mannitol and tartaric acid not to exceed 102 CFU/g.  
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  by  aseptic  processing.  Due  to  equipment-related  graphite 
contamination  of  the  drug  solution,  a  pre-filtration  using  0.45µm  filter  is  included  before  two 
consecutive  sterile  filtrations  using  0.2µm  filters  to  assure  sterility.  Thereafter,  the  solution  is 
aseptically filled into vials before lyophilisation. The manufacturing process is satisfactory validated 
and relevant in-process controls are performed. Bioburen is included as a periodic in-process test.  
Although topotecan  degrades  under  stressed  conditions, it appears to be  stable in  long-term stability 
studies.  The  proposed  shelf  life  of  24  months  below  30°C  can  be  accepted.  Chemical  stability  of 
reconstituted  as well as  diluted solution has  been  demonstrated, but from  a  microbiological point  of 
view, immediate use is required. If reconstituted under strict aseptic conditions (e.g. in a LAF-bench), 
12 h in room temperature or 24 hours at 2-8°C can be accepted from the first breaking of the vial until 
the  infusion  to  the  patient  is  completed.  Due  to  its  light  sensitivity,  it  must  be  protected  from  light 
during long-term storage.  
The  initial  shelf  life  at  the  time  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  was  24  months.  The  Marketing 
Authorisation Holder applied for an extension of the shelf life to 3 years through a Type I variation. 
The  stability data provided demonstrated that the specifications are all met and that a shelf life of  3 
years is acceptable.  
Additional presentations of a 1 mg vial in packs of 3 and 5 vials were approved following a Type II 
variation. The formulation of the bulk solution is identical to the formulation for the already approved 
4 mg  vials.  The  difference  between  the  1  and  4  mg  vials  is  the  fill  weight  and  vial  size.  The  1  mg 
lyophile will be reconstituted to the same concentration as the 4 mg lyophile i.e. 1 mg/ml. However, 
the 1 mg vial contains a 10 % filling overage to ensure that 1 mg can be withdrawn from each vial, in 
line with European Pharmacopoeial recommendations for extractable volumes. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mechanism of action of topotecan has been delineated in tumour cell lines and cell free systems, 
and is, in comparison with many other anti-cancer drugs, well characterised. It includes the depicted 
interaction  with  the  target  enzyme  topoisomerase  1  and  the  dependency  of  DNA  replication  for  the 
cytotoxic effect. Topoisomerase 1 is involved in the cleavage and religation of the DNA ahead of the 
replication  fork  and  is  therefore  crucial  in  DNA  replication,  DNA  repair  as  well  as  transcription. 
Topotecan selectively inhibits the religation step, which stabilises the enzyme-cleaved DNA complex 
leading  to  the  formation  of  single  strand  breaks.  Although  single  strand  breaks  are  not  sufficient  to 
produce  cell  death,  the  drug-enzyme-DNA  complex  ultimately  results  in  double  strand  breaks 
underlying  the  cytotoxic  effects  of  topotecan.  Cytotoxicity  appears  to  be  time  and  concentration 
dependent.  IC50  values  ranging  from  about  1-800  nM  were  obtained  with  various  cell  lines  in  vitro. 
However, no ‘in vivo mechanistic studies’, e.g. relationships between drug exposure and single strand 
breaks,  cytotoxicity  or  reversibility,  were  carried  out.  Studies  designed  to  elucidate  schedule 
dependent  activity  indicated  that  prolonged  exposure  is  associated  with  increased  cytotoxic  effect. 
Thus,  the  proposed  schedule  for  licensing,  a  30-min  infusion  each  day  for  5  days  is,  at  least  partly, 
supported by preclinical data.  
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cell  lines  with  low  topoisomerase  1  level  or  with  altered  or  reduced  binding  of  topotecan  to 
topoisomerase  1  was  shown  to  be  resistant  to  its  cytotoxic  activity.  Topotecan  also  seems  to  be  a 
substrate,  albeit  rather  poor,  for  the  multidrug  resistance  associated  P-glycoprotein  “drug  extrusion 
pump”. In general, cisplatin resistant sublines were not resistant to the activity of topotecan. However, 
the  level  of  in  vitro  cross-resistance  with  topotecan  in  tumour  samples  from  patients  with  clinical, 
cisplatin- or paclitaxel-resistant disease was not investigated.  
It  is  generally  accepted  that  activity  against  specific  cell  lines  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  poorly  predicts 
activity against corresponding tumour types in patients. In vitro systems, using fresh tumour samples 
and various techniques and endpoints, may confer a good correlation with clinical activity, both with 
respect to diagnostic groups and in individual patients. An attempt in this direction was included in the 
present documentation. However, the predictive value of the technique chosen, the clonogenic assay, 
is questionable.  
Overall, submitted pharmacological studies provide no obvious rationale for exploring the activity of 
topotecan in patients with ovarian carcinoma failing platinum and/or paclitaxel based therapy.  
General pharmacodynamics: In rats, renal function was significantly affected at 15-mg/m2 topotecan, a 
dose  producing  only  mild  general  toxicity.  In  contrast,  no  effects  were  seen  on  the  central  nervous 
system  activity  in  mice,  on  the  cardiovascular  or  respiratory  systems  in  rat  and  dog  or  on  the 
gastrointestinal system in mice. However, the doses used were considerably lower than those inducing 
general toxicity in the same species.  
Product  interactions:  In  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  indicated  a  possible  synergistic  effect  between 
topotecan+cisplatin.  Studies  in  mice  tumour  models  confirmed  that  the  antitumour  activity  of 
etoposide  was  antagonised  by  concurrent  administration  of  topotecan.  However,  a  synergistic  effect 
was observed when the drugs were given on sequential days. Studies of potential pharmacodynamic or 
pharmacokinetic interactions are limited. One study showed no effect of topotecan on the activities of 
the rat cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A, CYP2B, CYP2E, CYP3A and CYP4A. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of topotecan was studied in the mouse, rat and dog, the species used in 
the  preclinical  programme.  In  tumour-bearing  mice  given  a  single  intravenous  injection  of  [14C] 
topotecan,  radioactivity  was  rapidly  distributed  into  all  tissues,  including  tumours.  Topotecan  is 
metabolized to a minor extent mainly by N-desmethylation. The N-desmethyl derivatives of topotecan 
and the inactive carboxylate form accounted for 4% and 17% of the dose in the excreta of the rat and 
the dog, respectively. 
Toxicology 
Single  dose  toxicity  was  investigated  in  rodents  and  dogs  following  intravenous  administration  of 
topotecan. Doses of 56, 148 or 74 mg/m2 were lethal in mice, rats or dogs respectively. Target organs 
of toxicity were bone marrow, lymphoid tissues, gastrointestinal tract and ovaries. 
Repeat  dose  toxicity  following  intravenous  administration  of  topotecan  was  studied  in  mice  (5  days 
study), as well as in rats and dogs (5-28 days studies). In addition, rats were administered topotecan by 
the  oral  route  during  6  months.  All  species  showed  signs  of  toxicity  consistent  with  the 
pharmacological  effects  of  topotecan.  At  or  below  the  maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD,  being 
4.7  mg/m2/day  in  rats  and  1.3  mg/m2/day  in  dogs),  the  toxicity  profile  was  characterised  by 
myelotoxicity  (neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  lymphopenia  and  anemia),  lymphoid  depletion  and 
gastrointestinal effects. Furthermore, other tissues with a rapid cell turnover, such as hair follicles and 
testis  were  affected.  The  main  dose-limiting  toxicity  was  the  effect  on  bone  marrow.  In  surviving 
animals,  effects  were  reversible  after  termination  of  treatment.  The  available  animal  data  do  not 
indicate a potential for toxicity in major organs other than expected. 
Reproductive  toxicity  Topotecan  caused  malformations  and  embryo-foetal  toxicity  at  doses  that  are 
less  than  those  recommended  clinically.  Such  effects  are  characteristic  of  many  neoplastic  agents. 
Thus, topotecan is contraindicated in pregnant women.  
Genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  Topotecan  was  not  genotoxic  in  bacterial  tests.  However,  as 
predicted  based  on  its  pharmacologic  activity,  genotoxic  effects  were  evident  in  mammalian  cells 
(mouse lymphoma assay, human lymphocyte assay, micronucleus test in mice). Topotecan is likely to 
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
be  carcinogenic.  No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  which  is  acceptable  regarding  the 
intended use of topotecan.  
Environmental risk assessment Topotecan that enters the environment is expected to distribute to the 
aquatic  compartment  and  undergo  rapid  photolysis.  Thus,  no  significant  environmental  risks  or 
ecotoxicity are expected. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  core  clinical  documentation  of  topotecan  consists  of  4  phase  II/III  studies  in  patients  with 
advanced ovarian carcinoma. In addition, 13 phases I studies in female and male patients have been 
conducted. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The phase I programme consisted of 13 studies with conventional aims and designs, of which 12 were 
performed in patients with advanced solid tumours and one in patients with leukemia. Altogether more 
than  370  patients  were included. Five  of the  studies  were  conducted  with the  proposed  schedule for 
licensing. In two of the studies, granulocyte-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was added.  
The MTD was found to be 1.5 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days every 3 weeks, but might be lower in 
patients  extensively  pretreated  with  chemotherapeutic  agents  or  in  patients  with  low  performance 
status. Overall, the toxicity profile seemed to be essentially schedule independent although prolonged 
infusion  may  be  associated  with  slightly  more  muco-cutaneous  side  effects.  Neutropenia  was  dose 
limiting. The use of G-CSF was not conclusively demonstrated to alter MTD, and thrombocytopenia 
may in this situation become dose limiting.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic documentation of topotecan consists of 4 phase I studies in about 170 male and 
female cancer patients. The proposed dose regimen of licensing as well as single intravenous doses up 
to 22.5 mg/m2 has been administered. The pharmacokinetics of topotecan in the target population was 
depicted  by  a  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The  non-linear  mixed  effects  modelling 
(NONMEM) approach was used on data from 100 patients with ovarian carcinoma in study 039. 
A high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with fluorometric detection was used for 
the  analyses  of  topotecan  and  its  inactive  carboxylate  form  in  plasma.  In  the  population  analysis,  a 
slightly modified method was used to measure ‘total topotecan’ (topotecan + carboxylate derivative) 
in  plasma.  Due  to  the  instability  of  the  lactone  in  plasma  requiring  careful  handling  and  quick 
processing of the samples, a method measuring both the active and inactive form was considered more 
convenient for use in Phase III studies. Both methods were adequately described and validated. Only 
limited data on the excretion of topotecan in urine were available. Basic pharmacokinetic properties, 
such as clearance (Cl), volume of distribution (Vd) and protein binding have been determined for both 
the  pharmacologically  active  lactone  and  total  topotecan,  which  includes  the  inactive  carboxylate 
form. 
The  plasma  protein  binding  of  topotecan  was  low  (35%).  The  blood/plasma  distribution  ratio 
decreased  from  1.2  to  0.8  during  4  hours  incubation  in  whole  blood,  with  the  percentage  bound  to 
blood  cells  decreasing  from  53%  to  20%.  Binding  to  human  tissues  has  not  been  studied,  but  the 
relatively large Vd of topotecan indicated a high tissue uptake. For the active lactone, values for Vd at 
steady state (Vdss) were 132 liters (SD 57 liters). Data from a study comparing oral and intravenous 
administration showed an absolute bioavailability of about 30%.  
Following an intravenous dose of 1.5 mg/m2, the elimination half-life (t1/2) was about 3 h [range 1.9-
3.8h]. The plasma levels of topotecan declined biphasically. In the population analysis, t1/2 of the first 
phase  was  0.35  h  and  of  the  terminal  phase  3.5  h.  Approximately  80%  of  the  area  under  plasma 
concentration-time curve (AUC) was associated with the terminal phase.  
At  physiological  pH,  topotecan  is  rapidly  hydrolysed  to  the  inactive  carboxylate  form.  This  is  a 
reversible, pH-dependent reaction. The plasma clearance of topotecan is high (1000-1200 ml/min, up 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 2700 ml/min was reported) while clearance values of ‘total topotecan’ are lower (about 300 ml/min 
in the population pharmacokinetic analysis). 
The elimination of topotecan has only been partly elucidated. With respect to excretion, data are very 
limited. No recovery study with radiolabelled topotecan has been conducted. In urine, about 20-60% 
of  the  dose  was  detected  but  due  to  inter-conversion  occurring  at  urinary  pH,  only  values  of  ‘total 
topotecan’  are  available.  Faecal  excretion  has  not  been  studied.  In  bile  from  one  patient,  substantial 
concentrations  of  topotecan  were  found.  Based  on  human  in  vitro  data,  metabolism  seems  to  be  a 
minor route of elimination.  
No  in  vivo  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted.  In  vitro  studies  with  human  liver  microsomes 
showed  no  inhibition  of  the  cytochrome  P450  enzymes  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C8/9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6,  CYP2E,  CYP3A4  or  CYP4A  or  of  the  cytosolic  dihydropyrimidine  dehydrogenase  or 
xanthine  oxidase.  In  the  population  analysis,  corticosteroides,  granisetron,  ondansetron  or  morphine 
did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of ‘total topotecan’. Based on the available data, possible 
interaction with renally excreted drugs cannot be predicted. 
Over  a  dose  range  of  0.5  to  22.5  mg/m2/day,  the  maximum  plasma  concentration  (Cmax)  and  AUC 
from  time  0  to  infinity  (AUC0-∞)  increased  approximately  proportionally.  Cl  and  Vdss  were  also 
similar  over  the  studied  dose  range.  The  sparse  data  following  repeated  dosing  showed  no  signs  of 
time dependency of the pharmacokinetics of topotecan within a 5-day course.  
Clearance  of  total  topotecan  was  reduced  by  30%  in  patients  with  elevated  bilirubin  levels  in 
comparison to patients with normal hepatic function. However, as patient variability in clearance was 
large (CV about 60%) it is not possible to evaluate the clinical significane of this observation. Three 
patients with serum bilirubin between 1.7 and 10 mg/dl were able to tolerate 1.5 mg/m2/day for 5 days 
every  3  weeks.  However,  these  data  are  insufficient  as  a  basis  for  dose  recommendations  for  this 
patient  group.  Furthermore,  there  is  no  experience  of  topotecan  use  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
impairment due to cirrhosis.  
In a limited number of patients, clearance of topotecan correlated with creatinine clearance (ClCR) but 
this  was  not  confirmed  for  total  topotecan  in  the  population  analysis.  Based  on  data  from  a  few 
patients, the recommended dose in patients with ClCR between 20-39 ml/min is 0.75 mg/m2/d. There is 
no experience of topotecan use in patients with severe renal impairment.  
Body surface area, renal function and performance status were identified as factors for prediction of 
exposure  and  toxicity  in  individual  patients.  A  positive  correlation  between  the  exposure  of  both 
topotecan and ‘total topotecan’ and the percent decrease in white blood cells has been observed, but 
since the ratio of lactone/ring opened form (active/inactive drug) changes over time after the infusion, 
total topotecan is only accepted as an incomplete surrogate for the active drug. 
Data  compiled  from  4  studies  revealed  that  men  had  a  higher  plasma  clearance  than  women  (1025 
ml/min  vs  828  ml/min)  and  a  larger  Vd  (187  liters  vs  160  liters).  Dosing  by  body  surface  area  will 
likely reduce that difference. No effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of topotecan was observed. 
Therapeutic efficacy 
The  phase II/III ovarian carcinoma programme included one paclitaxel comparative trial; study 039, 
and 3 non-comparative trials; studies 012, 033, 034. All these studies were conducted accordance with 
Good Clinical Practices and provided reliable data on anti-tumour activity. In the topotecan treatment 
groups, there were altogether 445 women with advanced ovarian carcinoma who had failed cisplatin, 
or cisplatin and paclitaxel (study 033) based chemotherapy. In all studies, topotecan was administered 
as  a  30-minute  infusion  of  1.5  mg/m2/day  on  5  consecutive  days  every  21  days.  Dose  adjustments 
were allowed within the range of 1.0-2.0 mg/m2/day. In patients developing neutropenia, G-CSF was 
to  be  administered  before  a  dose  reduction  was  considered.  The  protocols  of  the  four  trials  were 
similar with respect to evaluation of tumour response and other efficacy and safety variables. In study 
039,  the  licensed  dose  of  paclitaxel  was  used,  a  3-hour  infusion  of  175  mg/m2/day  every  21  days, 
which could be modified in the range of 135-175 mg/m2/day. 
Study 039 was an open-label, multicentre, stratified phase III trial where ovarian-carcinoma patients 
who had failed one platinum-based regimen were randomised to receive topotecan or paclitaxel. If the 
disease progressed on randomised therapy, crossover to the alternate arm was allowed. The trial was 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
initiated in February 1994, the last patient was randomised on 31 January 1995 and the original study 
report was dated June 1995. Data updates of November 1995 and March 1996 have been submitted.  
Altogether 235 patients were entered into the study, but 9 of them did not receive study medication. 
Thus,  226  patients  of  whom  112  were  randomised  to  the  topotecan  arm,  receiving  a  total  of  555 
courses  and  114  to  the  paclitaxel  arm,  given  a  total  of  550  courses  were  included  in  the  overall 
analyses. Patients were stratified according to platinum-sensitivity, baseline ascites and age.  
The  primary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  tumour  response  rate,  based  on  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT) 
approach, the duration of the response, time to progression (time elapsed from first dose administered 
until  the  first  documented  disease  progression)  as  well  as  qualitative  and  quantitative  toxicities  of 
topotecan.  The  secondary  objectives  were  time  to  response,  survival  and  effects  on  Quality  of  Life 
(QoL), which were repeatedly evaluated by using a questionnaire from the European Organisation for 
Research  and  Treatment  of  Cancer  (QLQ-C30).  In  respect  of  safety,  deaths,  serious  adverse  events, 
qualitative and quantitative haematological and non-haematological toxicities, changes in vital signs, 
ECG  measurements,  bodyweight  changes,  and  non-haematological  laboratory  parameters  were 
monitored.  
In  the  randomised  phase,  the  overall  response  rate  was  23/112  (20.5%;  95%  CI  13;  28)  and  16/114 
(14%; 95% CI 8; 20), topotecan and paclitaxel, respectively. At the November 1995 data update, the 
median  time  to  progressive  disease  was  19  and  15  weeks,  in  the  topotecan  and  paclitaxel  groups 
respectively (hazard ratio 0.7, p=0.053). After the latest update in March 1996, the survival data were 
considered  as  ‘mature’,  with  a  median  of  62  and  53  weeks,  in  the  topotecan  and  paclitaxel  groups 
respectively (hazard ratio 0.9, p=0.56).  
There  was  a  clear  relationship  between  platinum-sensitivity  and  response  rate  in  both  treatment 
groups.  In  platinum-resistant  (refractory+early  relapse)  patients,  the  response  rate  was  lower,  4/40 
(topotecan)  and  2/43  (paclitaxel)  and  time  to  progression  shorter.  A  higher  response  rate  correlated 
with better performance status, absence of ascites and small tumour burden. No attempts were made to 
measure symptom reduction or delay in symptomatic progression following topotecan treatment, and 
QoL measures were not different between groups.  
A total of 60 patients switched from paclitaxel to topotecan and 48 from topotecan to paclitaxel. The 
response  rates  after  alternate  therapy  were  low  (6/60  [10%;  95%  CI  4;  21]  for  topotecan  and  2/48 
[4%; 95% CI 0.5; 14] for paclitaxel).  
Study  034  was  an  open-label,  multicentre  non-comparative  phase  II  trial  conducted  in  ovarian-
carcinoma patients who had failed first-line platinum-based therapy. Altogether 111 patients, receiving 
a total of 552 courses, entered the study. At data cut-off, 90 patients had completed therapy and 18 had 
withdrawn, mainly due to adverse events. 
The  overall  response  rate  was  16/111  (14%;  95%  CI  8;  21),  and  in  patients  defined  as  platinum-
resistant  (refractory+early  relapse)  2/53.  The  medians  [ranges]  of  time  to  response,  time  to 
progression,  response  duration  and  overall  survival  were  10  [3-31]  weeks,  11  [0.7-72]  weeks,  16 
[5-42] weeks and 1 year [1.4-72 weeks], respectively.  
Study  033  was  an  open-label,  multicentre  non-comparative  phase  II  trial.  Two  groups  of  ovarian-
carcinoma patients were eligible: patients failing first-line therapy including paclitaxel and cis/carbo-
platin,  and  patients  failing  2  regimens  of  which  paclitaxel  and  cis/carbo-platin  must  have  been  a 
component of one or both regimens. Altogether 139 women, 62 failing first-line therapy and 77 failing 
second-line  therapy,  received  a  total  of  784  courses.  At  data  cut-off  in  November  1995,  46%  of 
patients were dead, 14 were still in therapy and 8 had withdrawn due to adverse events. 
The  overall  response  rate  was  8/62  (13%;  95%  CI  6;24)  and  13/77  (17%;  95%  CI  9;27)  in  patients 
failing  first  or  second  line  treatment,  respectively.  The  median  time  to  progression  was  17  and  11 
weeks, respectively, and the overall survival was 45-46 weeks.  
Study 012 was an open, non-comparative single centre phase II trial conducted in ovarian-carcinoma 
patients who had failed first-line platinum-based therapy. Altogether 30 patients were enrolled in the 
study, 8 were excluded from the per protocol analyses due to protocol violations. The overall response 
rate  was  4/30  (13%)  with  a  mean  duration  of  35-39  weeks,  although  there  were  no  complete 
responses.  
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  clinical  safety  assessment  of  topotecan  is  based  on  the  4  phase  II/III  studies  in  patients  with 
advanced ovarian carcinoma presented above. A total of 445 women with advanced ovarian carcinoma 
received  2019  courses  of  topotecan  by  June  1995  clinical  cut-off.  Supportive  data  originate  from  8 
finally reported or ongoing phase II studies in other patient groups given the dosing schedule applied 
for. 
Deaths  within  30  days  of  therapy  are  displayed  in  Table  1  based  on  updated  information  as  at 
November 1995 clinical cut-off. In the comparative trial 039, a higher incidence of deaths was evident 
in  the  topotecan  arm  vs  the  paclitaxel  arm  which  were  a  cause  of  concern.  However,  in  the  whole 
ovarian carcinoma programme, the incidence of deaths was lower and essentially similar to published 
data with respect to paclitaxel. Individual case reports support the notion that most deaths were related 
to progressive disease.  
The  number  of  withdrawals  due  to  adverse  experiences  is  displayed  in  Table  1.  The  most  common 
reasons for the 35 withdrawals in the topotecan groups were 9 cases of thrombocytopenia, 4 cases of 
granulocytopenia and 4 cases of sepsis. Table 1 
Study 
012 
033 
034 
treatment 
topotecan  topotecan  topotecan 
039 
randomised 
topotecan  paclitaxel  topotecan  paclitaxel   
alternate 
Total
No. of patients  30 
No. of patients 
who died 
0 
139 
111 
112 
114 
8 
8 
11 
3 
60 
5 
Withdrawal 
due to adverse 
experiences 
* the total number includes patients receiving alternate topotecan treatment 
10 
13 
8 
8 
1 
3 
48 
452*
5 
2 
32* 
35 
The  major  target  organ  for  toxicity  was  the  bone  marrow.  Neutropenia  with  or  without  associated 
infection/fever and partly thrombocytopenia were dose limiting. Due to dose reduction, use of G-CSF 
and  selection  of  patients,  the  myelotoxicity  decreased  with  time.  In  the  treated  ovarian  carcinoma 
population,  grade  4  neutropenia  was  observed  in  60%  and  28%  of  patients  during  courses  1  and  6, 
respectively. The percentage of courses with grade 4 neutropenia was 42%. The percentage of patients 
with grade 4 neutropenia lasting beyond 7 days was similar over courses 1-6, occurring in 12.5% of 
courses. During course 1 of the comparative trial 039, grade 4 neutropenia was seen in 57% (63/111) 
of topotecan-treated patients vs 7% (8/112) of the paclitaxel group. During the same course, grade 4 
neutropenia lasting for >7 days occurred in 21% of topotecan- vs 0.9% paclitaxel-treated patients. 
In  the  overall  ovarian  population,  the  incidence  of  thrombocytopenia  was  18%  (course  1)  but 
decreased to 2.5% (course 3). In the comparative trial 039, thrombocytopenia and subsequent purpura 
were more frequent in the topotecan arm than in the paclitaxel arm; thrombocytopenia grades 3/4 were 
reported  in  18%/18%  vs  0.9%/0%  of  patients,  respectively.  Anaemia,  although  more  difficult  to 
evaluate due to long-lasting effects of transfusion/slow cell turnover, had a higher incidence following 
topotecan- than paclitaxel treatment (40% vs 16%). 
Clinical sequalae of myelotoxicity; fever, infection and sepsis as well as the use of systemic antibiotics 
were reported with a higher incidence in the topotecan- than in the paclitaxel arm. For instance, during 
course 1 of the comparative trial 039, infection ≥ grade 2 combined with neutropenia ≥ grade 4 were 
observed in 11% topotecan-treated patients vs 2% in the paclitaxel group. Intravenous antibiotics were 
used in 7% of the topotecan courses vs 0.5% of the paclitaxel courses. There was also a higher number 
of dosing delays, dose reductions and withdrawals associated with topotecan. 
In  the  overall  ovarian  carcinoma  population,  non-haematological  adverse  events  of  grades  3  and  4 
were  experienced  by  47%  (210/445)  of  patients  treated  with  topotecan.  Nausea,  vomiting,  gastro-
intestinal  adverse  reactions  and  asthenia/fatigue  were  most  commonly  reported.  In  the  comparative 
trial 039, these adverse events  were  more  frequent  in the topotecan- than in the  paclitaxel  group. In 
contrast, topotecan caused less alopecia than paclitaxel and was not associated with hypersensitivity or 
neuropathy while grades 3/4 myalgia/arthalgia were reported in 2.6% of patients in the paclitaxel arm. 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  no  indications  of  cumulative  toxicity  over  time  with  respect  of  bone  marrow,  liver  or 
kidneys.  Furthermore,  the  toxicity  profile  was  similar  in  platinum-resistant  patients  and  the  overall 
population.  Patients  with  decreased  performance  status  and  possibly  those  heavily  pretreated  with 
chemotherapy pose a moderately increased risk for infectious complications.  
In summary  Basic  pharmacokinetic  properties, such  as clearance,  Vd  and  protein binding  have  been 
determined  for  both  the  pharmacologically  active  lactone  and  total  topotecan,  which  includes  the 
inactive  carboxylate  form.  However,  the  elimination  of  topotecan  has  only  been  partly  elucidated. 
Excretion  data  are  very  limited,  and  metabolism  has  only  been  studied  in  vitro  except  for  the 
conversion of topotecan to the inactive carboxylate form. Adequate dose recommendations can not be 
given  for  patients  with  hepatic  or  severe  renal  impairment  due  to  lack  of  data  from  these  patient 
groups.  Body  surface  area,  renal  function  and  performance  status  were  identified  as  factors  for 
prediction of exposure and toxicity in individual patients. 
The  dosage  proposed  for  licensing,  1.5  mg/m2/day  for  5  consecutive  days  every  21  days,  was 
identified in conventionally designed phase I MTD studies. No further attempts were made to define 
the optimum dose.  
Across the study programme, antitumour activity similar to that of paclitaxel has been demonstrated. 
In  the  direct  comparative  study  039,  time  to  progressive  disease  was  borderline  significantly 
prolonged  in  the  topotecan  group.  Reduced  performance  status,  bulky  disease  and  non-response  to 
previous therapy correlated with reduced antitumour activity.  
The  principle  and  dose-limiting  toxicity  of  topotecan  was  confined  to  severe  but  reversible  bone 
marrow  suppression.  In  addition  nausea,  vomiting  as  well  as  gastrointestinal  adverse  reactions 
asthenia/fatigue was seen in notable frequency and intensity. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Relapsing,  metastatic  ovarian  carcinoma  is  a  highly  symptomatic  and  ultimately  fatal  disease  where 
the reduction of tumour burden is considered to be associated with palliative effects of relevance to the 
patient.  The  anti-tumour  activity  of  topotecan  in  these  patients,  failing  therapy  with  cisplatin  + 
paclitaxel  and  other  cisplatin  based  treatments  has  been  shown  to  be  of  a  degree  similar  to  that  of 
paclitaxel administered second-line to cisplatin. Thus, essentially based on consistently demonstrated 
anti-tumour  activity  in  studies  of  high  quality,  beneficial  effects  of  relevance  are  considered 
documented. 
The  toxicity  profile  of  topotecan  is  predictable,  but  with  respect  to  bone  marrow  suppression  rather 
profound,  especially  in  a  therapy  administered  with  palliative  intent.  However,  given  a  high  quality 
level of supportive measures and surveillance, these  toxic effects  are considered manageable and do 
not  translate  to  an  unacceptable  morbidity.  Therefore,  it  is  concluded  that  the  overall  benefit/risk 
relationship  for  topotecan  is  similar  to  that  of  paclitaxel  in  this  population  of  patients  with  a  grave 
prognosis. It is also to be observed that in patients failing combined cisplatin and paclitaxel therapy, 
there are no licensed alternative therapies.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Topotecan is a semisynthetic structural analogue of the natural alkaloid camptothecin intended for the 
treatment of ovarian cancer.  
Although  additional  information  will  have  to  be  submitted  with  regards  to  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical aspects, the data submitted are acceptable to ensure the quality of the product.  
The  preclinical  aspects,  as  well  as  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  of  topotecan  have  been  adequately 
investigated and data generated in the studies supported the clinical use of topotecan in patients with 
advanced ovarian carcinoma.  
The  CPMP  considered  during  the  review  process  that  the  overall  benefit/risk  ratio  for  topotecan  is 
similar  to  that  of  paclitaxel  in  this  population  of  patients  with  a  grave  prognosis.  Consequently,  the 
CPMP gave a favourable Opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation for the following indication: 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure of first-line or subsequent 
therapy.  
6. 
Update of the SPC on the prolonged use of topotecan. 
Topotecan  is  indicated  for  next-line  treatment  of  patients  with  recurrent  ovarian  carcinoma,  i.e.  a 
strictly palliative setting. From a clinical point of view and in general, palliative objectives imply that 
therapy should be individualised with respect to duration and dose intensity. In clinical practice and if 
there  are  no  signs  of  cumulative,  or  major  toxicity  compromising  quality  of  life,  this  means  that 
treatment  is  continued  until  there  are  signs  of  disease  progression.  Cytotoxic  chemotherapy  is, 
however, always associated with toxicity of relevance.  
The  benefit  of  continued  therapy  could  be  determined  based  on  randomised  withdrawal  of 
chemotherapy after, e.g. 6 cycles of therapy in patients with non-progressive disease. If there are no 
signs of cumulative toxicity or tolerability problems, this type of trials, however, are hard to conduct 
due to investigators’ and patients’ reluctance to stop a putatively beneficial treatment. In an attempt to 
address  this  issue,  a  retrospective  analysis  of  patients  with  recurrent  ovarian  cancer  treated  with 
topotecan in mono-therapy of all 5 previously submitted studies was conducted. 
This was a supplementary retrospective analysis to evaluate the benefit of topotecan administered over 
a  prolonged  period  was  conducted  on  523  relapsed  ovarian  cancer  patients.  A  total  of  87  responses 
were observed in the studies, thereof 13 during cycles 5 and 6 and 3 after cycle 6. Overall response 
rates and survival were due to obvious reasons much worse in patients treated with ≤ 6 cycles (“lead 
time  bias”,  early  progressors  cannot  qualify  for  >  6  cycles  of  therapy).  There  were,  however,  49 
patients who ended therapy exactly at cycle 6 without signs of progressive disease and these patients 
were  compared  with  those  treated  for  7  cycles  or  more.  Median  survival  was  apparently  longer  in 
patients treated for > 6 cycles. 
Submitted  analyses  include  comparisons  between  patients  receiving  6  or  fewer  courses  of  therapy, 
more than 6 courses and within the group of patients receiving more than 6 courses, between courses 
1-6 and >7. Altogether 371 patients received ≤6 cycles and 152 >6 cycles (46 >10 courses and 9 >20 
cycles).  In  91%  of  the  patients  receiving  >6  cycles  of  therapy,  treatment  was  withdrawn  due  to 
progressive disease vs. 80% of individuals treated with ≤ 6 cycles. As expected baseline performance 
status was better in those receiving >6 courses (PS 0: 53% vs. 38%), more patients showed late relapse 
to prior cisplatin therapy (40% vs. 30%), etc.  
Despite the obvious weaknesses of the presented analyses, made evident by e.g. baseline differences, 
available data support the statement that there are no signs of cumulative toxicity and that therapy can 
be administered for prolonged periods of time, in practice until disease progression.  
With  respect  to  haematological  toxicity,  more  patients  in  the  ≤  6-cycle  group  experienced  grade  4 
thrombocytopenia  (25%  vs.  13%),  otherwise  no  differences  of  importance  were  observed,  including 
the use of supportive  measures (G-CSF, transfusions,  etc.). As regards dose intensity, there were no 
major differences between groups. As regards non-haematological toxicity, numerically higher figures 
were reported in the ≤ 6-cycle group with respect to nausea, vomiting, infectious events, fatigue, etc. 
For the within group comparison, fewer events were reported during courses 7+ than during courses 1-
6. 
A total of 87 responses were observed in the studies, thereof 13 during cycles 5 and 6 and 3 after cycle 
6. Overall response rates and survival were -due to obvious reasons-  much worse in patients treated 
with ≤ 6 cycles (“lead time bias”, early progressors cannot qualify for > 6 cycles of therapy). There 
were, however, 49 patients who ended therapy exactly at cycle 6 without signs of progressive disease 
and  these  patients  were  compared  with  those  treated  for  7  cycles  or  more.  Median  survival  was 
apparently longer in patients treated for > 6 cycles. Due to likely confounders, submitted data cannot 
be  interpreted  as  indicating  that  prolonged  therapy  causes  prolonged  survival.  Trial  conditions  were 
reflected in the SPC. 
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Update of the SPC following the 6th PSUR 
The following modifications to the SPC were implemented as requested from the CPMP as a result of 
the assessment of the sixth PSUR: 
• 
Addition of the sentence: ”Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, urticaria, angioedema and 
anaphylactic reactions have been reported rarely”. 
Deletion of the statement “No evidence of significant cardiotoxicity, neurotoxicity or other 
major toxicity was observed with topotecan”.  
• 
8. 
Renewal of Marketing Authorisation for Hycamtin (12 November 2001). 
Following review of the renewal application, the SPC was amended with respect to: 
• 
• 
Section 4.5 Addition of information about the sequence dependent interaction with cisplatin 
Section 4.8: Immune System disorders: Addition of “urticaria, angioedema” as rare. Under the 
heading “General disorders and administration site conditions”, “extravasation” is stated as a 
rare event.  
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
