Summary of the risk management plan for Hycamtin (topotecan)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Hycamtin. Currently 
there are no important identified, potential risks, and missing information for 
Hycamtin.
Hycamtin 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Hycamtin should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Hycamtin should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Hycamtin's RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Hycamtin is authorized for relapsed small cell lung cancer (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains topotecan hydrochloride as the active substance and it is
given by oral administration.
Further information about the evaluation of Hycamtin’s benefits can be found in 
Hycamtin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/hycamtin
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Hycamtin, together with measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Hycamtin's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use,  in  the  package  leaflet  and  SmPC  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
•
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
•
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment (if applicable) so 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Hycamtin are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of 
Hycamtin. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal  product that  is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B: Summary of important risks
Not applicable
II.C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Hycamtin.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Hycamtin.
