ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Hyftor 2 mg/g gel 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gram of gel contains 2 mg of sirolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each gram of gel contains 458 mg of ethanol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gel 
Colourless transparent gel. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Hyftor is indicated for the treatment of facial angiofibroma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex 
in adults and paediatric patients aged 6 years and older. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
This medicinal product should be applied to the affected area twice daily (in the morning and at 
bedtime). The application should be limited to skin areas with angiofibroma. 
A dose of 125 mg gel (or 0.5 cm gel, corresponding to 0.25 mg sirolimus) should be administered per 
50 cm2 lesion in the face.  
The maximum recommended daily dose in the face is:  
• 
Patients aged 6-11 years should apply up to 600 mg gel (1.2 mg sirolimus), corresponding to 
approximately 2 cm gel strand per day.  
Patients aged ≥ 12 years should apply up to 800 mg gel (1.6 mg sirolimus), corresponding to 
approximately 2.5 cm gel strand per day.  
• 
The dose should be equally divided for two administrations. 
Missed dose 
If the first dose was missed in the morning, the application should be done immediately upon 
realisation of the fact provided this was before dinner of the same day. Otherwise only the application 
in the evening should be administered on that day. If the application in the evening was missed this 
should not be taken at a later point in time. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (≥ 65 years) (see section 5.2).  
Renal impairment 
No formal studies have been performed in patients with renal impairment. However, no dose 
adjustment is required in this population since systemic exposure to sirolimus is low in individuals 
using Hyftor.  
Hepatic impairment 
No formal studies have been performed in patients with hepatic impairment. However, no dose 
adjustment is required in this population since systemic exposure to sirolimus is low in individuals 
using Hyftor (see section 4.4).  
Paediatric population 
The posology is the same in adults and children aged 12 years and older (up to a total of 800 mg gel 
per day).  
The maximum dose for patients aged 6-11 years is a total of 600 mg gel per day.  
The safety and efficacy of Hyftor in children less than 6 years has not been established. Currently 
available data are presented in section 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.  
Method of administration  
For cutaneous use only. 
Application should be limited to areas of facial angiofibroma lesions (see section 4.4.). 
A thin layer of gel should be administered to the affected skin and rubbed in gently. 
The application site should not be occluded. 
The gel should not be applied around the eyes and on the eyelids (see section 4.4). 
In case no treatment effect appears, administration with Hyftor should be discontinued after 12 weeks. 
Hands should be washed carefully before and after administration of the gel to ensure that no gel 
remains on the hands that may be accidentially ingested or trigger exposure to sirolimus of any other 
part of the body or other persons. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Immunosupressed patients 
Although systemic exposure is much lower following topical treatment with Hyftor than after systemic 
treatment with sirolimus, the gel should not be used in immunocompromised adults and children as a 
precautionary measure. 
Mucous membranes and damaged skin 
Hyftor should not be used on wounds, irritated skin or skin with a clinically confirmed diagnosis of 
infection as well as in patients with known skin barrier defects. 
Contact with eyes or mucous membranes (mouth, nose) should be avoided. Therefore, the gel should 
not be applied around the eyes and on the eyelids. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photosensitivity 
Photosensitivity reactions have been observed in patients treated with Hyftor (see sections 4.8 and 
5.3). Therefore, patients should avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight during the treatment 
period. Physicians should advise patients on appropriate sun protection methods, such as minimisation 
of the time in the sun, use of a sunscreen product and covering of the skin with appropriate clothing 
and/or headgear. 
Skin cancer  
Skin cancer has been observed after long-term treatment with oral sirolimus in preclinical studies (see 
section 5.3) and in patients treated systemically for immunosuppression. Although systemic exposure 
is much lower during treatment with sirolimus gel than with systemically administered sirolimus, 
patients should minimise or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight during therapy using the 
same measures as mentioned above, to prevent photosensitivity.  
Lymphoproliferative disorders 
Lymphoproliferative disorders secondary to chronic systemic use of immunosuppressive agents have 
been reported in patients. 
Severe hepatic impairment 
Sirolimus is metabolised in the liver and blood concentrations are low following topical 
administration. As a precautionary measure in patients with severe hepatic impairment, treatment 
should be discontinued in case any potential systemic side effects are observed. 
Hyperlipidaemia 
Increased serum levels of cholesterol or triglycerides have been observed during treatment with 
sirolimus, in particular after oral administration. Patients with established hyperlipidaemia should 
regularly monitor lipid blood levels during treatment with sirolimus gel. 
Excipients with known effect 
Ethanol 
This medicinal product contains 458 mg ethanol in each gram. This may cause burning sensation on 
damaged skin. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Sirolimus is extensively metabolised by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, and it is a substrate for the multidrug 
efflux pump P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In addition, sirolimus has been shown to inhibit human liver 
microsomal cytochrome P450 CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4/5 in vitro. In the light of 
the low systemic exposure after topical administration it is not expected that clinical relevant 
interactions will occur, but Hyftor should be used with caution in patients taking respective 
concomitant medicinal products. Potential adverse reactions should be monitored and in case 
observed, treatment should be interrupted. 
Except for sunscreens, no other topical treatments should be used on the facial angiofibroma lesions 
while treatment is ongoing. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccination 
During treatment with Hyftor, vaccinations may be less effective. Vaccination with live vaccines 
should be avoided during treatment. 
Oral contraceptives 
No interactions studies with Hyftor and oral contraceptives have been performed. Low systemic 
exposure to sirolimus during topical treatment with Hyftor makes pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
unlikely. The possibility of changes in the pharmacokinetics that might affect the efficacy of the oral 
contraceptive during long-term treatment with Hyftor cannot be fully excluded. For this reason, 
patients should be advised to use non-hormonal contraceptive measures during treatment. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of Hyftor in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity following systemic administration (see section 5.3).  
Hyftor  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy,  unless  the  clinical  condition  of  the  woman  requires 
treatment with sirolimus.  
Breast-feeding 
Available pharmacokinetic data in rats have shown excretion of systemically administred sirolimus in 
milk. It is unknown whether sirolimus is excreted in human milk, although clinical data have shown 
that systemic exposure is low following administration of Hyftor. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Hyftor 
therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the 
woman. 
Fertility 
Impairments of sperm parameters have been observed among some patients treated systemically with 
sirolimus. These effects were reversible upon discontinuation of systemic sirolimus treatment in most 
cases. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Hyftor has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were skin irritation events, including application site 
irritation (34.7%), dry skin (33.7%), acne (19.4%), and pruritus (11.2%). These events were generally 
mild or moderate in intensity, nonserious, and did not lead to treatment discontinuation. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported from the clinical studies are listed in table 1 by system organ class and 
frequency using the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common   Common 
Table 1:  Adverse reactions  
System Organ Class 
Infections and Infestations 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Dry skin;  
Pruritus 
Acne 
Conjunctivitis; 
Folliculitis 
Furuncle;  
Tinea versicolour 
Eye irritation;  
Erythema of eyelid;  
Ocular hyperaemia 
Nasal discomfort 
Stomatitis 
Asteatosis; 
Dermatitis; 
Dermatitis contact;  
Dermatitis acneiform;  
Dermal cyst;  
Eczema 
Papule 
Photosensitivity reaction;  
Rash pruritic; 
Seborrhoeic dermatitis 
Solar dermatitis;  
Urticaria; 
Xeroderma 
Erythema;  
Rash; 
Skin exfoliation;  
Skin irritation;  
Skin haemorrhage 
Application site haemorrhage;  
Application site paraesthesia;  
Application site swelling 
Skin abrasion 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Application site 
irritation 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Application site irritation 
Application  site  irritation  of  mild  or  moderate  intensity  occurred  in  34.7%  of  patients  treated  with 
sirolimus gel in clinical studies. Application site irritation did not require discontinuation of treatment 
with the medicinal product.  
Dry skin 
Dry skin of mild or moderate intensity occurred in 33.7% of patients treated with sirolimus gel in clinical 
studies. Dry skin did not require discontinuation of treatment with the medicinal product. 
Acne 
Acne was reported in 19.4% of patients overall treated with sirolimus gel in clinical studies. Acne was 
of mild or moderate intensity; no severe acne was reported. Acne/dermatitis acneiform did not require 
discontinuation of treatment with the medicinal product.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pruritus 
Mild or moderate intensity pruritus occurred in 11.2% of patients treated with sirolimus gel in clinical 
studies. Pruritus did not require discontinuation of treatment with the medicinal product.  
Paediatric population 
In clinical development, no difference was seen in the safety between paediatric patients aged 6 years 
and older and adult patients included in a Phase III study including 27 patients ≤ 18 years (Hyftor: n=13) 
and a long-term study including 50 patients ≤ 18 years (Hyftor: all).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
If accidentally ingested, general supportive measures may be appropriate. Due to the poor aqueous 
solubility and high erythrocyte and plasma protein binding, sirolimus will not be dialysable to a 
significant extent. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: Not yet 
assigned  
Mechanism of action 
The exact mechanism of action of sirolimus in the treatment of angiofibroma in the tuberous sclerosis 
complex is not exactly known. 
In general, sirolimus inhibits activation of mTOR which is a serine/threonine protein kinase that 
belongs to the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-related kinase family and regulates cellular 
metabolism, growth and proliferation. In cells, sirolimus binds to the immunophilin, FK Binding 
Protein-12 (FKBP-12), to generate an immunosuppressive complex. This complex binds to and 
inhibits the activation of mTOR. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Sirolimus gel was evaluated in a Phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (NPC-
12G-1). 
In this study, patients enrolled were aged ≥ 6 years with a diagnosis of tuberous sclerosis complex 
with ≥ 3 facial, red angiofibroma (AF) lesions ≥ 2 mm in diameter, and who had not received prior 
laser therapy or surgery. Patients with clinical findings such as erosion, ulcer and eruption on or 
around the lesion of angiofibroma, which may affect assessment of safety or efficacy, were excluded. 
Sirolimus gel (or matching placebo) was applied to facial AF lesions twice daily for 12 weeks, with a 
Hyftor gel amount of 125 mg (corresponding to 0.25 mg sirolimus) per 50 cm2 affected skin area. No 
other medicinal products with an anticipated treatment effect on AF associated with tuberous sclerosis 
complex were allowed.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 62 patients were enrolled (30 in the sirolimus gel group and 32 in the placebo group). The 
mean age was 21.6 years in the sirolimus gel group and 23.3 years in the placebo group and paediatric 
patients accounted for 44% overall trial population. 
The results of the study showed a statistically significant increase in composite AF improvement 
(defined as concomitant improvement in AF size and AF redness) at 12 weeks with sirolimus gel 
treatment, compared with placebo treatment, based on independent review committee (IRC) 
assessment. The responder rate, defined as patients with improvement or markedly improvement, was 
60% with sirolimus gel versus 0% with placebo (see Table 2). 
Table 2: Efficacy results in study NPC-12G-1: composite AF improvement by IRC at week 12 
Patients, n (%) 
Markedly improved 
Improved 
Slightly improved 
Unchanged 
Slightly exacerbated 
Exacerbated 
Not evaluated 
p-value (Wilcoxon rank sum test) 
Sirolimus gel 
30 (100.0) 
5 (16.7) 
13 (43.3) 
11 (36.7) 
1 (3.3) 
0 
0 
0 
Placebo 
32 (100.0) 
0 
0 
5 (15.6) 
26 (81.3) 
0 
0 
1 (3.1) 
<0.001 
Change in AF size at Week 12 compared to baseline was markedly improved or improved in 60% 
(95% Confidence Interval (CI): 41%-77%) of patients receiving sirolimus gel vs 3% (95% CI: 0%-
11%) of patients receiving placebo. Change in AF redness at Week 12 compared to baseline (by IRC) 
was markedly improved or improved in 40% (95% CI: 23%-59%) of patients receiving sirolimus gel 
vs 0% (95% CI: 0%-11%) of patients receiving placebo. Table 3 summarises efficacy in different age 
groups.  
Table 3: Efficacy results in study NPC-12G-1: composite AF improvement by IRC at week 12, 
stratified by age. Data presented indicated the outcome “markedly improved” and 
“improved”. 
6-11 years 
12-17 years 
≥ 18 years 
* Wilcoxon 2-sample test 
Sirolimus gel 
5/6 (83.3%) 
6/7 (85.7%) 
7/17 (41.2%) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Placebo 
0/6 (0.0%) 
0/6 (0.0%) 
0/20 (0.0%) 
p-value* 
0.004 
0.010 
0.000 
In the phase III study in patients treated for angiofibroma, 70% of patients had measurable sirolimus 
plasma concentrations after 12 weeks of treatment (range 0.11-0.50 ng/ml). Blood samples were 
obtained in the 52-week long-term -study at pre-defined time points and the maximum sirolimus 
concentration measured at any time in adult patients was 3.27 ng/ml and the maximum sirolimus 
concentration measured at any time in paediatric patients was 1.80 ng/ml. 
Distribution 
For systemically administered sirolimus, terminal half-life in stable renal transplant patients after 
multiple oral doses was 62±16 hours.  
The blood to plasma ratio of 36 indicates that sirolimus is extensively partitioned into formed blood 
elements. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Sirolimus is a substrate for both, cytochrome CYP3A4 and P-gp. Sirolimus is extensively metabolised 
by O-demethylation and/or hydroxylation. Seven major metabolites, including hydroxyl, demethyl, 
and hydroxydemethyl, are identifiable in whole blood. Sirolimus is the major component in human 
whole blood and contributes to greater than 90% of the immunosuppressive activity. 
Elimination 
Excretion of sirolimus is mainly via the hepatic/faecal route. After a single oral dose of [14C]-sirolimus 
in healthy volunteers, the greatest amount (91.1%) of radioactivity was recovered from the faeces, and 
only a minor amount (2.2%) was excreted in urine. 
Special populations 
Elderly  
There are no pharmacokinetic data available after administration of sirolimus gel to patients aged 
65 years and older since studies performed with sirolimus gel did not include patients of this age (see 
sections 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data from patients with renal impairment are not available.  
Hepatic impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data from patients with hepatic impairment are not available.  
Paediatric population 
Descriptive statistics of sirolimus blood concentrations revealed no relevant differences in post-dose 
samples taken after 4 and 12 weeks of treatment between adult and paediatric patients aged 6-11 years 
and 12-17 years.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeated dose toxicity and local tolerance 
In cynomolgus monkeys treated twice daily with 2 mg/g and 8 mg/g sirolimus gel for 9 months toxic 
effects were observed in one male at 8 mg/g gel and one female at 2 mg/g gel at exposure levels 
similar to clinical exposure levels following systemic administration of sirolimus and with possible 
relevance to clinical use, were as follows: typhlitis, colitis, and rectitis, vacuolation of the renal 
proximal tubular epithelium, dilation of distal tubule and collecting ducts, enlargement of the adrenal 
glands and hypertrophy/eosinophilia of the zona fasciculata, hypocellularity of the bone marrow, 
atrophy of thymus, lymph nodes and white pulp of the spleen, acinar atrophy of the exocrine pancreas 
and submandibular gland.  
Following systemic treatment with sirolimus, pancreatic islet cell vacuolation, testicular tubular 
degeneration, gastrointestinal ulceration, bone fractures and calluses, hepatic haematopoiesis, and 
pulmonary phospholipidosis were observed. 
Photosensitivity-like reactions were observed in local tolerance studies in guinea pigs. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mutagenicity 
Sirolimus was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assays, the Chinese hamster 
ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay, the mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay, or the in 
vivo mouse micronucleus assay. 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies conducted in mouse and rat using systemic administration of 
sirolimus showed increased incidences of lymphomas (male and female mouse), hepatocellular 
adenoma and carcinoma (male mouse) and granulocytic leukaemia (female mouse). In mouse, chronic 
ulcerative skin lesions were increased. The changes may be related to chronic immunosuppression. In 
rat, testicular interstitial cell adenomas were noted.  
A two-stage skin carcinogenesis bioassay in mice showed no development of skin masses following 
treatment with 2 mg/g or 8 mg/g sirolimus gel indicating that sirolimus gel does not promote skin 
carcinogenesis when administered after initiation with dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA). 
Reproduction toxicity 
In reproduction toxicity studies using systemic administration of sirolimus, decreased fertility in male 
rats was observed. Partly reversible reductions in sperm counts were reported in a 13-week rat study. 
Reductions in testicular weights and/or histological lesions (e.g. tubular atrophy and tubular giant 
cells) were observed in rats and in a monkey study. In rats, sirolimus caused embryo/foetotoxicity that 
was manifested as mortality and reduced foetal weights (with associated delays in skeletal 
ossification). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Carbomer 
Anhydrous ethanol 
Trolamine 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
15 months 
Shelf life after first opening: 4 weeks. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Keep away from fire. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Aluminium tube with high density polyethylene closure. 
Pack size: 1 tube containing 10 g of gel. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any remaining medicinal product, as well as the materials used for its administration, must be 
destroyed in accordance with the procedure applicable for cytotoxic agent and in compliance with 
current legislation relating to the elimination of hazardous waste. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Plusultra pharma GmbH,  
Fritz-Vomfelde-Str. 36 
40547 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1723/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
MSK Pharmalogistic GmbH 
Donnersbergstraße 4  
64646 Heppenheim  
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Hyftor 2 mg/g gel 
sirolimus  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each gram of gel contains 2 mg sirolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Carbomer, anhydrous ethanol, trolamine and purified water. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Gel 
■ 
10 g 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For cutaneous use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard the tube 4 weeks after first opening. 
Open date: 
Discard date: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Keep away from fire. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Plusultra pharma GmbH,  
Fritz-Vomfelde-Straße. 36, 
40547 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1723/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Hyftor 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL PACKAGING UNITS 
TUBE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Hyftor 2 mg/g gel 
sirolimus  
For cutaneous use only. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard the tube 4 weeks after first opening. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT 
10 g 
6. 
OTHER  
Store in a refrigerator  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Hyftor 2 mg/g gel 
sirolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Hyftor is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Hyftor  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Hyftor 
Possible side effects  
How to store Hyftor  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Hyftor is and what it is used for 
Hyftor contains the active substance sirolimus, which is a medicine that reduces the activity of the 
immune system.  
In patients with tuberous sclerosis complex a protein that regulates the immune system, m-TOR, is 
overactive. By blocking the activity of m-TOR, Hyftor regulates cell growth and reduces the number 
or size of angiofibromas. 
Hyftor is a medicine used to treat adults and children from 6 years of age with angiofibroma on the 
face resulting from tuberous sclerosis complex. Tuberous sclerosis complex is a rare genetic disease 
causing non-cancerous tumours to grow in different organs of the body, including the brain and skin. 
The disease causes facial angiofibromas, non-cancerous lesions (growths) of the skin and mucous 
membranes (moist body surfaces, such as the lining of the mouth) in the face, in many patients.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Hyftor  
Do not use Hyftor if you are allergic to sirolimus or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6) 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before using Hyftor if you have: 
• 
• 
a weakened immune system 
severely reduced liver function 
Avoid contact of Hyftor with the eyes, the lining of the mouth and nose, or wounds. Similarly, it 
should not be used on irritated skin or skin that is infected or otherwise damaged. 
In case of accidental contact it is recommended to immediately wash the gel off. 
Avoid exposing skin treated with Hyftor to direct sunlight since it may cause side effects on the skin. 
This includes both natural and artificial (for example in the solarium) sunlight. Your doctor will advise 
you about appropriate sun protection, like the use of sunscreen and clothing to cover the skin or 
wearing headgear. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children 
Hyftor is not recommended for children under 6 years since the product has not been sufficiently 
studied in this age group.  
Other medicines and Hyftor 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Do not apply other medicines to the area of skin treated with Hyftor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Hyftor is not recommended during pregnancy unless your doctor thinks that the benefits of treatment 
are greater than the risks. There is no information on the use of Hyftor in pregnant women. 
Women of childbearing potential should use safe contraception during treatment with Hyftor. 
It is not known, whether sirolimus is excreted into human milk after treatment with Hyftor. You and 
your doctor should made a decision whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain 
from Hyftor therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for your child and the benefit of 
therapy for you. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Hyftor contains alcohol 
This medicine contains 458 mg alcohol (ethanol) in each gram. It may cause a burning sensation when 
applied to damaged skin. 
3. 
How to use Hyftor 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 
Your doctor or pharmacist will show you how much gel you should use. 
About 0.5 cm of the gel strand twice daily is recommended for a lesion of around 7 by 7 cm (50 cm2).  
The maximum recommended dose on the face is:  
• 
• 
children 6 to 11 years: no more than 1 cm gel strand twice daily  
adults and children from 12 years: no more than 1.25 cm gel strand twice daily 
How to apply the gel 
Apply a thin layer of Hyftor twice daily (morning and evening) to the affected skin area and rub in 
gently. The application should be done once in the morning and once in the evening before going to 
bed. Limit the use to skin areas affected by angiofibroma. Do not cover the affected skin after 
application of Hyftor. 
Wash your hands carefully before and immediately after using the gel to avoid any unintentional 
spread or ingestion. 
Duration of use 
Your doctor will tell you how long you should use Hyftor for. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you use more Hyftor than you should 
Hyftor is applied to the skin and absorption into the body is minimal. This makes overdose very 
unlikely. 
If you apply too much gel to a lesion, carefully wipe off the excess gel with a paper towel and throw 
away the towel. 
If you or anybody else accidentally swallows some gel, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to use Hyftor 
If you forget to use the medicine in the morning, apply the gel as soon as you remember immediately 
before your meal in the evening of the same day. After your meal in the evening, only administer 
Hyftor at bedtime on that day. If you forget to use the medicine at bedtime, skip that dose. Do not 
apply more gel to make up for a missed dose. 
If you stop using Hyftor 
Your doctor will tell you how long you should use Hyftor and when you can stop treatment. Do not 
stop using it without consulting your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dry skin 
itching skin 
acne 
irritation at the application site, such as reddening, burning stinging, itching, swelling and/or 
numbness  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
bleeding at application site 
abnormal sensation, including at the application site, such as numbness, prickling, tingling and 
itchiness 
application site swelling 
eczema characterised by changes that occur when skin becomes abnormally dry, red, itchy and 
cracked 
dermal cyst (a cyst containing solid tissue or structures such as hair) 
rash, itchy rash 
peeling of skin 
skin irritation 
reddening 
bleeding of the skin 
dermatitis (inflammation of the skin), including contact dermatitis (inflammation of the skin 
after contact with the medicine), acneiform dermatitis (inflammation of the skin with small 
acne-like bumps), seborrhoeic dermatitis (skin condition affecting the head with scaly and red 
skin), solar dermatitis (inflammation of the skin after exposure to sunlight) 
dry, hard and scaly skin 
hives 
nodules 
boils 
tinea versicolour (a fungal infection of the skin) 
inflammation of the lining of the mouth 
increased sensitivity to light 
reddening of the eyelid 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
red eye 
eye irritation 
conjunctivitis (redness and discomfort in the eye) 
inflammation of hair follicles 
sensations like numbness, tingling and pins and needles 
nasal discomfort 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Hyftor 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the tube after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Store in the original tube in order to protect from light. 
Keep away from fire. 
Throw away the tube and any remaining gel 4 weeks after opening. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Hyftor contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is sirolimus. Each gram of gel contains 2 mg of sirolimus  
The other ingredients are carbomer, anhydrous ethanol, trolamine and purified water (see 
section 2 “Hyftor contains alcohol”). 
What Hyftor looks like and contents of the pack 
Hyftor is a transparent, colourless gel. It is supplied in an aluminium tube containing 10 g of gel. 
Pack size: 1 tube 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Plusultra pharma GmbH 
Fritz-Vomfelde-Str. 36 
40547 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
MSK Pharmalogistic GmbH.  
Donnersbergstraße 4  
64646 Heppenheim  
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
24 
 
