8 May 2013 
EMA/239112/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
HyQvia  
Common name: human normal immunoglobulin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002491/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 22 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 29 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 45 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 58 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................... 62 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 62 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 65 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 2/68 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
Abbreviation   Definition  
ADA 
ADME 
AE  
AF 
ANOVA  
AUC  
AUC0-τ  
Anti-drug Activity 
Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion 
Adverse event (experience)  
Assessment Factor 
Analysis of variance model  
Area under the curve  
Area under the concentration versus time curve between subsequent infusions  
BW  
CHMP 
CHO 
CI  
Cl  
Cmax  
Cmin  
CNS 
ECG 
EMA 
ERA 
EU 
FADS  
GCP  
GLP 
HA 
HED 
hERG 
ICH 
ID 
IP 
IV 
MAA 
MedDRA  
NEL 
NOAEL  
NOEC 
PEDS-QL 
PID  
PH20 
PK 
PPDS  
rHuPH20 
SADS  
SAE 
SC 
SCID 
SD rats 
SmPC 
SNDS  
SF-36 
t1/2  
TGD 
tmax 
Body weight  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
Chinese Hamster Ovary 
Confidence interval  
Clearance  
Maximum concentration  
Minimum concentration  
Central Nervous System 
Electrocardiogram 
European Medicines Agency 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
European Union 
Full analysis data set  
Good Clinical Practice  
Good Laboratory Practice 
Hyaluronan  
Human Equivalent Dose 
Ether-a-go-go Related Gene 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Intradermal 
Intraperitoneal 
Intravenous  
Marketing Authorisation Application 
MedDRA Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
No Effect Level 
No Observable Adverse Effect Level 
No Observable Effect Concentration 
Pediatric Quality of Life InventoryTM 
Primary immunodeficiency diseases 
Sperm Surface Hyaluronidase 
Pharmacokinetics 
Per-protocol data set 
Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase 
Safety analysis data set 
Serious adverse event (experience) 
Subcutaneous 
Severe combined Immunodeficiency 
Sprague Dawley rats 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Subcutaneous Immunoglobulin (SCIG) Naïve Subjects Data Set 
36-item short-form health survey 
Half-life 
Technical Guidance Document 
Time to achieve the maximum plasma drug concentration 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 3/68 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Baxter  Innovations  GmbH  submitted  on  30  September  2011  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  HyQvia,  through  the 
centralised procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication. 
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections. 
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with 
severe secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8(3) of Directive No 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
• 
Significance of paediatric studies 
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) was agreed with the Paediatric committee (PIP Decision 
Number: P/306/2010). A PIP compliance verification is available from 17 June 2011: PDCO 
compliance Opinion Number EMA/359195/2011, which confirmed the compliance of all those 
studies contained in the agreed paediatric investigation plan that were to be completed until this 
date. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
HyQvia in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of primary 
immunodeficiency as model for replacement therapy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 4/68 
 
  
  
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity 
with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal 
product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 9 February 2009 
(EMEA/H/SA/1170/1/2009/III). The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and 
clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturers of the active substance 
Baxter Healthcare Corporation 
4501 Colorado Boulevard 
Los Angeles, California 
USA 
Manufacture of intermediate Precipitate G from human plasma.  
Baxter AG 
Industriestrasse 131 
1221-Vienna 
Austria 
Manufacture of intermediate Precipitate G from human plasma. 
Baxter Manufacturing S.p.A. 
Via della Chimica 5 
02010 Santa Rufina, Cittaducale, Rieti 
Italy 
Manufacture of intermediate Precipitate G from human plasma. 
Baxter S.A. 
Boulevard René Branquart, 80 
B-7860 Lessines 
Belgium 
Manufacture of Ultrafiltrate Centrifugate of Immune Globulin 10% from Precipitate G 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 5/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Manufacturer of the finished product 
Baxter S.A. 
Boulevard René Branquart, 80 
B-7860 Lessines 
Belgium 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Baxter S.A. 
Boulevard René Branquart, 80 
B-7860 Lessines 
Belgium 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Jan Mueller-Berghaus  
Co-Rapporteur: Andrea Laslop 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 30 September 2011. 
•  The procedure started on 19 October 2011.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 January 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
10 January 2012.  
•  During the meeting on 16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 15 
August 2012. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on 28 September 2012. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 18 October 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. An extended responses timetable of 90 
days was granted by the CHMP to the applicant.  
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 22 January 
2013 and requested for an Oral explanation on 18 January 2013. The Rapporteurs circulated 
the Joint Assessment Report on the responses provided by the applicant on 4 February 2013. 
The request for an Oral explanation was withdrawn by the applicant on 14 February 2013. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 19 February 2013, a 2nd CHMP List of Outstanding Issues 
adopted by the applicant. The applicant submitted the responses to the 2nd CHMP List of 
Outstanding Issues on 27 February 2013.  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment 
Report on the responses provided by the applicant on 8 March 2013. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 6/68 
 
  
  
 
•  During the meeting on 21 March 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to HyQvia. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PID) are a class of disorders that result in increased 
susceptibility to infection including both recurrent pyogenic infections secondary to defects of 
humoral immunity and opportunistic infections resulting from defects in cell-mediated immunity. 
Individuals with these disorders require replacement therapy with immunoglobulin products in the 
range of 0.3 to 0.6 g/kg body weight (BW) every 3 to 4 weeks, which are easily achieved by the 
intravenous (IV) route. However, adverse drug reactions and the need for experienced medical 
personnel to administer the infusions are problematic for many patients. Subcutaneous (SC) 
administrations of immunoglobulin preparations have become increasingly widespread during the 
last decade. The immunoglobulin preparations currently licensed for SC use in the European Union 
are formulated at 16% to 20%; the higher concentration relative to IV licensed products (typically 
formulated at 5 to 12%) allows for a smaller infusion volume. SC administration of immunoglobulin 
replacement therapy is considered to be effective, safe, and also highly appreciated by patients as 
it has a relatively low risk of systemic adverse reactions and, when given weekly or every other 
week, leads to higher trough serum IgG concentrations as compared to monthly IV infusions. 
Human normal immunoglobulin 10% (IG 10%) for administration with the excipient recombinant 
human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) has been developed to facilitate subcutaneous administration of 
the IG 10% preparation. The medicinal product is provided as two components in a dual vial unit in 
an inseparable kit arrangement. The recombinant human hyaluronidase component modifies the 
permeability of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronan. 
About the product 
HyQvia is a human normal immunoglobulin. It is presented as two separate vials active substance 
and excipient i.e. combination of human normal immunoglobulin 10% (IGSC, 10%) and 
recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). HyQvia has been developed to enable the SC 
administration of large volumes of IgG, thus addressing the major disadvantage of present SCIg 
replacement therapy. HyQvia allows administration of SCIg every 3 or 4 weeks, as an alternative to 
IVIg administration or more frequent (usually at least once a week) SCIg administration in patients 
with PID. 
The function of rHuPH20 in the new product combination is to promote the dispersion and 
absorption of IGSC 10% by temporarily increasing the permeability of the subcutaneous tissue. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 7/68 
 
  
  
 
Administration of the combination product is a 2-step process that comprises injection of the 
rHuPH20 followed by infusion of IGSC 10% into a single SC site through the same needle/infusion 
set. 
IGSC 10% is identical to Baxter’s licensed product for intravenous administration, human normal 
immunoglobulin for intravenous use 10% (IGIV 10%), a liquid human immunoglobulin G (IgG) 
preparation. IGIV 10 % is marketed as KIOVIG (EMEA/H/C/000628) in Europe 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
HyQvia is presented as two separate vials one with the final formulation of the human normal 
immunoglobulin, 10% (IGSC, 10%) and the other with the excipient recombinant human 
hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). 
The active substance in HyQvia, human normal immunoglobulin 10% is identical to the active 
substance in Baxter´s licensed human normal immunoglobulin for intravenous administration IGIV 
10%) product KIOVIG (EU product name) / Gammagard Liquid (GGL; US product name) and is 
manufactured using the same process for both products. Therefore, all information, established 
tests and performed investigations as described below are also fully applicable for HyQvia.  
The recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) is a novel excipient and full details of the 
manufacture, characterisation and controls with cross references to supporting safety data have 
been provided. The assessment of the rHuPH20 is presented under the chapter 2.2.3 Finished 
medicinal product.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
HyQvia being equivalent to KIOVIG, it is manufactured from human plasma for fractionation 
compliant to Ph. Eur., and full details are provided in the Baxter Plasma Master File (PMF) dossier 
annually re-certified by the EMA. Currently, plasma is sourced from Austria, the Czech Republic, 
Germany, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Finland, and the United States of America. Only plasma 
from centres approved in the PMF is used for the manufacture of products marketed in the European 
Economic Area (EEA). 
Manufacture 
Manufacturing process 
The IGIV 10% manufacturing process employs a modified Cohn-Oncley cold alcohol fractionation 
procedure to isolate an intermediate immunoglobulin G (IgG) fraction, referred to as Precipitate G, 
from frozen human plasma pools. Precipitate G is further purified by a continuous process through 
the use of cation exchange chromatography and anion exchange chromatography to final 
formulation. No distinct active substance can be defined which meets the definition of a bulk that is 
routinely stored and/or tested. For formal reasons, however, the manufacturing description has 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 8/68 
 
  
  
 
been divided into the manufacture of the active substance, ultrafiltrate concentrate. Fractionation 
of the pooled plasma to obtain the intermediate Precipitate G is performed at the Baxter facilities in 
Los Angeles/CA/USA, Vienna/Austria, and Rieti/Italy. The Precipitate G is shipped to the Baxter 
facility in Lessines/Belgium for further manufacture into IG 10% final product. 
Purification 
Three dedicated virus reduction/inactivation steps are included in the downstream purification of 
Precipitate G, which are solvent/detergent (S/D) treatment, nanofiltration, and incubation at low pH 
and elevated temperature in the final formulation. In general, reduction factors obtained by these 
process steps are lower for non-lipid-enveloped viruses. Therefore viral clearance studies on the 
fractionation II+III part of the manufacturing process were additionally performed in order to 
investigate the inactivation/removal capacity of this step. The studies submitted were performed on 
laboratory scale in line with the guideline CPMP/BWP/268/95. A risk assessment for HIV, HCV, HBV, 
HAV, WNV and B19V has been provided, including the calculation of the residual risk for one dose of 
IVIg 10%. No animal-derived auxiliary except for heparin, purified from porcine tissue, is used in 
the IGIV 10% process. Manufacturing processes of plasma-derived medicinal products have to be 
investigated for their potential prion removal capacity. Baxter presents a fact sheet which discusses 
TSE safety for IGIV 10% and Immune Globulin Subcutaneous, 20% (lGSC 20%). This fact sheet is 
applicable to HyQvia. The residual theoretical risk of plasma for fractionation, steps with proven 
prion removal capacity as well as steps not investigated for prion removal are summarized. 
Calculations regarding residual theoretical risk are provided. 
The manufacturing process includes 8 different adsorption options (adsorption of coagulation 
factors, ATIII, and C1-Inhibitor) dependent on the manufacturing site. A detailed comparison of the 
manufacturing process of precipitate G for IGIV 10% on the different sites is given.  
The critical steps for the IGIV 10% manufacturing process have been identified. Immune Globulin 
Intravenous (Human), 10% Solution (IGIV 10%) conformance lots were manufactured to validate 
the processes at Baxter Los Angeles (LA), Vienna, Rieti, and Lessines commercial scale facilities. To 
support the licensure of all possible adsorption options used at a given facility by process validation 
data, the bracketing approach was used. The Ultrafiltrate Concentrate, which corresponds to the 
active substance, is immediately further processed and filled into final containers. No storage of the 
Concentrate prior to the final formulation step is foreseen. All quality control tests are performed for 
the Drug Product only. Regarding the IVIG 10% manufacturing no major objections have been 
identified during the assessment.   The dossier has now been updated adequately to address any 
concerns raised during the procedure, mostly in relation to the quality and dossier completeness of 
the dossier.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
The finished medicinal product IG 10% is a purified IgG liquid solution formulated with 0.25M 
glycine (for a stabilising effect) at 10% w/v protein concentration and a pH of 4.6 to 5.1. The 
preparation is an isotonic solution containing a concentration of approximately 100 mg of protein 
per ml, of which at least 98% is IgG. Stabilising agents and additional components are present in 
the following maximum amounts: 18.8 mg/ml glycine, and trace amounts of polysorbate 80, 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 9/68 
 
  
  
 
tri-n-butyl phosphate, and octoxynol 9. The product contains no preservatives. The finished product 
specifications meet the relevant Ph. Eur. Monographs 0918 and 0338.  
Regarding the stability of the IG 10% drug product, the applicant presented 5 stability studies. The 
stability studies were designed to cover all manufacturing facilities and filling sizes of the product. 
Baxter  proposes  a  24  months  shelf  life  for  IGIV  10%  when  stored  under  refrigerated  (+2°C  to 
+8°C) conditions.   
HyQvia medicinal product is provided as two components in a dual vial unit in an inseparable kit 
arrangement  i.e.  the  human  normal  immunoglobulin  (IG  10%)  and  Recombinant  Human 
Hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) are presented as separate vials.   
rHuPH20 has not been previously authorised as an excipient and is considered a novel excipient. 
Full details of manufacture, characterisation and controls with cross references to supporting safety 
data have been provided in the dossier. The information on rHuPH20 was presented in separate 
sections by analogy to the product’s dossier structure “active substance” and “finished product”. In 
this document the terms “excipient substance” (the rHuPH20 ingredient) and “excipient product” 
(the formulated vial with rHuPH20) are used. 
rHUPH20 (excipient substance abbreviated as rHUPH20 DS) 
The rHuPH20 DS protein is formulated at 1 mg/ml. The solution is filled in Type I glass vials with 
Type I bromobutyl rubber stoppers. 
- 
Manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process of rHuPH20 DS begins with thawing of one vial from the working cell 
bank (WCB) and expansion of the cells through culture.  Description of the generation of the host 
cell line, the cell banking system and characterization of the host cell line is in accordance with the 
demands of the ICH guidelines Q5B, Q5D, CHMP 3AB1A, and the Monograph “Products of 
Recombinant DNA Technology”. In addition, the characterisation of the host-vector system, 
including mechanism of transfer of the vector into the host cells, copy number, physical state and 
stability of the vector inside the host cell, and measures used to promote and control the expression 
are described sufficiently. When expanded the culture is transferred to a bioreactor and thereafter 
harvested.  Then the protein is purified through column purification steps and a dedicated viral 
reduction step (Nanofiltration). The purified protein is concentrated (1 mg/mL), formulated, and 
filled into vials. The in-process controls performed during manufacture of rHuPH20 Drug Substance 
are listed. The described acceptance criteria for control parameters of critical steps in the 
manufacture of rHuPH20 DS are adequate justified and subsequent consequences if Out of Limit 
events occur are listed.  
- 
Validation 
The prospective process validation protocol covered 3 consecutive full scale GMP batches.  An 
inspection of the manufacturing site was conducted in 2012 in order to verify compliance of the 
manufacturing process of rHUPH20 (recombinant human hyaluronidase) with GMP and the 
particulars of the Marketing Authorisation Application in accordance with Article 8(2) of Regulation 
(EC) 726/2004.  
The validation of the rHuPH20 DS manufacturing process showed that the cell line exhibits strong 
and reproducible growth and viability in all vessel sizes. The column purification process 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 10/68 
 
  
  
demonstrated reproducibility for both yield and enzyme activity and purity. The virus filtration has 
operated consistently in all production runs.  
- 
Characterisation 
The characterisation of rHuPH20 product includes the determination of physicochemical properties, 
biological activity, purity, impurities, contaminants, and quantity by appropriate techniques, as 
described in ICH Q6B. The testing meets the criteria of ICH guidelines Q3A, Q3B, Q5C resp. Q6B and 
the demands of the CHMP guideline on Control of Impurities of Pharmacopoeial Substances.  
Furthermore, the characterisation of rHuPH20 is in line with the demands of the Monograph 
“Products of Recombinant DNA Technology”.The Applicant has initiated the validation of an 
improved RP-HPLC assay to allow separate specifications to be set for the product-related 
impurities. The Applicant commits to establish these impurity acceptance limits after collecting data 
from the first 20 commercial lots.  
-  Container closure system  
The rHuPH20 DS is filled in borosilicate glass vials that are closed with bromobutyl stoppers suitable 
for long-term storage. The vial is manufactured from low extractable borosilicate glass that 
conforms to ASTM Type I, Class A and USP Type I requirements.  
-  Stability 
Based on the available stability data for commercial scale lots, the proposed shelf life for the 
rHuPH20 DS production lots has been set at three years when the lots are stored at ≤ -30°C. The 
stability testing plan is sufficient and complies with ICH guidelines Q1A and Q5C. Based on the 
presented data, the proposed shelf-life is considered acceptable. 
rHuPH20 (excipient finished product) 
Recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) is a solution for subcutaneous injection that 
functions as a permeation enhancer. The preparation is supplied at the concentration of 160 U/mL 
with fill sizes of 1.25 mL, 2.5 mL, 5 mL, 10 mL and 15 mL. rHuPH20 solution is a clear, colourless 
solution essentially free of particles. 
The rHuPH20 is manufactured into the rHuPH20 finished product by contract fill-finish organization.  
Quality Control testing and release of the rHuPH20 finished product, and the packaging and labeling 
and release of Immune Globulin, 10% and rHuPH20 is performed by Baxter S.A., B-7860 Lessines, 
Belgium. 
- 
Manufacturing process 
The rHuPH20 DP is manufactured in smaller and larger batch sizes using essentially the same 
process. The description of the manufacturing process is detailed and considered sufficient. The 
rHuPH20 DP manufacturing process will be conducted at two batch sizes, smaller ± 10% and larger 
± 10%. For the smaller batch size, up to two rHuPH20 DS lots may be blended; for the larger size, 
one to three rHuPH20 DS lots or parts thereof may be used.  
There are no reprocessing steps planned at this time. The critical steps for the rHuPH20 finished 
product manufacturing process have been identified. They are noted along with appropriate control 
tests, test methods, acceptance criteria, and actions if acceptance criteria are not met.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 11/68 
 
  
  
 
- 
Process validation 
The validation exercise for rHuPH20 in both sizes of batches have been completed in accordance 
with their respective validation protocols. The review and evaluation of the validation batches 
indicate that rHuPH20, 160 U/mL manufacturing process at BPS is under control and capable of 
consistently producing product that complies with all established specifications and quality 
characteristics. 
All excipients used for the manufacturing of rHuPH20 are compendial materials and their 
specifications are in compliance with the current edition of the European Pharmacopoeia. Analytical 
procedures for the tests on excipients are performed by the vendors according to the requirements 
of the current Ph. Eur. monographs and have been qualified for use. Therefore, no validation 
information is provided. 
Human albumin is the only excipient (stabiliser) of biological origin used in the manufacture of 
rHuPH20. For the production of conformance lots of rHuPH20 finished product, Buminate, Albumin 
(Human), was used as excipient (stabiliser). For future lots of rHuPH20 supplied with IG 10% in the 
EU, Baxter intends to use Human Albumin Baxter as excipient. This human albumin is licensed in 
the EU through Mutual recognition procedure (MRP) procedure DE/H/0474/003 and has been on the 
European market since 2006. Human Albumin Baxter complies with the current Ph. Eur.  
- 
Control of drug product  
Validation of the analytical procedures used for release testing of rHuPH20 finished product was 
performed in compliance with ICH guidelines. Detailed assay validation information for the 
non-compendial analytical procedures is provided in the referenced validation reports. The 
non-compendial analytical methods are satisfactorily validated. Eight conformance and six clinical 
batches of rHuPH20 finished product were analysed according to the defined specifications and 
procedures. All lots pass the release specifications for rHuPH20 finished product. The analytical 
batch data demonstrate the robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing process for 
rHuPH20 finished product. Product-related impurities that were detected and assessed were either 
rHuPH20-related impurities or albumin and its related impurities (non-albumin plasma proteins). 
The rHuPH20 assay working reference standard currently in use is a rHuPH20 finished product lot. 
This is the same standard that is used as reference material for the potency assay of the excipient 
substance.  
- 
Container closure system 
The description of Container Closure System is adequate. Sufficient information is provided. The 
tests methods for container closure are in conformance with Ph. Eur. requirements 
- 
Stability 
Stability data for three clinical lots (36 months/2 lots and 30 months/1 lot) as well as for 18 months 
for six conformance lots were provided. Based on the provided stability data the proposed storage 
condition of 24 months when stored at 2-8°C is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 12/68 
 
  
  
2.2.4.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
In conclusion, based on the review of the quality data provided, the CHMP considers that the 
marketing authorisation application for HyQvia is approvable. 
2.2.5.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific 
progress, the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
Description of post-authorisation measure(s) 
REC 
Improvement of the RP-HPLC assay to allow separate specifications to be set for the 
product-related impurities. The Applicant commits to establish these impurity acceptance 
limits after collecting data from the first 20 commercial lots. (REC) 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
HyQvia is a dual vial unit consisting of one vial of human normal immunoglobulin 10% (IG 10%) and 
one vial of recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). HyQvia is intended for subcutaneous use 
in primary (e.g. congenital agammaglobulinaemia, severe combined immunodeficiency) and 
secondary immunodeficiency disorders. The two components of the medicinal product must be 
administered sequentially through the same needle beginning with the Recombinant Hyaluronidase 
followed by IG, 10%. The recombinant human hyaluronidase component modifies the permeability 
of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronan.  
Nonclinical programme 
Human immunoglobulins are naturally occurring proteins with well-established safety and 
tolerability record. It is generally acknowledged that testing of human immunoglobulin preparations 
in animal models is of limited value and these limitations are also discussed in the ICH S6 (Note for 
Guidance on Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-derived Pharmaceuticals 
CPMP/ICH/302/95, which are applicable to plasma derived products).  
Nevertheless, non-clinical testing of IG 10% have been performed and focused on efficacy, safety, 
pharmacokinetics, toxicity and mutagenicity. Efficacy was assessed by a mouse protection test in 
vivo. Further evidence for efficacy of the product was provided using in vitro testing. Nonclinical 
safety was assessed by a series of studies in animal models. Anaphylactoid potential was 
investigated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (blood-pressure lowering effect) and in guinea pigs 
(bronchospastic effect); the thrombogenic potential was investigated in a Wessler rabbit model. 
Influence on vital function (cardiovascular, respiratory and blood coagulation parameters) was 
tested in dogs. Pharmacokinetics in rats demonstrated no difference between products and lots 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 13/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
tested regarding in vivo recovery and serum halflife. Toxicity testing included single-dose studies 
using mice and rats and a local tolerability in rabbits. Mutagenicity data – although not necessarily 
needed for plasmaderived products – was generated in bacteria (Ames test). 
Two different manufacturing procedures have been described for the production of rHuPH20. 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated no significant differences between 
the functional activities of the enzyme preparations and established that the pharmacological 
properties of the two preparations of hyaluronidases are essentially equivalent. Nonclinical safety 
evaluation of rHuPH20 included a single dose IV study in rats, range-finding and pivotal repeat-dose 
toxicity study in rhesus monkeys, pivotal 6 week repeat-dose toxicity study in cynomolgus 
monkeys, repeat-dose local tolerance toxicity study in rats. rHuPH20(prepared with a different 
manufacturing process) in a 7-day repeat-dose range-finding toxicity study in cynomolgus 
monkeys, pivotal 39-week repeat-dose toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys, range-finding and 
pivotal embryo-fetal developmental toxicity studies in mice, and pivotal perinatal and postnatal 
developmental toxicity study in mice. Both enzyme preparations of rHuPH20 demonstrated 
favorable safety to support the use of rHuPH20 as a locally acting, transiently active, permeation 
enhancer in SC formulations of therapeutics. 
The nonclinical safety assessment of the rHuPH20 has been based in large part on 
recommendations provided in an FDA guidance 2005 (Nonclinical Studies for the Safety Evaluation 
of Pharmaceutical Excipients May 2005), and is consistent with principles described by an EMA 
guideline 2010 (Guideline on Repeated Dose Toxicity March 2010). The pivotal non-clinical studies 
were conducted in accordance with the respective ICH guidance and in accordance with GLP. 
The combination of IG 10% and rHuPH20 is not considered to have a different safety profile than 
that of the single components based on demonstrated favourable safety profiles of both 
components. In addition, based on the preclinical local safety assessment of the combination of IG 
10% and rHuPH20, it is not anticipated that rHuPH20 has an impact on the systemic effects and 
safety of IG 10%. Therefore, non-clinical evaluation focused on PK and local tolerability of the 
combination. 
The nonclinical testing strategy for IG 10% with rHuPH20 was based in large part on 
recommendations provided in an United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) draft guidance 
(Nonclinical Safety Evaluation of Reformulated Drug Products and Products Intended for 
Administration by an Alternate Route. March 2008). 
All pivotal nonclinical toxicity studies were conducted consistent with ICH Nonclinical Testing 
Guidelines and in compliance with the Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) Regulations. In addition, also 
non-GLP studies were conducted. These non-GLP studies were not considered to compromise the 
scientific integrity or affect the experimental results. 
Scientific advice regarding quality, pre-clinical and clinical development was given by CHMP on 
19.02.2009 (EMEA/H/SA/1170/1/2009/III). 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 14/68 
 
  
  
 
IG 10% 
In vitro and in vivo nonclinical studies of antibody function of IG 10% demonstrated efficacy and 
safety profiles for IG 10% that were comparable to two marketed IV immunoglobulin products 
(Gammagard S/D and Gamimune N, 10%) used as controls. Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
with IG 10% showed a broad spectrum of antibodies at high titres against bacteria and viruses. 
Opsonic activity was comparable to the reference Gammagard.  
rHuPH20 
The ability of rHuPH20  permeation enhancer to act as a spreading factor was tested by 
subcutaneous injection of the enzymes (from 0.5 to 5 U/mouse) with Trypan blue dye (50 μL) into 
nude mice. Bovine USP Hyaluronidase reference standard (RS) was used at the same doses as a 
comparator in these experiments. The USP Hyaluronidase RS and rHuPH20 hyaluronidase enzymes 
showed equivalent activity in vivo at concentrations of five units. Thus, rHuPH20 demonstrated 
capability to increase dye diffusion in nude mice temporarily and reversibly in a dose-dependent 
fashion. Transient action of rHuPH20 was demonstrated in the dermal barrier reconstitution assay 
in nude mice. The effects of rHuPH20 were reversed within 24 h after injection. These data 
established that the dermal barrier is reconstituted within 24 h of administration of rHuPH20 in nude 
mice skin. rHuPH20 does not alter vascular permeability when injected intradermally compared to 
100 ng Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) positive control, as determined by Miles Assay 
(dye extravasation assay). The increase in drug dispersion facilitated by rHuPH20  permeation 
enhancer is limited by particle size. The results demonstrated significantly increased dispersion with 
particles up to 200 nm in diameter. An additional Trypan Blue dye dispersion study in nude nice was 
performed to evaluate the functional local activity of rHuPH20 prepared with a different 
manufacturing processwhen circulating levels of a rabbit anti-rHuPH20 antibody are present in the 
animals. It can be concluded that circulating levels of a neutralizing antibody to rHuPH20 do not 
affect the intradermal dispersive effects of rHuPH20 in NCr nu/nu mice as measured by mean dye 
dispersion area. The provided data demonstrate satisfactorily the mechanism of action and the 
reversibility of recombinant hyaluronidase. 
IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 
In a porcine model, administration of rHuPH20 increased the dispersion and absorption of IG 10% 
and mitigated induration and the resulting tissue damage after administration of large volumes of 
IgG (c.f. section Local tolerance). 
Potential effects of hyaluronidase on the biochemical properties of IG 10% could not be identified 
after incubation of IG with the enzyme at high concentrations. The functionality and integrity of the 
IgG molecules was not modified by the enzyme.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 15/68 
 
  
  
 
 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
IG 10% 
As clinical pharmacodynamic data on IG 10%, alone are available from long-term use of the 
licensed Baxter product Kiovig, further non-clinical studies on secondary pharmacodynamics were 
not conducted. 
rHuPH20 
For rHuPH20, there were no secondary pharmacodynamic effects observed in safety and toxicology 
studies in various animal species. In fact, rHuPH20 was shown to act locally and transiently with 
only minimal and short systemic exposure after subcutaneous administration. Therefore, no 
secondary pharmacodynamic effects are expected with the application of rHuPH20. 
IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 
No dedicated secondary pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with IG 10% in combination 
with rHuPH20, which is considered acceptable. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
IG 10% 
Safety pharmacology studies comprised investigation of the anaphylactoid potential after 
intra-arterial injection in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in Guinea pigs (bronchospastic 
effect). Influence on vital function including cardiovascular, respiratory and blood coagulation 
parameters was tested in dogs. The comparison was performed between three lots of IG 10% with 
GAMMAGARD S/D. Anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in both species tested but were 
consistently comparable to that of the active control Gammagard S/D. The comparability was also 
consistent with other parameters such as thrombogenic potential, cardiovascular, respiratory and 
disseminated intravascular coagulation variables.  
rHuPH20 
No dedicated safety pharmacology studies were conducted with rHuPH20. Clinical observations 
were included as part of all in vivo nonclinical toxicity and PK studies and revealed no central 
nervous system-related side effects. In addition, assessment of electrocardiogram (ECG), blood 
pressure, and respiratory rate in the 39-week toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys with rHuPH20 
prepared with a different manufacturing process  found no effects related to rHuPH20 
administration. Therefore, the core endpoints of safety pharmacology testing (central nervous 
system, cardiovascular system, and respiratory system) have been addressed in the toxicology 
program. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 16/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 
Based on existing data with the individual constituents no additional core safety pharmacology 
studies of the combination have been performed. This is considered acceptable as interference of 
the two drugs is unlikely and the safety margins are sufficient. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted with IG 10%, rHuPH20 or IG 10% in 
combination with rHuPH20.  
The effect of high concentrations of rHuPH20 was tested on biochemical properties of IG 10% in 
order to identify possible effects of high amounts of hyaluronidase on the functionality and integrity 
of the IgG molecules and the tolerability of the preparation. Results indicate that rHuPH20 did not 
alter the prekallikrein activator (PKA) and amidolytic activity, molecular size distribution of IG, pH, 
percentage of functional intact IgG, and IgG subclass distribution 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The analysis and detection of IG as well as the enzyme activity has been performed by using 
standard methods including nephelometric measurement or ELISAs for IgG and turbidimetric or 
high sensitivity assays for hyaluronidase. 
Only selected aspects of ADME studies have been addressed which is acceptable due to the nature 
of the product.  
The pharmacokinetics of solely IV administered IG 10% is well established. IG 10% 
pharmacokinetic study after IV administration in rat indicates bioequivalence with GAMMAGARD 
S/D: in vivo recovery ranged from 69.7 to 80.1 %, the alpha-phase of the half-life from 21.2 to 23.7 
hours and the beta-phase from 136.7 to 166.4 hours. Data derived from rodents differ significantly 
from human kinetics and are therefore not predictive. Human clinical studies revealed that the 
median half-life of the IG was ~ 36 days after IV administration. 
Studies in mice, rats, and cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated rapid clearance of hyaluronidase 
activity from plasma after IV administration and limited systemic exposure following ID or SC 
administration. Moreover, rHuPH20 activity was determined to be transient at the injection site. At 
the dose of rHuPH20 proposed to be administered SC in patients, measurable systemic 
concentrations rHuPH20 are not expected. These data indicate that the enzyme acts mainly locally, 
systemic distribution is very unlikely and that rHuPH20 activities were significantly lower compared 
to IV administration. 
SC administration of IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 did not have any impact on the kinetics 
of IG in rabbits, which was justified by species-specific small amounts of hyaluronic acid in the 
rabbit tissues. Clearer effects could be achieved in the dog model where at least the highest dose of 
enzyme led to significantly increased levels of plasma IgG. In this regard it is noted that data 
derived from clinical studies (Study 160603) clearly demonstrated that SC rHuPH20 significantly 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 17/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
reduces the number of required infusion sites per month from 21.43 to 1.09. 
The metabolism and excretion of IG 10% is deemed to follow the pathway mediated by the neonatal 
Fc receptor which plays a critical role in the IgG metabolism and elimination. As per guideline ICH 
S6 the expected consequence of metabolism of biotechnology derived pharmaceuticals is the 
degradation to small peptides and individual amino acids. As the metabolic pathways are generally 
understood, further metabolism and excretion studies have not been performed. For the same 
reasons, no dedicated metabolism and excretion studies were conducted with rHuPH20. This 
approach is considered acceptable for a biological product. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
IG 10% 
Acute toxicity studies were performed in mice  and rats  using IG 10% in comparison with 
Gammagard S/D. 
In single dose toxicity studies major findings in mice included behavioural depression with or 
without dyspnea. Mortalities were explained by cardiac failure or lung edema as a result of volume 
overload. Doses at 2000 mg/kg IG 10% in rats revealed no pathological findings other than 
pulmonary haemorrhage which was assumed to be related to the CO2 inhalation used for study 
termination. 
rHuPH20 
Single dose toxicity explored with a single application of 10500 U/kg to rats, led to slightly dilated 
renal tubules containing morphous amphophilic material with hyaline casts. 
IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 
No single-dose toxicity studies were conducted with IG 10% and rHuPH20. This is acceptable in 
respect to the fact that the combination of IG 10% and rUhPH20 is not considered to have a 
different safety profile than that of the single components.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
IG 10%  
Considering the clinical experience already gained with the marketed product and the possible 
antigenicity in animal studies, the absence of repeat-dose toxicity studies for IG 10% is considered 
acceptable. 
rHuPH20 
The first repeat-dose studies for rHuPH20 were performed in rhesus monkey by once weekly 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 18/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
peribulbar injections of the enzyme. This administration schedule was well tolerated with a NOAEL 
of 0.1 mg/kg BW and primarily intended to facilitate SC administration of drugs, e.g. the peribulbar 
injection of local anaesthetics. Data derived from PK studies indicate that rHUPH20 acts mainly 
locally and that systemic distribution is very unlikely. Core safety pharmacology endpoints have 
been integrated into these studies and did not indicate increased risk for the development of 
cardiotoxic events. Also a once weekly SC administration of rHuPH20 for 39 consecutive weeks to 
cynomolgus macaques at doses of 0.02, 0.2, and 2.0 mg/kg was not associated with any overt 
toxicity. The cellular infiltration at the application site was regarded as minimal.  The more 
important finding in this study was the occurrence of rHuPH20-reactive binding antibodies as well as 
hyaluronidase neutralizing activity which generally increased over time. This finding was explained 
by a rHuPH20 sequence similarity between man and cynomolgus macaques of only 89% which 
might cause immunogenic responses due to foreign epitopes. These titres dropped or were 
undetectable over the course of the recovery period. 
IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20.  
No repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted with IG 10% and rHuPH20. 
Genotoxicity 
As reported in the ICH S6(R1), the range and type of genotoxicity studies routinely conducted for 
pharmaceuticals are not applicable to biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals and therefore are not 
needed. Nevertheless the Applicant performed an AMES test for IG 10% with a concentration up to 
0.1 mg/plate with negative results. 
Carcinogenicity 
In accordance with ICH Guideline S6 (R1) standard carcinogenicity bioassays are generally 
inappropriate for biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals and therefore not required.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
IG 10%  
No reproduction studies have been conducted. Immunoglobulin products cross the placenta, 
increasingly during the third trimester. However, clinical experience with immunoglobulins 
suggests that no harmful effects are to be expected. In addition, no adverse effects on fertility have 
been described so far. 
rHuPH20 
Fertility 
Sperm plasma membrane proteins offer the theoretical possibility of immunizing either males or 
females and achieving a contraceptive effect (Primakoff et al, 1997). In order to clarify this aspect, 
several unpublished and published investigations have been conducted.  
Antibodies  were  seen  in  human  subjects  and  although  no  data  suggesting  adverse  effects  on 
fertility  were  noted  in  the  applicants’  data,  fully  effective  (Primakoff  et  al  1988),  but  reversible 
(Primakoff et al 1997) contraception was described for the Guinea pig model. Pomering et al (2002) 
demonstrated that immunization of rabbits with rPH-20 did not result in infertility despite the fact 
that plasma anti-rPH-20 antibodies reduced the numbers of ova fertilized in vitro.   
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 19/68 
 
  
  
Studies  by  Deng  et  al  (2001)  demonstrated  -  by  using  circulating  antibodies  from  immunized 
cynomolgus macaques - that circulating antibodies specifically recognized PH-20 on Western blots 
and were shown to bind to the surface of macaque sperm.  
Therefore  several  aspects  on  reproduction  have  been  integrated  into  the  39  weeks  cynomolgus 
macaques’ chronic toxicity study covering histopathology of the reproductive organs and semen 
analysis (sperm concentration, motility and morphology). No overt findings have been reported. In 
addition, an evaluation of  retrospective breeding trials from female primates has been provided 
where no association between fertility and antibody titres was observed. 
The effects of rHuPH20 and PH20 directed antibodies on reproduction have also been examined in 
other animal species such as mouse and sheep and did not indicate potential impact on fertility. 
From a preclinical point of view there is no clear evidence that rHuPH20 (directly and/or indirectly 
via antibodies) has a negative impact on fertility. The available data has been summarised in a 
statement on non-clinical studies (including reversible effects on fertility in guinea pig) in section 
5.3 of the SmPC. 
Embryo-toxicity 
Embryo-foetal development studies in mice demonstrated that exposure of the embryo at doses ≥  
9 mg/kg/day of the enzyme (also given SC) results in increased resorption rates which is caused by 
defects of the heart formation via degradation of its hyaluronic acid. A safety window of almost 400 
compared to the intended human dose seems sufficient.  
The provided mouse toxicokinetic data address the potential effect of circulating anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies on peri-postnatal development of the offspring. Antibody exposure was demonstrated 
from late gestation through to adulthood. No effects on behaviour, learning and memory, or motor 
activity were observed.  
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance studies have been performed with IG 10% in combination with rHuPH20 in different 
animal species. Studies in rabbits demonstrated that the effect of the IG was not enhanced by 
co-administration of the enzyme. The pivotal studies have been carried out in pigs. 
Pre-administration of rHuPH20 mitigated adverse tissue effects which usually occur by 
administration of large volumes of IgG. Less local swelling and significantly reduced incidence of 
induration, and decreased interstitial pressure could be measured. 
Other toxicity studies 
•  Studies on impurities 
Recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) contains small amounts of HEPES as impurity. An 
exposure of up to the risk reference dose (RfD) is considered to be associated with only a minimal 
or no risk of adverse health effects. The clinical exposure in study 160603 of 59.4 μg/m2 for children 
and 88.0 μg/m2 for adults was approximately 1000 times lower than the calculated RfD for children 
and adults.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 20/68 
 
  
  
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According to the “Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr 1) “Vitamins, electrolytes, amino acids, peptides, 
proteins, carbohydrates and lipids are exempted because they are unlikely to result in significant 
risk to the environment.” It is therefore agreed that an ERA for HyQvia is not required. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Available pharmacology data for IG 10% characterised adequately the pharmacological profile of 
the product. Considering the experience already gained with the marketed product, the limited 
pharmacology studies (including safety pharmacology) are considered sufficient. In vitro and in 
vivo nonclinical studies of antibody function of IG 10% were performed in support of the original 
MAA for KIOVIG in 2004. These studies demonstrated efficacy and safety profiles for IG, 10% that 
were comparable to two marketed IV immunoglobulin products (GAMMAGARD S/D and GAMIMUNE 
N, 10%) used as controls. The data have been assessed and were finally accepted within the MA 
procedure in the European Union (EU) under the trade name KIOVIG on 19 January 2006 for the 
treatment of primary immunodeficiency (PID), secondary immunodeficiencies and certain 
autoimmune disorders.  
Two manufacturing processes have been employed for recombinant hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). 
Pharmacodynamic studies demonstrated no significant differences between the functional activities 
of the enzyme preparations using two different manufacturing processes and established that the 
pharmacological properties of the two preparations of hyaluronidase are essentially equivalent. The 
pharmacokinetics with the two different manufacturing processes were directly compared after 
intravenous administration to mice. No significant difference in the PK characteristics of the two 
preparations was demonstrated.  
rHuPH20 is a highly purified, neutral pH-active human hyaluronidase, which is a glycoprotein 
enzyme generated by recombinant DNA technology. The pivotal non-clinical studies were 
conducted in accordance with the respective ICH guidance and in accordance with GLP. Nonclinical 
safety evaluation of rHuPH20 included a single dose IV study in rats, range-finding and pivotal 
repeat-dose toxicity study in rhesus monkeys, pivotal 6 week repeat-dose toxicity study in 
cynomolgus monkeys, repeat-dose local tolerance toxicity study in rats. rHuPH20 (prepared with a 
different manufacturing process) nonclinical assessment was conducted in a 7-day repeat-dose 
range-finding toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys, pivotal 39-week repeat-dose toxicity study in 
cynomolgus monkeys, range-finding and pivotal embryo-foetal developmental toxicity studies in 
mice, and pivotal perinatal and postnatal developmental toxicity study in mice. 
Studies in mice, rats, and cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated rapid clearance of hyaluronidase 
activity from plasma after IV administration and limited systemic exposure following ID or SC 
administration. Moreover, rHuPH20 activity was determined to be transient at the injection site. At 
the dose of rHuPH20 proposed to be administered SC in patients, measurable systemic 
concentrations rHuPH20 are not expected. 
Bibliographic data on hyaluronidase demonstrate impaired fertility in the Guinea pig model (in vivo) 
and inhibitory effects of plasma antibodies on in vitro fertilization (in rabbits and primates) after 
immunization with PH-20 sperm extract. Studies in other laboratory animals such as mouse, rabbit, 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 21/68 
 
  
  
sheep, and non-human primates did not indicate potential effects on their fertility. An evaluation of 
retrospective breeding trials from female primates did not demonstrate an association between 
fertility and antibody titres. Concerning the effect of antibodies on male fertility it may be assumed 
that a number of physiological mechanisms including the blood-testis barrier limit the exposure of 
endogenous PH20. 
rHuPH20 was well tolerated at all dose levels and the detected embryo-foetal toxicity at high 
systemic exposure levels is in line with the mechanism of action for hyaluronidase.  
Additional nonclinical studies have been designed to assess the use of IG 10% in combination with 
rHuPH20 in various animal models. In general, the combination of IG 10% and rHuPH20 is not 
considered to have a safety profile different from that of the single components because rHuPH20 
is acting locally with minimal, if any, systemic absorption. Thus, it is not anticipated that rHuPH20 
has an impact on the systemic effects and safety of IG 10%.  
The applicant has provided adequate information to support the nonclinical evaluation of 
recombinant HuPH20 and its proposed use together with IG 10%. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
An appropriate nonclinical programme has been performed to support the use of IG 10% together 
with recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). The presented pharmacodynamic and 
pharmacokinetic studies support the intended effect of modified permeability of connective tissue 
through the hydrolysis of hyaluronan through rHuPH20 on the absorption of IG 10% 
Based on the above reported data on pharmacology and toxicity the use of rHuPH20 is supported 
from a nonclinical point of view.  Therefore the risk for adverse effects in patients related to 
systemic exposure to rHuHP20 is considered very low. 
From a nonclinical perspective there are no outstanding issues. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
HyQvia is a preparation of human normal immunoglobulin 10% (IG 10%) for administration with 
recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20), which is an enzyme that increases subcutaneous 
dispersion and absorption of the immunoglobulin.  The product is intended for: 
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 22/68 
 
  
  
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with 
severe secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections. 
Applicant’s clinical development program includes a pivotal and a supportive study in which the 
safety, tolerability, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of IGSC, 10% with rHuPH20 were investigated in 
patients with PID (Studies 160602 and 160603). Applicant also conducted a study to investigate the 
pharmacokinetics, tolerability, and efficacy of IGIV, 10% and IGSC, 10% without rHuPH20 in 
patients with PID (Study 160601). Studies 170901 Part 4 and 161001 were conducted to assess 
safety and tolerability, infusion pressure, and flow rates in healthy volunteers.  
The relevant guidelines are the “Guideline on the clinical investigation of human normal 
immunoglobulin for intravenous administration (IVIg)” EMA/CHMP/BPWP/94033/2007 rev. 2 and 
for subcutaneous and intramuscular use EMEA/CPMP/BPWG/283/00 and the core SPC for human 
normal immunoglobulin for subcutaneous and intramuscular use EMEA/CPMP/BPWG/282/00. The 
Guideline and core SPC for subcutaneous and intramuscular use are currently under revision. 
Scientific advice regarding clinical development was given by CHMP on 19. 02. 2009 
(EMEA/H/SA/1170/1/2009/III). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
A routine GCP inspection was performed at the sponsor Baxter Healthcare Corporation in Westlake 
Village, USA and two investigators sites, one in Dallas, USA (site 01) and one in San Francisco, 
USA (site 10). The inspectors did not find any major inconsistency or any indication of fraud or 
manipulation  of  documents.  There  was  no  indication  that  the  study  was  not  conducted  in 
accordance with established quality standards and regulations. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Study No 
Study 
No. of 
Duration 
Subjects 
Study 160601 
Phase I prospective open-label 
49 PID 
IGIV, 10%: 12 
multi-centre study in the USA: tolerability 
weeks 
and PK comparison of IGIV, 10% 
administered iv or sc in PID patients 
rHuPH 20 was not administered in this 
study, but compared with data for SCIG + 
rHuPH20 from study 160603 
IGSC, 10% 29-53 
weeks 
Study 160602 
Phase I/II prospective open-label 
11PID 
Arm 1 8-65 days 
multi-centre study in the USA: 
determination of the dose of rHuPH 20 
enabling up to 600 mg/kg of SCIG 10%. 
Arm 2 133-165 
days 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 23/68 
 
  
  
PK, safety and efficacy 
Study 160603 
Phase III prospective open-label 
81 PID 
IGIV, 10%: 91.0 
Pivotal  
multi-centre study in the USA and Canada 
days 
for efficacy, tolerability and PK 
comparison of 10% KIOVIG given iv or 
sc+ rHuPH20  in PID patients 
IGSC, 10% with 
rHuPH20 after 
ramp-up: 366.0 
days 
Study 170901 
A Phase 1 randomized, double blind, 
12 
1-3 weeks 
controlled study of IGSC administered 
healthy 
either alone or in combination with 
subjects 
rHuPH20 for safety, tolerability, and 
optimal rHuPH20-to-IGSC dose ratio in 
healthy volunteers. Safety and 
tolerability. 
Study 161001 
A Phase 1 prospective, randomized, 
53 
1 day (2 infusions)  
within-subject/ between subjects, 
healthy 
placebo-controlled, single-centre study in 
subjects 
USA for the evaluation of the 
effectiveness rHuPH20 in enhancing the 
IGSC 10% in healthy volunteers 
Study 160902 
18/48 were converted to a 2 week 
48 PID 
extension study 
schedule for exploratory reasons only; 
patients   
not due to lack of efficacy or  to 
of 160603  
safety concerns  
Supportive studies for rHuPH20 were also submitted in the form of synopses and short 
summaries; they encompass: 
R04-0851, a Phase I study; HZ2-05-04 (INFUSE-LR), a Phase IIIb study performed in healthy 
volunteers to address safety and PK; and studies INFUSE I +II (Study 1838-003 + Study 
HZ2-08-03), which were performed in children mainly address safety issues and the efficacy of 
SC rehydration enhanced by rHuPH20.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Several studies have been addressing the pharmacokinetic evaluation of the preparation. 160601, 
160602, 160603 were studies conducted in PID patients divided in two age subgroups (<12, ≥12 
and adult). Study 170901 and study 161001 included adult healthy volunteers. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 24/68 
 
  
  
  
Absorption/Distribution/Elimination  
Study 160601(Phase I) was designed to evaluate comparability of IGIV 10% administered IV or SC 
without the use of rHuPH20 in PID patients.  PK equivalence in terms of AUC 0-t/week following IV 
administration and SC administration of IGIV 10% at an Adjusted/Individually Adapted Dose in was 
demonstrated within the predetermined margins of equivalence of 80% to 125% in patients ≥12 
and adult. The median ratio of the SC dose administered compared to IV administration was 
137.3% (range 125.7% to 150.8%), whereby the mean weekly equivalent of the dose administered 
IV was 133.2 (±36.9) mg/kg, thus, adjustments during SC treatment resulted in a mean weekly SC 
dose of 182.6 (±48.4) mg/kg. 
Bioavailability of IgG in subjects aged 2 to <12 years was determined in terms of trough levels. 
Median trough levels in the 2 -12 age category of the Full Analysis Data Set (FADS) ranged from 
10.10 g/L - 11.50 g/L after IV administration in 3-week intervals, from 9.08 g/L - 10.50 g/L after IV 
administration in 4-week intervals, and from 11.20 g/L - 13.60 g/L after weekly SC administration. 
For the age group of >12 years median IgG trough levels (excluding the first SC administration 1 
week after the last IV dose in Study Part 1) ranged from 11.05 g/L -14.00 g/L after IV 
administration in 3-week intervals and from 10.15 g/L - 10.80 g/L after IV administration in 4-week 
intervals. After weekly SC administration, IgG trough levels ranged from 12.70 g/L - 13.60 g/L for 
the age group of 12 years and older. These trough levels are all high and fulfil the requirements of 
the IVIG (EMA/CHMP/BPWP/94038/2007 rev. 3) core SmPC, where trough levels of 5-6 g/L should 
be achieved.  
Study 160602 (Phase I/II) was designed to investigate the administration of half or a full 4-week 
IVIG dose subcutaneously in a single SC site evaluating tolerability after priming with rHuPH20. The 
ratio of geometric means for the AUC obtained between IV and SC infusion of IGIV, 10% was 92% 
(90% CI: 85% to 100%). This indicates that SCIG + rHuPH20 and IVIG may show comparable 
bioavailability, however, in view of the low sample size and the fact that the study design did not 
allow for subjects to reach steady state before the actual PK studies, no final conclusions can be 
drawn. 
The median AUC was similar after IV vs. SCIg administration (389.5 vs 369.6 days*g/L). As 
expected with SCIg, the median Cmax was lower after SC than after IV infusion (16 g/L vs. 24 g/L) 
while the median time to reach Tmax was longer (5 days vs. 0); clearance and Cmin after SC 
infusion were similar to the values calculated after IV infusion. For the full SCIG dose a mean 2.9 
hours (range: 1.8 – 4.3 h) were required.  
IgG trough levels were similar and adequately high after a 4-week IV dose to a 4-week SC dose + 
rHuPH20. Trough levels after SC + rHuPH20 ranged from 7.84 - 12.92 g/L, after IV infusions they 
ranged from 8.83 - 13.20 g/L. The minimum dose of rHuPH20 necessary to enhance the SC doses 
was determined to be 50 U/g IgG.   
Study 160603 (pivotal Phase III study) was designed to evaluate safety and efficacy and PK data 
were collected and compared to those in study 160601. PK equivalence was demonstrated in 
subjects aged ≥ 12 years with respect to AUC0-t of IgG for SC administration + rHuPH20 at an 
adapted dose and for IV administration. The ratio of AUC0-t for SC infusions with rHuPH20 and IV 
infusions was 93.3% (90% CI of 91.4% to 95.2%). Similar results were obtained in SC-naïve 
subjects (93.9% [90% CI: 91.1; 96.8]). The median ratio of IgG trough levels for SC infusions + 
rHuPH20 to IV infusions was 103.8% (95% CI: 97.5%; 115.4%) in subjects aged 2 to <12 years, 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 25/68 
 
  
  
and 98.5% (95% CI: 94.4%; 102.5%) in subjects aged ≥ 12 years. Comparable results were 
obtained in SC-naïve subjects. The median IgG trough levels were all well above those 
recommended in the current IVIg Guideline of 5-6 g/L. The bioavailability of IGSC 10% with respect 
to AUC per dose/kg was approximately 20% higher when administered SC + rHuPH20 (in Study 
160603) than SC without rHuPH20 (in comparison to Study 160601).  
Study 170901 (Phase I) was designed to study tolerability of flow rates, in line pressure and dosing 
of rHuPH20. It was performed in healthy volunteers. The SC infusions were completed with the full 
dose delivered at a single infusion site; no clear pattern emerged for in-line pressure between 
infusions that were pre-administered with rHuPH20 as compared to the buffer control. Total 
volumes infused were similar for IGSC 10% infusions that were pre-administered rHuPH20 or 
control for both the 0.3 g/kg (~ 250 mL) and 0.6 g/kg (~500 mL) dose groups. Infusion rates were 
seen to increase from 10 mL/h to 300 mL/h in approximately 10 minute intervals with mild or 
occasionally moderate local AEs. For the 0.3 g/kg group in 12 subjects the mean infusion time was 
1.35 hours (SD 1.28; 1.41); for the 0.6 g/kg group in 10 subjects the mean infusion time was 2.2 
hours (SD 2.1, 2.3) 
Infusion times did not differ between infusions that were pre-administered with rHuPH20 as 
compared to the buffer control. Thus, “enhancement” via rHuPH20 is not shown in this study. 
Study 161001(Phase I) was conducted in order to assess the effectiveness of rHuPH20 (75 U/g IgG) 
in facilitating the gravimetric delivery SC infusion of IGSC 10%. The placebo control for the IGSC 
10% was a 0.25% human albumin solution and the placebo “enhancer” was lactated Ringer’s (LR) 
solution. Conclusion from the data in 53 healthy volunteers suggest that rHuPH20 
pre-administration does not enhance the SC administration of IGSC 10% in terms of time to 
complete infusions and flow rates when compared to the placebo control with lactated Ringer’s (LR) 
solution. 
rHuPH20 
The systemic exposure to rHuPH20 is considered very low due to the low dose of rHuPH20 
administered subcutaneously and a short plasma half-life of less than 5 minutes. The subcutaneous 
(SC) dose of rHuPH20 used to facilitate the dispersion and absorption of IGSC, 10% is 0.000625 
mg/kg body weight (based on a dose of 1 g/kg IGSC 10% and rHuPH20 of 75 U/g of IGSC 10% and 
rHuPH20 120,000 U/mg). This low dose of rHuPH20 is expected to be cleared from the SC space 
without measurable systemic exposure. Assuming the worse-case scenario that the entire 
0.000625 mg/kg rHuPH20 dose was delivered IV, PK modelling predicts plasma concentrations < 3 
U/mL. Consequently, significant drug exposure to rHuPH20 was not anticipated, and patient blood 
sampling for plasma rHuPH20 was not considered justifiable. 
Furthermore, in a recent publication that compared the SC and IV administration of trastuzumab, 
plasma samples from 58 human subjects who received SC trastuzumab (formulated with 2,000 
U/mL rHuPH20) were analysed for rHuPH20 (0.5, 1, and 24 hours post dose). Plasma 
concentrations of rHuPH20 were below the limit of quantification (0.3 U/mL, approximately 3 
ng/mL) at all-time points (Wynne, J. Clin. Pharmacol. 2013; 53(2):192-201). 
With respect to clearance/apparent clearance in Studies 160601, 160602 and 160603, the pooled 
result for IGSC, 10% with rHuPH20 was 1.53 mL/kg/day (95% CI: 1.40; 1.68), which is comparable 
to the clearance for IGIV, 10% of 1.37 mL/kg/day (95% CI: 1.24; 1.41), but lower than the result 
of 2.00 mL/kg/day obtained for IGSC, 10% alone (95% CI: 1.84; 2.12). 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 26/68 
 
  
  
In Study 160603, the terminal half-life was longer for IGSC, 10% with rHuPH20 than IGIV 10%; the 
median values were 45.3 days (95% CI: 41.0; 60.2) for IGSC, 10% with rHuPH20 and 35.7 days for 
IGIV, 10% (95% CI: 32.4; 40.4) 
A longer half-life than with IV administration and a clearance comparable with IV administration 
were observed for SC administration with rHuPH20. These characteristics support the feasibility of 
a 3- or 4-week infusion schedule. 
IgG and IgG complexes are broken down in cells of the reticuloendothelial system. 
In summary, in the table below, with administration of HyQvia, peak serum IgG levels are achieved 
in the recipient’s circulation after a delay of approximately 3 to 5 days. Data from the clinical trial of 
HyQvia show that serum IgG trough levels can be maintained by dosing regimens of 320 to 1,000 
mg/kg body weight/4 weeks given at intervals of 3- or 4-weeks. 
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of HyQvia Compared to Intravenous Administration of IG, 
10% 
Parameter 
Cmax [g/l] 
Cmin [g/l] 
AUC per week [g*days/l] 
Tmax [days] 
Apparent clearance or clearance 
[ml/kg/day] 
HyQvia 
Median (95% Cl) 
N=60 
15.5 (14.5; 17.1) 
10.4 (9.4 to 11.2) 
90.52 (83.8 to 98.4) 
5.0 (3.3 to 5.1) 
1.6 (1.4 to 1.79) 
IVIG, 10% 
Median (95% Cl) 
N=68 
21.9 (20.7; 23.9) 
10.1 (9.5 to 10.9) 
93.9 (89.1 to 102.1) 
0.1 (0.1 to 0.1) 
1.4 (1.2 to 1.4) 
Terminal half life [days] 
45.3 (41.0 to 60.2) 
35.7 (32.4 to 40.4) 
Special populations 
Subgroup Pharmacokinetic parameters analysis in elderly demonstrates that their PK values are 
comparable to the characteristics in the whole study population.   
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Dedicated studies to address pharmacokinetic interaction study have not been performed. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Dedicated studies to address pharmacokinetic using human biomaterial have not been performed. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic effect of HyQvia and other IVIgs or SCIgs in replacement therapy is based 
on the fact that human normal immunoglobulin contains a broad spectrum of opsonising and 
neutralizing IgG antibodies against infectious agents that are present in the normal population. It is 
usually prepared from pooled human plasma from not fewer than 1000 donations. It has a 
distribution of IgG subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma. Thus, adequate 
doses of human normal immunoglobulin may restore abnormally low IgG levels to the normal 
range.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 27/68 
 
  
  
Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase is a soluble recombinant form of human hyaluronidase that 
modifies the permeability of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronan and thus 
facilitates the dispersion and absorption of IG 10%; it is not assumed per se to affect the 
therapeutic effect of immunoglobulins in replacement therapy, rather the effects pertain to the PK 
of the product.  
No specific pharmacodynamic studies are required. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The applicable guideline on Clinical Investigation of Human Normal Immunoglobulin for 
Subcutaneous and Intramuscular Use requires that for the PK evaluation of a new SCIG trough 
levels should be determined from at least 15 patients with hypo- or agammaglobulinemia. These 
values should be comparable with trough values following treatment with the previous product. 
In the pivotal study 160603 trough levels were compared after 3 months of IVIG treatment with the 
levels after ~14 months of SCIG treatment with rHuPH20 for 11 subjects aged 2 to < 12 years of 
age and 70 subjects aged 12 years and older (FADS), showing similar values for both treatment 
modalities. Thus the basic pharmacokinetic requirements according to the guideline were 
exceeded. Furthermore, for subjects aged 12 or older, bioequivalence with respect to AUC0-T for IG 
10% administered IV or SC at an adapted dose could be shown.  
In addition, for subjects aged 12 years or older, IgG subclass distribution, levels of specific 
antibodies, AUC, Cmax, Tmax, terminal half-life and clearance were determined in both study 
160603 and 160601. The totality of data gives a good overview of the PK characteristics of IG 10% 
infused after rHuPH20 facilitation in comparison to IG 10% infused IV or SC without rHuPH20 (study 
160601). The main clinically relevant PK parameters like AUC, IgG subclass distribution, levels of 
specific antibodies are comparable between the different treatment modalities. PK equivalence was 
shown at SC doses 137% of the weekly-equivalent IV doses. Adequately high IgG trough levels 
were achieved under SC administration of IGIV10% (without rHuPH20). At an SC dose 108% of the 
weekly equivalent IV dose, PK equivalence was demonstrated in this Phase 3 study for IGIV 10% SC 
administration + rHUPH20 (75 U/g IgG) compared to the IV administration route. 
Furthermore, based on data from preclinical studies and clinical studies with trastuzumab/rHuPH20, 
systemic exposure to rHuPH20 is expected to be extremely low for subjects administered with 
HyQvia SC 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
PK parameters of SC infusion of IG 10% after facilitation with rHuPH20 are similar to those achieved 
after IV infusion of IG 10% and thus could support the feasibility of infusing 3- or 4-week doses of 
IG 10% subcutaneously in patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 28/68 
 
  
  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
Study 160602 – rHuPH20 dose finding study 
Study 160602 was a prospective, open-label, non-controlled, two-arm multicenter study in subjects 
with PID aged 16 years or older with the aim of determining the dose of rHuPH20 necessary to 
infuse a full 4-week dose, i.e. up to 600 mg/kg BW of IgG in a single SC site with good tolerability. 
If a subject was to receive more than 600 mg/kg BW/4 weeks, a second infusion site was to be used 
for administration of IGIV 10% with the appropriate amount of rHuPH20. This was not considered a 
treatment failure. 
In Study Arm 1, 4 adult/adolescent subjects were to receive only SC infusions of IGIV, 10% to 
determine tolerability. In Study Arm 2, 7 subjects initially were scheduled to receive an IV infusion 
of IGIV, 10% to determine pharmacokinetics over the ensuing 4 weeks. After completion of the PK 
evaluation, the subjects received another 4-week dose of IGIV, 10% intravenously. The first SC 
infusion was administered 1 week after the second IV infusion. Once a full 4-week dose could be 
infused subcutaneously in a single infusion site, the same dose was repeated and a second PK 
evaluation was conducted. 
This study was conducted using a formulation containing 150 U/ml rHuPH20 for the initial infusions. 
Then a more concentrated preparation containing 1,500 U/mL in the same buffer was used for 
subsequent infusions to reduce the volume to be infused. 
9 from 11 subjects were able to tolerate the full IG dose with no more than mild ADRs. 
In study160602, the ratio of units (U) of rHuPH20 per gram IgG that allowed for administration of 
large quantities of immunoglobulin was determined. The IgG dose escalation/de-escalation 
schedule, as per protocol, involved a decrease in the ratio of rHuPH20 to IgG if a SC infusion of IGIV, 
10% was tolerated. Data on large immunoglobulin doses obtained from Study 160602 showed that 
a mean dose of 68 U of rHuPH20/g IgG preceded tolerated SC infusions of three quarters of a full 
4-week dose (minimum 66 U/g, maximum 72 U/g) and a mean dose of rHuPH20 of 51 U/g IgG 
preceded tolerated SC infusions of a full 4-week SC dose of IGIV, 10% (minimum 49 U/g, maximum 
51 U/g). When a smaller dose of 25 U/g IgG was attempted, the infusions were not adequately 
tolerated. Thus, 50 U/g was considered to be the minimum amount of rHuPH20 for a successful 
infusion.  
For Phase III, a dose was chosen that was within the well tolerated range and would provide 
sufficient margin to ensure that infusions would be consistently well tolerated regardless of 
potential individual variability. Therefore, a dose of 75 U/g IgG was chosen to be used in the Phase 
III study 160603. This is approximately 0.37 micrograms per kg for a dose of 0.5 grams IgG/kg or 
26 micrograms of rHuPH20 for a 70 kg adult. The amount of rHuPH20 is more than 1,000- fold 
below the NOAEL in the preclinical studies presented elsewhere in the submission. It also is only 0.5 
to 10% of the amount per gram that has been used in clinical trials where the rHuPH20 is 
co-formulated with the IgG or other drugs (Wynne et al, 2012, The Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 
XX(X) 1–10). The actual use of a higher concentrated rHuPH20 preparation than in study 160602, 
150 U/mL versus 160 U/mL in 160603, represents a difference of less than 10 nanograms/mL of 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 29/68 
 
  
  
rHuPH20 and is not considered to have any clinical consequence as it had no influence on the 
administered total amount of enzyme, but only the volume that had to be administered with it. A 
higher concentration was used to allow higher doses of rHuPH20 to be used, if necessary, without 
necessitating large volumes to be injected.  
2.5.2.  Main study 
Study 160603  
“Efficacy, Tolerability and Pharmacokinetic Comparison of Immune Globulin 
Intravenous (Human), 10% (GAMMAGARD LIQUID/KIOVIG) Administered 
Intravenously or Subcutaneously Following Administration of Recombinant Human 
Hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) in Subjects with Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases” 
Methods 
The planned study duration was 17 months for each subject (3 months for stage 1 and 14 months 
for stage 2). Subjects who had completed study 160601 (IG, 10% IV and SC) were enrolled into 
study arm 2 and could proceed directly to stage 2, all other subjects were enrolled into study arm 
1 and started treatment with stage 1. 
Stage 1(also referred to as Epoch 1) consisted of IV treatment with IG, 10% for 12 weeks at the 
same dose and frequency each subject received prior to the study start. In subjects who had 
received prior SC treatment at mean intervals of 5 to 16 days, IV treatment in stage 1 was 
administered at an interval of 3 or 4 weeks at the discretion of the investigator, and the dose was 
to be based on the weekly equivalent of SC treatment. If body weight changed by >5% the dose 
was to be adjusted accordingly. During this stage, a PK assessment was performed. Serum trough 
levels of IgG >4.5 g/L had to be maintained throughout the study; if levels fell to ≤ 4.5 g/L, the dose 
was to be adjusted and trough levels re-evaluated at the next infusion. Any changes to the 
treatment regimen were to be recorded.  An initial infusion rate of 0.5 mL/kg BW/h was to be used 
and increased as tolerated to a maximum rate of 5.0 mL/kg BW/h, at the discretion of the 
investigator.  If a subject experienced an AE of at least moderate severity, the infusion rate was to 
be reduced to the rate immediately below that at which the AE occurred. If the AE resolved in 
response to this rate reduction, the infusion was to continue at the adjusted rate for the remainder 
of the infusion. If the AE continued, the infusion was to be stopped and the AE treated in accordance 
with the standard of care at the investigative site. The infusion was permitted to be restarted at a 
lower rate once the AE had resolved. In the case of hypersensitivity reactions (ie, urticaria, low 
blood pressure, angioedema or wheezing), the infusion was to be stopped immediately and treated 
according to the standard of care at the investigative site. Total dose for each infusion and any 
changes in infusion rates were to be recorded. Following the PK assessment, a final 4-week or 
3-week dose of IG, 10% was administered and 1 week later, study stage 2 (SC treatment) was to 
begin. 
In stage 2 (also referred to as Epoch 2), all subjects were to be treated SC with IG, 10% at a dose 
of 108% of the IV dose utilized during Study stage 1 of this study or in Study 160601. The value of 
108% was derived from pharmacokinetic data from Study 160602. Prior to each SC infusion, 
rHuPH20 was to be administered at a minimum dose of 75 U/g IgG. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 30/68 
 
  
  
The treatment intervals and doses used for the initial infusions were gradually increased during the 
first weeks of treatment (referred to as the ramp-up), in order to allow the subjects to adjust to the 
increasing volume administered SC. The aim was to treat subjects SC at the same intervals (ie, 
every 3 or 4 weeks) that they had been treated IV before the study. 
When a subject reached steady-state at a SC interval equal to the IV interval (after 3 or 4 SC 
infusions at 4- or 3-weeks intervals, respectively), the IgG trough level (SCIgG) was to be reviewed 
and compared to the trough level determined during IV treatment (IVIgG). If the trough level ratio 
was not within 15% of the expected value of 108%, the dose was to be corrected, using the 
formula: 
Dose corrected = Dose*(1+(1.08-SCIg/IVIg)/2) for the next infusion. If the results of the trough 
adjustment were delayed, dose adjustment was allowed to take place at the subsequent infusion. 
The IgG trough level achieved with the corrected dose was to be reviewed after 2 infusions. If not 
within 93% and 123%, a second correction step was to be applied. In this manner, treatment of 
subjects with a sub-optimal dose for a prolonged time was prevented. 
Study Participants 
A total of 89 subjects were enrolled into one of 2 study arms, of which 87 were treated, 81 patients 
were in the Full Analysis Data Set (FADS); 74 in Per-Protocol Analysis Data Set. 
Inclusion criteria  
1.  Subject was 2 years or older at the time of screening 
2.  Written informed consent was obtained from either the subject or the subject’s legally 
acceptable representative prior to any study-related procedures and study product 
administration 
3.  Subject had been diagnosed with a PID disorder requiring antibody replacement as defined 
by WHO criteria 
4.  Subject had completed or was about to complete Baxter Clinical Study Protocol No. 160601 
or had been receiving a regular IGIV-treatment at mean intervals of 21 ± 3 days or 28 ± 3 
days, or SC at mean intervals of 5 to 16 days, over a period of at least 3 months prior to 
enrollment at a minimum dose of 300 mg/kg body weight (BW)/4 weeks 
5.  Subject had a serum trough level of IgG > 4.5 g/L at the last documented determination 
6.  If female of childbearing potential, subject presented with a negative urine pregnancy test 
and agreed to employ adequate birth control measures for the duration of the study. 
7.  Subject was willing and able to comply with the requirements of the protocol. 
Exclusion criteria  
1.  Subjects positive at enrolment or screening for one or more of the following: HBsAg, PCR 
for HCV, PCR for HIV-1 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 31/68 
 
  
  
 
 
2.  Subjects with levels of ALT or AST >2.5 times the upper limit of normal for the testing 
laboratory 
3.  Subjects with neutropenia (defined as an ANC ≤ 1,000/mm3) 
4.  Subjects with serum creatinine levels greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal for 
age and gender 
5. 
 Subjects with malignancy other than adequately treated basal cell or squamous cell 
carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma in situ of the cervix 
6.  Subjects with a history of thrombotic episodes (deep vein thrombosis, myocardial 
infarction, cerebrovascular accident) 
7.  Subjects with abnormal protein loss (protein losing enteropathy, nephritic syndrome, 
severe lung disease) 
8.  Subjects with anemia that would preclude phlebotomy for laboratory studies 
9.  Subjects who received any blood or blood product other than an IGIV, SC immunoglobulin, 
immune serum globulin (ISG) preparation, or albumin within the 6 months prior to study 
enrolment 
10. Subjects with an ongoing history of hypersensitivity or persistent reactions (urticaria, 
breathing difficulty, severe hypotension, or anaphylaxis) following IGIV, SC 
immunoglobulin, and/or ISG infusions 
11.  Subjects with immunoglobulin A (IgA) deficiency and known anti-IgA antibodies 
12. Subjects receiving antibiotic therapy for the treatment of infection within 7 days prior to 
enrolment 
13. Subjects participating in another clinical study involving an investigational product or 
device - with the exception of Baxter Study 160603 – within 28 days prior to study 
enrolment 
14. Subjects with bleeding disorders or who were on anti-coagulation therapy 
15. Subject had total protein >9 g/dL and subjects with myeloma, macroglobulinemia (IgM) 
and paraproteinemia 
16. Subject had a known allergy to hyaluronidase 
17. If female, subject was pregnant or lactating at the time of study enrolment 
18. Subject had participated in another clinical study and had been exposed to an 
investigational product (IP) or device within 2 weeks prior to study enrollment (exception: 
Baxter Study No. 160601) or was scheduled to participate in another non-Baxter clinical 
study involving an IP or device during the course of this study 
19. Severe dermatitis that would have precluded adequate sites for safe product administration 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 32/68 
 
  
  
 
Treatments 
IG 10% was supplied in vials of 2.5g, 5g, and 10 g labelled according to the valid regulatory 
requirements for clinical studies. Storage at 2 to 8°C (36° to 46°F) for a maximum of 36 months 
was recommended; the product was not to be frozen. 
Prior to use, IG 10% vials were to be removed from refrigeration and placed at room temperature 
for approximately 90 minutes to equilibrate and kept at room temperature during administration. 
The product was to be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to 
administration and was not to be used if particulate matter and/or discoloration was observed. Only 
clear or slightly opalescent and colourless or pale yellow solutions were to be administered. The use 
of an in-line filter was optional. If IG 10% was pooled in a bag, it had to be used as soon as possible, 
but no longer than 3 hours from the time of pooling. 
rHuPH20 was supplied as a single-dose glass vial of 400U/vial for the 2.5 mL fill size and 800U/vial 
for the 5 mL fill size. The study product was labelled according to the regulatory requirements for 
clinical studies. Storage at 2° to 8°C (36°to 46°F) was recommended. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of IG 10% administered via the SC route after an 
administration of rHuPH20 in preventing serious bacterial infections in subjects with PID. The 
secondary objectives of the study, in addition to further efficacy assessments, were to evaluate the 
tolerability of IG 10% and rHuPH20 administered via the SC route. The exploratory objectives were 
to assess quality of life aspects, comparing SC treatment with and without rHuPH20 and IV 
treatment. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was the validated acute serious bacterial infection rate (VASBI), defined as 
the mean number of validated acute serious bacterial infections per subject per year in the 
intent-to-treat population. 
Acute serious bacterial infections included bacteremia/sepsis, bacterial meningitis, 
osteomyelitis/septic arthritis, bacterial pneumonia, and visceral abscess that were caused by a 
recognised bacterial pathogen. 
The annual rate of all infections, monthly rate of days off school/work, on antibiotics, acute 
physician visits and in hospital were to be calculated per subject 
Exploratory Endpoints: 
Quality of life, treatment satisfaction and preference were to be measured in all the subjects: 
•  Quality of life was to be measured prior to the first SC infusion of stage 2 and at the 
End-of-Study Visit. The SF-36 was to be used in subjects age 14 and older. In subjects age 
2 to 13, Quality of life was to be assessed using the PEDS-QL.7 A parent or primary 
caregiver was to complete the PEDS-QL on behalf of the subject if under 8 years old. 
• 
Treatment satisfaction was to be measured prior to the first SC infusion of stage 2 and at 
the End-of-Study Visit using the Life Quality Index (LQI). Subjects 14 years and older were 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 33/68 
 
  
  
to complete the LQI on their own, while subjects under age 14 were to have the LQI 
completed by a parent or primary caregiver. 
• 
Treatment preference questions were to be administered at the End-of-Study Visit to all the 
subjects in the study. For subjects under 14 years of age, a parent or primary caregiver was 
to answer on their behalf. 
Sample size 
It was calculated that with 80 patients and an assumed yearly rate of 0.7 new serious bacterial 
infections per patient a one-sided test with a type I error of 0.01 would have about 80% power to 
exclude an annual serious bacterial infection rate ≥ 1. 
Randomisation 
This was a prospective, open-label, non-controlled study. Due to the uncontrolled study design, no 
randomisation was possible. Subjects were to be enrolled into one of 2 study arms (i.e. cohorts): 
- Study Arm 1 comprised subjects who previously participated in the Clinical Study 160601. 
- Study Arm 2 comprised all other subjects 
Blinding (masking) 
Study160603 was performed open label. 
Statistical methods 
The method of analysis for the primary endpoint was based on a Poisson model. A generalized linear 
model assuming the Poisson distribution for the number of validated acute serious bacterial 
infections (VASBI) with the logarithm as link function was used. Two sensitivity analyses for the rate 
of infections was performed to address the potential effects of subjects not completing the full year 
of SC treatment. 
Monthly rates of days off school/work, days on antibiotics, and days in hospital were calculated per 
subject. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the monthly rates were calculated using a Poisson model 
and the same methodology including allowance for over-dispersion as described for the primary 
endpoints. Monthly rates of acute physician visits were calculated per subject. Point estimates and 
95% CIs for the monthly rates were calculated using a Poisson model and the same methodology 
including allowance for over-dispersion as described for the primary endpoints. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 34/68 
 
  
  
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Overall, 16/87 subjects (18.4%) withdrew or were discontinued from the study, whereby 7 
requested withdrawal and 6 withdrew due to AEs (6.8%); 3 subjects reduced their participation to 
safety follow-up only. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 35/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Recruitment 
Initiation (first subject in): 18 Dec 2008 
Completion (last subject out): 11 Nov 2010 
Total study duration: approximately 1 year and 11 months 
Conduct of the study 
Three Amendments were made to the original study Protocol (Version 23 Sep 2008). 
Significant non-compliance was detected at Site 11. A sponsor audit and an inspection by the FDA 
(22 Feb 2011-02 Mar 2011) identified significant departures from Good Clinical Practice at Site 11, 
resulting in discussions regarding whether to censor the data from this site (n=6). However, 
exclusion of these data from the analyses would have introduced bias in Baxter’s favour. Therefore, 
the data from Site 11 were included in all analyses. 
A total of 15 major protocol deviations were reported during the study. The most common major 
deviations were administration of an incorrect dose (n=7) and failure to conduct PK assessments 
(n=4). In addition, 1 subject violated an inclusion criterion, 1 received IG 10% from an incorrect lot, 
1 received rHuPH20 approximately 3 weeks after its expiration date, and for 1 subject a dose 
adjustment due to insufficient serum IgG trough levels was not conducted at the next infusion, but 
at the second infusion following the identification of low trough levels. Subjects were not excluded 
from the per-protocol analysis due to major protocol deviations.  
Baseline data 
Common variable immune deficiency (CVID) was the most commonly diagnosed PID (49/87 
subjects), followed by hypogammaglobulemia (17/87 subjects) and X-linked agammaglobulinemia 
(6/87). In the SNDS, the most frequently diagnosed PIDs were CVID (24/44 subjects), 
hypogammaglobulemia (7/44), and IgG subclass deficiency (4/44). 
Subjects were distributed evenly by gender. The majority of subjects (79/87; 90.8%) were white; 
2 (2.3%) were black/African American, 3 (3.4%) were Asian, 1 (1.1%) was American Indian or 
Alaskan Native, and 2 (2.3%) were of multiple race. With respect to ethnicity, 8/87 (9.2%) of 
subjects were Hispanic or Latino. The median age was 35.0 years (range: 4-78 years). The median 
height and weight were 165.0 cm (range: 94.0-193.0 cm) and 63.8 kg (range: 15.0-135.9 cm), 
respectively. Similar demographic characteristics were observed in the 44 subjects who were naïve 
to SC IgG before the study (SNDS), except that no black/African American, American Indian or 
Alaskan Native subjects were included in this data set. 
Numbers analysed 
The following data sets were analysed: 
• 
• 
Full Analysis Data Set (FADS; n=81): All subjects who had been exposed to either or both 
study drugs and who provided data for the primary endpoint for any period of time. 
Per-Protocol Data Set (PPADS; n=74): A subset of the FADS including only subjects who 
completed at least 6 months of SC treatment after the ramp-up. 
•  Safety Analysis Data Set (SADS, n=87): All subjects exposed to either or both study drugs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 36/68 
 
  
  
•  Subcutaneous Immunoglobulin Naïve Subjects Data Set (SNDS; n=44): Subjects who had 
not previously been exposed to immunoglobulins by the SC route. 
The numbers of eligible subjects in each data set by age group (2-<12 years and ≥ 12 years) are 
provided in Table 14.1-1. The numbers of subjects in each data set who completed study stages 1 
and 2 are shown in Table 14.1-3. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Serious bacterial infections (SBIs) 
Two validated acute serious bacterial infections (one each in Subjects 010010 and 060001) were 
reported during the prospectively planned observation period, which began with the day of the first 
SC infusion at the final infusion interval after the ramp-up. In addition, 1 validated acute serious 
bacterial infection occurred during the ramp-up (in Subject 110005), which was not included in the 
observation period. 
The rate of acute SBIs per year during SC administration of IGIV 10% with rHuPH20 was 0.025, 
(upper limit of the one-sided 99% CI of 0.046), in SC-naïve subjects it was 0.000, (upper limit of 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 37/68 
 
  
  
 
 
the one-sided 99% CI of 0.130), both when considering the observation period only. When the 
ramp-up was included the rate of acute SBIs per year during SC administration of IGIV 10% with 
rHuPH20 was 0.03, with an upper limit of the one-sided 99% CI of 0.06. In all three cases, the rate 
of SBIs year was significantly lower than 1.0 (p<0.0001). 
All infections  
The point estimate of the annualized rate of all infections was lower during SC administration with 
rHuPH20 at the final infusion interval (2.97 [95% CI: 2.51; 3.47] compared to IV infusions (4.51 
[95% CI: 3.50; 5.69]). When the ramp-up was included the estimated rate of all infections was 
3.09 [95% CI: 2.61; 3.63] per year under SC administration with rHuPH20. 
The monthly rate of days off school/work, on antibiotics, acute physician visits and in hospital per 
subject was similar in the SC and IV groups. 
Quality of life, treatment satisfaction and preference 
QoL, treatment satisfaction and preference were evaluated as exploratory endpoints. QoL was 
evaluated by mode of administration (SCIG + rHUPH20, SCIG without rHuPH20 and the IV route). 
Quality of life assessment in subjects aged 2-7 years (by parents) and 8-13 years was the Paediatric 
Quality of Life Inventory (PEDS-QL) questionnaire. In subjects aged 14 years and over, quality of 
life was assessed using the SF-36 6 survey. All scores were transformed to a scale of 0- 100, higher 
scores indicating better quality of life.  
Similar QoL was achieved for all 3 routes. The median total scores were comparable for SC 
administration with rHuPH20, SC administration without rHuPH20 (in Study 160601), and for IV 
infusions either in young subjects (subgroups 2-7 and 8-13 year) or in subject aged 14 years and 
over. Higher median total scores were observed in subjects who were previously naïve to SC IgG. 
SC administration 
with rHuPH20 
2-7 years 
8-13 years 
88.04 
SC-naive  96.88  
78.26 
SC-naive  79.35 
52.26 
≥ 14 years 
mental component 
≥ 14 years 
physical 
component 
44.76 
47.52 
SC administration 
without rHuPH20 
(in Study 160601) 
71.43 
97.83 
70.65 
n.a. 
53.74 
IV infusions 
78.26 
78.26 
83.15 
83.15 
51.17 
44.65 
Treatment satisfaction also showed that the median scores were similar for each mode of 
administration. Treatment satisfaction was assessed using the Life Quality Index (LQI) survey 
developed for patients with PID by Daly et al. Two age groups (2-13 years and ≥ 14 years) were 
assessed separately for SC administration with rHuPH20, SC administration without rHuPH20, and 
IV administration. For all subjects combined, the results for administration SC with rHuPH20, SC 
without rHuPH20 and IV ranged from 34.0-35 for treatment interference, 21.0-23.0 for 
therapy-related problems, 18.0-19.0 for therapy settings, and 10.0-11.0 for costs. The results for 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 38/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects who were naïve to SC IgG were comparable to the results for subjects who had previously 
been treated with SC IgG.  
With regard to preference 100% of parents/caregivers of subjects aged 2-13 years (n= 13) and 
78.6% (44/56) of subjects aged ≥ 14 years would have chosen continued SC IgG treatment with 
rHuPH20. Of the 12 respondents who did not state a preference for SC treatment with rHuPH20, 8 
preferred the IV route and 4 preferred SC administration without rHuPH20. 
The median number of infusion sites per month was 1.09 for SC administration with rHuPH20, and 
1.34 for IV administration. During Study 160601, subjects that received SC infusions without 
rHuPH20 had a median of 21.43 sites per month. 
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy 
as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 1.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 160603 
Title:  Efficacy,  Tolerability  and  Pharmacokinetic  Comparison  of  Immune  Globulin  Intravenous 
(Human),  10%  (GAMMAGARD  LIQUID/KIOVIG)  Administered  Intravenously  or  Subcutaneously 
Following Administration of Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) in  Subjects with Primary 
Immunodeficiency Diseases 
Study identifier 
160603 
Design 
Prospective, open-label, non-controlled study in subjects with PID. 
Approx. 3 months 
Duration of IV phase  
(Stage 1): 
Duration of Ramp-up phase 
in Stage 2: 
Duration of main SC phase 
(Stage 2): 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Approx. 6 weeks 
Approx. 12 months 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
The null hypothesis of one or more validated acute serious bacterial infections 
per subject per year was to be tested against the alternate hypothesis of less 
than 1 validated acute serious bacterial infection per subject per year. 
Arm 1: Subjects from study 
160601; SC experienced 
Could proceed directly to stage 2: SC 
treatment with IG 10% after facilitation with 
rHuPH20 
Completed stage 1 first: IV treatment and PK 
assessment with IG 10%  
Arm 2: Subjects not 
previously enrolled in 
160601; SC experienced and 
SC naïve subjects 
Primary 
endpoint 
VASBI 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Mean number of validated acute serious 
bacterial infections per subject per year in the 
FAS (=ITT population) 
Annual rate of all infections 
infections 
trough 
Median Trough levels of IgG 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 39/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
days 
Monthly Rate of Days off school/work 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intent to treat population; During stage 2 after ramp-up until end-of-study 
visit 
Treatment group 
Full Analysis Set 
2-<12 
≥12 
Per-Protocol 
Analysis Set 
≥12 
2-<12  
SCIG Naïve 
Analysis Set 
≥12 
2-<12  
Age 
Number of 
subjects 
VASBI 
Upper limit of 
(one-sided) 99% 
CI 
11 
70 
    9 
   65 
5 
39 
0.025  
0.025 
0.000 
0.046 
0.048 
0.130 
Infections 
2.97  
2.95 
3.50 
95% CI 
(two-sided) 
2.51 – 3.47 
2.48 – 3.48 
2.79 – 4.32 
trough 
9.95 
10.7 
9.14 
10.6 
95% CI 
(two-sided) 
days 
95% CI 
(two-sided) 
7.87-1
9.46-1
7.83-1
9.42-1
5.00 
1.80 
1.40 
1.70 
0.28 
0.27 
0.20-0.37 
0.19-0.37 
Notes 
The observation period for the primary endpoint as predefined in the protocol 
does  not  include  the  ramp-up  period,  which  is  not  in  accordance  with  ITT 
principles. One patient experienced an acute serious bacterial infection during 
that  phase,  which  was  excluded  from  the  primary  analysis.  To  obtain  an 
estimate  of  the  incidence  of  VASBI  in  the  true  ITT  population  a  reanalysis 
including  the  ramp-up  was  submitted.  In  this  analysis  the  annual  rate  of 
VASBI was estimated as 0.03. Thus, it could be confirmed that the estimate on 
the rate of VASBI was not biased. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
In trial 160603, 14 subjects aged 2 to <12 and 11 adolescents ages 12 to <16 were enrolled. 
Additionally, children and adolescents were included in study 160601, which investigated the 
effects of SC administration of IG 10% without rHuPH20. The following was noted:  
The two youngest subjects included into the pivotal trial were 4 years of age. Local tolerability is 
considered to be even more relevant in the treatment of babies and toddlers. The trade-off of 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 40/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased local reactions versus increased treatment intervals is likely to be understood by older 
children only. 
In study 160603, at least 7 subjects were 65 years or older, the supportive studies 160601 and 
160602 did also enrol subjects in this age range. 
Supportive study(ies) 
Study 160601 
Clinical Study 160601 was designed as a prospective, open-label, non-controlled, multi-centre 
study in subjects with PID with the aim of determining tolerability and pharmacokinetics of IGIV, 
10% given subcutaneously. Pharmacokinetics of IGIV 10% administered subcutaneously was 
compared to the pharmacokinetics of IGIV 10% administered intravenously. Efficacy was 
determined in terms of acute serious bacterial infections. 
Bacteremia/sepsis, bacterial meningitis, osteomyelitis/septic arthritis, bacterial pneumonia and 
bacterial visceral abscess were categorized as serious acute bacterial infections. These infections 
were diagnosed according to the FDA Guidance for Industry, November 2005. The monthly rate of 
serious acute bacterial infections was calculated per subject. Point estimates and 95% confidence 
intervals for the annual rates were calculated using a Poisson model. 
Furthermore, rates for all infections, antibiotic use, hospitalisations due to infections and days out 
of work, school are reported. 
The study consisted of 4 parts plus an optional Study Extension Part: Study Part 1, which included 
IV treatment, and Study Parts 2, 3a, 3b, and the Study Extension Part with SC treatment. 
This supportive study encompassed patients with PID as defined by WHO criteria, at least 2 years 
of age. Nine (9) study sites enrolled a total of 49 subjects who received treatment in the study (Full 
Safety Dataset [FSDS]). Between 2 and 13 subjects were enrolled and treated per study site. Of the 
subjects enrolled and treated, 14 were aged 2 to <12 years and 35 were at least 12 years old. 
A total of 38 subjects were naïve to SC immunoglobulin replacement, 14 in the 2 to <12 years age 
group, and 24 in the 12 years and older age group. Four of these naïve subjects (2 per age group) 
did not meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria. 
Of all subjects treated (FSDS), 44.9% (22/49) were female, and 55.1% (27/49) were male. In the 
age group of 2 to <12 years, the ratio of females and males was 42.9% (6/14) and 57.1% (8/14), 
respectively, and in the age group of 12 years and older, the ratio was 45.7% (16/35) and 54.3% 
(19/35), respectively. 
Among the subjects treated, 93.9% (46/49) were Caucasian, 4.1% (2/49) were Black, and 2.0% 
(1/49) were of Hispanic ethnicity. In the age groups of 2 to <12 years and 12 years and older, 
92.9% and 94.3% of subjects, respectively, were Caucasian. There was one Black subject in each 
of these age groups (7.1% of subjects in the lower and 2.9% of subjects in the higher age group). 
The subject of Hispanic origin was in the age group of 12 years and older (2.9% of subjects). 
The median age at enrolment in the FSDS was 20 years with a range of 3 to 77 years. Among the 
subjects aged 2 to <12 years, the median age at enrolment was 7.5 (range 3 to 11) years; among 
the subjects aged 12 years and older, it was 36 (range 14 to 77) years 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 41/68 
 
  
  
IV administration was to be used in Study Part 1 only. The dose to be infused was 300-1,000 mg/kg 
BW/4 weeks depending on the subject’s previous dose and previous treatment interval. The dose 
(on a gram IgG/kg BW basis) was to be kept constant during the whole study part. 
SC administration was used in Study Part 2 (dose per administration: 130% of the weekly 
equivalent of the dose used during IV treatment) and in Study Parts 3a and 3b (dose adjusted for 
Study Parts 3a and 3b based on AUC determined in Study Parts 1 and 2, or dose individually 
adapted for Study Part 3b, if necessary, according to IgG trough level increase in Study Part 3a). 
Furthermore, the subjects could be treated subcutaneously in the optional Study Extension Part, 
where all subjects received the same dose as in Study Part 3b. 
In 26 subjects, the duration of SC treatment with IGIV 10% was at least 53 weeks. Seventeen 
subjects received SC treatment for 30 to 52 weeks, and 4 for up to 29 weeks.  
The efficacy endpoints were  
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious bacterial infections  
other infections 
use of antibiotics 
patient reported outcomes  
A total of 3/49 subjects had acute serious bacterial infections (SBI) while on SC treatment (without 
rHuPH20). The annual rate of SBI while on SC treatment (Part 2, 3a, 3b and extension) with IGSC 
10% was 0.067 and the 99% upper confidence limit was 0.134 (no SBIs occurred in the 12 week 
IVIg study part 1).  
The annual infection rate of other infections (i.e. excluding SBIs) under IVIG and SCIG was similar 
(5.1 vs. 4.1; with overlapping 95% CIs). 
The patient reported outcomes (Days of use of systemic antibiotics, days of prophylactic and 
therapeutic use of systemic antibiotics, days missed from school/work due to fever, infection or 
other illness, and non-study required out-patient visits) and the use of antibiotics show similar point 
estimates and overlapping CIs between the IGIV 10% and IGSC 10% arms, therefore no clear 
distinction can be made for the 2 administration routes for these parameters. 
Study 160902 – extension study enrolling patients from 160603 
An interim report on the extension study 160902 was submitted. In Study 160902, subjects began 
on the same doses of IGSC, and rHuPH20 and on the same dosing intervals that were used for the 
last infusions in stage 2 of Study 160603.  
18 of the remaining 48 subjects receiving rHuPH20 + IG, 10%, were changed to a 2-week infusion 
interval. The interim study report states that this was done to evaluate whether a more frequent 
administration of IGSC leads to improved IgG trough levels. To address the concern that trough 
levels observed at the end of study 160603 or at the beginning of study 160902 were not optimal, 
the applicant provided data showing that subjects were switched from a 3- or 4-week to a 2-week 
treatment interval in Study 160902 with the sole purpose of assessing the effect of treatment 
intervals on IgG trough levels and not on the grounds of safety or efficacy. The data show that 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 42/68 
 
  
  
 
trough levels were in the therapeutic range before and after the change in infusion interval and that 
trough levels increased only slightly with the shorter interval. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
One pivotal study (160603) was submitted for the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of the SC 
administration of a 3- or 4 week dose of IG 10% after infusion of the permeation enhancer, 
rHuPH20. The other studies included in the dossier provide supportive information on tolerability of 
SC administration of IG 10% alone in subjects with PID (160601), investigated the dose of rHuPH20 
needed to infuse a monthly bolus of IG 10 % subcutaneously (160602) or enrolled healthy 
volunteers (170901, 160001). 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The design of the pivotal study 160603 (open-label, non-controlled multi-centre study) is adequate 
to fulfil guideline requirements of SCIGs and was also agreed on in the EMA scientific advice. The 
patient population selected, i.e. subjects with PID as defined by WHO criteria, is relevant for the 
intended indication. The study included children and adolescents in a sufficient number to fulfil PIP 
and GL requirements. However, due to potential concerns regarding the use of the excipient 
(rHuPH20) in children and adolescents, the patient population was restricted to adults (see 
Discussion on clinical safety). 
Study centres were located in the US and Canada, but subject demographics illustrated that the 
enrolled subjects can also be regarded as representative for European patients with PID.  
The duration of the study, 3 months on IGIV therapy and 12 months on IGSC plus rHuPH20 
(following an SC ramp-up phase of approximately 6 weeks) treatment exceeded current GL 
requirements for new SCIg (6 months), but in light of the new facilitation principle introduced is 
considered adequate for the evaluation of efficacy. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The primary endpoint, rate of validated serious acute bacterial infections per subject per year, is in 
line with the newly revised guideline on IVIg and was also agreed in the scientific advice procedure. 
However, the CHMP initially questioned the definition of the observation period as the observation 
period for the primary endpoint as predefined in the protocol did not include the ramp-up period. To 
address this concern the applicant provided additional analysis including the ramp-up (and 2 
patients who had dropped out during the ramp up) provided results, which differed only to an 
irrelevant extent. The additional acute SBI that was included in this analysis, was balanced with the 
addition of further exposure time for the other patients and in summary this did not impact on the 
treatment effect estimate. The secondary efficacy endpoints, overall infections, days off 
school/work, days on antibiotics, days in hospital, physician visits are in line with the applicable 
guidance and of clinical relevance. Furthermore, quality of life and treatment satisfaction as well as 
treatment preference were evaluated. Results from the secondary efficacy endpoints are generally 
in line with those seen with other licensed IVIg and SCIg products.  
The evaluation on quality of life and treatment satisfaction did not reveal differences between the IV 
and the SC administration with rHuPH20. Results on treatment preference show that of the 68 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 43/68 
 
  
  
respondents, 2 subjects intended to stay on treatment because of medication costs outside a trial. 
Of the 12 subjects who intended not to continue treatment with rHuPH20, 8 were SC naïve. The 
reasons stated for not continuing were mostly pain and the complexity of the procedure. Only 25 % 
of infusions at the final dosing interval were administered in the home setting.  
The vast majority of subjects (78) reached the same dose interval for IG 10% SC with rHuPH20 
treatment as for IV treatment. Only 3 subjects, all of them SC naïve, did not achieve their prior 
dosing interval. A meaningful reduction of infusion sites needed per month was observed for IG 10 
% SC with rHuPH20 treatment versus IG 10% SC (for subjects who also participated in trial 
160601): The median number of infusion sites was reduced from 21.43 to 1.09, which is 
comparable to the median number of 1.34 infusion sites needed during the IV treatment stages in 
both trials, 160601 and 160603. 18 of the remaining 48 patients in the extension study 160902 
were converted to a 2-week infusion interval. The interim study report states that this was done to 
evaluate whether a more frequent administration of IGSC leads to improved IgG trough levels. 
Additional data submitted by the applicant show that trough levels were in the therapeutic range 
before and after the change in infusion interval and that trough levels increased only slightly with 
the shorter interval. 
While the analysis plan to use a Poisson regression is appropriate for the type of primary endpoint, 
a discussion of the appropriateness of the assumptions made with respect to their applicability to 
the final data was lacking. Only few events had been observed for the primary endpoint, and it was 
likely that this was indeed not problematic for the primary endpoint. Following a request, sensitivity 
analyses were provided, accompanied by an appropriate discussion on the suitability of the primary 
analysis model to the data. This also included a discussion on the impact of missing data (68 of 83 
patients having initiated SC treatment in study 160603 completed the trial), and this convincingly 
demonstrated efficacy regarding acute SBIs.  
Similar comments also applied to the other efficacy endpoints, for which the ramp-up has been 
consistently excluded, and the same analyses as for the primary endpoint had been applied. It could 
be demonstrated that inclusion of the ramp-up also had no impact on these secondary efficacy 
endpoints. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The primary endpoint VASBI in the observation period is 0.025 in the full analysis set, which 
formally meets the required study hypothesis. In an additional analysis following the ITT principle, 
i.e. including the ramp-up, the annual rate of VASBI was estimated as 0.03. Thus, it could be 
confirmed that the estimate on the rate of VASBI was not biased. 
Robustness could be confirmed in additionally requested analyses including the ramp-up and the 
results presented for the other endpoints were in line with those seen for other licensed IVIg and 
SCIg products. Regarding quality of life and treatment satisfaction outcomes, SC IG, 10% in 
combination with rHuPH20 was perceived similar to IG 10 % IV. The low number of SC infusions 
with rHuPH20 administered at home and reasons cited by subjects who did not continue IG 10% 
with rHuPH20 treatment imply a complexity of the infusion procedure that is deterring for subjects, 
especially those who were SC naïve. A true advantage of the treatment with IG, 10% SC combined 
with rHuPH20 is the low number of infusion sites per month, which is comparable to those needed 
for IV treatment and meaningfully lower than those needed for SC treatment without rHuPH20.  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 44/68 
 
  
  
Equal quality of life and treatment satisfaction in comparison to IV treatment illustrates that SCIG 
+ rHuPH20 is perceived as having comparable convenience to the IV modality. The fact that the 
pivotal and all supportive studies were performed in the US (and Canada) made questionable 
whether these data on perceived treatment convenience and quality of life can be extrapolated to 
European patients is considered uncertain. 
The Applicant has restricted the indication to adults due to potential concerns regarding the use of 
the excipient (rHuPH20) in children and adolescents. For this patient population, no VASBI has been 
observed during the entire treatment period. The upper limit of the two-sided 98%-confidence 
interval for the VASBI rate/year/subject is estimated as 0.0707 and is thus significantly below the 
acceptable value of 1 VASBI/patient/year. The rate of all infections (3.1005) in the suggested 
patient population is similar to the rate of infections in the overall population in study 160603, which 
is 2.97. Therefore, the efficacy in this patient population is confirmed. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety database comprises a pivotal and a supportive study in which the safety and tolerability 
of IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 were investigated in patients with PID (Studies 160602 and 160603). In 
addition, a study to investigate the tolerability, of IGIV, 10% and IGSC 10% without rHuPH20 in 
patients with PID (Study 160601) was conducted. Studies 170901 Part 4 and 161001 were 
conducted to assess, besides infusion pressure and flow rates, the safety and tolerability in healthy 
volunteers. 4 of these clinical studies were completed (160601, 160602, 160603 and 161001) and 
one was terminated (170901). 
In addition to the studies with IGSC 10% and rHuPH20 performed in subjects with PID and healthy 
volunteers, for 4 additional studies investigating sensitivity to rHuPH20 and the safety of large 
volume subcutaneous fluid administration with rHuPH20, study synopses were provided (studies 
R04-0851 and HZ2-05-04 in HV; studies 1838-003 and HZ2-08-03 in dehydrated paediatric 
patients). In these studies follow-up period was no longer than 30 days in healthy volunteers and 7 
days in dehydrated paediatric patients respectively. Furthermore, the dose of rHuPH20 was 15 U in 
study R04-0851 and 150 U in the other three studies which is much lower than in the targeted PID 
patient population. 
Patient exposure 
In Study 160601 49 PID patients were exposed to 207 IGIV 10% infusions (thereof 162 in SC 
naïve patients) over a period of ~84 days and 2294 IGSC 10% infusions (thereof 1757 in SC naïve 
patients) over a period of approx. one year. 
In Study 160602 11 PID patients were exposed to 14 IGIV 10% infusions and approx. 47.75 IGSC 
10%+ rHuPH20 infusions over ~ half a year. 
In Study 160603 87 PID patients (thereof 44 SC naïve patients) were exposed to 365 IGIV 10% 
infusions for 91 days and 83 PID patients were exposed to 1359 IGSC 10% + rHuPH20 infusions 
(thereof 230 infusions in the ramp-up phase and 1129 in stage 2) for one year. The mean weekly 
dose was 0.143g/kg in stage 1, 0.155g/kg in stage 2 and 0.144g/kg in the ramp-up phase. 
In Study 170901 12 healthy volunteers were over the course of 21 days exposed to the following:  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 45/68 
 
  
  
 
Treatment 4A: IGSC 10% (0.3 g/kg BW/infusion) + Buffer Control: 253 ± 27 mL 
Treatment 4B: IGSC 10% (0.3 g/kg BW/infusion) + rHuPH20 75 U/g IgG: 252 ± 26 mL 
Treatment 4C: IGSC 10% (0.6 g/kg BW/infusion) + Buffer Control: 490 ±38 mL 
Treatment 4D: IGSC 10% (0.6 g/kg BW/infusion) + rHuPH20 75 U/g IgG: 504 ± 55 mL 
In Study 161001 53 healthy volunteers were, on one day, exposed to the following: 
IGSC 10% (min-max): 0 – 246ml 
Albumin 0.25% (min –max): 158 – 228 ml 
LR control: 0.046ml/ml 
rHuPH20: 75 U/ml 
Supportive studies with rHuPH20 encompassed the following:  
Patients exposed 
Subjects on 
IV infusions 
Subjects on SC infusions 
+ rHuPH20 
R04-0851 
HZ2-05-04 
100 healthy 
volunteers 
54 healthy 
volunteers 
1838-003 
51 children 
- 
- 
All:0.1 ml rHuPH20 intradermally 
18: 400 ml LR + 150 U rHuPH20 or saline  
15: 400 ml LR + 1500 U rHuPH20 or saline 
16: 400 ml LR + 750 U rHuPH20 or saline 
HZ2-08-03 
148 children 
75 
73 (150 U dose of rHuPH20) 
Adverse events 
Study 160601 
49 patients were included in the phase II/III study 160601 - no rHuPH20 was administered. All 49 
subjects were included in the safety dataset.  
A total of 226 AEs were reported during the IV treatment period (Study Part 1), and 634 AEs were 
reported during the SC treatment periods (Study Parts 2, 3a, 3b, and Extension). Among these, 85 
AEs were considered related to the use of the investigational product during IV treatment (12 
weeks), and 150 AEs were considered related during SC treatment (30 – 53 weeks). Most related 
AEs were mild to moderate in severity in the IV group, and mainly mild in the SC groups. 
The median maximum infusion rates of 20.0 mL/h (ages 2 to <12 years) and of 30.0 mL/h (ages 
≥12 years) were achieved for SC infusion of IGIV 10%. The proportion of subjects for whom the 
infusion rate had to be reduced, interrupted or stopped for tolerability reasons was 16.3% during IV 
treatment in Study Part 1 and 4.3% in the SC study parts; the proportion of infusions that had to be 
stopped etc. was 6.2% for IV and 0.2% for SC. The median rate of temporally associated AEs per 
infusion was 0.25 after IV and 0.08 after SC infusions. 
Local AEs were higher in the SC groups compared to the IV group, but diminished over time from 
4.9% to 1.1% in the Study Extension Part. 
The proportion of temporally associated systemic AEs (excluding infections) was 28.0% for the IV 
treatment and 6.8% for the SC replacement. Both the increase in local and decrease in systemic 
AEs for the SC route is to be expected and has been described in the literature. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 46/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Symptoms that were related to the SC infusion mainly encompassed infusion site 
pain/hematoma/pruritus, headache, increased heart rate, fatigue, increased systolic blood 
pressure, pyrexia, nausea, upper abdominal pain, and vomiting – these AEs have been described in 
the literature for IVIgs and SCIgs.  
No related SAEs occurred. 
Study 160602 
This Phase I/II study in 11 PID patients showed that (after a gradual dose escalation) an SC 
administration of a full 4-week dose of IGIV 10% when preceded by a mean dose of 51 U/g IgG 
rHuPH20 was tolerated by 9/11 at a single infusion site and a mean infusion duration of 2.9 hours. 
A reduction of rHuPH20 to approximately 25 U/g IgG resulted in failure to tolerate the full dose of 
study drug due to the occurrence of related AEs or increase in infusion time. The proportion of 
infusions not interrupted/ stopped as estimated by the Poisson model was 0.97. No AEs led to a 
discontinuation of the treatment. However, there was 1 subject who returned to IV treatment due 
to AEs after SC treatment. For proportion of SC infusions associated with 1 or more AEs within 72h 
+ moderate or severe AEs + AEs by periods corresponding to dose categories, more AEs in the full 
dose category were seen.  
At the full SC 4-week dose within 72 hours post infusion, 7% of SC infusions were associated with 
systemic AEs and 46% were associated with local AEs. The latter is deemed rather high and is not 
seen in the pivotal study. (160602 Study Arm 1: 20%, Study Arm 2: 14.3% vs. 160603 stage 2 
after the ramp-up phase: 0.44%). The rate of AEs per infusion as well as the percentage of subjects 
with related AEs in study 160602 is considered quite high compared with the rate of AEs per infusion 
and the percentage of subjects with related AEs in study 160603 (160602 Study Arm 1 + 2: 1.951 
vs. 160603 stage 2 after the ramp-up phase: 0.96, 160602 Study Arm 1: 100/Study Arm 2: 85.7 
vs. 160603 stage 2 after the ramp-up phase: 71.6 respectively). Moreover, when compared with 
the phase III study 160603 AE rates per infusion of infusion site pain, infusion site erythema and 
infusion site pruritus are considered quite high (160602 study arm 1 + 2 / 160603 final infusion 
interval/ramp-up phase: infusion site pain 0.607 vs. 0.081/0.161, infusion site erythema 0.41 vs. 
0.25/0.08 and infusion site pruritus 0.082 vs. 0.015/0.017), but due to the small patient number of 
study 160602, this should be evaluated with caution. 
The type of AEs is in keeping with the SC administration of immunoglobulin (injection site reactions, 
headache) or the underlying illness (decrease in lymphocytes, sinusitis, and congestion) and/or 
co-medication. 
Study 160603 
In the pivotal study 365 infusions were administered IV to 87 PID patients (stage 1) and 1359 were 
administered SC with rHuPH20 to 83 patients treated during ramp-up, 81 treated during stage 2  
patients (230 infusions in the ramp-up phase and 1129 in stage 2). Stage 1 lasted approximately 90 
days, the ramp-up 42 days and stage 2 one year. A total of 68 patients completed stage 2, (60 
adults and 8 pediatric patients).  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 47/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Category 
AEs 
Related AEs 
(IGSC and/or 
rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC+rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC) 
Related AE 
(rHuPH20) 
Non-serious 
AEs 
Local AEs 
Related AEs 
(IGSC and/or 
rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC+rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC) 
Related AE 
(rHuPH20) 
Systemic AEs 
Related AEs 
(IGSC and/or 
rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC+rHuPH20) 
Related AEs 
(IGSC) 
Related AE 
(rHuPH20) 
Serious AEs 
Related serious 
AEs 
AEs leading to 
death 
AEs, where 
infusion had to 
be stopped 
AEs leading to 
discontinuation 
of the subject 
Related AEs 
leading to 
discontinuation 
of the subject 
Temporally 
associated AEs 
Temporally 
associated 
Number 
(%) of 
subjects 
(N=87 
IV) 
Number 
(rate) of 
AEs 
(n=365 
IV 
infusions) 
Number (%) 
of subjects 
(N=81 
SC+rHuPH20) 
Excluding 
ramp-up 
78 (89.7)  387 (1.06)  81 (100) 
42 (48.3)  109 (0.30)  58 (71.6) 
Number 
(rate) of AEs 
(n=1129 
SC+rHuPH20 
infusions) 
Excluding 
ramp-up 
1085 (0.96) 
384 (0.34) 
Number (%) 
of subjects 
(N=83) 
SC+rHuPH20 
Including 
ramp-up 
82 (98.8) 
62 (74.7) 
Number 
(rate) of AEs 
(N=1359 
SC+rHuPH20 
infusions) 
Including 
ramp-up 
1317 (0.969) 
501 (0.369) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
41 (50.6) 
196 (0.17) 
47 (56.6) 
261 (0.192) 
37 (45.7) 
134 (0.12) 
45 (54.2) 
172 (0.127) 
11 (13.6) 
54 (0.05) 
14 (16.9) 
68 (0.050) 
79 (90.8)  383 (1.05)  80 (98.8) 
1074 (0.95) 
81 (97.6) 
1303 (0.959) 
5 (5.7) 
2 (2.3) 
5 (0.01) 
2 (0.005) 
43 (53.1) 
41 (50.6) 
235 (0.21) 
229 (0.2) 
53 (63.9) 
50 (60.2) 
335 (0.247) 
325 (0.239) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
33 (40.7) 
146 (0.13) 
40 (48.2) 
206 (0.152) 
19 (23.5) 
37 (0.03) 
25 (30.1) 
59 (0.043) 
9 (11.1) 
46 (0.04) 
13 (15.7) 
60 (0.044) 
79 (90.8)  378 (1.04)  80 (98.8) 
39 (48.1) 
41 (47.1)  107 (0.3) 
839 (0.74) 
155 (0.14) 
81 (97.6) 
42 (50.6) 
968 (0.712) 
176 (0.130) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
18 (22.2) 
50 (0.04) 
20 (24.1) 
55 (0.040) 
27 (33.3) 
97 (0.09) 
30 (36.1) 
113 (0.083) 
3 (3.7) 
8 (0.01) 
3 (3.6) 
8 (0.006) 
3 (0.03) 
0 (0) 
4 (0.01) 
0 (0) 
8 (9.88) 
0 (0) 
11 (0.01) 
0 (0) 
11 (13.3) 
0 (0.0) 
14 (0.010) 
0 (0.000) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
0 (0.000) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
1 (1.23) 
2 (0.002) 
1 (1.2) 
3 (0.002) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
6 (7.41) 
25 (0.022) 
7 (8.4) 
35 (0.026) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
5 (6.17) 
24 (0.021) 
6 (7.2) 
34 (0.025) 
58 (66.7)  158 
70 (86.4) 
2453 (0.401) 
73 (88.0) 
601 (0.442) 
(0.433) 
56 (64.4)  154 
61 (75.3) 
228 (0.202) 
65 (78.3) 
277 (0.204) 
(0.422) 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 48/68 
 
  
  
systemic AEs 
Temporally 
associated local 
AEs 
Temporally 
associated 
related AEs 
No reduction, 
interruption, 
stop of infusion 
Reduction of 
infusion 
Interruption of 
infusion 
Stop of Infusion 
4 (4.6) 
4 (0.011) 
42 (51.9) 
225 (0.2) 
52 (62.7) 
324 (0.238) 
40 (46.0)  100 
56 (69.1) 
346 (0.306) 
61 (73.5) 
460 (0.338) 
(0.274) 
77 (88.5)  350 
68 (84) 
1103 (0.977) 
68 (81.9) 
1322 (0.973) 
(0.959) 
6 (6.9) 
10 (0.027)  8 (9.9) 
19 (0.017) 
9 (10.8) 
29 (0.021) 
4 (4.6) 
5 (0.014) 
4 (4.9) 
5 (0.004) 
5 (6.0) 
6 (0.004) 
0 (0) 
0 (0)  
1 (1.2) 
2 (0.002) 
1 (1.2) 
2 (0.001) 
IV intravenous treatment, SC subcutaneous treatment, n.a. not applicable, N total number of subjects, n total 
number of infusions 
From the multitude of safety endpoints investigated by the applicant the following can be deduced: 
No major, clinically relevant differences between IV and SC +rHuPH20 including ramp-up in:  
- rate of AEs related to the study drug(s) per infusion (0.3 vs. 0.37),  
- Serious AEs (rate of AEs/infusion), related serious AEs, AEs leading to death 
- AEs, where infusion had to be stopped 
- no reduction, interruption, stop of infusion  
With IV showing a favourable profile with regard to:  
- rate of subjects with related AEs (48.3% vs. 74.7%) 
- rate of patients with (total) temporally associated AEs including infections (66.7% vs. 88%)  
- rate of patients with systemic temporally associated AEs including infections (64% vs. 78.3%)  
- rate of infusions temporally associated with one or more local AEs (0.011 vs. 0.238)  
- rate of patients with infusions temporally associated with one or more local AEs (4.6% vs. 62.7%).  
- rate of patients with temporally associated related AEs (46.,% vs. 73.5%) 
- rate of infusions temporally associated with related AEs (0.274 vs. 0.338) 
SC + rHuPH20 administration compared to IV showing a favourable profile for:   
- rate of infusion with related systemic AEs (0.3 vs. 0.130)  
- rate of infusions with non-serious systemic AEs (1.04 vs. 0.71) 
- rate of infusions with temporally associated systemic AEs (0.422 vs. 0.204) 
The threshold for high dose SC infusions with rHuPH20 was defined as the highest dose at which at 
least 30 subjects’ median doses per site were above the threshold, which was 36 g per infusion site. 
The rates of mild AEs per high-dose SC infusion were similar to those for all SC doses. The most 
common IV (stage 1) related AEs were headache, chills, nausea, fatigue, pyrexia and vomiting.  
The most common AEs related to both IGSC 10% + rHuPH20 in stage 2 (excluding the ramp-up) 
were infusion site pain, infusion site erythema, infusion site discomfort, headache, infusion site 
pruritus, infusion site oedema, and infusion site swelling. AEs related only to rHuPH20 included 
infusion site pain and infusion site pruritus. The majority of AEs were mild; very few severe AEs 
occurred. The 3 severe AEs related to both IGSC 10% and rHuPH20 were infusion site pain, infusion 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 49/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
site swelling, and genital oedema. One severe AE was related to IGSC 10% only (migraine), and 
one was related to rHuPH20 only (oral pain).  
AEs by comparison of data from study 160603 and study 160601 
To explore the impact of rHuPH20 enhancement on the safety profile, mean / median rates of AEs 
between Study 160601 (without rHuPH20) and study 160603 were compared. However, it has to be 
taken into account that the clinical studies 160601 and 160603 were not designed to be compared 
directly (different observation time, volumes etc) and that any conclusion should therefore be 
undertaken with caution. The rate of related AEs per infusion as well as the rate of related AEs per 
subject-year was higher in subjects who received IGSC + rHuPH20 than in subjects who received 
IGSC alone. This is mainly contributed to the considerable higher (related) local AEs after 
administration of IGSC + rHuPH20, while the rates of systemic AEs are more or less comparable. 
The difference in local tolerability is expected due to higher doses, volumes and flow rates  when 
compared to subcutaneous administration of IG without rHuPH20.  
Summary of AEs attributed to rHuPH20 alone 
Unintentional intravenous administration of rHuPH20 has not been reported. 
Injection site pain or infusion site pain were the most notable AEs by MedDRA preferred terms 
attributed to rHuPH20 alone occurring at higher frequencies in most of the treatment arms with 
IGSC 10% and rHuPH20 across all studies. In addition, in study 161001 in healthy volunteers more 
cases of administration site pain were classified as moderate or severe in the rHuPH20 group 
compared with the lactated Ringer control group. 
Study 170901 (Part 4)  
This Phase 1 randomized, double blind, controlled, 2 dose study of IGSC (0.3 g/kg or 0.6 g/kg) 
administered either with a prior buffer control or with rHuPH20 was carried out in 12 healthy 
volunteers to assess infusion site reactions, tolerability and other AEs. It lasted between 7 and 21 
days.  
All 12 patients experienced treatment related adverse events. Systemic-related AEs were reported 
more frequently for 0.6 g/kg BW IGSC 10% infusions (11/20 infusions, 55.0%) compared to 0.3 
g/kg BW IGSC 10% infusions (3/24 infusions, 12.5%). The most notable related systemic AEs were 
haemolytic anaemia (2/12 subjects, 16.7%), leukopenia (3/12 subjects, 16.7%), and nausea (2/12 
subjects, 16.7%) and were reported only for the 0.6 g/kg BW IGSC 10% treatments with or without 
rHuPH20. 
Most of the infusions were associated with mild local site reactions including induration, 
discoloration, pain, pruritus, and swelling. Administration of IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 elicited lower 
rates of infusion site induration than IGSC, 10% alone (0.591 vs. 0.818), and higher rates of 
infusion site pain (1.277 vs. 0.727), injection site pain (0.318 vs. 0.136), infusion site discoloration 
(1.000 vs. 0.773) and infusion site pruritus (0.545 vs. 0.409).  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 50/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 161001 
In this Phase 1 prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-centre study, evaluation of the 
effectiveness and safety/tolerability of rHuPH20 in enhancing the IGSC, 10% in 53 healthy 
volunteers was assessed, 52 subjects were included in the safety dataset. 
The control for rHuPH20 was lactated Ringer’s (LR) solution and the control for IGSC 10% was 
albumin. The study was divided into 2 stages; one was a pilot phase where each subject (n=8) 
received 2 simultaneous treatments (IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 and IGSC 10% with LR control) in 
the thighs and stage 2 compared all four above mentioned study drugs in 45 subjects. The main 
safety focus thus was on stage 2. 
A total of 363 AEs were reported in 52 (98.1%) subjects, whereby 337/363 (92.8%) were 
considered related to the administration of study drugs. The majority of the related events were 
mild (211; 58.1%) or moderate (107; 29.5%) in severity. 
Local AEs: Practically all local AEs were related in all 4 study arms, most AEs were mild to moderate 
in severity with no clear distinction between the study arms. More subjects (21%) had severe, 
related local AEs who were receiving IGSC 10% + rHuPH20 compared with the other 3 study arms 
(8.3 – 15.2%).  
Of 90 local AEs in the IGSC 10% + rHuPH20 group, 30 (33%) were deemed related to rHuPH20  
Of 116 local AEs in the IGSC 10% + LR group, 29 (25%) were deemed related to LR control.  
There was a similar proportion of infusions with temporally associated local, moderate or severe AEs 
for both pre-administrations in the IGSC 10% groups. 
Local AEs in >5% subjects who received infusions with rHuPH20 pre-administration included 
infusion site pain (93.9%) and discoloration (54.5%), whereas with LR control pre-administration 
these local AEs were infusion site induration (97.0%), pain (87.9%), and discoloration (63.6%). 
The incidence of administration site pain seems to be more or less similar in both groups but more 
cases of administration site pain were classified as moderate or severe in the rHuPH20 group 
compared with the LR group. 
Systemic AEs: Regardless of the pre-administration (rHuPH20 or LR) the majority (14/15) of the 
systemic AEs in stage 1 and approximately half (13/27) of the AEs in stage 2 were related to the 
administration of IGSC10% (only one was related to rHuPH20 and IGSC 10%); in contrast none of 
the AEs in the albumin arms (with rHuPH20 or LR) were related to albumin. Because of simultanous 
application in both thighs, the relatedness of systemic AEs is difficult to assess. 
Treatment preference for rHuPH20 vs. LR enhancement of an IGSC, 10% infusion 59.4%; (95% CI: 
42.3, 74.5%) vs. 34.4% (95% CI: 20.4, 51.7%). 
Supportive studies  
The supportive studies with regard to rHuPH20 application in healthy subjects and pediatric patients 
diagnosed with dehydration (who received rHuPh20 prior to saline for rehydration) did not reveal 
any new safety concerns and the type of AEs is similar to those seen in the main studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 51/68 
 
  
  
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A total of 27 serious adverse events (SAEs) in 21 subjects occurred across all 5 studies in the IGSC 
10% with rHuPH20 clinical program. One death occurred due to cardiorespiratory failure in study 
160601; the event occurred prior to the subject starting treatment therefore the SAE was assessed 
as being unrelated to the study drug.  
Across all 5 clinical studies, 2 SAEs in 2 subjects were considered to be possibly related to a study 
drug; both were instances of haemolytic anaemia in study 170901 part 4: 
•  Subject 010005, a previously healthy 32-year-old, black male, was withdrawn from the 
study due to a SAE of hemolytic anemia (moderate; unlikely related to rHuPH20 and 
possibly related to IGSC 10%) and a non-serious AE of lymphopenia (severe; unlikely 
related to rHuPH20 and possibly related to IGSC 10%) both of which began on Day 21 
approximately 6 days after receiving Treatment 4C (IGSC 10% [51.4 g] + formulation 
buffer control). 
•  Subject 010015, a previously healthy 47-year-old, white male, completed dosing, but 
experienced an SAE of hemolytic anemia (moderate; possibly related to rHuPH20 and 
possibly related to IGSC, 10%) that began on Day 30 (end of study) approximately 8 days 
after receiving Treatment 4D (IGSC 10% [43.3 g] +rHuPH20 [3249 U]). 
Dosing was halted for study part 4 and the study was terminated early after these subjects. 
One thromboembolic event occurred in a 19 year-old male subject (010011; study 160603) who 
experienced a right subclavian vein thrombosis caused by an indwelling port catheter.  It is 
apparent that having an indwelling venous access device is a significant risk factor independent of 
the treatment with intravenous or subcutaneous gammaglobulin. A contribution of the 
gammaglobulin cannot be ruled out, but clearly the indwelling port, thrombophilia, and family 
history of thrombosis are all major risk factors and sufficient to explain the thrombotic episode in 
the absence of gammaglobulin. 
Laboratory findings 
Thromboembolic events and cases of haemolysis/haemolytic anaemia have been observed. The 
cases of haemolytic anaemia occurring only at the higher dosage of 0.6mg/kg IGSC 10% as 
described in the terminated study 170901 (first study in healthy subjects) are considered possibly 
related to IGSC 10%. In these two instances, it is conceivable that the administration of 
immunoglobulin and the simultaneous infection with pandemic influenza H1N1v, demonstrated as 
seroconversion to the H1N1 strain of Influenza A virus in these patients, could play a role in causing 
this adverse event, which was not observed in any of the patients in studies 160601, 160602 or 
160603. 
In several patients and healthy subjects treated with IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 significant (> 2g/dl) 
and insignificant (< 2g/dl) declines in haemoglobin have been observed in all 5 clinical studies. Most 
instances of drop in haemoglobin were observed in laboratory assessments that were temporally far 
removed from each other or could be interpreted as lab errors, and in no case there were clinical 
signs or symptoms of haemolysis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 52/68 
 
  
  
 
Safety in special populations 
Safety of IGSC 10% and/or rHuPH20 has been studied in healthy volunteers, PID patients and 
supportively in children with dehydration. However, there is no clinical data on administration of 
IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 provided for the age group of 0 to 4 years.  
Immunological events 
A listing of all AEs (related and unrelated) together with their time of onset, duration, severity and 
temporal relationship to the anti-rHuPH20 antibody titres for all subjects in study 160603 with 
antibody titres ≥ 160 was provided. A temporal analysis of all ADRs in subjects with at least one 
antibody titer ≥ 160 during the observation period was also submitted to assess any potential 
temporal relationship between anti-rHuPH20 titres and AEs. An identical analysis on safety data for 
all subjects in study 160603 and 160902 with antibody titres ≥ 160 was submitted to assess any 
potential temporal relationship between anti-rHuPH20 titres and AEs.  
In this analysis, for each subject, the observational period before and after the initial detection of 
rHuPH20 antibodies was calculated, and the ADRs were assigned to the respective period. As a 
threshold between the two periods, the date of the measurement which preceded the date of the 1st 
measurement with anti-rHuPH20 antibody titres ≥ 160 was used. Thus subjects act as their own 
control regarding the incidence of AEs, which is considered to be more meaningful than an 
inter-individual comparison. The Applicant concludes that the majority of those who had 
observational periods before and after antibody development  had a similar or even lower rate of 
ADRs after the development of antibodies. This conclusion is supported, although the tendency of 
SCIGs to cause less AEs with longer treatment duration might influence this analysis. 
Two separate analyses of potentially immune-mediated local reactions were conducted: (a) data 
from all 83 subjects who participated in Study 160902 and/or in Study 160603 and who received 
HyQvia treatment were analysed (i.e., this analysis included also subjects from study 160603 who 
did not roll-over into study 160902) to compare the rates of these local AEs in antibody-positive and 
negative subjects, and (b) data for the 14 subjects who developed an antibody titer of 160 or higher 
during study 160603 and/or 160902 until cut-off date Apr 6, 2012 were analysed to identify any 
temporal relationship between the presence of antibody titres and the incidence of 
immune-mediated local AEs in these subjects.  
Sixty-six (66) events of local erythema were observed during the whole observational period on 
HyQvia treatment, 28 of them in subjects who at any time during the observation period had an 
anti-rHuPH20 antibody titre of ≥ 160. In total, 16 of the 66 local erythema events occurred during 
a period when the subjects had titres ≥ 160. The majority of the episodes (55 out of 66) were mild 
and all were self-limiting. No severe episode was observed.  
Forty-three (43) events of local pruritus were reported during the entire observational period of 
HyQvia treatment, 13 of them in subjects who at any time during the observational period had an 
anti-rHuPH20 antibody titer of ≥ 160. 6 events of all 43 events of local pruritus occurred during a 
period when the subjects had titres ≥ 160.  
The conclusion of the Applicant, that there was no association between the occurrence of local 
erythema and/or pruritus and elevated antibody titres to rHuPH20 is therefore supported. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 53/68 
 
  
  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Concomitant use of immunoglobulins or of rHuPH20 with other drugs has not been evaluated. It is 
generally recommended that immunoglobulins are administered separately from other drugs or 
medications that the patient may be receiving. The product should not be mixed with 
immunoglobulins from other manufacturers. No other drug interactions or compatibilities have 
been evaluated. Antibodies in immunoglobulin preparations may interfere with patient responses to 
live vaccines, such as those for measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella. The immunizing physician 
should be informed of recent therapy with immunoglobulins so that appropriate precautions can be 
taken. 
For IGIV 10% no drug-drug interactions have been investigated and are normally not requested. To 
investigate a\ny potential impact of rHuPH20 on the efficacy of IGSC 10%, data from studies 
160602 and 160603 in PID patients has been analysed. From these studies no distinct action of 
rHuPH20 is seen on the beneficial effects of the immunoglobulin i.e. the efficacy profile does not 
seem to change. By altering the PK of the SC administration of immunoglobulins through rHuPH20 
to be more similar to that of IV administration the safety profile also shifts in this direction, 
however, new adverse events outside the range of the known ones for SCIG/IVIG were not 
identified.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Study 160601 
One subject (1/49) withdrew from the study because of decreased QoL and increase in fatigue and 
general malaise.  
Study 160602 
None of the AEs reported in the 11 PID patients led to the discontinuation of IGIV, 10% treatment. 
However, 1 subject returned to IV treatment after 2 SC infusions due to mild and moderate AEs.  
Study 160603 
6 patients withdrew due to AEs; in 5 of those AEs were at least possibly related to either IG 10% (1) 
or rHuPH20 (1) or both (3), in the IGSC with rHuPH20 group compared to no discontinuation due to 
AEs in the IVIg group respectively one discontinuation in the IGSC without rHuPH20 group in the 
phase II/III study 160601. 5 out of 6 patients were naive to SCIg treatment.  
Ages 2- 12  
•  100002, Subject had adverse events. IgG infusions were discontinued to see if the specific 
antibody deficiency associated with congenital anomalies had resolved  
•  130001 not specified 
Ages >12  
•  030007, not specified 
•  140005, discomfort from infusion site, erythema, induration and extravasation of serous 
fluid 
•  170002, pain and discomfort in abdomen and groin from fluid shifting post-SC infusions 
•  170005 not specified  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 54/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Study 170901 
Two subjects (Subject 010005 and Subject 010020) out of 12 (16.6%) were discontinued due to 
(S)AEs (see above)  
Subject 010020 [4008]) was withdrawn from the study due to a non-serious AE of flu-like illness 
and concern regarding the 2 SAEs (one SAE led to withdrawal in Subject 010005, the other patient 
(010015) experiencing an SAE had completed the study).  
In addition, 5 subjects including the 2 SAE subjects (Subjects 010005, 010015, 010020, 010001, 
and 010016) experienced a flu-like clinical syndrome that was associated with a number of 
laboratory abnormalities. As a result of these occurrences, dosing was halted for Study Part 4 and 
the study was terminated early. These 5 subjects, as well as 5 asymptomatic subjects, were later 
found to have seroconverted to the H1N1 strain of Influenza A virus during the course of the study. 
This study had been conducted during the peak 2009 outbreak of pandemic H1N1 influenza. The 
subjects also had increases in muscle, liver, and pancreatic enzymes that are not a plausible 
consequence of autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. Therefore, it was determined that an influenza 
infection was the most likely cause of all of the laboratory abnormalities, including the haemolysis. 
However, the haemolysis was conservatively assessed as possibly related to IGSC 10% with 
rHuPH20. 
Study 161001 
Subject 010058 (1/53) was withdrawn from treatment due to a moderate event of hypotension at 
the end of rHuPH20/LR control injections but before IGSC 10% infusions. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing experience is available yet. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The current SCIg Guideline CHMP/BPWP/761007/2010 is under revision therefore the IVIg 
Guideline EMA/CHMP/BPWP/94033/2007 Rev. 2 is also used in the assessment for safety 
requirements. For a PID indication application with an unmodified IVIG this would be based on data 
from 40 PID patients, all other pertinent safety findings and a comprehensive risk management 
plan (RMP). However, as HyQvia employs a new approach by administering a SCIg product 
preceded by rHuPH20, the data base is expected to be more comprehensive than the current IVIg 
Guideline recommends in order to assess the safety outcomes of the combination. 
The safety database comprises a pivotal and a supportive study in which the safety and tolerability 
of IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 were investigated in patients with PID (Studies 160602 and 160603). In 
addition, a study to investigate the tolerability of IG 10% administered IV and SC without rHuPH20 
in patients with PID (Study 160601) was conducted. Studies 170901 Part 4 and 161001 were 
designed to assess, besides infusion pressure and flow rates, the safety and tolerability in healthy 
volunteers. 4 of these clinical studies were completed (160601, 160602, 160603 and 161001) and 
one was terminated (170901).  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 55/68 
 
  
  
 
In the 5 clinical studies 65 healthy subjects and 147 patients with PID including children were 
enrolled. Of those subjects, 94 patients and 52 healthy subjects were treated with SC infusions with 
rHuPH20. 32 healthy subjects were exposed to the proposed dose range once. 81 patients were 
exposed to the proposed dose range including children followed for up to 366 days. In studies 
160602 and 170901 a different concentration of rHuPH20 (1,500 U/ml) was used compared to the 
studies 160603 and 161001 (160 U/ml). Therefore, the results of studies 160602 and 170901 are 
of limited applicability.  
IV and SC+rHuPH20 administration showed a comparable safety profile with respect to serious AEs 
(rate of AEs/infusion), related AEs (rate of AEs/inf.), related SAEs, AEs leading to death, AEs where 
infusion had to be stopped and infusions with no reduction, interruption, stop of infusion.  
IGIV  was better tolerated than IGSC + rHuPH20 administration with regard to infusions with 
temporally associated related AEs, related AEs (rate of subjects) and temporally associated 
systemic AEs including infections (rate of patients), (total) temporally associated AEs including 
infections  and  rate of infusions temporally associated with local AEs.  
IGSC + rHuPH20 administration compared to IV proved more favourable for related systemic AEs 
(rate of AEs/ infusion), non-serious systemic AEs (rate of AEs/ infusion) and temporally associated 
systemic AEs (rate of AEs/ infusion). 
Acceptance of therapy in patients is an important factor and often influenced by individual 
tolerability and convenience with respect to handling/administration of a product. In the submitted 
Treatment Preference analysis, all parents/caregivers of subjects aged 2-13 years and 78.6% of 
subjects aged ≥ 14 years who experienced moderate or severe temporally associated AEs, would 
have chosen to continue with IGSC treatment with rHuPH20. The majority of respondents for both 
age groups gave a positive rating and quoted as an advantage of IGSC + rHuPH20 the frequency of 
administration, number of needle sticks per month, ease of administration, potential to 
self-administer, ability to fit treatment into own schedule, overall convenience and ability to 
self-administer without medical supervision. The rates of subjects who gave positive ratings for 
each parameter were generally lower among SC-naïve subjects than in subjects previously exposed 
to SCIG. Based on a subgroup analysis, patients who preferred treatment with IGSC + rHuPH20 
compared to that in patients who preferred treatment with IGSC alone or IGIV had a lower rate of 
infusions associated with one or more moderate or severe temporally associated AEs. The data 
suggest that treatment preference may indeed be influenced by the frequency/severity of AEs. 
However there are limitations regarding this evaluation as for 14 out of 83 subjects no preference 
is available. 
Immunogenicity 
Although the targeted patient population represents a group of different immunodeficiency 
syndromes, a substantial proportion of patients is not totally incapable to develop immune 
responses. In fact in study 160603 13 out of 83 patients (15.66%) were seropositive (titre ≥ 1:160) 
for anti-rHuPH20 antibodies. Most of these patients participated in the extension study 160902. 
Overall, 15 out of 83 patients (18%) were seropositive (titre ≥ 1:160) for anti-rHuPH20 antibodies 
in study 160603 and study 160903. 3 of these 15 subjects were children or adolescents <18 years. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 56/68 
 
  
  
 
The permeation enhancer rHuPH20 has the identical primary protein structure as the human 
hyaluronidase PH20 devoid of the carboxy terminal glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol (GPI) anchor 
present in the native molecule. Consequently a (cellular or humoral) immune response may 
cross-react with the endogenous structure, with the potential to impair the physiological function of 
PH20. To date it seems justified to anticipate, that treatment emergent rHuPH20-reactive 
antibodies can interact with endogenous PH20.  
The majority of nonclinical in vivo studies with rHuPH20 report that rHuPH20 specific immune 
responses were generated.  
The CHMP raised concerns regarding the long-term effects of rHuPH20 administration, the impact of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on neurogenesis/neuronal repair and on fertility. The applicant addressed 
these with additional analyses on the available clinical patient data, with additional clinical data 
from healthy volunteers and with several non- and preclinical investigations (see also Nonclinical 
aspects).  
With regard to the concerns on neurogenesis/neuronal repair, taken together the available data are 
reassuring. Additionally, a warning statement is added to the SmPC indicating that women of 
childbearing potential should not use HyQvia if pregnant or planning to become pregnant. 
Furthermore, if a woman becomes pregnant, treatment with HyQvia should be stopped and an 
alternative IgG treatment that does not contain recombinant hyaluronidase should be considered. 
The lack of information on safety in pregnant and lactating women has also been included as 
important missing information in the risk management plan. In order to acquire safety data 
regarding the course and outcome of pregnancy and foetal and neonatal development in female 
subjects who become nevertheless pregnant during HyQvia administration, the applicant will 
perform a pregnancy registry, as stated in the risk management plan.  
With regard to the concerns on fertility, the preclinical data in several different animal species have 
not shown a potential impact of anti-PH20 antibodies, which is reassuring. The SmPC provides 
appropriate information. Furthermore, to further alleviate possible remaining concerns, the 
applicant proposed a label for HyQvia that excludes children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years of 
age; this was considered acceptable by the CHMP. Thus adult patients will be able to make an 
informed decision for a SC immunoglobulin treatment with an extended infusion interval. At the 
same time minors will be protected from a possible adverse event which may have consequences 
later in their adult life. The risk management plan specifies the lack of clinical data on the potential 
consequence of antibody development against recombinant human hyaluronidase, e.g., on fertility 
in men and women, as important missing information. 
The evaluation of long-term local and systemic effects for the observed time period of up to 3 years 
in the clinical trials does not reveal a specific safety signal. A potential loss of efficacy with a longer 
duration of administration due to local reactions has not been identified. To further evaluate the 
long term local and systemic effects the Applicant will perform a post-authorisation safety study, as 
indicated in the risk management plan.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 57/68 
 
  
  
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
HyQvia is a human normal immunoglobulin preparation (IG 10%) for subcutaneous use in primary 
and secondary immunodeficiency disorders, administered with the excipient recombinant human 
hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) to facilitate subcutaneous administration of the IG 10% preparation.  The 
recombinant human hyaluronidase component modifies the permeability of connective tissue 
through the hydrolysis of hyaluronan. This combined use of IG 10% preceded by rHuPH20 is a novel 
approach hence a more comprehensive safety data set compared to guideline requirements for 
IGSC preparations is required. The extent of the available data for HyQvia allows adequate 
characterisation of the safety profile.  
The observed safety profile of IGSC + rHuPH20 administration is considered manageable in clinical 
practice with the guidance provided in the SmPC. Specific for the excipient hyaluronidase the 
potential concerns regarding long-term effects of rHuPH20 administration, and impact of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on neurogenesis/neuronal repair and on fertility, have been adequately 
addressed through SmPC statements and risk management activities including educational 
programme. Also the patient population was restricted to adults only. Additional data will be 
generated through a pregnancy registry as well as a post-authorisation safety study to evaluate the 
long term local and systemic effects of HyQvia. 
In conclusion, based on the safety data presented and the minimisation of the risks introduced in 
the SmPC and RMP, the safety profile of the product is considered acceptable. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the Applicant has the services of a 
qualified  person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the 
notification of any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third 
country.  
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table 3.  Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Agreed 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important Identified Risks 
Allergic/hypersensitivity 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
responses including 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.3: 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 58/68 
 
  
  
 
anaphylactic reactions, 
especially in patients with IgA 
deficiency 
Contraindications and Section 4.4: 
Special Warnings and Precautions for 
Use 
Altered immune response: 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use and 
SmPC Section 4.5: Interaction with 
Other Medicinal Products and Other 
Forms of Interaction 
•  Reduced efficacy of 
live attenuated virus 
vaccines such as 
measles, rubella, 
mumps, and varicella 
• 
Interference with 
serological testing 
after infusion of 
immunoglobulin 
Infusion site reactions 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
(including Discomfort/Pain, 
Pharmacovigilance 
Erythema, Swelling/Edema, 
Pruritus, Infusion site mass, 
Nodule, Infusion site warmth, 
Infusion site hematoma, and 
Infusion site haemorrhage) 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Local reactions and Infusion site 
reactions (including Discomfort/Pain, 
Erythema, Swelling/Oedema, Pruritus, 
Infusion site mass, Nodule, Infusion 
site warmth, Infusion site hematoma, 
and Infusion site haemorrhage) are 
included in SmPC Section 4.8: 
Undesirable Effects. 
Thromboembolic events 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Pharmacovigilance: 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
• Expedited reporting of all 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
thromboembolic events 
• Evaluation of safety data 
in the PSUR 
• Proposed 
thromboembolic adverse 
event questionnaire 
Haemolysis/Haemolytic 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
anaemia 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Transmittable infectious 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Important Potential Risks 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 59/68 
 
  
  
agents 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Spread of localized infection 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Renal dysfunction/failure 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Aseptic meningitis syndrome 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
(AMS) 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Drug administration error 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
(Incorrect sequence of 
Pharmacovigilance 
administration of vials) 
The dual vial content of the HyQvia kit is 
discussed in SmPC Section 2: 
Qualitative and Quantitative 
Composition. 
The correct method of administration is 
discussed in SmPC Section 4.2: 
Posology and Method of Administration. 
Lack of information on safety 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Important Missing Information 
in pregnant and lactating 
Pharmacovigilance 
women 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Additional 
Warnings and Precautions for Use and 
Pharmacovigilance: 
Section 4.6: Fertility, Pregnancy and 
• Proposed pregnancy 
Lactation 
registry 
Additional Risk Minimization: 
• Proposed HyQvia Patient Educational 
Material 
Limited information on safety 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
in neonates or infants <2 
Pharmacovigilance 
years old and on long-term 
treatment in patients under 
the age of 18 years 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.2: 
Posology and Method of Administration, 
Section 4.8: Undesirable Effects, and 
Section 5.1: Pharmacodynamic 
Properties 
Limited information on safety 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
in geriatric populations 
Pharmacovigilance 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 60/68 
 
  
  
Limited clinical data on 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: None 
treatment in patients with 
Pharmacovigilance 
myeloma 
Lack of clinical data on the 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
potential consequence of 
Pharmacovigilance 
antibody development against 
recombinant human 
hyaluronidase, e.g., on 
fertility in men and women 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.2: 
Posology and Method of Administration, 
Section 4.6: Fertility, Pregnancy and 
Lactation, and Section 4.8: Undesirable 
Effects Additional Risk Minimization: 
Proposed HyQvia Patient Educational 
Material 
Limited clinical data on the 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: None 
influence of the type of PID on 
Pharmacovigilance: 
the immunogenicity of 
recombinant human 
hyaluronidase 
• Proposed immunological 
adverse event 
questionnaire 
• Evaluation of safety data 
in the PSUR 
Limited clinical data on the 
Additional 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
potential for long-term local 
and systemic reactions related 
Pharmacovigilance: 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use 
to potential antibody 
• Proposed PASS on long 
development against 
term local and systemic 
recombinant human 
effects 
hyaluronidase 
• Evaluation of safety data 
in the PSUR 
Limited clinical data on 
Routine 
Routine Risk Minimization: 
patients with serum creatinine 
Pharmacovigilance 
levels greater than 1.5 times 
the upper limit of normal for 
age and gender 
Discussed in SmPC Section 4.4: Special 
Warnings and Precautions for Use and 
Section 4.8: Undesirable Effects 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below 
pharmacovigilance activity(ies) in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns: 
Description 
Due date 
PASS on long-term local and systemic effects 
Draft protocol to be submitted by 
August 2013 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 61/68 
 
  
  
 
Description 
Due date 
Pregnancy registry 
Preliminary study report to be 
included in each PSUR 
Final report estimated for 
2019 
Draft protocol to be submitted by 
August 2013 
Preliminary study report to be 
included in each PSUR 
Final report estimated for 2019 
Furthermore, the CHMP is of the opinion that additional risk minimisation activities were required. 
The list of these measures is reported in the section 3 of this report under the heading “Additional 
risk minimisation measures”. 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet initially 
submitted by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out 
in the Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human 
use.  
During the assessment changes were made to the package leaflet affecting the key safety 
messages, as well as inserting pictograms on how to administer the product.  
Therefore, the applicant will perform a targeted user testing upon finalization of the package leaflet 
with special focus on the pictograms and submit the  final report as soon as it becomes available. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
A measure of the beneficial effect of restoring IgG is the reduction of the incidence of serious 
bacterial infections ((SBIs) such as bacteraemia/sepsis, bacterial meningitis, osteomyelitis/septic 
arthritis, bacterial pneumonia and bacterial visceral abscess) to below one per patient per year.  In 
the pivotal study 160603, a prospective, open-label, non-controlled, two-arm multicentre study, 
which investigated the efficacy, tolerability and safety of IG 10% with rHuPH20 treatment in 83 
subjects with PID, efficacy was shown on the endpoints incidence of acute serious bacterial 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 62/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections (0.025/year when the ramp up was excluded, resp. 0.03/year when the ramp-up was 
included) and in the incidence of all infections (2.97/year, when the ramp-up was excluded, resp. 
3.09/year when the ramp-up was included). The observed efficacy was similar to other licensed 
immunoglobulin products.  
The additional benefit of hyaluronidase is the ability for the patient to deliver the equivalent of an 
IVIG monthly dose at one SC site also in a 4-weekly schedule, which also reduces the number of 
administration sites. The median number of infusion sites per month needed for SCIg infusions with 
rHuPH20 was substantially lower (1.09) than the number of sites needed for SCIg infusions without 
rHuPH20 (21.43); at the same time it was comparable to the number of sites needed for IVIG 
infusion (1.34). 78 of 83 subjects treated with SCIg + rHuPH20 achieved the same dosing interval 
as for IVIg substitution. Treatment satisfaction and quality of life evaluation were comparable for 
the IVIg and the SCIg + rHuPH20 treatment phases (3 months and approx. 14 months, 
respectively) in study 160603.  
 Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Although a patient perception of comparable convenience between SCIG + rHuPH20 and IVIG has 
been shown based on the available data, it is noted that all studies were performed in the US and 
Canada. Given the different healthcare systems there is an uncertainty whether this perceived 
treatment convenience and quality of life can be extrapolated to European patients. However this 
uncertainty can be accepted.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
As would be expected from the SC administration of an IgG product the main adverse events with 
HyQvia are local infusion site reactions with mainly mild to moderate swelling, pain, pruritus and 
discoloration. Systemic adverse events are similar in type to the common ones seen with IVIG 
treatment (headache, back ache, chills, nausea etc.).  
The local tolerability is impacted by the higher doses, volumes and flow rates leading to  a tendency 
of more local adverse events when compared with SC alone. Likewise, the subcutaneous 
administration of HyQvia is associated with a different local tolerability profile compared to 
intravenous administration, which led to higher rates of related non-serious local adverse events 
and temporally associated local adverse events observed in HyQvia treated patients in the clinical 
studies. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The studies show the ability of PID patients to form anti-drug antibodies (anti-rHuPH20) after 
repeated administration of HyQvia, resulting in higher titres than observed in healthy subjects, who 
were exposed only up to two infusions to rHuPH20. There is cross-reactive potential of 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 63/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies with endogenous PH20 and thus potential interference with the 
physiological functions of endogenous PH20. The available clinical and nonclinical data are 
reassuring with regard to the uncertainty on neurogenesis/neuronal repair. Appropriate guidance is 
included in the SmPC. In order to acquire safety data regarding the course and outcome of 
pregnancy and foetal and neonatal development in female subjects who nevertheless become 
pregnant during HyQvia administration, a pregnancy registry is described in the risk management 
plan. Likewise, the uncertainty regarding the possible impact of anti-PH20 antibodies on fertility 
have been addressed by preclinical data in several different animal species. The majority of these 
studies do not indicate a safety signal. Nevertheless, to address any potential risk of recombinant 
human hyaluronidase antibodies especially in children/adolescents on their future fertility the 
patient population in the SmPC for HyQvia was restricted to adults. Additionally, information 
regarding fertility has been added to the SmPC and educational material will be provided. 
The evaluation of long-term local and systemic effects for the observed time period of up to 3 years 
in the clinical trials does not reveal a specific safety signal. Equally, concerns regarding a possible 
loss of efficacy with a longer duration of administration due to local reactions have not been 
substantiated. To further evaluate the long term local and systemic effects, the Applicant will 
perform a post-authorisation safety study, as indicated in the risk management plan.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The PK and efficacy data indicate favourable effects of HyQvia on the incidence of acute serious 
bacterial infections, incidence of all infections, number of days missed at school/work and number 
of days in hospital, which are comparable to other licensed IG (SC and IV) preparations. Quality of 
life and treatment satisfaction of patients in the pivotal study did not differ significantly between the 
IVIG and the SCIG + rHuPH20 treatment periods. With regard to preference, most of patients or 
parents/caregivers would have continued with SCIg + rHuPH20 treatment. The reduction of 
infusion sites per month compared to SC administration of IG alone is considered substantial. 
Patient statements indicate that pain and the complexity of the infusion procedure are the main 
reasons for discontinuing treatment with rHuPH20. 
Overall the observed safety profile of HyQvia administration is considered manageable in clinical 
practice with the guidance provided in the SmPC. 
Benefit-risk balance 
For the evaluation of the benefit-risk balance of HyQvia one has to take already licensed SCIg 
products into consideration, as the main claimed benefit of HyQvia is the extension of the infusion 
interval for SC replacement therapy. 78 of 83 patients achieved the same treatment interval as 
established for IVIg substitution, and the reduction in monthly infusion sites vs. SC administration 
of IG 10% alone is dramatic. The efficacy of HyQvia appears to be approximately equivalent to other 
licensed IG products.  
The convenience of extended infusion intervals with comparable clinical efficacy is offset by an 
increase in mainly local adverse infusion reactions. It is expected that most adult patients would 
accept a slight increase of local reactions in exchange for a much longer treatment interval. The 
uncertainties regarding the effects of anti-PH20 antibodies on the physiologic function of 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 64/68 
 
  
  
endogenous PH20, i.e. mainly on fertility have been adequately addressed. This includes the 
restriction to adult patients given the uncertainties regarding the possible future effects of 
anti-PH20 antibodies on fertility. 
Based on the available data and taking into account the SmPC / Package Leaflet and the risk 
management plan, reason reported above the CHMP considers the overall Benefit/Risk of HyQvia is 
positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The therapeutic effect of HyQvia and other IVIgs or SCIgs in replacement therapy is based on the 
fact that human normal immunoglobulin contains a broad spectrum of opsonising and neutralizing 
IgG antibodies against infectious agents that are present in the normal population. It is usually 
prepared from pooled human plasma from not fewer than 1000 donations. It has a distribution of 
IgG subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma. Thus, adequate doses of 
human normal immunoglobulin may restore abnormally low IgG levels to the normal range and 
thus allow the patient to combat a wide array of infections he would otherwise be susceptible to.  
A measure of the beneficial effect of restoring IgG is the reduction of the incidence of serious 
bacterial infections ((SBIs) such as bacteraemia/sepsis, bacterial meningitis, osteomyelitis/septic 
arthritis, bacterial pneumonia and bacterial visceral abscess) to below one per patient per year. The 
efficacy studies provided for HyQvia have shown this to be the case. Clinical efficacy (rate of serious 
acute bacterial infections as well as rate of all infections) as observed in the proposed target 
population (adults ≥ 18) is comparable to other immunoglobulin preparations.  
The beneficial effect of the SC route is the added quality of life seen primarily in the possibility of 
administration of immunoglobulins at home either in self-administration or by a caregiver. In the 
literature it is described that the SC route also leads to less systemic events compared to the IV 
route. Furthermore, a more even level of IgG is achieved, avoiding the peaks of IV treatment. In the 
pivotal study the beneficial effect of HyQvia as compared to IV administration was shown to be in 
the lower rate of infusions temporally associated with systemic AEs (0.204 vs 0.422). 
The uncertainties regarding the long-term effects of rHuPH20 administration, the impact of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on neurogenesis/neuronal repair and fertility have been addressed. The 
SmPC with the identified patient population and the treatment guidance reflects the findings; 
education material will be provided to healthcare professionals and patients. Additional data will be 
generated through a pregnancy registry and a post-authorisation safety study, as defined in the risk 
management plan. 
4.  Recommendations 
Description of post-authorisation measure(s) 
REC 
1.  Improvement of the RP-HPLC assay to allow separate specifications to be set for the 
product-related impurities. The Applicant commits to establish these impurity acceptance 
limits after collecting data from the first 20 commercial lots. (REC)  
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 65/68 
 
  
  
 
Description of post-authorisation measure(s) 
2.  User Testing: As the initial readability test was performed on the preliminary package 
leaflet (without pictograms and other key changes made by CHMP) a further reduced user 
testing was considered advisable. The applicant committed to perform a reduced user 
testing upon finalization of the package leaflet with special focus on the pictograms. The 
applicant should specify the competence, expertise, and skills of the participants in order to 
allow a more in-depth analysis of their level of knowledge/education. The applicant has 
committed to submit the final report as soon as it becomes available (post-approval).  
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of HyQvia in the  
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections. 
Replacement therapy in adults (> 18 years) in myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with 
severe secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections, 
is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to 
the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription.  
(See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, section 4.2). 
•  Official batch release 
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation 
holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 66/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to launch in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree the 
content and format of the educational programme with the national competent authority. The 
Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) should ensure that, at launch, all Healthcare Professionals 
who are expected to use and/or prescribe HyQvia are provided with an Educational pack. 
The educational pack should contain the following: 
1. Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflets 
2. Patient information cards 
3. Text statement for the doctor to be mentioned on the educational pack: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a patient information leaflet and a patient information card should be given to the patient 
before treatment with HyQvia is initiated 
should any woman become pregnant whilst on treatment with HyQvia, HyQvia should be 
discontinued and treatment switched to an alternative IgG treatment which does not 
contain recombinant hyaluronidase. In addition, the patient should be encouraged to 
participate in the pregnancy registry. 
Information on the availability of a pregnancy registry and on how to enrol patients in it.  
The Patient information card should include information on the following key elements: 
Information on antibodies against recombinant hyaluronidase 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 67/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
HyQvia contains recombinant human hyaluronidase that facilitates the dispersion and 
absorption of Immunoglobulin G and some patients receiving HyQvia may develop 
antibodies against it.  
In clinical trials up to 18 % of patients receiving HyQvia developed antibodies against 
recombinant human hyaluronidase. 
These antibodies may potentially react against the hyaluronidase that is naturally present 
in most tissue of the human body but it is unknown if it has any clinical consequences.  
In clinical trials no adverse reactions were observed that were considered related to the 
presence of antibodies against recombinant human hyaluronidase but the duration of 
treatment was limited up to 36 months and the potential for long term effects is unknown.  
Their effect on human fertility and the potential for adverse effects on conception is 
unknown.  
Information on fertility 
• 
• 
Reversible contraceptive effects have been reported in male and female guinea pigs 
immunised to produce antibodies to hyaluronidase. However, antibodies to hyaluronidase 
did not influence reproduction in mouse, rabbit, sheep, or cynomolgus monkey.  
The effect of antibodies against recombinant hyaluronidase on male or female human 
fertility is unknown.  
Information on pregnancy:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Antibodies against recombinant human hyaluronidase may cross the placenta.  
Animal studies reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of 
developmental toxicity. 
No clinical studies have been conducted with HyQvia in pregnant women. The potential 
impact of antibodies against recombinant hyaluronidase on human embryo or foetal 
development is currently unknown.   
HyQvia should not be used by women who are pregnant or are planning to become 
pregnant. An alternative treatment that does not contain recombinant hyaluronidase 
should be considered.  
In the event a woman nevertheless becomes pregnant while being treated with HyQvia, 
treatment with HyQvia should be stopped and an alternate IgG treatment that does not 
contain recombinant hyaluronidase should be discussed with the treating doctor. 
It is recommended that women of childbearing potential take appropriate measures to 
prevent pregnancy during HyQvia treatment. 
Paediatric Data 
The completion of the paediatric investigation plan P/306/2010  provided is deferred, therefore 
no statement regarding compliance is included. 
Assessment report  
EMA/239112/2013 
Page 68/68 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
